-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/finalfantasyiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great-looking fully 3D visuals breathe new life and personality into an old game.
 job system helps add variety and depth to all of the combat.
 lengthy quest will keep you busy for hours and hours.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 3D visuals could have been smoother, and the DS's top screen is barely used.
 game can feel punishing at times, partly due to the lack of save points.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 29, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.7, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 5,467 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Matrix Software
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Not only is this a nicely done remake of an influential, little-seen early chapter from this long-running 
 role-playing series, it's also an all-around solid RPG. 

  If you're a longtime Final Fantasy player, then the first thing that probably comes to mind when 
 you think of Final Fantasy III is the classic 1994 role-playing game for the Super Nintendo Entertainment 
 System. However, it's now widely known that this was, in fact, the sixth game in the series; it 
 was published at a time when developer Square was muddling up the numbering conventions between 
 Japan and North America, since several Final Fantasy chapters that came out in Japan never made 
 it stateside. Now there's finally a proper English-language version of the  real  Final Fantasy 
 III, which was originally published for the Famicom in 1990, the very same year that the very first 
 Final Fantasy game arrived in North America for the Nintendo Entertainment System. Of course, this 
 is hardly just a straight port of the original game, thanks to a completely overhauled presentation. 
 With its attractive new look, Final Fantasy III feels like a whole new game. Its gameplay and storyline 
 may seem conventional by today's standards, but in another sense, a game like this goes to show 
 how little role-playing games have evolved over the past 15 years or so.  

          Adorable-looking characters and a fairly deep combat system combine for good results in 
 Final Fantasy III for the DS.     

  Those who've followed the Final Fantasy series will instantly recognize that this game's distinctive 
 character design is a spitting image of 1999's excellent Final Fantasy Tactics, with the difference 
 being that this game is fully 3D. The doll-like player characters of Final Fantasy III are terribly 
 cute and sharply contrasted by the relatively realistic-looking variety of monsters they'll frequently 
 encounter. This visual style, while very different from the pixelated 2D sprites from the 8-bit 
 Nintendo days, still is faithful to the spirit of the early games in the series, which also pitted 
 cute little warriors and magic users against nasty-looking enemies several times their size. More 
 importantly, the game looks and sounds impressive on the Nintendo DS, between its detailed 3D graphics 
 and its unmistakably Final Fantasy musical score.  

  The presentation does have a couple of minor downsides, unfortunately. The game doesn't move as 
 smoothly as its 2D counterparts, which hampers the pacing of combat as well as simple acts like 
 bringing up the character menu screen. And Final Fantasy III all but completely neglects the DS's 
 top screen, which is blank most of the time during play. You get a map while exploring the overworld, 
 but you're on your own in the game's various dungeons. This isn't that big of a deal, but it seems 
 awfully strange that you don't get so much as a pretty picture to look at up there.  

  The Final Fantasy series is known for featuring completely new worlds, storylines, and characters 
 from one installment to the next, with certain overarching themes and gameplay elements tying every 
 game together. Final Fantasy III shows a lot of these common themes in their purest form. The plot 
 is simple: An orphaned boy named Luneth discovers a magical crystal, which informs him that he's 
 got an important, save-the-world type of job to do. Early on, he's joined by a shy friend named 
 Arc, a spunky blacksmith's daughter named Refia, and a guardsman named Ingus. Together, they set 
 off to discover the secrets of the four elemental crystals hidden around the world, and in so doing, 
 they learn a few surprises about the world itself. They'll meet and travel with some supporting 
 characters along the way. One of the differences between this version of Final Fantasy III and 
 the original is that the main characters now have clearly defined personalities, and they're a 
 likable lot. The game's dialogue is written well enough, and the simple story works to compel you 
 to brave tougher and tougher challenges.  

          Your characters are free to change professions at any time. Go on, you know you want to 
 try having four dragoons.     

  Remember when role-playing games were all about random monster encounters, leveling up, finding 
 new loot, and exploring different towns and dungeons? Oh, wait. In any case, Final Fantasy III 
 originally helped make the mold in the first place. However, Final Fantasy fans will note a few 
 key differences in this game's combat system. This is true turn-based combat, not the "active time 
 battle" system of later Final Fantasies. So at the beginning of a battle, you get to give orders 
 to each of your party members and then watch as those orders are resolved; statistics determine 
 the order in which your characters and their opponents act. A combination of weapon attacks, damaging 
 black magic spells, and restorative white magic spells, plus some items and special abilities, 
 are the keys to success. Some foes will use status-altering effects to throw you off, or they may 
 be particularly vulnerable to certain types of damage.     

  You'll learn some of this the hard way through trial and error, because the game can be quite tough 
 in a few spots. There aren't save points, either, as you're limited to permanently saving your 
 progress on the world map; as a result, you're going to run into cases where you've fought all 
 the way through a hard dungeon, only to get wiped out by the boss waiting for you at the end, and 
 then having to start over from your last save. However, even those particularly difficult boss 
 fights are nothing that typically can't be solved by an hour or two of random encounters and leveling 
 up.  

          You can optionally play using the stylus, but it's a lot easier to use the D pad and buttons 
 as you fight and explore.     

  What distinguishes Final Fantasy III's combat system and overall gameplay is the job system, which 
 first appeared in this installment of the series and was later used by games like Final Fantasy 
 V, Final Fantasy Tactics, and Final Fantasy XI. The job system in this particular game isn't quite 
 as flexible or open-ended as in some of the later Final Fantasies, but it's still a lot of fun 
 to play around with, especially since changing one of your character's jobs causes his or her outfit 
 to completely change with it. There's something undeniably appealing about seeing one of your little 
 party members go from wearing, say, the head-to-toe armor of a dragoon, to the pointy hat of a 
 black mage, to the cloak and spectacles of a scholar.  

  There are more than 20 different job types in all, and you gain access to more of them the further 
 you get in the game. Some are inherently stronger than others, and you'll naturally want to balance 
 out your party with a variety of jobs. But you're free to play around with the system as you wish. 
 Final Fantasy III doesn't let you mix and match skills from different job types like some of the 
 later games do, and it also forces you to slog through a few fights after changing jobs before 
 you start gaining experience in that job, which is separate from your character's overall experience 
 level. As a result, you might feel discouraged to change jobs unless it seems necessary. However, 
 the job system still helps make the combat much more interesting than it would have been if you 
 were stuck with the same basic characters throughout the whole experience.  

  The combat has some other interesting points that are worth mentioning, which seem rooted in how 
 Final Fantasy once drew influence from Dungeons &amp; Dragons. For example, your characters gain 
 an increasing number of melee attacks per turn as they gain experience, and you're free to equip 
 weapons in each of their hands. It's not long before that monk of yours can be dishing out flurries 
 of 10 or more punches in a single round. The magic system is a little different from later Final 
 Fantasy games, as well. Every spell has a certain spell level, and your casters can use a certain 
 number of spells from a given level, based on their overall experience. Having these types of nuances 
 to the gameplay helps make Final Fantasy III feel different from other recent RPGs.  

          Final Fantasy III comes from an era when games didn't hold your hand so much, so expect 
 a serious challenge.     

  This is a pretty long game that can last you a few dozen hours or more, as there are optional dungeons 
 to explore and powerful foes to face, if you're still up for more and more battles and better gear 
 after you're finished with the main quest. Final Fantasy III also includes rudimentary Wi-Fi support 
 through a system that lets you exchange letters with other players, a process that eventually rewards 
 you with some exclusive items. You can get letters from some of the in-game characters, as well. 

  Final Fantasy III is a fine example of a video game remake done properly. Its presentation is top-notch 
 for a Nintendo DS game, and the classic RPG combat is interesting and deep enough to still hold 
 up well to today's standards. Final Fantasy fans should particularly enjoy tracing some of the 
 roots of their favorite games from the series back to this installment, while taking in all of 
 its new sights and sounds. But just about anyone looking for a traditional role-playing game to 
 take with them on the go should find a lot to like in Final Fantasy III.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (389 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: its_a_username
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 6:22 pm PT
Review:  FIrst time i played the game i thought it was terrible. I slept over night and picked it up right 
 when i woke up. I loved it. I played it all day but i grew bored of it quickly. The game grows 
 repetetive (if i spelled that right) . Go over here and kill this person, go kill this guy, it gets 
 old. Thing is i dont even know the story line. Im the chosen one or something and i have to get 
 this crystal. The characters i think are so lifeless very boring. You wont even care what happens 
 to the characters in the game. The battles are very plain, choose your attack and they attack and 
 stuff. Its a turn base strategy, not so much strategy though. The only moves i ever used in the 
 whole game was attack and magic, thats it. This game is making me stay away from the final fantasy 
 series and stick to legend of zelda. Please who ever is reading this review do not get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysteriousKori
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I saw this game at GameStop and decided to try it out. When you first turn on the game, the opening 
 scene looks amazing. It gave me a good first impression. At first I kind of didn't know what was 
 going on but after talking to everyone I had a good idea. You soon get to meet the 3 other main 
 characters (Arc, Refia, Ingus) who will be with you for the rest of the game.
  As for the pros: I like how each of them have different personalities, and how they are brought 
 out in the game through the cut-scenes. The story itself is good, the jobs can be a lot of fun 
 especially since there are different clothes and skills for each job. The battle system is easy 
 to get the hang of, and the music doesn't become annoying after a while (at least for me it didn't) . 
 The game can be challenging at certain parts, which makes it fun.
  Cons: It can get boring when you have to grind a lot in order to fight a boss and not die (e. g. 
 For the final boss i had to grind on the same monsters for 10 levels, very boring) . I also didn't 
 like that you can only save on the World Map, if they had a few save points in certain spots it 
 would be nice, but i guess it makes the game challenging. You either stay alive or die and have 
 to start again from the last point you saved. 
  Aside from all that, id say this game is worth getting and a fun rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenmats
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2009 7:50 pm PT
Review:  THis game was quite pretty good. Its graphics are good for a DS game, and the bos fights were pretty 
 fun.
  The major downfall of this game was, that its was kind of too hard.
  there was a temple where you fight a medusa, and the temple was pretty long, and you can save the 
 game while you are inside the temple.
  And if you die during or at the medusa battle you have to do the whole thing over agian. Another 
 downfall was, the crystal tower was extremely long, you have to fight 6 bosses in a row, and you 
 can save it. And a death between these boss battles will cost you hours of play time, so you have 
 to raise your party members levels very high. 
  And this game was too short about 12 bosses and the game is over.
  and there is a cheat that 
 you can skip all of the bosses except for the 6 bosses at the crystal tower. ( if you dont believe 
 me, i read a strategy guide that shows you how to skip all the bosses. )
  Despite all of its downfalls, I will tell you all of the good parts of this game.
  Fun, addicting 
 boss battles were fun. Great graphics for a DS game. And also, the interent wifi connection that 
 lets you send mails to your friends was really good. That was really imressive, since you can actually 
 connect with your friends. But this game has on, single disapointting downfall. The replay value 
 is really low. After you beat the game, ou can fight the previous bosses you fought, and even if 
 you start another game in another file, its still kinda boring, since the start of this game was 
 pretty boring. So the replay value of this game is moderately low. And this game gets really boring 
 at the middle of the game. two of my friends bought this game along me, and they got bored and 
 gave up this game at the next week. I got bored at first, but I managed to finish it. Well this 
 game is only good for a rent. so the bottom line is, rent this game first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zan_Puppet
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  Game Play 8/10 :
  I was surprised that battles are so simple, for the first part of the game all you do is attack, 
 but that changes once you get new jobs. There are plenty of battles to keep you entertained though. 
 
  
  Graphics 10/10:
  Final Fantasy 3 has some of the best graphics for a Nintendo DS game. Characters and bosses are 
 perfectly designed. Summonings are some of the most detailed things in the game. Final Fantasy 
 3 has a perfect score of 10/10 for graphics.
  
  
  Story Line 8.5/10:
  A first the story seems boring, but it soon changes. The story provides plenty of different bosses. 
 There also sidequests to unlock Onion Knight, and the hidden dungeon with a special boss. Final 
 Fantasy 3 has a great story line that makes it worth while.
  
  
  Jobs 9.5/10:
  This game has a great arsenal of jobs, with great variety. Each job has unique abilities, that are 
 effective against certain bosses. The problem with jobs are the fact that you don't unlock them 
 all at once. Some jobs I recommend are:
  Knight, Ninja, Dragoon, Devout, and Summoner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_Destined_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:35 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III was originally for the NES, and unless you imported or obtained one of the less-than-legal 
 fansubs, you couldn't play it. But Square-Enix felt the time was right to bring this game to America 
 officially. Let's go through this game component by component.
  
  Graphics: While the CGI characters in FMVs have almost current-gen quality, Like most 3D games 
 on the DS, they seem very reminiscent of the Nintendo 64, with the models and graphics somewhat 
 blocky and flat. Nevertheless, the ingame models do have a charm to them, with their stubby legs 
 and such. 
  
  Story: Being a remake of an NES-era game, the plot isn't very substantial. Four elemental crystals 
 have lost their light, and everything's gone to hell in a handbasket, and it's up to the heroes 
 of our tale to make things right. The characters aren't very well-developed, and often come across 
 as cliched or even cookie-cutter. 
  
  Sound/Music: The game's music are all remixed from the NES version's music. Most of the tunes are 
 pretty repetitive, though catchy. But there are a few songs that really stand out.
  
  Gameplay (Part 1) : This, of course, is the most important aspect of the game, and this game, while 
 a bit formulaic, still works. Rather than using the ATB system that started in Final Fantasy IV, 
 it's purely turn-based. You select actions for your characters, then watch the outcome. But there's 
 far more too to it than that, of course. 
  
  Gameplay (Part 2) : Over the course of the game, your characters gain access to new classes (called 
 "jobs") that grant them different abilities and stats. Early on, you get access to basic classes 
 like warriors (wears heavy armor and uses swords and axes) monks (unarmed fighters) , white mages 
 (casts healing magic and defensive buffs) black mages (casts attack magic and offense-based buffs) 
 and thieves (attacks quickly and can steal things) . Later, you'll get cooler jobs like the dragoon 
 (uses spears and can jump up high to deal lots of damage) geomancer (uses the power to the land 
 to attack) and even ninjas (uses katanas and can throw stuff) and summoners (mages that call forth 
 creatures to deal lots of damage to groups) . While the NES version essentially forced you to use 
 the Ninja and Sage classes at the end of the game, Square did a much better job at balancing out 
 the classes in this incarnation, allowing for greater capacity to mix and match their favorite 
 jobs in the final areas of the game. Outside of battle, it's just like other Final Fantasy games, 
 you run around through an overworld, towns, dungeons and get into random battles. Sometimes you 
 will have a fifth character following your lead party member, and they can sometimes offer you 
 advice.
  
  Gameplay (Part 3) : One of the major differences between the NES and DS versions is the difficulty. 
 Due to the DS' smaller screen size, battles contain no more than three enemies at a time. To balance 
 this out, the individual enemies are more powerful. Also, many bosses now have the ability to take 
 twice or more in one turn, making them far more deadly. Another major difference is that your fifth 
 party member will sometimes help you out in battle by attacking with physical strikes or magic, 
 or give your party some sort of buff. While the buffs are always welcome, sometimes they can end 
 battles before your main characters get a chance to act, which is required to make your characters' 
 skill in jobs grow.
  
  Gameplay (Part 4) : The main game is usually enough for most, but those who want the full experience 
 and required to use the Mognet mail system, which requires use of the DS' Wi-Fi. By sending messages 
 to friends and in-game characters, you'll have access to numerous sidequests. I have not personally 
 used this feature, though I may try it sometime.
  
  Overall: Final Fantasy III is a solid remake of the last (and probably best) NES Final Fantasy, 
 and those who want to enjoy an old-school Final Fantasy experience with a increased level of challenge 
 should look no further. Those who are looking for an RPG with an in-depth plot, deep characters 
 and epic scenes should look elsewhere. But if you're just looking for a solid RPG experience and 
 don't care too much about that sort of thing, this is certainly a game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Music as gorgeous as expected from Square Enix; one heck of an opening cutscene; much 
 improved graphics; plenty of different classes and options; a really, really long campaign; when 
 it shows itself, a pretty powerful story.
  
  The Bad: The developers couldn't hide that the game has aged a lot; the game is insanely hard and 
 very unforgiving; the graphics are still a little blocky; if you stick with the same classes, and 
 you will, it gets a tad repetitive.
  
  Final Fantasy I, Final Fantasy IV, and Final Fantasy VI were the original three Final Fantasy console 
 games to make it to America. They were under the guises of Final Fantasies I, II and III, but we 
 eventually learned the other three missing titles had only been released in Japan.
  
  Final Fantasy II and Final Fantasy V made there way to America with the PlayStation and the Game 
 Boy Advance, and filled in some slight gaps in Square Enix's improvements on the RPG genre, which 
 they basically own.
  
  Final Fantasy III is here at last, the real Final Fantasy III, and it's now extremely old. However, 
 it is the missing link in the chain, it's been as modernized as could be done without changing 
 the whole thing, and it has moments where it just plain shines like a modern RPG.
  
  Square Enix's production values aren't lost on this title. A graphical overhaul has been done on 
 the game, and the opening cutscene is gorgeous the way a console game would look, but the gameplay 
 is a little on the blocky side. Nevertheless, the game wouldn't have been as exciting coming to 
 America if it hadn't been done.
  
  The music, too, is magnificent. Final Fantasy has always had spectacular composers, and this game 
 is no different. The music is now, impressively, orchestrated in many areas, and the MIDI is really, 
 really good MIDI.
  
  There isn't any voice acting, but the text doesn't bog the game down so much that it gets boring. 
 There's plenty of it, naturally, being an RPG, but it doesn't crush the fun out of the title.
 
  
  The opening of the game is rather memorable, as you go and find the four characters that will stay 
 with you all game: Luneth, Arc, Refia and Ingus. Each of them does indeed have a unique personality, 
 and even if the story isn't as all-encompassing as a modern Square Enix game, the characters are 
 memorable. That might only be because the game is so insanely long, but nevertheless, each has 
 a story behind them.
  
  The gameplay revolves around a floating continent and the main continent, where four crystals that 
 keep the light in the world are hidden. The evil creature Xande has taken the light from them and 
 has them guarded by monstrous bosses.
  
  You'll gradually unlock more and more classes to try out. Each has unique abilities, although each 
 character is allowed the same abilities. Still, it's good to switch it up and find the best group 
 for you (which should always include a healer, by the way) .
  
  The world is massive, there's tons to explore, and you'll end up with at least thirty hours, and 
 closer to fifty if you explore a lot. It's clear that Square Enix went through pains, almost making 
 a completely new game from the ground up to make this guy, and it's turned out extremely well for 
 it.
  
  On the other hand, the game is showing its age, a lot. There isn't a ton of story, as said before, 
 so you won't be swept up by emotion the way most Square games will do to you. Also, the game is 
 really, really hard.
  
  The main reason for this is that it is extremely punishing. On the overworld map you can save wherever 
 you like, but in dungeons you can't save at all. This means that you can train up about five levels 
 per character and reach the top of the tower, fight the boss, die, and lose about an hour of gameplay. 
 This can make the game feel extremely repetitive and annoying.
  
  If you're new to playing RPGs, this one will expect you to train a whole lot in between levels. 
 You'll want to level up two or three levels extra between each dungeon, if not more, to stay on 
 top of the game, and to get the best experience. If you don't, you'll learn the hard way.
  
  You won't be wanting to experiment with classes much because your character has to get used 
 to their new job, and this makes them a lot worse. You'll be able to find the best group you can 
 get, sure, but it is kind of hard to switch off. So it is the best to look up the best ones on 
 the internet and just train your butt off.
  
  But that's a bit of a double-edged sword, because the battling is simple turn-based, line up the 
 characters and fight gameplay. It can get a little dull using the same attacks over and over, but 
 by the end the enemies are so hard that they can in fact kill you (the random encounters) , so that 
 does switch up the formula.
  
  The game is a ton of fun, especially if you can keep advancing through it. If not, it can be rather 
 annoying. Still, it will teach you how to play an RPG, and there's nothing you can do about that.
 
  
  I will in fact remember the quest of Luneth, Arc, Refia and Ingus, because no matter how annoying 
 those dungeons can be (and there are a lot of them) , the game leaves a good taste in your mouth.
 
  
  I would suggest getting it. It's not the very, very best game from Square, or one of the very, 
 very best on the DS, but if you want to learn how to play an RPG and play it really well, and if 
 you want to see the past of Final Fantasy, this is definitely your best choice.
  
  Plus, Final Fantasy IV and possibly more old school Final Fantasies are coming to DS. There's yet 
 another reason, and the sequel's getting great reviews. Go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretnoob
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  In a remake of the original Final Fantasy III, which never came to America, though a game called 
 Final Fantasy III came to our SNES which was actually Final Fantasy VI, Square-Enix tries to make 
 this game more enjoyable. Though I haven't played the original, I can say that this is the worst 
 Final Fantasy I have played to date. 
  
  This is SQE's last delve into the classic Final Fantasy, that is to say, before they created the 
 ATB and gave character's pre-destined "jobs". In this game, you follow Luneth, Arc, Refia, and 
 Ingus, the 4 warriors of light, on a journey to save the world from darkness and Xande. It is a 
 painful journey, as people along the way are taken from the characters, which helps to add some 
 depth to the story. However, it doesn't have the emotional involvement that some of the other Final 
 Fantasy's bring out. 
  
  The job system is good. Like Final Fantasy I, you have turn based combat, and the job system, allowing 
 you to customize your characters based on how you like to fight, and along the journey, as you 
 find each of the 4 crystals, you gain new, and more powerful jobs to help you. In addition, the 
 magic system still has that annoying method of MP. Where instead of having a amount of MP and each 
 spell costing a certain amount, you get a certain limit to the number of times you can cast spells 
 from each rank (ranked 1-8) . This system annoys me. I really don't know what else to say about 
 it, since I know they've fixed it since then, because I live in the future. 
  
  The graphics are weird, to say the least. They are an incredibly blocky take on 3D characters, 
 and, while letting you see facial expressions and physicality when fighting, always looks kind 
 of weird, and sometimes, makes you want to go back to how the game looked originally. Also, though 
 running around dungeons and towns works with the DS touch screen, combat doesn't. And I found myself 
 running around with the stylus, then putting it away while I fought. 
  
  This game is hard. You will not be able to, what I call, power through the game without having 
 to really take a breather. Eventually you will have to grind. A lot. And the mobs are difficult 
 and don't give much experience, AND when you level, you don't get much of a reward. Especially 
 in the way of HP, even after a few grinding sessions, by the end of the game, my HP was around 
 2400, which makes the final boss impossible. This feels broken to me, not that its too difficult, 
 I enjoy a challenge and know one when I see it, but it feels more broken and cheesed than legitimately 
 hard. There are times in the game where I can one shot mobs with my characters and get through 
 each battle in one turn with no damage taken, and then the next dungeon will tear through my face. 
 It's just really weird and annoying. 
  
  Finally the worst part of the game, which almost makes me want to give it a much lower score, and 
 is the reason I did not beat the final boss and don't care to and will never try again. The Save 
 System. Saving. Seems weird to critique, right? NO! The save system in this game is so broken an 
 unnecessarily hindering it makes the game incredibly punishing if you die in a dungeon. You can 
 only save on the world map, like a lot of Final Fantasy's. However, there are no areas in dungeons 
 where you can also save. No rooms right before bosses to save. So if you die, its back to right 
 outside, if you remembered to save before you entered the dungeon. 
  
  The reason I harp on it is the final dungeon. This is unforgivable and terribly frustrating. The 
 final dungeon is incredibly long and arduous. In the end, you fight the final boss who, surprise, 
 isn't really the final boss. You then have to fight four mini bosses, each one takes a long time 
 to get to, and is incredibly difficult to kill. I pity players who don't use Vikings. After the 
 four, you fight the final final final boss, who completely decimated my team, which took no damage 
 from any of the 4 mini bosses. After dying, I had to start back from when I first entered the final 
 dungeon, which is when I turned off the game. 
  
  Though it is a decent Final Fantasy, the save system is what Secretly destroys any fun you might 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first tried playing Final Fantasy III I did not like it at all. This being my sixth game 
 to play through in the series, it was very different. This is the oldest Final Fantasy game I've 
 played (I've played FF 7,8,9,10,12, and just recently played 4) . It sticks to its old-school RPG 
 roots, which is a good and bad thing.
  
  This game has a lot going for it. The job system in this game was very interesting. It takes awhile 
 to get use to, but once you get the hang of it, it can be very fun. There are different times, 
 when you must change your job in order to progress in the game. There are also certain jobs that 
 work better on certain bosses. The gameplay is turn-based style. This works well with beginners, 
 It gives you more time to plan what you want to do. Overall the gameplay aspect of the game is 
 great.
  
  The graphics and sound are top notch. The opening movie is amazing to watch. Its also great to 
 finally see this game in 3D. Nobuo Uematsu also works his magic again and produces an astonishing 
 soundtrack. 
  
  Now everything else about the game, was just average. The two main things that brought this game 
 down in my opinion were the story and character development. The story is very ordinary. It tells 
 the story of four orphans who must travel and find the 4 crystals in order to return light to the 
 world. There are also small little plots through the game, but nothing that really stands out. 
 It was almost kind of boring when it came to the story.
  
  The characters were disappointing also. They had a good idea of introducing 4 very different characters, 
 but you never really learn to much about them, or how they interact or feel. I mean most of the 
 time you refer to the characters as their job class, not really by their names. The characters 
 and stories in all the other Final Fantasy games have been better than this one. 
  
  But by no means is this a bad game. It has all the elements to make this a really great game. There 
 were only two parts of the game that were kind of lacking. It still has that classic Final Fantasy 
 gameplay and music. It also has the nice graphics you come to expect with the final fantasy games. 
 If the story had been a little better and there had been some character development, this game 
 would be top notch like the rest of the series. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiftyluke
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:25 pm PT
Review:  i got this for christmas and i absolutely love it!! i cant even describe how good it is, so here 
 is the main review
  
  gameplay: 10/10
  the gameplay is really good in my point of view, the battles, everything
  the battles are like 
 pokemon, only better, you can use magic, and every job has their own special atribute to them, 
 eg. warrior-advance, ranger-barrage, dark knight-souleater, scholar-study, theif-steal and much 
 more
  although the game itself is sorta hard, that is what every game needs so it can be interesting 
 for a long time
  
  plot: 9/10
  the plot of the game is really good
  it is based on 4 orphans who are chosen by a crystal to defeat the darkness in the world, so the 
 4 must travel the world looking for crystals and defeating the darkness
  the reason i marked the plot down by one point was the fact that the "defeat the darkness" plot 
 has ben used so much now, its getting boring
  
  bosses :9/10
  the bosses in this game are based on a wide range of things like a large falcon sort of creature 
 called garuda, to people based things like hein ( a skeleton sort of person that can change weakness 
 at own will) , goldor ( a man with pure gold armor) and doga and unei ( 2 people who help you in 
 the game)
  the bosses also include people that are already made up like medusa, cerberus (what fantasy game 
 would be complete without him :D) and the kraken, and also things that actually exist like the 
 salamander
  the bosses for some reason, are mainly people, but in the fights, are creatures or look extreemly 
 different
  eg. gigameth- garuda
  doga- some squishy looking ball thing with a tail
  unei- a creepy beast with long hair
  xande- looks similar, but a lot bigger
  djinn- a fat guy 
 that seems to be a guy ridding a scimitar
  
  
  overall 10/10
  this is a PERFECT game, although the casual lag in some places. i highly recomend you get it, and 
 play it for ages, since the fun never stops
  
  NOTE: some people bash this game because they think there is too much level grinding, dont lissen 
 to them, RPGs are built around level grinding! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 16, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  Before I even start this review out, let's get this out of the way: Nothing about Final Fantasy 
 III DS is fun. Video games are meant to entertain you, and Final Fantasy III DS does anything but 
 that. The game is just god-awful, and you can more than likely pick out a better Japanese RPG on 
 the DS. Heck, almost anything is better than this disaster.
  
  The game starts out with some extremely impressive cut-scene of four children riding these deformed 
 things. I don't know what to call them, but the children are riding them and giving each other 
 weird gestures. The graphics are so darn impressive at this part that you'd think you are playing 
 this game on the PlayStation 2. But no, this is the DS. Unfortunately, the game play absolutely 
 sucks and the graphics never look this good again.
  
  After you start a new game by clicking on "new game," you'll see some loser falling into a cave 
 somehow after a hurricane. After a very brief cut-scene, you find out that, unfortunately, that 
 loser is you. So you take control of whatever the heck you want to name this guy, and fight a bunch 
 of random enemies on the way. There's really no skill involved at first, and there is little skill 
 required after. All you do for the first cave is click the attack button over and over again on 
 every enemy you encounter. If you die, you are going to have to start all the way back.
  
  Once you get out of the cave, you go back to this town with some really nice music. I'm not going 
 to lie; the music in this game is very impressive and it has some tunes that you might start humming 
 to. Anyway, your pansy friend is being a pansy again and he runs away because everyone is making 
 fun of him for being a scared pansy. So the loser in the cave goes to look for the pansy, and eventually 
 finds him, giving him comfort and all this crap. After the loser and pansy meet up again, they 
 start to tag along with a female that they make fun of for being a female. So the loser, pansy, 
 and female then go to some castle and meet up with some idiot. Eventually, the loser, pansy, female, 
 and idiot all find out that they are the chosen ones because some shining crystal told them, and 
 they have to go on an epic quest that is boring as hell and isn't fun to save the floating continent 
 that they live on. Whoopee.
  
  On the way, you visit towns full of people that just so happen to know all the stuff that you have 
 to know to get past whatever objective you are put through, and you'll meet up with some weird, 
 creepy old man that has stalked you your whole life to tell the loser, pansy, female, and idiot 
 all about their "past." His name is Cid, and he's creepy as hell, and let's the kids drive some 
 aircraft on their own, unsupervised.
  
  The game play absolutely sucks. This is why I give the game a one out of ten. The combat is turn-based, 
 which means you take turns attacking. This is fine, because many other Japanese RPGs, like Paper 
 Mario, Pokemon, Mother, and such, have proved that this can be fun. This isn't the case with Final 
 Fantasy III DS. The battles are extremely long because the animations are longer than when they 
 were in the original one, and you get to seem them repeat it over and over again, as if you can 
 hurt someone by slashing the air. The battles consists of this, no matter what class you are: Click 
 on the Attack button for all four characters, and watch them grow levels.
  
  Yes, you can choose different jobs, but you might as well just choose the ones that don't suck. 
 There are tons of different jobs that you can unlock, but some just seem like upgrades of others. 
 The two characters in the front do more damage to the enemy, but they also take more damage. The 
 two characters in the back do less damage to the enemy, but also take less damage. It's probably 
 best to put your magic-wielding characters in back for obvious reasons.
  
  The only classes that have exceptions to not just attacking every time are the magic-wielding classes 
 that I will refer to as "mages" throughout the rest of this review. They can heal the whole team 
 and pull some other different moves, too. White mages can go up to level 7 in the magic area, but 
 can only use white magic. Black mages can go up to level 7 in the magic area, but can only use 
 black magic. Red mages can go up to level 5 in the magic area, but they can use both white and 
 black magic. The higher the level, the less uses you have for each spell. The better the spell, 
 the higher level it will be. As you increase your job level, you can use more spells, and that's 
 pretty neat. Also, Knights and some other jobs can use level 1 magic, and sometimes even higher.
 
  
  While the magic system may seem complex and interesting, it really isn't. Every now and then, you'll 
 heal your time, but for the most part, you'll just attack with whatever spell you have. Every now 
 and then, you might cast "mini" or "toad," but you probably won't do this often enough.
  
  The point is that the battle system is totally shallow and RPGs have evolved. Maybe instead of 
 making the whole game three dimensional, Square Enix should've actually made the game more fun. 
 And if you don't have any magic users, every battle is going to just consist of you attacking them 
 over and over again. Usually, there's only one option that's good to use, and you'll just keep 
 using that over and over again. You can get better clothing and better weapon by getting the money 
 from battle, but that really doesn't make the combat any more fun.
  
  The game is focused more on gameplay than storyline, which is terrible since the gameplay is so 
 horrible. The overworld is huge, and you are going to have to go to place to place. It doesn't 
 help that every freaking five steps you take, you encounter some monster. These battles take, like, 
 thirty seconds, which doesn't sound bad, but you do this so many times that it just becomes painfully 
 tedious and boring. It's just so unbelievably repetitive that I don't see how I managed to play 
 the game for over twenty hours. Every battle involves you just using the attack button because 
 there aren't any other useful attacks that are worth using, so it all ends up being the same thing 
 over and over again. You'll lose a lot, so the game makes you grind constantly. You are going to 
 have to fight these monsters to level up, unfortunately. The amount of grind in this game is insane. 
 You'll spend hours just fighting the same monsters over and over again, doing everything over and 
 over again so you can get to a high enough level to beat the next generic boss. I can't even explain 
 to you how much this game sucks.
  
  I could go on about how horrible this game truly is, so I will. The save option is extremely limited. 
 You can only use it in the overworld for some stupid reason. Some caves take an hour to get through, 
 and then when you get to the boss and realize that you should've spent an extra three hours grinding 
 so you can actually beat the darn thing, you lose. When you lose, even after being in a cave for 
 this long hour, you start back to your last save. This means that all the experience points, levels, 
 and job levels you gained disappeared. It's like the last hour didn't happen, and the game goes 
 to some screen with terrible music reminding you that you just wasted your time not having fun 
 and it all went to waste.
  
  When some of your characters die, you can use a Phoenix Down, but those aren't sold in shops, so 
 you'll probably want to go to some fountain in town to revive your character. Unfortunately, not 
 every town has this, so there's a chance you may die on the way and lose all the progress you made.
 
  
  I played the game for over twenty hours, and I could not go forth any longer. I had my characters 
 over level thirty and tired to keep playing, but the game was just so bad that I couldn't do it 
 any longer. You might say that I can't review a game until I've beaten it, but if the game takes 
 more than twenty hours to actually get to the "fun" parts, then the game sucks, anyway. Throughout 
 the whole game, I felt like I was doing the same thing over and over again. You go to one crystal 
 to another, beat the boss, upgrade to your next job level, and then go on with the constant grind 
 and talking to boring NPCs that just so happen to know everything you need to know.
  
  The gameplay is just horrible. I can't stretch this enough. The job system may have been revolutionary 
 back in 1994 when this game first released, but now you need more than that to actually be fun. 
 Square Enix remade this game with updated visuals and animations, but everything else has remained 
 the same, unfortunately. The battles are longer than the real version, which just makes this game 
 that much more painful.
  
  To the game's credit, the graphics in 3D do look nice, but I would prefer the 2D sprites. 2D can 
 look good if you put effort into it. The music is probably the best part of the game, and I stay 
 in certain areas just so I can hum along with the game. These two things don't make up for the 
 fact that the gameplay is horribly dated, however. You can look the music up on YouTube, and you 
 don't have to play through the boring game to get to the towns with good music.
  
  I'll say it one last time: This game is awful. Awful in almost every sense of the word. If you 
 still don't believe me how bad this game is and are considering buying it, the please contact me, 
 because I don't want to see anyone waste a single penny on this piece of trash. If you are looking 
 for a good RPG on the DS, you can try Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl Version, 
 The World Ends With You, or anything else that isn't Final Fantasy III DS. This is the bottom of 
 the barrel, and the last time I gave a game a one out of ten was two and half years ago. Sorry, 
 Square Enix. Next time, just make the game actually fun.
  
  Notice: This review was created on June 2, 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:00 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Three was among the Final Fantasies that America never got to see until 2006. The 
 game is simply amazing and defintely not a dull moment in the Final Fantasy Series. While I have 
 got a chance to play the original the remake is definetly better not because they have better graphics 
 but because they took characters who did not have a name and a personality and gave them both. 
 While Final Fantasy III storyline isn't that great, it is still good for one it keeps the classic 
 of what the story was and it does seem to catch your attention, It also interacts well with the 
 characters and envorinment. Once again you are to save the world with four warriors guided by the 
 light however unlike one the game does through in a few surpises. The graphics are some of the 
 best that I think we will ever see on the DS. You are now able to get every Final Fantasy game 
 out there. If you are a fan of Old-School RPGs or Final Fantasy you have got to try this out. while 
 it is not the best in the series it is still a great game. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeglove
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  III on the DS is disappointing. It gives so much promise at the start, but after a couple of hours 
 of playing the facade drops and the game shows its true colours. This game is plagued with problems.
 
  
  In every other Final Fantasy game, including the remakes, the game was spaced out nice and evenly 
 with plenty of save points. Sure, if some boss creature at the end of the dungeon was too hard, 
 there was nearly always a save point stuck handily in front of that big mean looking door that 
 has a gigantic Behemoth waiting behind it. III does not possess this. The majority of your adventure 
 is spent dungeon crawling and there are no save points hidden in any of the architecture. Coupled 
 with the endless random monster encounters (that either make or break a Final Fantasy game for 
 some people, as there is no way to avoid these occurring) , it makes for an extremely frustrating 
 gaming experience. The only place you can save your progress is on the world map. From there on, 
 you're on your own. Try to avoid hurling the DS out the window after having spent an hour of playing 
 through a tiresome dungeon, only to be zapped into oblivion by the boss at the end. Bam. Another 
 hour of your life, wasted, with nothing to show for it. 
  
  Overshadowing, and contributing to, the afore said save point dilemma, is the Job system. The Job 
 system allows each of your four party members to switch their roles within the party. For instance, 
 say you need someone to heal your burly warriors. Switch one of your characters to a White Mage 
 and he or she can start casting Cure magic. Or maybe certain enemies are only susceptible to arrows. 
 In which case, you will need to switch a couple of your characters to bow-wielders. In total there 
 are about twenty jobs that reveal themselves through the course of the game. Fine and dandy. The 
 problem arises, on at least three occasions, whereby you *have* to switch all of your party members 
 to a specific group in order to conquer a dungeon or beat a boss. When jobs are switched there 
 is a specific adjustment period and during this time the character in question is terribly vulnerable 
 and underpowered. This means you have to hang around even longer practising with your group until 
 they are boss capable. In terms of continuity, the difficulty is all over the place. One moment 
 you are happily trotting along squishing the local beasts and baddies, the next you are suddenly 
 being pulverised by some stupid bird creature because you didn't change your entire team to a group 
 of Dragoons.
  
  From a technical viewpoint, the game doesn't even incorporate what the DS is capable of. The top 
 screen's only real use is displaying the world map outside of the dungeons. Other than that, within 
 dungeons and during fights, it is totally blank. Stuff using it for providing information on the 
 creatures you are currently slashing at or as a mini map within the dungeon, eh? The touch screen 
 almost gets taken advantage of, in that you can use the stylus to click stuff and move your character 
 across the screen, but it has been programmed in such a cack-handed manner that the stylus will 
 frequently select the wrong option for you during a fight, or when navigating the menu screens. 
 Luckily you can use the normal d-pad for movement and buttons for selecting everything. Nothing 
 in the game incorporates the microphone either. The DS Wi-Fi feature does have a use, in that you 
 can send messages to other FF users if you know their "friend code", but if you don't have Wi-Fi 
 access then this is meaningless. III totally wastes the dozens of opportunities available on the 
 DS that could have enhanced the Final Fantasy experience. 
  
  All the creators Square Enix have done is taken the original game and jazzed up the visuals. Admittedly 
 it does look and sound great. All the characters and sprites have been jazzed up to three dimensions. 
 The themes to each location plink and plonk along nicely without grating the ears. Spells cast 
 and beasts summoned during fights are impressive. Graphically it is very reminiscent of Final Fantasy 
 VII on the Playstation, but that is where the similarities end. In terms of gameplay, all the other 
 Final Fantasies, including the Gameboy Advance remakes, enjoyed bonus sub-quests stuck in. III 
 does boast a couple of these but they only way they are made available is through sending other 
 III users messages through the previously mentioned Wi-Fi service. Again, if you don't have Wi-Fi 
 access then you are unfairly missing out on content that you have paid more than enough money for. 
 
  
  Final Fantasy III is a poorly structured and ludicrously difficult remake of what was one of the 
 most influential games in the series. Running through the game will take you the better part of 
 thirty hours, and most of those will be spent level grinding just so you can become strong enough 
 to make your way through the next section. The plot is okay, a bit haphazard and unexplained in 
 most parts - but we are living in the days of voice acting and grand theft autos, so the cutesy 
 style of early nineties games is a bit defunct. The glaring faults that could have been so easily 
 fixed sully what could have become the stalwart RPG for the DS. So, unless you are a Final Fantasy 
 purist, avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafans1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing i loved from the time i started playing it i play every night just to kill 
 simple people so i can just feel the power rushing through my
  head and it feels great. The graphices are perfect for ds and if you care about graphices on ds 
 then get another system but for a hand held system its great!!
  The job classes are sweet i mean from getting a warror to getting a black mage to tourch your oppent 
 to a shrimp. The mucic is pretty good but not the best ever. Also some of the weapons are sweet 
 i mean a blood sword that when ever you attack it gives you health when your person is almost dead 
 kill your enemy with a blood sword equiped and you just saved yourself from surtent death witch 
 makes the game o so much better. i love that the charicters never goes away. The bosses are so cool 
 i mean from a huge dragon to a slimy no good @#$%^%& piece of @#$@. I mean all the classes that 
 you can get make the game so so sweet. This game was for me at christmas but when i got it i switched 
 it wiht one of my crapy games witch i will right soon but it will not be a very nice review. So 
 please get this game and make your day a freacken sweet one!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintmanag
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy has been a huge long running franchise, with it's 13th game coming out next year 
 for the Playstation 3.
  
  Unfortunately, in porting FF3, one of the less successful older games of the franchise, to the 
 DS, the story has been further mutilated, and although still recognizable, it retains that corny 
 dialogue and basic backstory that FF3 sported.
  
  Normally I would go on a romp detailing all of the bad points of the story, but I won't, since 
 that would be unfair; this game is simply a 3D port.
  
  So what are the good points? Well, first of all, the battle system looks better than ever, with 
 multiple camera angles and some just genuinely cool looking attacks (including Blizzaga.) Some 
 of the bosses have been made much stronger, and these add extra challenges to the game, although 
 at times they can be maddening.
  The music has stayed the same, but still retains that charm from the original.
  
  Overall, 
 this game is fun to play, but the story is weak and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinys_martyr
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I've read some of the critics reviews, and understand why the game didn't achieve a higher score. 
 
  
  With that being said, I still think the game is very enjoyable and somewhat addictive towards the 
 later stages. Although I admit I took a few months break halfway through the game as I was playing 
 too many other DS games at the time as well and became burned out.
  
  The story is a little dry, but nothing worse or less interesting than the story lines of FFI and 
 FFII. In fact I think III overall was more enjoyable (I'm talking about compared to the Dawn of 
 Souls port to the GBA) because of the addition of the job system, which makes the game very open-ended. 
 
  
  I believe had there not been the job system the game wouldn't have been as enjoyable.
  
  I 
 would say it's also a pretty lengthy game and it's a good idea to go to a few places in the game 
 to level up considerably to make the final bosses easy.
  
  The graphics are good, and although it doesn't always utilize both screens, it doesn't feel like 
 it's lacking anything visually by mostly using the bottom screen.
  
  The game also has a good amount of replay value because of the job system and the many jobs that 
 you can assign to your character.
  
  Overall a must have if you're a FF fan or a fan of RPGs on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcarlson892007
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the Final Fantasy franchise and own a DS, Final Fantasy III is definitely worth 
 playing, especially if you enjoyed the SNES version of the game. Storyline, characters, and locations 
 are largely the same, but with improved graphics and a few DS-exclusive enhancements. As for game 
 play, you'll find the bosses are about as hard as they get, and will need to spend a good amount 
 of time leveling up and exploring caves heavily occupied with dangerous monsters. There are many 
 towns and caves to explore, and a large variety of weapons and items that give the game a diverse 
 range of possibilities. Part of the strategy to beating bosses is having the right types of people 
 in your party, for example, a knight, dragoon, white mage and black mage. As the characters level 
 up they gain the ability to use powerful spells and attacks. The storyline is not quite satisfying, 
 but the solid game play allows for a fun and addictive (sometimes frustrating) Final Fantasy experience.
 
  
  The bottom line is if you are a regular fan of Square-Enix's RPG's, you'll want to get this game, 
 but if you just a casual gamer who wants a great Final Fantasy experience, it may be better to 
 check out Final Fantasy IV for the DS instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Out-Of-Ammo
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I've heard a lot about how Final Fantasy Is "One of the best games Ever", but I never 
 actually played one before (I know, sad...) so I was at GameStop (My version of Heaven!) , looking 
 for some new games to add + to my collection. I saw that I could purchase a new copy of Final Fantasy 
 III for $20.00. I heard that it was a good game, so I got it. I went Home, took my DS off of it's 
 charger, and started playing. Meaningless to say, I didn't like it.
  
  The Good: Beautiful graphics that can really mesmerize you to just look at the game for a while.- 
 Gameplay mechanics work really well.- Wi-Fi.
  
  The Bad: Waaaayyyyyyy too difficult.- Lack of save points.- Easy to get lost.- Hard to find save 
 points (I always start at the very beginning, because I CAN"T FIND A FREAKIN' SAVE POINT) .
  - Weak story.- Characters don't have much lovability.
  
  Story: In Final Fantasy III, you start 
 out as an orphan that has accidently fallen into a whole in the ground. And ends up having to fight 
 loads of monsters just to get out. Once you get out, you will end up meeting some new friends (AND 
 party members) while trying to save a town that has befallen a terrible curse. 
  
  I hope you found my review helpful, thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocul
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  I understand that Final Fantasy 3 is a remake and such, although I've definitely played better. 
 The graphics are good enough for a DS game, the gameplay is simple and easy to understand and if 
 you want something to burn your time with then I guess this is a good enough game for you.
  
  Since it is one of the first FF games then we can forgive it for its shoddiness at some points. 
 It's your typical Final Fantasy game, with airships, traveling, random monster encounters and summoning 
 hooplah.
  
  I don't approve with the job system. Especially the armor and equipment. There is no decent way 
 to tell how your equipment is compatible with your current class. It become a trial and error thing, 
 but there's more to strategize for then, more to challenge you with.
  
  Although, if you are after a good story then I suggest you go for something else. It's too linear, 
 there's little character development. The pacing is unnaturally quick and everything is just predictable.
 
  
  I got rather irritated with the characters at one point. They had no personality, whatsoever.
 
  
  I suggest you think twice before buying this game. Personally, I thought it was a waste of money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  A phenomenal earthquake shook the very foundations of the lands. It is said that four crystals 
 of light were thus swallowed into the unknown depths of earth. The darkness then rose and yielded 
 the lands full of sorrow and despair. Monsters and evil powers are growing steadily in the dark 
 hollows of the earth  but all hope is not yet lost! Prophecies tell of brave warriors of light 
 who will come to restore the balance in the world.
  And so it came to pass that an young adventurer found an underground cavern by chance, and within 
 that cavern was one of the crystals of light. The adventurer, named Luneth, became blessed by the 
 crystal's power  and that makes him one of the four warriors of light.
  
  The adventure begins when Luneth falls into the underground cave where he soon finds the crystal 
 of light. The game quickly introduces the player to the combat system and the game's underlying 
 rule set. You'll get the chance to find some basic items, learn to equip and use them and try some 
 battles before the real adventure begins.
  
  As this is a remake of the original Final Fantasy 3 for the NES from 1990, you won't see many innovations 
 here gameplay wise. You'll be fighting monsters, talking to villagers, searching for clues, completing 
 quests and buying weapons and armor just like in many other similar roleplaying games. What makes 
 this so great though, is that it finally gives us Europeans and Americans the chance to play the 
 game  the original was only released in Japan.
  
  You begin play with only Luneth as the main character, but soon enough you will meet Arc, your 
 best friend who also joins you in the quest to set things straight in the world. Finding the two 
 other warriors of light will eventually occur soon enough too  once you have your trusted band 
 of adventurers you'll really feel the strategic depth this game has when it comes to fighting battles.
 
  
  The battles are turn-based and require advanced tactics, at least further into the game. You'll 
 encounter hard boss fights that typically needs a few tries before they go down, and generally 
 when exploring monster filled areas, your characters will need to be able to stay alive. You will 
 need someone who can take a lot of damage, someone who can cast healing magic, and someone who 
 can deal a lot of damage.
  
  The game is set in a fantasy world with many dangers and treasures. There are numerous different 
 monsters, bosses, items, weapons and spells though the game. As you progress through the story 
 you'll unlock more and more jobs your characters can assume. Each job represents a special ability, 
 a strength and a weakness. The different jobs that you can play in the game are; Freelancer, Warrior, 
 Monk, White Mage, Black Mage, Red Mage, Thief, Ranger, Knight, Scholar, Geomancer, Viking, Dragoon, 
 Black Belt, Dark Knight, Evoker, Bard, Magus, Devout, Summoner, Sage and Ninja.
  As you can tell, there is a wide array of different character types you can have in your party. 
 You can change any characters job at any time  but when changing jobs like this, that character 
 will need a few battles to "get into" his or her new job before she can start leveling up that 
 job.
  
  Thanks to all these different jobs you can form and shape your party pretty much as you want. What 
 jobs you level up will determine what general strategy you use in combat. You are free to experiment 
 with different combinations of jobs as much as you like. Much of the enjoyment in this game relies 
 on trying different jobs. The more you experiment though, the more monsters will you need to kill 
 to maintain your party's level of power. The further into the story you progress the harder will 
 the monsters be. This means that you more or less need to have a certain character and job level 
 to stand a fair chance against the forth coming challenges. This is not quite as intimidating as 
 it may sound though  you'll quickly notice if your characters aren't strong enough. In that case 
 you can easily backtrack and fight random monsters and level up that way until you're ready to 
 move on.
  
  Not only will you be leveling up your jobs, but also your character levels. Job levels determine 
 how good you are at doing your jobs  for instance, your chance to success at stealing as a thief 
 increases the better your job level is. Your character level on the other hand determines your 
 characters basic stats, such as strength, dexterity, hit points and magic points and so on. But 
 you need not pay this much attention because you level up jobs and character levels at the same 
 time, in the same way  by killing monsters.
  
  The story takes the young adventurers through many perilous and strange places. You'll have the 
 chance to visit the dwarves, fly an airship, explore underwater caves, fight dragons, save a kingdom 
 and so on. Needless to say; the game is very epic like the other Final Fantasy titles. There are 
 secret treasures hidden here and there that can aid you in your journey. You'll make new friends 
 and at the same time prepare yourself for the greater evils and challenges of the world. If you 
 are into these kinds of things, then you'll enjoy every second of this game.
  
  There seems to be some minor balance issues in the game. Using two weapons with a melee fighting 
 job seems overpowered compared to using a weapon and a shield. Dual wielding two weapons basically 
 doubles your attack power, and it seems that you always benefit from doing this. Some of the special 
 abilities from the jobs seem overpowered too  the warriors ability to increase attack power at 
 the cost of defense, for example is incredibly advantageous. The defensive abilities like the knights 
 "defend" ability isn't even close to being as useful, and that seems a bit unbalanced.
  
  Other jobs abilities such as the scholar who can study enemies to reveal their hit point total 
 can also seem a bit futile. This can also work as a difficulty setting of sorts  if you want the 
 game to be harder you can choose to play with jobs that aren't overpowered  or if you want to 
 play the game more than once you could spice things up the second time by playing with new jobs. 
 I assure you that the difference will be huge.
  
  The game will need you to fight a lot of random monster encounters  and I really see no way that 
 this can be avoided. You need to make sure that your characters are strong enough to beat the next 
 boss all the time, and if you aren't, you have to level up. Much of the play time will be spent 
 on killing monsters just to gain those precious experience points. This is pretty normal for most 
 roleplaying games in general, so the repetitive nature of these kinds of games is an accepted fact. 
 If you aren't up for this, then playing this game might not be your cup of tea after all.
  
  The DS does a great job in rendering this game in 3D. The graphics are good albeit the use 
 of 2D sprites in the three dimensional space. 2D sprites are used mostly in the backgrounds and 
 as props while the figures and the rest of the area is built in 3D. The monsters are nicely modeled 
 with a minimalistic polygon count, and the special effects like spells and such are also looking 
 good. It's arguable that the game could have looked better if it was entirely made in 2D as that 
 eliminates the somewhat "grainy" look of the characters, but certainly the graphics are fully satisfying 
 as they are. One of the strengths graphics wise is that the game is fairly varied as it portrays 
 both forests, castles, caves, temples, ruins, underwater areas, dungeons, many different monsters 
 and so on.
  
  The music is entirely based on the original music from the 1990's game. It's totally revamped though, 
 and renders the music beautifully on to the DS. The music itself is very appropriate and builds 
 tension and immersion at every turn. It's epic, it's sad, it's hopeful and glorious  it's pretty 
 much perfect. As you will be fighting the monsters much of the time there's always the risk that 
 you'll grow tired of the battle music.
  
  The quest in Final Fantasy 3 is a long one  it'll take 30  40 hours to complete. Personally I 
 would have been happier to see an 70  80 hours adventure but you can't have it all, can you? This 
 is never the less an unforgettable adventure and if you like any other Final Fantasy game you'll 
 instantly recognize its distinct feel of epic adventure and harsh battles. This isn't however the 
 best in the series by any means, but it sure is worth playing! Seeing the world rendered in 3D 
 for the first time is a novel experience, and saving the world from evil darkness can never get 
 old! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  here was a time when role-playing games didn't need endless plot exposition, intricate character 
 development or emotional attachment to tell a decent story. It was a time when inflicting damage 
 on your enemies could be done from ten feet away, without the need to hit them with your sword. 
 A time when... well, when the Final Fantasy series started. You could argue that RPGs have come 
 a long way since then but they haven't. Strip away all those graphical improvements and fancy battle 
 options and you'd find that even some 17 years after its original release, Final Fantasy III is 
 as good as it gets.
  
  
  Much as we'd be the first to complain if a slightly rushed port of an old game was shoehorned onto 
 the DS, there's no danger of that here. For starters, Final Fantasy III was never released outside 
 Japan so, unless you're an obsessive RPG fanatic, you won't notice that Final Fantasy III DS is 
 an incredibly faithful translation of the original. More important is how much work Square Enix 
 has put in to ensure this isn't seen as a port of an ancient RPG. 
  
  So much effort has gone into making Final Fantasy III DS that you'd be hard-pushed to recognise 
 its NES-based origins, although it does retain an old-school RPG plot that's light on subtlety. 
 Rather than gently easing you in and carefully introducing each character, you're slammed with 
 a barrage of 'Go here!', 'Do this!' and 'Have these!' set-ups that make you appreciate how important 
 storytelling is in games these days. 
  
  In fact, this lack of exposition is the game's only shortcoming - it's a timely reminder of how 
 hard RPGs can be. Gamers wanting an adventure that'll hold their hand and kiss them better when 
 they get smacked on the head by Bahamut would do well to look elsewhere.
  
  For those who don't though, they'll find an intensely rewarding and, considering its NES origins, 
 deep RPG that has so much hidden inside it, it's scary. It might not seem that way initially, of 
 course, because the opening hour or so sees you doing little more than running from place to place 
 and entering random battles. However, once your party of four is fully formed, you've beaten your 
 second dungeon boss and earned the ability to change jobs... well, it all kicks off.
  
  Jobs For The Boys
  Yes, jobs. Assigning your characters jobs - or roles, to be more exact - within 
 your party lets you customise abilities, use more powerful weapons, learn magic spells and much 
 more. With over 20 jobs in total, each of which can be levelled up to silly proportions on top 
 of normal character levelling up, you can not only chop and change your party's talents at will 
 but also discover a monumental amount of depth within the game. 
  
  
  
  Perhaps more concerning for those with far too much time on their hands though, is that this is 
 just the start of it. From the huge amount of subtly-hidden areas that are just itching to be found, 
 to the far bigger secret side-quests (just thinking about the Legendary Smith quest makes us fear 
 for our social lives) , there's tons to do. And that's before you even think about fighting those 
 monstrous Summon bosses, exploring the hidden DS-exclusive dungeon or trying to become the fabled 
 Onion Knight...
  
  To be honest, it's amazing not just to think of how much work has gone into making Final Fantasy 
 III what it is (the new 3D visuals alone look gorgeous and really bring the game to life) , but 
 also that it was even a NES game in the first place. There's so much depth and richness to the 
 experience, even a dedicated RPG fan will take many hours to plough through it all. If you're not 
 really into your role-playing you should be prepared for the long haul, and if you're a total RPG 
 novice this really will be a baptism of fire. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lourens_Egberts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  I like the game very much the big world the great variety of jobs its cool that they chose 3 boys 
 and 1 girl team.
  And some of the bosses are quite hard but on the other hand really entertaining and you dont need 
 to grind to finish the game you just fight some monsters over there and others somewhere else till 
 you are the right lvl you dont fight the same monsters over and over again and the side quests 
 are also really cool but you need a friend to do those.
  O and the NPCS are also really nice and i also love the story line.
  Only problem i had was with 
 the salamander when your about to get the crystal of fire :)
  O and the last boss is also quite hard if i should say so.
  And i just love the ninjas and monks 
 theyre just awesome.
  And the turtose in the beginning was just a piece of cake but hella fun,
  
  Have fun and i 
 hope you will enjoy the game as much as i do cheers :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rallen6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  A few months ago, i went into my local Gamestation and picked up Final Fantasy III. I switched on 
 my DS when we got home and i didn't put it down for atleast 4 hours. This game's artwork is captivating 
 and so detailed. There is roughly 30 jobs,100s of weapons and armours. The combat system is well-thought 
 out and the way the stylus controls near enough everything is wonderful. I love a good stylus game. Some 
 games are great but stylus interaction is very little, like Pokmon. But this game is a wonderful 
 game, if not a little short for my liking, and i think the zoom in feature is great, so you dont have 
 to go up to every wall and rapidly press A. The story is very intresting, and the whole thing oh 
 the 4 party members being orphans, and being chosen as the Warriors of the Light is cool, and i love 
 the summoning spells, as well as the legendary ones you get from killing the big bosses. I have one 
 question though: When you first battle Bahamut, the dragon, is it possible to kill it without cheating? And 
 do you still get the summoning spell?
  
  Overall score:9.5, great game, but needs more story and more sidequests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVillainous
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm an RPG fan. Most of my favourite games are RPGs, and I like the Final Fantasy brand a lot. 
 However, Final Fantasy III on DS is a game I can't recommend, and would in fact urge everyone to 
 stay away from. It's a complete waste of time.
  
  PROS
  
  There aren't many. One good thing is that thre are few, if any, glitches. It's nice to see beta 
 testing with results, for once. Also, you get your money's worth in terms of length, insofar as 
 the time it takes to complete the game (if you manage to muddle through and don't get bored/frustrated 
 before then and quit) is in the 30-50 hour range.
  
  CONS
  
  Oh, boy, where do I start? I mentioned above that you get your money's worth in terms of how long 
 it takes to beat the game; however, the inverse is also true. The game is far too long. Length 
 is a good thing if you have quality to go with it; but when you don't, and it keeps going on and 
 on and on ... well, what's a positive very quickly becomes a large negative. And that's exactly 
 what happens here.
  
  The game is also frustratingly hard. This situation is made worse by a complete lack of save points 
 - you can only save on the overworld map. That's it. This can be particularly frustrating if you 
 encounter an unexpected boss, or even an expected one. You will frequently encounter situations 
 where you're running around in a dungeon for an hour or two, come across the boss, die because 
 it's a hundred times stronger than you, and have to restart all over from the last time you saved 
 (before you ever entered the dungeon) .
  
  This, of course, leads to grinding. Lots and lots of grinding. Probably half of the 40 hours or 
 so it took me to beat the game were spent grinding. The worst part of it is, it's tedious grinding. 
 And it's compounded by the fact you really have no way of knowing when the grinding is enough, 
 when you're ready to take down whatever boss you're grinding for. There aren't any visual cues 
 during a fight indicating the boss is close to death, nor does it ever have a health meter. You 
 just have to go by trial and error. Which, as I said, is incredibly frustrating.
  
  All of this would be forgivable if Final Fantasy III had a decent story to tell, or interesting 
 characters. But it has neither of these things. The story is a generic, cookie-cutter fantasy that 
 is completely uninteresting. The characters are uniformly flat and dull. I had absolutely no empathy 
 for any of them; I couldn't have cared less. There are no laughs during the game, no dramatic moments 
 (just some moments where the writers were trying to be dramatic and ended up melodramatic) . There 
 is nothing of value here story-wise.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  The only reason I persevered and finished this is because I'm the type of person that if I start 
 something, I want to finish it, no matter how lousy it is. Final Fantasy III is the kind of game 
 that I have a hard time seeing how anyone could like: the story and characters suck, the gameplay 
 is frustrating and just plain annoying, and the game has very little to redeem it as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  It was a curious thing to be playing Final Fantasy III on the DS, and even more curious to review 
 it. It's a game that is unabashedly for RPG gamers over the age of ten, who are looking for a little 
 more in their handheld game. For me, III did not disappoint, offering sophisticated gameplay that 
 doesn't involve either cakewalks or fuzzy monsters, though its age and player expectations has 
 in fact turned off many gamers.
  
  Perhaps the reason why I enjoyed Final Fantasy III was that I knew exactly what I was getting into. 
 I didn't expect a Final Fantasy XII-esque updated battle system with a plot that would make Shakespeare 
 weep, and it's fine that didn't get any of that. What I did get was an RPG that came out 16 years 
 ago, dressed up and looking mighty fine. I have a feeling that some of the general negativity that 
 has been established toward FFIII has been, in general, younger DS owners thinking they would be 
 getting "more of the same" from Final Fantasy. In fact, the series has changed drastically from 
 those days, and it shows.
  
  The NES Final Fantasy games do not have a good plot (save the last few hours on the DS version, 
 and even those feel tacked on) , they don't try to please as many gamers as possible, and they aren't 
 made for everyone. They expect more out of the gamer than many games today do, asking for a commitment 
 of work and patience. They certainly aren't the linear, interactive-story style that became popular 
 with Final Fantasy VII and was made mainstream with Final Fantasy X. There's no daytime-worthy 
 soap opera or lead character with a dark, hidden past, and while there's nothing wrong with those 
 kinds of games, it's nice to break free once in a while. What does take the place of what Final 
 Fantasy III doesn't have just happens to be gameplay, something too many modern RPG games start 
 to lose sight of.
  
  While I did champion Wind Waker in a recent review for becoming the shining beacon of the Zelda 
 series for its accessibility, there's also something to be said for games that know exactly who 
 will buy the game and want to create a product that will satisfy them. This is what Final Fantasy 
 III does. It's made for people who want what it offers, and it rarely tries to cater to newcomers. 
 It is not made for the younger crowd, or the Pokemon aficionados. It is designed for a specific 
 purpose, and if you like what it offers, you buy it. If you don't like what you hear, then you 
 stay away. It's that simple.
  
  What you are getting in Final Fantasy III is an updated version of a long - and often enjoyable 
 - turn based RPG that doesn't pretend to dumb itself down for anyone. Throughout this there are 
 moments that will make many gamers cringe, and some may find this experience painful. There are 
 (rather frequent) times when the party will need to level grind, even for an hour or two, to stay 
 alive in a dungeon. Revival items are not unlimited and can only be found after much work and duress. 
 The final bosses of the game are so difficult that players will not be able to save between them, 
 which happens occasionally throughout the rest of the game, as well. There are dungeons that force 
 the player to change everything they've worked for so far, weakening the stats to such a degree 
 that the game forces each random battle to boss-fight caliber.
  
  Some gamers may question why this would be enjoyable to anyone, and understandably so. Because 
 it takes more thought processing (once the game starts throwing conditions upon the usual "hit 
 the bad guy" paradigm) , it becomes more rewarding when the player does overcome whatever obstacle 
 in their way. In Golden Sun, for example, the obstacle might be portrayed as a puzzle or a barrier 
 until the player learns a new power; in FFIII, the obstacles for the player are the powerful monsters, 
 plain and simple. There's nothing between the next room and you but a monster, and it's up to you 
 alone to kick his butt. And when the player has powered through a dungeon using strategy and level 
 grinding, there are few video games that can be more satisfying.
  
  Hiding behind the fancy 3D exterior and gorgeous orchestrated soundtrack is a game that's old-school, 
 not hard. There's a distinction. Final Fantasy III never feels "hard;" at any given time the player 
 knows what to do next. Most of the time it involves work, which eventually will reward the player 
 with more game. That's why Final Fantasy III is not accessible, and why the younger gamer set may 
 not enjoy it. While Pokemon, Golden Sun, and other recent portable RPG's may be fun and complex, 
 they're also extremely easy. Many can be beaten with nothing but an A button and a thick, two hundred-page 
 player's guide to tell the player exactly when to press that A button. In Final Fantasy III, Gamefaqs 
 can only help this game so much; at the end of the day, it's simply time to get to work and get 
 the dungeon done.
  
  The entire experience for me was immensely gratifying. I enjoyed the experimentation on bosses, 
 trying to figure out what makes them tick before I die the third time. I enjoyed the rewarding 
 feeling of blasting through a dungeon with my powered-up units, knowing that I deserved every second. 
 I enjoyed planning my final battle for hours in advance, stockpiling items and exploiting the enemy's 
 weaknesses. I enjoyed goggling at the pretty graphics, and enjoyed the new soundtrack so much I 
 bought it on iTunes. For me, personally, Final Fantasy III was nothing less than a triumph, and 
 a blast from beginning to end. 
  
  But here's the thing; I can't just give one score and be done with it. For each person reading 
 this review, there may be a different circumstance when playing handheld RPG games. Some gamers 
 don't like the chubby-n'-short style of the characters, the poor-quality cuts of music, the tacked 
 on Wi-Fi connectivity, or the lack of DS dual screen capability. But none of those things bothered 
 me in the long run. It wasn't even a moment of "I enjoyed this game in spite of the issues," it 
 was to the point where I never even considered any of those points to be a factor in the game in 
 the first place. I just didn't care.
  
  If you want a classic RPG but don't want the difficulty, I suggest the "I + II: Dawn of Souls" 
 package for the Game Boy Advance; both of those games were toned down for their re-release, but 
 still offer many hours of enjoyment. If you're looking for a more modern RPG on the DS, perhaps 
 with a better story, I suggest The World Ends With You, Final Fantasy IV, or Chrono Trigger. Those 
 games are just as good, but support a more diverse method of gameplay that some gamers prefer. 
 
  
  But if you're looking for a polished, classic role playing game on the DS, and aren't afraid to 
 get your hands dirty, then Final Fantasy III might be right for you. Sometimes there are games 
 that anyone can enjoy, like Wind Waker or Golden Sun. Final Fantasy III is not one of those games. 
 As I said earlier, it proudly supports it status as a game made for those who like their RPG's 
 cooked a certain way, and in this cares very little about the rest of the gamers out there.
  
  Eventually the gamer has to ask themselves what they like in games, and then apply that knowledge 
 to what they will purchase. Final Fantasy III is not just something you'll want to grab on a lark, 
 but then again, who knows? I did not expect to be smitten with the game either; maybe you'll enjoy 
 it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  I was not a big fan of FF 1 & 2 on the Game Boy Advance. RPG game mechanics have come a long ways 
 since those early games, so expect to be very limited in your battle options. That said, the graphic 
 makeover was dynamite. They pulled off 3D Final Fantasy graphics on the DS.
  
  My biggest criticism of the game has to be the impotence of dark magic at a certain point in the 
 game. After trying all the jobs, I finally settled down with the Ranger, Devout, Knight, Black 
 Belt, Ninja and Viking. The rest of the job classes just sortof lost their usefulness although 
 it was fun to experiment with what each class did. Unfortunately, even the special abilities of 
 the strongest job classes are pretty useless: it comes down to straight attacks and then using 
 healing magic with some protect and haste spells. Not much in the way of strategy.
  
  As far as grinding goes, though, it was a pretty enjoyable grind. I think my characters leveled 
 out at about 75 when I beat the game, and I had logged 50 something hours.
  
  If you missed this one, I wouldn't sweat it too much, but if you're dying for a handheld Final 
 Fantasy fix, this won't disappoint.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  This is Final Fantasy. No words are needed to describe what kind of game this is, and what kind 
 of expectations you can rely on it.
  
  Yet, this is a remake of a game that is almost 20 years old. There's no need to say anything else 
 about it too.
  
  The graphics are among the best on Nintendo DS. Period.
  
  The music is simply awesome. Come on, it's Nobuo Uematsu! Though some songs aren't as great as 
 his later creations, and after a while they may start to seem way too repetitive, but they still 
 do justice to the game with providing an outstanding soundtrack to it.
  
  The plot is not as epic as in FF IV and its successors, and even not as 'almost-epic' as in FF 
 II, but still is good enough to keep the game together. But always remember, that this game initially 
 is really old, and don't expect any great twists in the game's script. Yep, no random suicides 
 every hour or two are taking place here, so stay relaxed.
  
  There's only one major change in the plot - four main characters are no longer some anonymous orphans 
 that became the chosen ones, which must save the planet, as said in the prophecies. No, each one 
 of them has a name, a personality and even some backstory. Yet, the backstory lasts only for the 
 first few hours of the game, and then - poof! - it's gone, the game becomes an endless dungeon 
 crawler, which may entertain some, and bore to death the other. So, in terms of story - imagine 
 FF III being an extended version of FF I, and you know what I mean.
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty easy to describe. During the game you must save Elemental Crystals 
 from being destroyed, and every time you save one - you acquire a set of jobs, which you can equip 
 to your characters. The equipped jobs receive their own experience and grow with their own Job 
 Levels. Basically, the configuration of jobs in your party is the only possible way to differ your 
 gaming experience. If you have already played in FF V (hence FF III was never properly released 
 outside of Japan until this particular remake was done) , then you know what I'm talking about. 
 FF III is somehow simpler and less more adjustable than FF V, though; mainly because you can't 
 combine two jobs into one, and the amount of attainable jobs is smaller (32, including the super-secret-elite 
 one) .
  
  As for the extras, FF III DS doesn't offer you much. I mean, not as much as GBA and PSP remakes 
 of the previous NES and SNES titles. It offers you a quest that consist of sending a bunch of letters 
 via moogles to other characters in the game, and then acquiring some cool secret equipment and 
 even a secret job that I mentioned above. But this quest thingy is only opened after a long procedure 
 of sending 7 mails through wi-fi to other players (or player, one can do) . You can send only one 
 mail per hour, and yes, this player must approve your friend code in his game too. Of course you 
 can cheat with changing the console's clock, but this whole process is exhausting and overwhelming 
 anyway. Thank God there's a website called GameFaqs where you can always find people that are willing 
 to help you with this one.
  
  To sum it all up, it'll be more than enough to call FF III DS an extended FF I and a 'lite' version 
 of FF V. It's up to you whether to check it out or not, but hey, it's Final Fantasy, and it's far 
 from being the worst title in the whole line-up.
  
  If you don't understand anything from above and you've never ever played in any of the Final Fantasy 
 titles, then all I can say is that basically this is a remake of an almost-20-year-old game that 
 was sorta good for its time, but never made any distinguishable changes in the jRPG genre. Square 
 Enix did a good job polishing it, so if you want to witness how a usual jRPG from the early 90's 
 is going to look like with today's portable console's visual and sound standards, then check it 
 out. Otherwise - there are plenty of new jRPGs out there waiting to be played, and they are far 
 more entertaining than this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shalafein
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I was very glad i got this game for my DS until i started to playing it. everything is on the touch 
 screen which isnt a bad thing but it can be when there are two screens there and the only thing 
 the top is used for is a map which is kinda dumb and it really doesnt tell you where you are or 
 where to head to next it just sits there with some mountain tops and some lines running across 
 the top screen. the story was weak, and so was the combat. i liked the ability to such classes 
 and such but there wasnt really any that i cared for. There is ALOT of walking... way too much until 
 you get the boat and airship, but still there is way to much. There isnt really any true "Side 
 Quest" it seemed weak and thrown togather with out any real thought on how to do it. So save your 
 money and get something better, alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I got this game right when it came out. I liked it, but it was really hard. I spent most of the 
 total play time levelling up my characters rather than advancing the story : (. I had my characters 
 @ Lv.61 when I fought the final boss. Anyway, this game is great. The job system in this game is 
 very fun to tink with, you will have a blast customizing your characters :) . The story however, 
 is not too good. It's basically just collecting the crystals, and fighting a mosnster like the 
 other previous two games. The characters are cool. I really did not have any interest in them : (. 
 The places though are really hot! I like the Crystal Palace the most. I liked all of the other 
 places too. Overall, the lost Final Fantasy adventure finally reches America, hard difficulty, 
 cool characters, nice places 8) , fun job system, old-school gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while a game comes along that lets us relive gaming as it was years ago (or experience 
 it for the first time, for some people) . Porting old games is nothing new for Nintendo owners. 
 Some remakes are better than others, but Final Fantasy III stands out largely because it's a game 
 that so few US gamers played because it was released only in Japan. 
  
  Final Fantasy III is one of the best-looking games on the DS, but don't let that fool you. Hidden 
 beneath the cute, nose-less character models and impressively-designed and animated enemies is 
 a seriously hardcore adventure. If The World Ends with You is the only sort of RPG that you could 
 enjoy, turn a blind eye and for your own sake, don't bother with Final Fantasy III. But if you've 
 got an appreciation for games that were released some twenty years ago, you'll likely find something 
 to enjoy in Final Fantasy III. 
  
  Frankly, it's easy to see why Final Fantasy III has previously not been released in North America: 
 because it's pretty much the same freaking game as Final Fantasy I. Yes, we get pretty little updated 
 visuals and a surprisingly fun job system, but in many ways it doesn't differ much from the original 
 Final Fantasy. And seeing as you can play that game and get the awesome Final Fantasy II thrown 
 into the mix for less than twenty bucks new on eBay, you'd be hard-pressed to justify spending 
 the pretentious asking price of forty dollars for Final Fantasy III. 
  
  Aside from the job system which I'll touch on later, Final Fantasy III is role-playing in its most 
 basic, stripped-down form. You'll fight monsters, gain experience, fight some more monsters, buy 
 equipment, and use your new powerful equipment to fight more powerful enemies and gain even more 
 experience. It's a circular, constantly-repetitive experience, and it's going to turn a lot of 
 people off. Again, there's clearly a niche market that's being targeted here and frankly it's surprising 
 that Square was brave enough to release a game that will appeal to so few people who own a DS (most 
 owners of the system are too busy having fun with Nintendogs or Super Frickin' Princess Peach to 
 pay attention to a real game) . 
  
  The job system is one of the few mildly unique aspects of Final Fantasy III and is the only draw 
 of the title to people who brag about playing every Final Fantasy game released. The game features 
 some 25 different jobs, all of which their own weapon abilities and a special action or two. Experimenting 
 with different party options is pretty fun, but there are some jobs that are clearly better than 
 others while some jobs are absolutely useless and you'd have to be an idiot to actually use them. 
 Still, constraining your ideal party is enjoyable enough, and checking out all the different job 
 costumes is one of the most exciting parts of the game.
  
  And then there's the problem of difficulty: the bulk of the game is decently fun, if your idea 
 of fun constitutes killing the same group of pretty-looking monsters over and over and over freaking 
 again. But then Final Fantasy III shows its true colors: even the beautiful visuals can't hide 
 the fact that this is a really old game. You're expected to grind to insane levels to get through 
 the game's many dungeons and defeat incessantly-attacking enemies. It's hard to get into the lame 
 save-the-crystals-story or connect with any of the poorly-written characters when you're attacked 
 by a threesome of foes hellbent on your death every three steps you take. 
  
  In many current-day RPGs, a little level-grinding is required. In many, there's a setup where "it'll 
 be a lot easier if you gain a couple levels-up now and then but it certainly isn't a requirement 
 and you'll have just as much fun facing off against epic bosses at a lower level". Such is not 
 the case with Final Fantasy III. You MUST grind. There's no way about it. If you just try and play 
 through the story without stopping to level you'll probably have killed yourself out of frustration 
 by the time you reach the second boss. You're expected to grind. A lot. Hell, the entire game is 
 one big freaking grind. There's no puzzle solving and only a few side quests. You'll level-up for 
 hours in preparation for taking on one big, overpowered boss. Even worse is when you fly through 
 a dungeon, reach the end of it after an hour and are absolutely SLAUGHTERED by a boss because you 
 spent too little time leveling. 
  
  And thanks to the archaic save feature, it's back to the beginning of the dungeon for you. You 
 can only save in the field and because nothing ever really happens there -- it's just the way to 
 get from dungeon A to dungeon B -- it's kind of useless. You'll just save before you enter a dungeon 
 and pray for the best. Admittedly, it's a different sort of difficulty than many of us may be used 
 to. You always know where to go and what you have to do -- the difficulty is in actually doing 
 it. Compare that to the mess of an adventure employed by many current-day RPGs where you'll go 
 through several dungeons, obscure puzzles, and boring story bits before fighting a boss. To its 
 credit, at least Final Fantasy III keeps things simple. 
  
  Final Fantasy III is kind of like a very attractive member of the opposite sex whom, when you get 
 to know him or her, turns out to be a massive jerk. Square-Enix advertises the beautiful graphics 
 and the fact that this is a "brand new" Final Fantasy but conveniently forgets to mention the fact 
 that if you've got the patience of one of the millions of ten-year-olds who actually own a DS, 
 you'll hate this game. 
  
  But if you do stick with it, Final Fantasy III improves significantly. There's no way to revive 
 your characters outside of Phoenix Downs and two reviving spells. But in a cruel, misanthropic 
 move by Square, you're never given access to these spells until halfway through the game. So for 
 the first half of your time with Final Fantasy III, you'll have to be a perfectionist. If a character 
 dies, you'll reload so as not to waste any precious Phoenix Downs. And then once you gain Raise, 
 the game throws a mountain of Phoenix Downs at you. I feel degraded. 
  
  If you're willing to stick through it and slog through five or ten exceedingly painful hours at 
 the beginning of the game, then go ahead and play, rent, or steal from a friend Final Fantasy III. 
 I've been ragging on it a lot but it's really not a bad game. In fact, it's actually a pretty good 
 game. It's just that under all the pretty, its age is really starting to show. If you appreciate 
 the brand of old-school gaming that Final Fantasy offers and are willing to put up with some seriously 
 frustrating moments (Final Fantasy III is easily the toughest Final Fantasy game released in North 
 America) , then it's a fun adventure. Everybody else can just keep playing their freaking New Super 
 Mario Bros. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameseylefebure
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  The Final Fantasy series has a whole lot to offer me! Mainly the last couple of hundreds of hours 
 I have dedicated to the series!! And just let me say - 3 is no exception.
  The story line is nice and straight forward and near enough from the start you know what the overall 
 story is (yeah - save the world!!) you get your party of 4 very quickly and then the fun really 
 begins. Each character is a blank canvas for you to literally do what you want with them through 
 changing their job class (more jobs become available as you play through) its a great touch and 
 it's kept me thinking on more than one occasion!!
  The graphics are clean and cute and the music is standard final fantasy music. 
  The characters 
 themselvers are fantasic because although their roles are basic in the game you really do get a 
 feel for them and every now and again you get a bonus 5th person in the team, who won't be on the 
 character page but will often help you by jumping into the fight a and doing some form of nasty 
 to the enemies or healing you up if needed!!
  Basically this is a great DS game and a great testiment to the final fantasy series. If you like 
 the Final Fantasy's and have a few hours spare have a go, you wont be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil_Highwind
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Story: The story is a classic Final Fantasy story, the crystals have had their light drained and 
 you, the warriors of light, must restore that light. Even though the main premise is the same as 
 many Final Fantasies, the story has enough twists and turns to keep you occupied for hours on end. 
 It does help that the characters that accompany you some times fight, but some of their attacks 
 become sub-par as you progress. If you want a story filled epic, look at Final Fantasy IV for DS. 
 5/10
  Character Customization: The Job System adds a whole lot of fun to the mix. Being able to change 
 your party to adapt to any dungeon adds a whole lot of depth. It is also kind of funny to see your 
 characters go from the full body armor and lance of a Dragoon to the cloaks and robes of a Scholar. 
 It is also pretty annoying that you have to level up your jobs from level one when you switch to 
 a new job. 9/10
  Variety: Tons of weapons and spells will keep you occupied for hours on end. But only 3 spells 
 per level? 8/10
  Overall: Final Fantasy III is a good game, but there are other RPGs worth a look that are better 
 than this one. Though with a 17$ used price tag, this game is definitively worth a look form and 
 RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredy1689
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Being the only game on the Final Fantasy series to have never before been released on the United 
 States, many hardcore fans of the series were anxious to finaly complete the fantasy after a long 
 16 year wait. 
  
  Fans of old school RGPS like me were not dissapointed as we already expected the by now outdated 
 and rather generic storyline to be more or less the classic "go kill the evil wizard in his tower" 
 kind of plot which this game follows litteraly. That is probably the only weak point of this game 
 in my opinion, but then again this is a rather old title that uses a plot that was very common 
 during the 8 bit era.
  
  This game will probably not be of the liking of all RPG fans, especially the ones newer to the 
 series, as they are more used to long deep and complex plots of the more recent games, which include 
 deeply developed characters that are not necessarily your average legendary hero. This game offers 
 a generic storyline with very generic legendary hero characters, this will definetely not for everyone 
 but for the few like me who enjoy seeing old school evil wizards in towers getting their butts 
 kicked by a bunch of meddeling kids.
  
  In graphics this game is easily one of the best looking 3D titles on the DS, and the opening CG 
 sequence really exploits the capabilities of the hradware to its maximum offering and incredibly 
 beautiful looking opening video that makes you feel as if you are really about to embark on an 
 adventure yourself, it's simply epic. 
  
  The job system makes this game also a very unique one on the series, there are 23 different jobs 
 to choose from and countless combinations that can work in very unique ways, it is actually more 
 a matter of what jobs your charcters are using what dettermines how easy certain area or boss fight 
 will be not just how over or under leveled you are. 
  
  Over all this game is fantastic but definetely not for everyone, you'll spend more time leveling 
 grinding than in the actual dungeons and the lack of save points inside dungeons might frustrate 
 you if you are killed deep inside one and have to do it all again this is specially anoying in 
 the final dungeon in which getting killed can make you want to throw your DS against the wall many 
 times. So if you like old scholl hard as nails RPG games i deffinetely recomend this title it is 
 fun (but a little punishing at times) , and can last you for easily 40 hours or more, so go on and 
 complete the fantasy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenbasilisk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  I never liked turn-based games. But I picked up Final Fantasy III for the DS to see what all the 
 hype is about.
  That and it was onlt $12.99 brand new!
  Anyways.. it remided me of Zelda .. but the graphics weren't as good. It has a lot of depth as far 
 as character design, abilities, and equipment.
  
  I like that stuff.
  
  It also has a lot of gameplay time. I've been playing for 23 hours and I'm not sure if I'm close 
 to being done with the game. 
  I must say I love this game now and have stopped playing all my other games because I hooked on 
 the story and building my characters up.
  
  I definitely recommend this game for the DS. It's a great RPG and will give you plenty of game 
 time.
  Sadly now. I think I have to go buy all the other Final Fantasy Games on the DS, but I don't think 
 I'll live long enough to play them all!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ganei
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Love the game but not the best in the series. Like the way it makes you use Wi-Fi to access the 
 Onion knight job. Job transition phase is cool and an awsome on the go game. If your not into final 
 fantasy i reccomend you to rent it first then you can buy it if you wish. The other five percent 
 would go on the jobs they should've put more jobs. The side-quests are worth the play and the last 
 boss is just like the one in the old version but this one is better.
  The master weapon for the jobs are good aswell it gives you the feeling to do the certain job and 
 level up until you get the weapon but you must find the legendary black smith. But if you want to 
 really play an RPG game that has ok graphics good sound then play this its what I thought!. The 
 Intro song is very great if you hear it with head phones not much the ending.
  But in the end this is a Great game so go play or even buy it now if you haven't!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleachfreak7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 for the DS is much like the other Final Fantasy games except it is a little more 
 basic. The spells and attacks are just... the same. There aren't really any new spells or weapons. 
 It's just a basic Final Fantasy game.
  One of the cool things is the jobs. There are quite a few new jobs. For example, the Dark Knight 
 or Onion Knight are new. Each job has it's own special ability. You can level up the jobs to make 
 them more powerful and when you get the job to level 99 you get a stamp that you can put on the 
 postcards to other friends. If you master the Dark Knight job you can put a stamp that says "Master 
 Dark Knight" on a card to send to a friend.
  The wifi isn't really that interesting. Is all you do is send people on your friends list. You 
 can get a few things from it though. You can get the Onion Knight job which is the strongest job 
 in the game. You can learn any magic and use any weapon and all you stats become full. You can 
 also get the Atma Weapon which is the stringest weapon in the game. So... that's what the wifi 
 is like. 
  The gameplay is pretty decent. Cool enemies and bosses. The characters are cool and have neat stories 
 of why they are there. The game prices around $30. It's a great Final Fantasy game.
  This paragraph concludes my review. All I'm going to say in this paragraph is that it is a gret 
 game that is worth buying. It's worth your $30. That's all. Enjoy your game and have a great time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm a Final Fantasy enthusiast, so imagine my happy surprise that this one Final Fantasy game that 
 has eluded North American localization for so many years finally saw the light of day here in the 
 United States. Given the growing popularity of the franchise in North America, such a release was 
 inevitable. On the DS, Final Fantasy III remains true to the original game's roots while enhancing 
 it significally with updated 3D graphics, new character designs, new story branches and new features 
 exclusive to the DS.
  
  I like how the game is almost reminiscent of another Final Fantasy game for the PlayStation -- FFIX. 
 Character designs are charming, and the play environment is rendered entirely in 3D. I would have 
 been all right with the game sticking to its time-honored 2D formula, but I really appreciate the 
 effort the developers put into beautifying the FF3 world in 3D. You can use the Stylus or the D-Pad 
 to move around in the world, but my personal preference is the D-Pad. Yours will vary. 
  
  The job-change system in the Final Fantasy universe is a time-honored tradition that actually began 
 with Final Fantasy 3. You can choose as many as 23 different jobs for your characters, each with 
 unique abilities. I also like how NPCs periodically join you in the field and in battle, casting 
 helpful magic and even going on the attack when called for. They can even help you find your next 
 destination -- all you have to do is press the X button and ask. The story is pretty good. Not the 
 best in the world, but it's not bad. The music is also beautifully redone through the DS' speakers. 
 
  
  The Final Fantasy series in its entirety is finally complete in North America, so we have a lot 
 of catching up to do. And Final Fantasy III is a good place to start if you own a DS. I heartily 
 encourage you to give it a go. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Music as gorgeous as expected from Square Enix; one heck of an opening cutscene; much 
 improved graphics; plenty of different classes and options; a really, really long campaign; when 
 it shows itself, a pretty powerful story.
  
  The Bad: The developers couldn't hide that the game has aged a lot; the game is insanely hard and 
 very unforgiving; the graphics are still a little blocky; if you stick with the same classes, and 
 you will, it gets a tad repetitive.
  
  Final Fantasy I, Final Fantasy IV, and Final Fantasy VI were the original three Final Fantasy console 
 games to make it to America. They were under the guises of Final Fantasies I, II and III, but we 
 eventually learned the other three missing titles had only been released in Japan.
  
  Final Fantasy II and Final Fantasy V made there way to America with the PlayStation and the Game 
 Boy Advance, and filled in some slight gaps in Square Enix's improvements on the RPG genre, which 
 they basically own.
  
  Final Fantasy III is here at last, the real Final Fantasy III, and it's now extremely old. However, 
 it is the missing link in the chain, it's been as modernized as could be done without changing 
 the whole thing, and it has moments where it just plain shines like a modern RPG.
  
  Square Enix's production values aren't lost on this title. A graphical overhaul has been done on 
 the game, and the opening cutscene is gorgeous the way a console game would look, but the gameplay 
 is a little on the blocky side. Nevertheless, the game wouldn't have been as exciting coming to 
 America if it hadn't been done.
  
  The music, too, is magnificent. Final Fantasy has always had spectacular composers, and this game 
 is no different. The music is now, impressively, orchestrated in many areas, and the MIDI is really, 
 really good MIDI.
  
  There isn't any voice acting, but the text doesn't bog the game down so much that it gets boring. 
 There's plenty of it, naturally, being an RPG, but it doesn't crush the fun out of the title.
 
  
  The opening of the game is rather memorable, as you go and find the four characters that will stay 
 with you all game: Luneth, Arc, Refia and Ingus. Each of them does indeed have a unique personality, 
 and even if the story isn't as all-encompassing as a modern Square Enix game, the characters are 
 memorable. That might only be because the game is so insanely long, but nevertheless, each has 
 a story behind them.
  
  The gameplay revolves around a floating continent and the main continent, where four crystals that 
 keep the light in the world are hidden. The evil creature Xande has taken the light from them and 
 has them guarded by monstrous bosses.
  
  You'll gradually unlock more and more classes to try out. Each has unique abilities, although each 
 character is allowed the same abilities. Still, it's good to switch it up and find the best group 
 for you (which should always include a healer, by the way) .
  
  The world is massive, there's tons to explore, and you'll end up with at least thirty hours, and 
 closer to fifty if you explore a lot. It's clear that Square Enix went through pains, almost making 
 a completely new game from the ground up to make this guy, and it's turned out extremely well for 
 it.
  
  On the other hand, the game is showing its age, a lot. There isn't a ton of story, as said before, 
 so you won't be swept up by emotion the way most Square games will do to you. Also, the game is 
 really, really hard.
  
  The main reason for this is that it is extremely punishing. On the overworld map you can save wherever 
 you like, but in dungeons you can't save at all. This means that you can train up about five levels 
 per character and reach the top of the tower, fight the boss, die, and lose about an hour of gameplay. 
 This can make the game feel extremely repetitive and annoying.
  
  If you're new to playing RPGs, this one will expect you to train a whole lot in between levels. 
 You'll want to level up two or three levels extra between each dungeon, if not more, to stay on 
 top of the game, and to get the best experience. If you don't, you'll learn the hard way.
  
  You won't be wanting to experiment with classes much because your character has to get used 
 to their new job, and this makes them a lot worse. You'll be able to find the best group you can 
 get, sure, but it is kind of hard to switch off. So it is the best to look up the best ones on 
 the internet and just train your butt off.
  
  But that's a bit of a double-edged sword, because the battling is simple turn-based, line up the 
 characters and fight gameplay. It can get a little dull using the same attacks over and over, but 
 by the end the enemies are so hard that they can in fact kill you (the random encounters) , so that 
 does switch up the formula.
  
  So the game is a ton of fun, especially if you can keep advancing through it. If not, it can be 
 rather annoying. Still, it will teach you how to play an RPG, and there's nothing you can do about 
 that.
  
  I will in fact remember the quest of Luneth, Arc, Refia and Ingus, because no matter how annoying 
 those dungeons can be (and there are a lot of them) , the game leaves a good taste in your mouth.
 
  
  I would suggest getting it. It's not the very, very best game from Square, or one of the very, 
 very best on the DS, but if you want to learn how to play an RPG and play it really well, and if 
 you want to see the past of Final Fantasy, this is definitely your best choice.
  
  Plus, Final Fantasy IV and possibly more old school Final Fantasies are coming to DS. There's yet 
 another reason, and the sequel's getting great reviews. Go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  When Final Fantasy 6 was released in Europe, it was under the name Final Fantasy 3 because apart 
 from Japan, everywhere else FF4, 5, and 6 had been released under the names of FF1, 2, and 3. But 
 Final Fantasy 3 for the Nintendo DS is the proper version never before released in Europe.
  
  The story has four main playable characters, Luneth, Ingus, Refia and Arc. They are all used 
 in battle at once so unlike later releases of FF games you don't have to swop and change, which 
 may please some gamers.
  
  Like other Final Fantasy games there is a world map that you go on and there are several modes 
 of transportation from a raft to an airship. The transportation changes the further into the game 
 you get.
  
  The fights on this game use a turn-based system. This system was later taken out of FF games, because 
 it made fighting more difficult. Even at the beginning of this game there are enemies you may encounter 
 that will easily kill you, this is because in 1990 when this game was first released, game designers 
 were less forgiving in the making of games.
  For a DS game this game is pretty long, but saying that it will only take you probably less than 
 30 hours to finish it which is rather short for a Final Fantasy game. But if you add up all the 
 other things you can do in the game, the playtime can surpass the 40 hour mark.
  
  This games transition to 3D has been done brilliantly. The game is very colourful and is one of 
 the more impressive looking titles on the DS.
  The sound is pretty good as well for a hand-held, as all the music has been redone so it doesn't 
 sound as static as it did on the original back in 1990.
  
  Final Fantasy 3 is significant for one function. A jobs system. You can manually select which jobs 
 your characters take up in battle. So you can make one character a black mage and one a white mage 
 and have two free lancers, or you can have 3 ninja's and one white mage. This is one of the best 
 things about the game as you can customise you party to your liking.
  Unlike on Final Fantasy 9 as each character has a set job and you can't change them.
  Some jobs 
 are locked and you have to unlock them, to do this you have to fight 4 certain bosses throughout 
 the game. There is one job though called the Onion Knight that is the best because it can perform 
 every spell and use every weapon. To get this you'll have to message 7 times to people over Wi-Fi. 
 Players on the original will remember that on it Onion Knight was the worst job on the game, rather 
 like freelance is on the new one.
  The only major down point of this game is the lack of save points in the game. You could go over 
 an hour without saving the game then get Game Over and loose everything you did. This is very annoying, 
 but gives you a bigger incentive to train your characters when you get the opportunity.
  
  If your a Final Fantasy fan and never played the original, get it or if you own a DS pick it up, 
 it's worth it because it is simply fun to play.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 8
  Value - 9
  Design - 9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: upiter000
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III for the ds brings many new features to the old gameplay but still keeps enough 
 the same that you would understand the story and how to play. Once Again the 4 heroes set out to 
 save the crystal from dying and save the world from darkness. The story really heats up after the 
 first boss battle.
  
  
  Gameplay mechanics are very much the same but add some new features. It is still that turn based 
 fighting style that we know and love but add's a depth of strategy to it like the updated job system 
 at first your characters start off as the freelancer class but as you discover the crystals you 
 earn new job classes like Black Mage, White Mage, Warrior, Thief etc...
  And also a great new feature the biggest far is the 3D battles and world it looks marvelous pulling 
 of mega flare and watching it come to life in 3D it is just amazing.
  
  
  The DS functioning with the game is really underwhelming all you can use the stiles for is to walk 
 around and talk to people and if you like it this way you can choose your attacks with it but you 
 will usually just put your stiles aside and use the directional buttons and A and B buttons.
  
  
  
  All in all Final Fantasy III is a great RPG and has enogh new features to playing this 
 game over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIMANICUS
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Not being a major Final Fantasy fan, I never got around to completing this incredibly long and 
 difficult RPG. In all honesty, I have only played this, XI and Ring of Fates in the Final Fantasy 
 series, and I have never been very good at the turn-based-RPG genre, one of the reasons why I never 
 got into Pokmon either, which is a shame. Final Fantasy III is, in a word, hardcore, which comes 
 with it's own shares of pros and cons. But despite this, there is no denying FFIII is a solid remake 
 of the original.
  
  The graphics in the game are simple and quite good for the DS, however, the inclusion of the zoom 
 feature, while exposing previously hidden features, can sometimes make the graphics look uglier 
 than they should. The characters look fine, and the weapons and shields also appear aesthetically 
 on your character too, which is nice. Sound wise, the game has the routine "beep"s and "wawawawa"s 
 of most other JRPGs, and with that, the sound isn't bad. It's not brilliant, but the background 
 music sets the tone; with the village of Ur being nice and cheerful, and Kazus is creepy and minimalistic. 
 
  
  The game plays as the original FFIII did, although I (like most European gamers) never had a chance 
 to play FFIII. Each player takes it in turns to deal damage or cast a spell etc., this method has 
 been used in many RPG's since, for example Blue Dragon, Eternal Sonata etc. Although despite being 
 pretty much flawless, the lack of mid-dungeon saves really makes it alot harder, in which only 
 the elite can truely master.
  
  Final Fantasy III really only deals to the hardcore, and if your more into playing more than one 
 game in a week, it's probably best you leave FFIII till when you have no others, that way it has 
 your full, undivided attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingus27
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  This is one of the funnest handheld games that I have ever played! You've got all these different 
 kinds of people that you can be (my combination is Red Mage, White Mage, Black Mage, Warrior) . 
 And depending on what kind of people you choose determines what they do in the future. You've also 
 got a wide variety of different weapons and armor that you can wear or use. There are all kinds 
 of extra powerful weapons in the game too (including the Wightslayer, which has extra affect on 
 living dead and darkness monsters) . Also this game lasts very long, which is good because nobody 
 likes a game that you can beat in a day. Plus there are a lot of bosses in the game that are hard 
 to beat and a lack of save points, which doubles the amount of gameplay. Lots of people would think 
 that it's a bad thing, and I was kinda frustated when I couldn't find out where to save it at the 
 beginning of the game, plus I had troulble defeating the first main boss. But when I found out 
 all the weaknesses of the boss and leveled up and found out all I had to do to save was go out 
 to the world map, I started to get pretty far in the game. And back to the jobs (kinds of people 
 you can be) , the more you're job level goes up, the more you're able to do in that job. For instance, 
 Warriors can deal more damage, and magic users can use stronger magic. You can unlock more jobs 
 once you've deafeated bosses. But at the beginning of the game you have to start out with only 
 one job. The Freelancer. All of this added up makes one of the best games yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalGear_Ninty
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is one of a long line of installments from the revered gaming series to be remade, 
 and re-released on modern gaming hardware -- this time Square-Enix has opted for Nintendo's handheld 
 DS to 
  hook-in a new generation of fans, especially seeing how this iteration of Final Fantasy never made 
 it outside of Japanese shores. The end result is something that will enthrall role-playing enthusiasts, 
 whilst leaving the average gamer entertained, but somewhat estranged by the archaic gaming conventions 
 of yesteryear.
  
  If there was ever any game to stupefy the onslaught of casual games on the market, not least the 
 ones bestowed upon Nintendo's dual-screened system, then that game would be Final Fantasy 3; the 
 player takes on the role of Luneth; default name of course, as the player can choose to rename 
 him as they wish -- Luneth shortly discovers Arc, Refia and Ingus, the four of them drawn by the 
 similarity that they are all orphans; it is these four characters who become the staple of your 
 party. Inevitably, it unravels, that you and your new-found companions are the warriors of light, 
 who must return balance to the world, by bringing back the light, and thus save it from the impending 
 apocalypse. 
  
  The gameplay is standard turn-based RPG goodness, but undeniable fun nonetheless, you will literally 
 be plieing away the hours, as your small party traverses the Tolkien-esque universe, battling waves 
 of monsters, and conquering treasure-laden dungeons -- heard it all before? Sure, But that is the 
 appeal of Final Fantasy III, it is classic, old-school RPG gaming at its finest, meaning that you 
 wont mind at all the level-grinding involved, nor the houses spent exploring new villages.
  
  The game includes the job system that the series is renowned for, this is certainly welcome 
 as the system becomes one of the most flexible, strategic and enjoyable gameplay aspects; at the 
 start of the game, your four troopers are relegated to the most rudimentary of jobs, with little 
 leeway for spells and awesome weaponry, but in typical RPG fashion, as your unit becomes stronger 
 and statistics grow, better jobs become available, until towards the end, when you have jobs that 
 truly make your characters feel like hardened warriors, and it is that progression and stat growth, 
 although it is one of the most obvious RPG conventions, that sustains interest as you watch your 
 little pixelated minions becoming stronger and stronger whilst you refine your strategy.
  
  FFIII really is the antithesis of casual gaming, the game easily boasts over 40 hours of solid 
 gameplay, but this is mostly formulaic and monotonous: reach dungeon, defeat boss, reach next dungeon, 
 defeat boss and repeat, this will put off even the most hardcore gamer, especially with such a 
 lengthy campaign, the game can quickly become dull and unexciting, this flaw is accentuated by 
 the punishing difficulty level, some will just turn-off and never play the game again when they 
 reach the end of a dungeon only for their party to be quickly dismantled by the dungeon boss, who 
 will usually have their fare share of dirty tricks up their sleeve; the lack of a save function 
 within dungeons means that the whole process has to be repeated, even for the most hardened gamer, 
 this quickly
  becomes an inconvenience.
  
  The story is basic and rudimentary, but nonetheless is anime-esque -- especially towards the end 
 it becomes a bit of a mess that rarely makes sense, but like many games of its time, the story 
 seems like little but an afterthought to the core gameplay -- this never becomes a problem though, 
 as the story isn't imposed upon the player, nor does it really detract from the experience in any 
 way.
  
  What does become irritating though, is the poorly translated, and extremely simplistic dialogue 
 and language in general. From the original, Square-Enix has attempted to 'flesh-out' the charcters 
 by adding so-called 
  'sub-characters' for the main party to interact with, the result can hardly be called dialogue, 
 and is the most rudimentary of character interaction.
  
  Quite ironically, Final Fantasy III's utter conventionalism is its best and worst trait -- many 
 will marvel at the game's pure RPG gameplay goodness, and will be slaying pixelated monsters until 
 that last red number appearsout of the final boss's head, equally so, many will be put-off by the 
 punishing difficulty level and monotonous gameplay. Nevertheless, it's hard to not smile at this 
 protest to the casual gaming phenomenon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynwri8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I have found this game to be a lot of fun. It's not overly challenging, but very addictive. Many 
 hours have slipped past unnoticed while playing this game.
  The graphics are pretty good and the music is easy on the ears. It brings with it a lot of the 
 nice options from the PlayStation. The leveling up, turn based fighting, equipping and more. 
 
  I bought this used for $17.99. I was a bit concerned about paying that much, but I can easily 
 say I don't feel ripped off. I have spent a lot more for a lot worse games. 
  It's not the best game ever, still, it's under my must have lists for the DS. I'm looking forward 
 to getting more remakes of the series for the DS. I think they have a nice thing going here and 
 I would like the collection for my DS as well as my PS2. 
  Overall, if you can find this game for a good price- pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugo501
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE the way this game works its all fun although i don't like turn based games i did not mind 
 this i actually liked this because i play the ds on the go its hard to play but this was way to 
 funn and if you have not played it it is cus you are restarted and cant wait til the next one. 
 unlike any other portable game i started to connect with the characters and i need 10 leters so 
 the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the 
 the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the theI
  
  LOVE the way this game works its all fun although i don't like turn based games i did not mind 
 this i actually liked this because i play the ds on the go its hard to play but this was way to 
 funn and if you have not played it it is cus you are restarted and cant wait til the next one. 
 unlike any other portable game i started to connect with the characters and i need 10 leters so 
 the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the 
 the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 25Sniper52
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  This game is is probably the most played DS game in my collection. Advancing toward the end of 
 the story (and game for that matter) , leveling up and being able to change/ upgrade weapons and 
 armor is great. 
  Dungeons are challenging and make you plan ahead by stacking up on potions and other iteams. There 
 are tons of items throughout the game that are used in unique and different ways. The job system 
 also adds more options and customization. Some jobs, like the red mage can't wear the same types 
 of weapons and armor as a other jobs, like the warrior. This may all sound confusing but it is 
 real easy to figure everything out. The story might not be the best but the great sound makes up 
 for it. The combat system is a little deeper that poke'mon with the ability to attack with some 
 iteams and magic. This game has everything- great mosters to fight, cool weapons from magic to 
 bows and arrows to swords and knifes, secret passage ways, treasure chest and sailing flying ships 
 will complete this rgp adventure. Graphics aren't the best but they aren't terrible. Grinding can 
 also get boring if your not watching TV while your playing. You will probally also have no use 
 for wifi. BUT.... this game is a must have for someone who wants an on-the-go solid rpg experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend002
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III for the DS is actually a remake of a 1990 Japanese game that have never made 
 it to America. With this release, the Nintendo DS is now the first handheld to be able to play 
 all six of the classic Final Fantasy without using an emulator. Final Fantasy III is also the first 
 of the six classic to have a facelift, three dimensional. The game receives a great reaction from 
 the fans, selling millions of copies in Japan. The game is once again directed by Hironobu Sakaguchi 
 who was also the director of the original game. How does this game play and evolve after over a 
 decade? Let's find out.
  
  The game setting revolves around four elemental crystal of light. Thousands of years even before 
 the main game starts, a hovering continent above an unnamed seek to harness the power of those 
 crystals but didn't realize that they couldn't control that much power of force of nature. The 
 destruction of the world would be clear if it weren't for the the light crystal counterparts, the 
 four dark elemental crystals. Four orphans were chosen and was given the power of the dark crystals 
 to control the power of the light crystals and keep balance.
  
  The characters in this game don't have much of a background to them as compare to the other games 
 in the series but they do have some interesting characteristics. Here we have Luneth, a orphan 
 who was raised in a village. He was adventurous and was always curious by nature. Refia who is 
 a daughter of a blacksmith, usually runs away from home due to her father training. She joins the 
 group to prove to her father that she is not weak. Arc is also an orphan, was an intelligent man 
 and Luneth best childhood friend. Finally, we have Ingus, a very loyal soldier to the King of Sasune. 
 After saving Lady Sara, he joins the party. 
  
  Story line wise, the game starts out with an earthquake which opens up a hidden cavern in a Cave 
 near the Village of Ur. Our main character Luneth, goes to explore the cave and founds himself 
 a crystal that tells him to search for the three other chosen warriors. Thought is search, he meets 
 his childhood friend Ach along with the others after defeating Dijinn that put a spell on the town 
 Kazus. Once again, the crystals tells them to bring "balance" to the world. From that point on, 
 the four chosen one set off the over world. 
  
  The visual in this game is now 3-D which gives you a whole new feel to the game. It also gives 
 the characters more personalities to them. Although, the graphic could of been better than it should, 
 the new look compare to the original is a big step up. Some of the magic are well done and the 
 summon animation are great. There is a CG video in the beginning but that is all there is which 
 is disappointing. 
  
  The sounds of the the game is okay at best. Most of the music in the game aren't memorable and 
 some attack sound effect don't match as well. Lack of voice acting and not many scores are not 
 here. There is one boss theme which is used for every boss in the game even against optional which 
 is rare now and days.
  
  Online support is here but only allows you to sent mails back and fourth with a friend. Some items 
 in the game requires you to sent mails to earn so it is rewarding at a point of time. You could 
 also sent mails to characters in the games offline too but that is all wifi can do here.
  
  The game play is petty solid. You are allowed to equip a helmet, body armor, gloves and a weapon 
 in each hand before battle makes the game more customizable. The more experience you gain thought 
 out the game, the more hits you can get in and the stronger they will be. The magic in Final Fantasy 
 III is a bit different from the older Final Fantasy today. Each magic have a certain level to them. 
 The casters can use the amount of magic depending on their level. Of course, there will be more 
 level one magic to use then level 8.
  
  What makes this game stands out from the rest of the series is the job system. There are more than 
 20 jobs in the game and that are different form each other. You gain them by advancing thought 
 the main story of the game. Without the jobs in the game, each character would have the same overall 
 stats excluding HP ( Heath Point ) . To balance out your party, you will want to avoid having two 
 of the same job in one party. Each jobs also have their own leveling up system. With this, you 
 might be discourage to change a job at times but some areas requires a certain job to pass so changing 
 jobs at times are very essential.
  
  The adventure here is long and with a bunch of side quests, this game should hold it's own until 
 the release of Final Fantasy IV. The remake is well done and the game is truly remade. Players 
 of the classic and just casual RPG should not miss out here.
  
  Presentation 6.5 - Usage of both screen is minimal and the storytelling is not the best of it's 
 ability even for a classic. The top screen can bug you seeing how unused it is at time. 
  
  Graphic 9.0 - Stunning and defiantly reborn the classic. The CG is very impressive but it was only 
 seen at the beginning of the game with is disappointing. The classic is better in 3-D
  
  Sound 7 - Some orchestral score here and there but not memorable like the other in the series. 
 The music here does match the area well not the same for the sound effect. Lac k of voice acting 
 but that is most likely due to space.
  
  Gameplay 8 - The gameplay is fun at most time but also feels dated. Not too great in today's gaming 
 world but was good back then.
  
  Lasting Appeal - The game itself is long and can last over 40 hours by itself only and with side 
 quest, 60 hours is easily reach by hardcore gamers.
  
  Good - Remade into stunning 3-D graphic. Job system adds bit to the game strategy on how to advance 
 from boss fight to boss fight. Nicely done remake.
  
  Bad - Difficulty is hard partially due to lack of save points. Character background is not deep 
 and the story at times. 
  
  Overall - 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wogboypaul
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Straight out.. BORING!! reasonsbeing:
  (ITS NOT ALL NEGATIVE REMARKS    POSITIVE REMARKS BELOW)
  
  NEGATIVES:
  1. storyline: Boring 
 as S***!! and similar to ff4 entering another world.. WOW who cares
  
  2. bosses: annoying and plain although they beat the actual characters
  sometimes they give a 
 challange since they are hard
  
  3. pheonix down much: the beggining of the game was so annoying since i didnt have any pheonix 
 down for a very long time until i found the life materia (magic)
  
  4. characters: very good looking in AMR/FMV (liek as above) . although their expressions are exactly 
 the same due to the lack of good graphics, maybe they should stop smiling once in a while during 
 a battle.. 5. waste of money, i paid $69.00 (AUS) for this game, i can honestly say, its not worth 
 it
  
  6. Jobs: a few of their jobs are a waste of space such as Viking, and Geomancer
  
  7. Magic system: confusing as hell, and no MP.. square-enix made a mistake in their changing 
 of gameplay, dont get ahead of urselves :)
  
  8. gameplay: DONT WASTE UR TIME FINDING POSITIVES.. gameplay is really poor and slow
  
  
 
  POSITIVES:
  1. characters: they look good in AMR/FMV like as above, 4 different characters in one party, makes 
 a variety of customization with jobs being used
  
  2. Job changing: learning new abilities, such as learning Level 3 black magic usage. 3. Jobs: white 
 mage, red mage (good in the beggining) , summoner, and dark knight, black mage are the usual traditional 
 characters of the ff series. these few jobs (and a few more) are useful in battle and support techniques
 
  
  4. Miscellaneous: using outside status effects to go past tiny different parts of the game. example 
 using toad to enter into an underwater part of a tower (this cannot be entered by normal status 
 effects)
  
  in conclusion id say this game is worth $30 dont look for games like this with expensive prices.. 
 its not worth ur time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kornera
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, America should of gotten this game long ago when the NES was the best looking thing 
 the world has. Don't get me wrong, this game is very very good for a remake of a classic and a 
 good addition to any Final Fantasy lover's collection, just it should of came out further back 
 than in a total remake of the old classic. With that said lets look at the positive side of this 
 game. The visuals for the DS is amazing, anyone should agree to that, the gameplay stuck to its 
 original gameplay setup and I love it for that because these latest games with new quirks just 
 not cut it anymore and I see the franchise just dissapearing into nothing after 20+ years of running 
 with the same concept yet to change that and try to bring something new to the people that continued 
 to play the series just for that calm gameplay we grew up with. (sorry for the rambling, not my 
 best review but just trying to make a point) . anyway, the storyline of the game stuck true and 
 was very good but lacking a little bit somewhere, I just couldn't put my figure on it.
  
  Anyway, I already ranted about my negative side of the game by the fact they should of released 
 it earlier to give the new generation of gamers a chance to experience the original classic than 
 make them think it is a totally brand new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is an astonishing game that is remade beautifully on the DS. The graphics have 
 been made 3D. This is a great improvement that makes summons and battle effects even cooler. For 
 some reason, the top screen of the DS is hardly ever used. The combat here is simple; Attack, defend, 
 run and Job ability. Speaking of Jobs, this was the first Final Fantasy game where characters could 
 freely switch jobs. With 20+ jobs, the strategy options go on and on. The sound in this game is 
 also pretty good. The background music, a majority of the time, is well done. However, it can get 
 somewhat repetitive at times. The story is the typical 8-bit Final Fantasy story. Four warriors 
 of light must protect crystals from some omnipotent evil hell-bent on conquering the world. The 
 difficulty in this game will definitely test your patience. With the scarcity of save points and 
 some overpowered enemies, it will occasionally frustrate you. In conclusion, FF3 for the DS is 
 a must-have for any RPG fan and DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-kill33
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  After seventeen long years, Final Fantasy III finally sees an official release outside of Japan. 
 However, unlike previous games, Final Fantasy III has been completely reworked. This is more than 
 just a port with enhanced graphics. Final Fantasy III includes some new secrets and side quests 
 in addition to its graphical overhaul. Final Fantasy III may be just about enough to please some 
 hardcore fans, but was the wait really worth it? Well, yes, but the game isn't perfect. 
  
  The storyline of Final Fantasy III is entirely too simple. The crystals are losing their powers 
 and there are only four warriors that can come forth and save the world from falling into darkness. 
 Sixteen years ago this was a pretty standard story, but when compared to your average RPG today, 
 and current Final Fantasy games, the storyline to Final Fantasy III is a joke. There's nothing 
 in this story that screams epic, and the characters involved aren't developed very well. Luckily, 
 we can let it slide because its sixteen years old. 
  
  Gameplay wise, Final Fantasy III is pretty similar to most RPGs of today. You'll go roaming through 
 dungeons and towns getting into random battles. There are a few quirks to the game that the DS 
 utilises. You'll find moments where you'll have to zoom into certain objects for you to examine. 
 It should also be noted that you can use the touch screen almost exclusively in the game. Using 
 the stylus you can make your character run in the direction you want him to, by gliding it across 
 the screen. Taping on things makes your character examine it, and ultimately this is how you open 
 chests and talk to people. It works out, but it feels really clumsy at times. If you're looking 
 to get through a dungeon with little hassle, just stick to the directional buttons. To its credit, 
 though, using the stylus makes menu navigation much faster, but for the most part, the stylus controls 
 just feel tacked on. 
  
  Combat is traditional turn based combat. There's no ATB gauge like in later Final Fantasy games. 
 In each round you will choose all the commands for your characters to do, and then watch a round 
 of battle take place. It's simple, but isn't always fun. Mainly because Final Fantasy III is a 
 challenge. If you began with some of the later Final Fantasy games, then this installment may be 
 a little too difficult. Sometimes combat is unforgiving, especially when faced with bosses that 
 attack twice per turn, and have the power to take out a character in a single shot. Even worse, 
 the encounter rate is pretty high and running away from battle is often a wasted effort because 
 you'll fail so many times trying to do so. You'll probably get wiped out just trying to run from 
 battle and failing so many times. There are several moments when you'll be forced to battle for 
 hours just leveling up. This is fine for those used to old school RPGs, but many RPGs of today 
 do not put so much emphasis on leveling up, and it may try your patience after a while. It's great 
 for people looking for a challenge, at least, but for some it may be a bit too steep. 
  
  The job system is interesting. As you go through the game you'll get crystal shards that allow 
 your characters to use certain jobs. Each job has its own set of abilities that can be learned 
 with it. For example, White mages specialize in the healing arts, black mages in attack magic and 
 red mages can do a little bit of both. You've also got other classes like warriors who can take 
 damage for other party members, thieves who can steal and much more. There are 23 jobs in all. 
 The jobs you choose for your characters also have an impact on your stats. Mages, for example, 
 don't have a lot of strength but they excel in magic. Also, as you gain levels, you'll also gain 
 job levels. So it's not only important to make sure your characters are at a good level, but also 
 at a good job level. 
  
  There is a slight problem with the job system however. It isn't nearly as varied as it could be. 
 As you go through the game you'll gain more and more jobs that ultimately replace the older ones. 
 In the beginning you'll get a Blackmage; as you progress you'll get a Sage, who is capable of doing 
 everything a Blackmage can do. Thus, later in the game, many job classes become obsolete. It's 
 really hard to compliment the games variety when later on many job classes are more of the same 
 thing. So while the job system is interesting, later games such as Final Fantasy V execute it much 
 better and with more variety. 
  
  The game looks absolutely stunning, at least for the Nintendo DS. It is by far one of the best 
 looking out there. There are some moments where it looks pixilated, but you can't deny that the 
 game just looks good regardless. The movie sequences are also really pretty to look at and they 
 run surprisingly well. In battle is also fantastic. Your enemies sport some amazing detail and 
 so do the backgrounds in battle. On the whole, the game just looks good. Perhaps the only fault 
 of the graphics is how restricted the animation of characters and enemies are in combat. Your characters 
 won't physically go up and strike an enemy. Rather they just step forward and swing. Very similar 
 to how the Final Fantasy games of the NES worked. It's strange to see, but you'll quickly get used 
 to it. 
  
  Another thing that seems kind of strange, though, is that the top screen throughout most of the 
 game remains blank. All the action takes place on the bottom screen. There are few moments when 
 the top screen actually displays anything. You'll see the world map as you travel the overworld 
 and while you're in towns. There are certain moments where the top screen has text, or shows an 
 important story sequence, but that's usually about it. Other than that, when trumping through dungeons 
 (as you do often) and in battle (as you also do often) the top screen remains blank. There's nothing 
 wrong with it, but it feels very awkward to play a Nintendo DS game where the top screen is blank. 
 They could've used it to display dungeon maps or enemy information or something. The top screen 
 has no impact on gameplay whatsoever. 
  
  The music in the game is pretty good, though. It's not as good as other games in the series, and 
 there are some tunes that just aren't great, but the music is by no means bad. There's no voice 
 acting in the game, really, but we can let that slide. Audio wise, the game is good. 
  
  Final Fantasy III is a pretty satisfying experience for any Final Fantasy fan looking for a good 
 challenge, and to see how far the series has come. However, it may also shed a little too much 
 of its old school charm in some areas, particularly its unforgiving challenge. Still, it's worth 
 it for Final Fantasy fans who want to see just how far the series has come. 
  
  The Good 
  
  +Finally a chance to play Final Fantasy III 
  +Great visual look 
  +Good music 
 
  +The job system is interesting 
  +It provides a good challenge 
  +A fair amount of secrets and sidequests 
  
  The Bad 
  
  -The story is not all that great 
 
  -For some the game might provide too much of a challenge, to the point of frustration 
  -High random encounter rate 
  -The job system is interesting, but there's not nearly as much 
 vareity as one might expect from it 
  -Throughout most of your adventure the top screen is just... blank... for a Nintendo DS game this 
 just feels awkward 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mozillo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  It is a very good game and a good remake of the original. It has a good griping story with lots 
 of major plot twists. However, there is one problem which is that you will end up spending hours 
 on end trying to level your characters jobs so the can actually do some damage.
  This will most likely happen after each job set you get so about 1/4 of the game will be training 
 your jobs. With that said the job leveling style is very inventive. This game can get a bit hard 
 at some times making it a good game for it is not just a really easy game which you can run through.
 
  I am not entirely sure about the music in this game for I mainly play with the sound off. Although 
 theives don't have much a use in this game seeing as the few things they can steal are potions 
 and the like there is only one or two times that you might want to steal, these both requiring 
 you to get a thief to job level 71 so you can steal the highest item. With thieves they can steal 
 one of four items from a monster. The item you steal will mainly depend on what level your thief 
 is.
  With a small learning time for a good long lasting game I highly recommend you get this game if 
 you haven't already even though a lot of time will be spent training. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Striker2117
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 DS was one of those games I picked up before going to a major event so I'd have 
 something to do while waiting. I played it and immediately found something that upset me. The massive 
 level grinding that you are forced to do to get to a high enough level to defeat a boss is just 
 too much in this game. This frustrated me to no end when I had just defeated a boss only to go 
 after another who is an even higher level than the other. Besides that, I thought the story was 
 good, and the class system was only a pre-courser to the one I had learned to love (the mix-and-match 
 system of Final Fantasy 5 or the many characters of Final Fantasy 6) but I still found it workable 
 and desirable more than that of the class system of Final Fantasy 4 (The classes change without 
 you really wanting them to and characters leave or die at random points) . All in all, it wasn't 
 a bad game, but it falls short of the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kosten204
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is one of my favorite FF games in the series. If you own a DS then this is a 
 must have for all rpg fans. The immersing story that will always create more challenges as you 
 progress, the new added character system creates a new added level of game play for difficultly, 
 the boss battles seem as you always are on the verge of defeat, and at the end a miracle happens 
 as you hear the victorious theme are only some of what makes this a great game. The new graphics 
 are some of the best seen on the DS. The characters seen as they almost custom, from names, class, 
 and if you want duel-wield or shield. The lack of saving can frustrate many, but it adds to the 
 playability. This is well worth your $40, and makes a classic even better. At all...
  
  A portable masterpiece... truly made for the DS...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Im going to be as sharp as i can.
  
  THE FACTS:
  
  # The story is just too bland and i know its been used before. You re knights going around restoring 
 power to cystrals thats it in a nutshell.
  
  # Lack of save points in dugeons is unforgiveable. The duegeons are small but still why no save 
 points?
  
  # The grapics are nice and colourful. 
  
  # The game does'nt use the DSs touch sceen function at all. Other than control the whole game with 
 it but its a chore. [ thats not very imaginative at all}
  
  # In this game you use the job system to do up your buddys that you control. Now this is done so 
 badly in this game and i will explain why below this text.
  1. Some jobs like warrior are good but with only two real actions to pefrom everytime saying it 
 gets repetitve just does'nt cut it.
  2. When you want to swich jobs you have to go and do ten battles sometimes less to get you're stats 
 back up WHY!!! tell me theres no reason for that at all it's just annoying.
  3. Some jobs become alot less usefull in the game for example you have Black Mages that you get 
 in the start of the game that can cast up to i think level 6 out of level 8 spells but later on 
 in the game you get another type of black mage that can cast up level 8 spells not only that you 
 get better stats to go along with it. This also happens with white mages.
  
  # Also you may wander around the map trying to find out where to go next at times because there 
 the map does'nt show you the names of the places on it WHY!!!! 
  
  # The hardeness of the game is unbelievable the bosses get many hits per turn somtimes if you can 
 complete the game without dieing you must be god himself.
  
  # And to top it all off the top of the ds is usally blank and unused.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  I fight 
 back at it because its remake its jut money spinning for the unimaigative. If you die hard fan 
 of the seris go for it but i promise you i have'nt lied at all. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariojoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This was actually my very first Final Fantasy game. It's a lot of fun. The job system works very 
 well even though it was technically developed in the '80s. It adds a surprising amount of strategy 
 to who's in your team. There are also a large amount of jobs to choose from so the possibilities 
 are endless.
  The basic gameplay is that of the original Final Fantasy on the NES i. e. normal turn-based system. 
 I prefer this over the active time-battle system since I keep on forgetting to pause, lol. You 
 can equip your characters with two weapons which is... odd. You can use a weapon and shield but 
 I prefer two weapons. 
  Unfortunately the old-time RPG gameplay means old-time RPG leveling-up.
  The graphics are not 
 the best. Everyone looks kind of chibi-ish which is neat. But the cutscenes in the intro are a-freakin-mazing. 
 They look fantastic with amazing graphics. 
  The music is also wonderfully orchestrated.
  Overall, this game is for RPG-junkies like me that don't mind some leveling up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this game is-brillient. I have played every single FF to come out expet 
 for those ones of PSP, and i can say that this has been one of the best- and clearly the best one 
 yet to come out on the DS.
  
  This game, unlike almost every other DS game, uses 3-D graphics. Yes, there not smooth and not 
 the best buy, hey, you get what you pay for better then nothing right? The storyline is a little 
 to shabby, original if you want to call it that. Gameplay is pretty sweet, rather than touching 
 a blury charcter i like in reverant and guiding your character like some stratergy games, the action 
 is clear, but held back as you choose yor attacks.
  
  This game is suprisinagly long and i mean long as in there is heaps of exploring to do during and 
 after the game. Bosses prove challgeneging, sometimes a little to challgening especcially near 
 the end.
  
  Good cutsceans, not to annoying like the unstopable FF 10 ones. Great use of jobs, as you can switch 
 jobs whenever you want, and at the end you get the availibility of all of them.
  
  The only let down of this game would have to be the save points. That it what stops this game getting 
 a 10. If only they out it in this game would be perfect, as you can only save in certain areas 
 and i can tell you there arnt many, usually outside somewhere safe on the map.
  
  THis game overall iss great and a owrth buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OctaneKnight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  My first thoughts when picking this game up was that this would be the 5th Final Fantasy game I 
 would play, the other 4 being VII, XII, I & II, so I was no stranger to the series and I was playing 
 from the prospective of someone who just wanted a great FF game for the DS.
  And I was not mistaken, it is a great game in terms of story and the unique job system, also, graphically 
 and musically it is unflawed, FF music being some of the greatest in any game I have ever played. 
 Ok, lets break it down into 5 categories; Story, Gameplay, Sound, Re-playability and Extras.
  
  Story
  
  What can I say, it's a huge improvement from the original Famicom version with 
 each individual characters, Luneth, Arc, Reifa and Ingus having a background, detailed looks and 
 interaction with the party and the environment. The story is the classic RPG good vs evil scenario, 
 Luneth falls down a hole after a big earthquake and stumbles apon a Crystal of light who gives 
 him a fraction of it's power to him and sends him to find the other Warriors of Light so they can 
 beat the darkness and make the world better again. The locations the party come across are not 
 terribly original but they do have a distinctive charm to them, like Goldor's manor and the Gnome 
 village, my particular favorite being the last stage for it's awe-inspiring looks and depth.
  Overall I would say the story is tired and true, and you can tell strait away that you are playing 
 a Final Fantasy.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Many complain about the difficult, especially some of the bosses and dungeons but unless you have 
 not played many Final Fantasy games or even RPG games in general, yes, you will find it a little 
 frustrating at times, I know I did. The job level system is where this game tilts on the balance 
 of either being great or mediocre, it's rather like Marmite, you either love it or you hate it, 
 personally I loved it and thought it was rather original, some people I know who have played it 
 wanted to just pick it up and play a classic level'emup style RPG like FF I and VII, but the job 
 system is what makes it more fun as you can experiment with different jobs to find the perfect 
 party. Another thing that made certain played frustrated is the magic, or rather the lack of it, 
 yes you get tiny amounts of magic points even at high levels making it hard to play, especially 
 if your in a big dungeon like the last where there are no healing stations nearby and your about 
 to face the boss. All in all, the gameplay is not groundbreaking or revolutionary, but a little 
 frustrating and requires the player to have a lot of patience.
  
  Sound
  
  There is nothing bad I can specify about the sounds and music in the game, the latter being absolutely 
 fantastic with a memorable and catchy soundtrack, especially the boss fights and certain characters 
 and situations, my personal favorites being the final boss fight music, the 4 old men theme, the 
 Fat Chocobo theme and the random little techno'esque rave you can play in one of the Inn's which 
 makes everyone around you dance.
  
  Re-Playability
  
  Like most RPG's, you beat the main quest first and then complete all the little sidequests, like 
 Oblivion or Morrowind. With Final Fantasy III however, the sidequests are Incorporated into the 
 storyline itself and some are recommended if you wish to progress more smoothly, so in reality 
 there is not much re-playability, unless you wish to experiment with different jobs or play the 
 dundgeons in a different order.
  
  Extras
  
  By now you are probably thinking "Yes but what about the Wi-Fi, where does that come in?", well, 
 to answer your question, it comes in with the Moggles. These cute, cat like creatures who were 
 originally body-guards for one of the NPC's in the original have been brought back into kitty postmen, 
 it's a concept FF XI players should be familiar with. You can send mail to NPC's and other people 
 using Wi-Fi, at first it seems to have no point, but if you send enough messages to real people 
 and a certain NPC, you can unlock sidequests for legendary items, a very hard secret boss and even 
 a job class! Another feature is the Fat Chocobo, which is like it says on the tin a huge chocobo 
 who only appears in certain places and only when you use a certain item can be used as a storage 
 space for items you have no need for at the moment but don't want to sell, it's quite original 
 and always funny when he appears, truly one of the main comic features of the game.
  
  To sum it up, a classic retro RPG brought back to life with fresh new features, frustrating at 
 some moments but worthwhile in the end because of the extra features and side-quest. A must buy 
 if you have a lot of patience and are really into RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbyethumbs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the FF3 game on shop shelves i greeted it with a sigh and complained that it would 
 probably be just like FF1&2 in showing its age. Then about a month later i decided it was worth 
 a "risky buy" seeing as i had some money to spare and OH MY GOD! i was shocked when i realised 
 how good this game was, and it was portable! the story was fantastic, the characters were great 
 and the battle system was as good as ever. also the graphics are'nt too shabby nor the sound. It's 
 fair to say that final fantasy has a reputation to uphold and it does that perfectly with this 
 FF3 remake, the use of mogs to communicate to in game characters and other DS players worlwide 
 was a fantastic addition. This game has gone to the top of my final fantasy must have list and 
 i would recommend it to anyone who owns a DS, regardless of their view on the turn-based RPG. A 
 must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_csi_fan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I got this game less than a week ago and i am already at the final dungeon. That is how much i 
 have enjoyed this game it is fun and the story is good classic good veruses evil. You can intract 
 with lots of diffrent people and some even join your team for a while and aid you in battle.
  The job system is fantastic they are at least 21 diffrent jobs some include classics such as mock, white 
 mage, black mage and red mage and even warrior and one secret one which allows for alot of customizing 
 and the characters looks cool also the transistion phase as it is known stops you from just changing 
 jobs at will since you would go X amount of battles with lower sats and is risking in the middle 
 of a dungeon,
  The boss battles are hard and require some leveling up and stratagie you can't just always attack 
 and heal . 
  The music is top notch the battle and boss music are perfect the graphics are nice to look at and 
 the intro squence is awesome aswell 
  But the game isnt without its few downsides in order to do any sidequests you need wi-fi and have 
 to send at least 7 messages to other people to unlock them this also includes the quest to get 
 the secret job so if you don't have wi-fi then it may be hard to do them but the game does have 
 2 or 3 secret dungeons you can access without wi-fi which are good fun
  Also one problem is lack of save points since you can only save on the world map it is quite annyoing 
 if you happen to save go down into a dugeon then go all the way throught just to die at the boss 
 then have to start over but it can be solved but just leveling a bit around the world map. 
  Finally while the game is quite hard it is not punishingling hard it is challenging and fun overall 
 if you are rpg and a final fantasy fan or just one of the two i suggest picking up final fantasy 
 3 you will not be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 is a game that shows how remaked versions should be done. This game is fantastic. 
 Just the layout and the storyline and controls everything is great. Basically you go through this 
 game trying to save the world, I forget what it's called, but anyways, you go through dungens and 
 stuff like that. During the gameplay I really liked it because it reminded me of Pokemon because 
 of the fighting and just the basic gameplay that rememinded me of Zelda. This game is definetly 
 a must have for the DS and is a fantasticly designed rpg. It doesn't have great graphics but they 
 have potential espeically for thhe DS. Anyways, Final Fantasy 3 is a great game and I say a must 
 have to the system, and if your new to the series you would really enjoy this game to start you 
 out with. Thanks for reading, and send me a friend request if you wish. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehobbit666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  the game's graphics are okay but it makes up for that in storyline and game play. i have spent 
 over a week playing it, beat the last boss. even though i killed the last boss, i still keep playing 
 because there is so much to do. the main problem with the game is the mognet, the problems is you 
 can't send more than 1 mail per hour, you can't type very fast because they hid the space key, 
 and you have to use it for some of the good side quest and no one knows what to do to get the ultima 
 weapon. besides that theres very little thats wrong with the game. every now and then you hit a 
 glitch or you get killed. i wished they would let you save in a dungeon but you can't. they should 
 also make some of the items (like elixir and phoenix down) be in a shop so you can buy more as 
 they are very useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III isnt exactly a break through for this genre of gaming. The graphics are nice, 
 but graphics aren't everything. I found battles repetitive and they left me wishing I had bought 
 a different game. Same battle style: you choose a characters action, he and or she does it, and 
 then it's the next persons turn, according to speed. The goal is very common: find the crystal. The 
 story line moves on rather slowly and, when you change classes, you have to start back at square 
 one!!! Another thing that may spoil your fun is the fact that, after you beat the game, what's 
 there left to do? It's not like you can hop online and kick the snot out of other teams. Fans of 
 the Final Fantasy series may like FF3, but others like me may seek out something more fast-paced.
 
  
  The good-Graphics, classes (always a plus) , actually uses touch screen
  The bad-Dull, predictable, music can get a little repetitive , no online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-radreg07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Final Fantasy series for years. The ones that stuck out in my mind the most 
 was the first few (especially Final Fantasy 1 on NES) . 
  
  FF3 for DS is no different. It's got the old style of gameplay giving you a full party of 4 (sometimes 
 temp. 5) , and offers up the same challenges and joys of classic FF. If you were a fan of any generation 
 of FF games, you will most likely enjoy this title.
  
  The only beef I had with this game is the save points. You cannot save inside a dungeon at any 
 point in time. This leads to you plowing through a dungeon for an hour or two only to be completely 
 destroyed by the boss at the end hence wasting much time. It would have been nice to have some 
 type of place where you could save inside the dungeon (like in Final Fantasy 3 SNES, might be mistaken 
 on #3, it was the one where you start in the mech looking things) .
  
  Other than that one small thing that only effected me once, I was extremely happy with the game. 
 The campaign was of decent length and the game was challenging and kept me hooked.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samslayer
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I first want to say that I really enjoy Final Fantasy games, from classic to modern. I've never 
 played this version before, so I was very excited to play it. This game is actually the reason 
 why I decided to purchase a DS! I felt the game had a great feel to it, and I really enjoyed the 
 way the game played. I also really appreciated the "Jobs" system which gave a lot to individual 
 character development! This changed a seemingly basic turn based RPG into a very interesting game 
 about group dynamics. Even though some of the character classes were a must (Healer Melee Magic 
 etc) there were large differentiations within the classes themselves. My biggest problems were 
 the story, I did not feel as absorbed into this story as compared to the others. I felt that I 
 COULD put this game down for a few weeks and not even feel the need to complete it. This was very 
 different compared to any other Final Fantasy game I've played. After beating the game, I felt 
 reasonably satisfied, but I felt there could have been more.
  
  Overall, this is a pretty solid turn based RPG. Obviously with it being a remake there is nothing 
 "new" brought to the table, but it is nice to be able to play a classic game, which I may have 
 never played if it did not come out for DS. I am glad that it is my collection, but I doubt that 
 I will be playing through it again any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGCal
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Usually people expect Final Fantasy games to be just another boring game. But this one is just 
 amazing! I think how you get to choose jobs for the characters you control... thats fun!
  
  You get to level up your characters and choose whatever job you're going to give them. Each job 
 has a special talent that will help when fighting enemys and bosses. The bosses sometimes will 
 take a few times to fight and some you can beat with one try. It has a great story that keeps building 
 up the problem.
  
  I played this game through summer vacation and I was never bored by it.
  
  If you have a DS, 
 this should be Number One on your games to get list.
  
  This game is about Number 3 on my list of favorite RPG games, and I ONLY ( well i mostly) play 
 Role-playing games. (Oblivion comes in first if you are wondering)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is an awsome RPG, that will be familiar with Final Fantasy fans, but also adds 
 a new feel with the DS controls and graphics. The level/world design is quite awsome, and features 
 big, expansive worlds, and a lot of dungeons, caves, and castles to explore. The ammount of weapons, 
 armour, and items that are available is great, and will make each character unique. The job system 
 is pulled off without a hitch, and makes the game that much more enjoyable. there are a huge number 
 of enemies, as is with all FF games, which helps make the game fun. The graphics for this game 
 are great for a DS game but they could have been a little better. The sound is exactly what you 
 would expect from an FF, or any RPG for that matter. the gameplay is actually really fun, and will 
 have you playing for hours. The story is also quite strong, and very effective for an older game. 
 With the online components added, it makes this game better if you have a friend with it as well, 
 otherwise, it won't really effect you. Basically, its just an over-all enjoyable RPG that DS owners 
 should give a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazer127
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Final fantasy is probably one of Square-Einx most popular series but not all of the games from 
 the land of the rising sun came to the UK like Final fantasy 3. It was released in Japan but for 
 some reason it never hit UK soil.
  
  Now, On to the game, It is fully 3D and has one of the most attractive intro scenes on any DS game, 
 It is lovely. The characters are your normal bunch, a bunch of orphans who get selected by a crystal 
 and have to save the world (again) from evil (again) .
  
  most of the characters are full of character and the environments are vast and pretty. and it is 
 hard, VERY hard, The amount of items like phoenix downs are rare and when the boss of a dungeon 
 will most probably kill one of your party members with one hit you will not want to waste them 
 on a level 1 rat you found in a sewer.
  
  Overall you are getting an all new Final fantasy adventure (depending where you live) and you will 
 be sucked in to its vast and beautiful world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarPAaron
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 is the best game for the nintendo DS I have. It has good graphics, good sound quality, 
 and is extremely fun to play. The game offers many new monsters, characters, and weapons. The bosses 
 are challenging too. I was level 64 before I could defeat the last boss. This game is long and 
 takes many hours of play to beat. The wifi is pretty cool too. You can send letters to other people 
 around the world over wifi to get hidden items, new jobs, get help in the game, or you can just 
 send jokes for fun. This game has new jobs including: Dark knight, Onion Knight, Sage, Devout, 
 and Blackbelt. It also has the older jobs: Knight, Black mage, white mage, red magic, archer, monk, 
 theif, dragoon, etc. One of the things that is different about this game is that instead of using 
 MP there magic spells leveled 1-8. There are numbers beside the spells that tell you haw many times 
 you can use that spell. There are 3 different air-ships in the game. One is the normal air-ship, 
 one can go under-water and fly at extremely fast speeds, and the last is kind of slow but it has 
 a store, an inn, and a place to store extra items in it. This air-ship can also fly over mountains. 
 So... as I was saying before, this is the best Nintendo DS game I have. This is definatly worth 
 buying. Enjoy! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 was only out in Japan and never reached Europe it did for America but with a different 
 name sorta confussing for some Final Fantasy fans.
  Final Fantasy 3 is mostly about Light and Darkness and 4 orphans Luneth, Arc, Refia and Ingus who 
 have been chosen to become The Warriors of Light and stopping the darkness and finding the Four 
 crsytal elements, finding where these earthquakes are coming from and travelling the world. FF3 
 was also the first game where the Moogles began and the Job system began, and yes this Cid in FF3 
 is an Airship type person who helps you out abit. There are some other charcters that will help 
 you out in the game.
  Gameplay you can use the touch screen or use the main buttons during a random battle or running 
 around in circles, clever thing about this game is Job system if you weren't inpressed with X-2 
 the Job system is alot easier to use, you can only buy Magic in shops and leveling up with it's 
 job system like on X-2 you have to learn magic like Fire or Thunder. Magic is based on the numer 
 of levels on a charcters Job system. The only problem in the game I would complain about is lack 
 of Phoienx Downs you can't buy them anywhere you'll have to find them on your journey. You can 
 only save when your at the World map, there is quicksave but not worth doing that, best is to save 
 on the World Map.
  Graphics are quite good and a great opening in CGI that only lasts for 1 or 2 mintues before playing 
 the game, sound great to listen to some classic music that you'll reconise in the game. This game 
 also have Wi-Fi where you can use Mognet to communicate with your friends but it's mostly writing 
 messages to your friends.
  I've been playing this game for a couple of weeks and I found this game surprisingly good I couldn't 
 stop playing but yes this game is worth getting if your a Final Fantasy Fan or your into RPG games 
 but this game may not be your type if you never played any RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonidas123
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Final fantasy fans in the west have been waiting no less than 18 years to get a hand on this game, 
 originally released in 1990 in Japan. Now the question is, was it worth the wait?
  
  I guess most people would have liked to see an improved game play system, but squenix left us cold 
 and simply used the traditional turn-based system from the original.
  
  The story is viewed from a perspective of 4 main characters, who need to protect the world from 
 destruction. The difference from original game is that the main characters now have names and back 
 stories, which gives the game somewhat more background (and depth) . Still, no miracles can be expected 
 from the story, which remains true to the 18 years old roots. 
  
  FF3 was the first FF game to deliver professions into the series, which is good but nothing stellar 
 in the year 2008. Every character in the team can take a profession and as the game goes on he 
 improves on it (archer, black mage, etc) . Unfortunately, professions can't be combined (like in 
 FF5) , which is a huge letdown. 
  
  Overall, the gameplay part has received the least amount of attention from the development team. 
 Game difficulty is pretty high, and you can only save the game on the world map, but not in dungeons. 
 Needless to say, this can get very frustrating as the dungeons get longer and longer and more difficult 
 as well. There is A LOT of battles in each dungeon and the turn based system really starts to get 
 annoying after a while. Okay, this was standard 18 years ago, but people may not be exactly happy 
 nowadays.
  
  To conclude, the game is most definitely not for beginners or occasional players, because it requires 
 full devotion from the player, and a lot of time, patience and persistence. Still, the game glows 
 with that charm that every final fantasy game seems to have, and will definitely reward fans of 
 the series, but even they will have to admit it's just an old game with better graphics.
  
  7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argonianfreak2
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  I don't mean to sound judgemental or rude but this game blows. Compared to previous FF titles FFIII 
 lacked the story, gameplay, difficulty, and pi-zaz that it's predecessors had.
  The story revolves around you and your three friends (amazing! a four-member party in a Final Fantasy 
 game!) who you meet within about ten minutes of gameplay. Some psychopath is trying to destroy 
 all life as we know it and you have stop him.
  
  the job system is similar to the one on FFV for GBA but is about a million time easier to level 
 up. Seriously, you could reach level 100 in every class just fighting in the first area for about 
 15 minutes. The battles have about the animation of FFVII so they look cool but they're waaay too 
 easy. I managed to reach the halfway mark in about two hours of gameplay.
  
  All around this is my least favorite FF game so far. The graphics were great and some of the spells 
 such as Ultima were very amusing to use but this game will leave you wanting more and not in a 
 good way. Sorry Square-Enix but try again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_unknown11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Game was nicely done. I liked how there was a bunch of different jobs. There were a lot of cool 
 weapons to chose from. I didn't like how it was turn based. It had a great storyline and had ok 
 graphics for a DS game. Going over the internet on it wasn't as fun as some other games were. All 
 you could do was send mail to people to trigger different sidequests like Sara's pendant or the 
 iron giant or the onion knight job. The iron giant sidequest is fun because you face up against 
 the strongest monster in the game and you can fight him over and over again to get a ton of exp 
 and gil. Overall if you like final fantasy then you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiMcHiMaN
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  gameplay: in the starting, its a little bit typical for most rpg games. a boy named (iforgot) fell 
 into this hole that leads to a cave of doom. right after that, ul meet several monster and kill 
 them very quickly, like one hit. ull have to explore the cave and at the end, ull fight a monster 
 called the land turtle. at first, it seems impossible... unless u have the artic (did i spell that 
 correctly??) wind. after u kill the land turtle, ull meet a giant crystal that could talk, wow... 
 well thats the first part of the story. after u beet the fisrt boss, which is the dinjin, a fat, 
 ugly dinjin, ull get some awesome jobs for starters. warrior, redmage, theif, black mage, white 
 mage and monk. i chose 2 warrior, a red mage and a black mage because the red mage can attack with 
 swords, magic and could heal so its pretty strong in the begining. if u have played other final 
 fantasy games, ull know whu i have chosed the black mage. then ull countine the story and keep 
 going and going untill u beat it =) good luck! oh after u beat bosses and talk to the crystals, 
 ull get like 30 jobs in total. this was my final party's jobs. warrior, black knight, red mage 
 and ninja. overall, this game is awesome, fun, classic and will keep u busy for hours (seriously, 
 i was going to LA with my family i was bored the hell out of my mind =/... because of this game, 
 i was intertained for bout 6-7hours.
  
  graphic: its really good for ds but there is somethngs that could be alot better. the physics can 
 be better and how the monster dies can be better... but other than that, this game's graphic is 
 awesome
  
  sound: CLASSIC, same ol' winning song, do do do doo doo do do do, haha its awesome
  
  others: 
 again, this game rocks the hell out of ur moms cooking book... of ur going to get this game, get 
 it, u wont be saying things like "i wasted money on this crap?!" orWTF (wow this [is] fantastic) " 
 or "i want a refund". really, ull enjoy it nomatter what, even its ur first final fantasy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tripoldoor
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  If you have a DS and some money, you gotta buy this game. I had never played a final fantasy game 
 before in my life, so I decided to buy this game. The gameplay was simple at first, but then you 
 get introduced to job classes, basically you customize your guys to fit the party's needs. Each 
 job has different abilities, so you can make one guy use weapons, one use attack magic, another 
 healing magic, and the last guy use items, or you can just make them all atack. This comes in handy 
 because there are so many bosses in this game. Each boss has a dungeon and each one is filled with 
 tons of monsters. You may find yourself getting killed going through the dungeon, powering up outside, 
 and going back in to get killed again. Thats the great thing about the game, its not easy and is 
 sure to last you a good 40 hours, not counting the time spent getting killed, which doubles the 
 total hours of playtime. Another great thing is the music, its really good, especially the boss 
 theme, it gets stuck in your head. One of the geatest parts of this game is the story. There isn't 
 a ton of text like most games with really good storylines, but theres just something about killing 
 monsters and riding chickens that makes it really stand out. So yeah, buy this game if you like 
 RPGs and buy it even if you don't. Its a brilliant game and my favorite game and the best game 
 on the DS or any system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rej72380
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Way back in 1990, the third installment of the Final Fantasy series was released in Japan. Sadly, 
 like Final Fantasy II before it and Final Fantasy V after it, the game would not see the light 
 of day in North America. While many years later, Final Fantasy II and V would be released in the 
 USA as part of classic game compilations for the PSOne and GBA, Final Fantasy III still would not 
 see release in this country. Finally, the long awaited installment has made it's way to North American 
 shores in the form of a 3D remake for the Nintendo DS.
  
  
  Graphically, the game provides the best visuals seen on the DS to date. Each of the four main characters 
 have a distinct personality. Also, the monsters in this game are very awesome, with the each and 
 every one of them possessing unique animations. Sound wise, the game is a huge step up from the 
 original Famicom version of the game, with the music being completely melodic and the sound effects 
 having a nice touch to the game.
  
  Control-wise, the game is completely awesome. Asides from the traditional button setup we all got 
 to know and love, the game employs the use of the touch screen, although it is completely optional. 
 Sliding the touch screen to move your PCs is very well thought out, as well as the on-screen buttons 
 to go to the menu, talk to the guest character that is in your party and zooming the camera in 
 and out.
  
  What makes this game the best is the ever-popular job system. While at Job level 1, your characters 
 are very weak, but when you gain quite a few job levels, your characters become very strong and 
 adept. Also, the battle system, although your standard turn-based one, makes for some quick battles 
 and some very epic battles, especially against the game's bosses.
  
  
  Overall, if you've been holding off purchasing this game, don't hold off any longer. This game 
 is indeed the best in the series and one of the best RPGs that money can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwarlito
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III released on the DS was never brought over to US shores prior to this installment. 
 To get right down to the point, this game plays like a true classic turn based rpg from about 15 
 years ago. The game is very punishing, very rewarding, and at times, very boring.
  
  The story line is similar to most older rpg's: there are 4 chosen heroes, and they are destined 
 to save the world against evil. Pretty much that's it in a nut shell. The characters you meet along 
 your journey do add to the whole playing experience, and through these meetings, the character 
 development is heightened and you learn more about each of your four main comrades. Luneth, Arc, 
 and Refia are the main three to your party, but even after 35 to 40 hours of playing the game, 
 it's like you barely even know what makes them tick. If your'e looking for a more involved story 
 line, this game won't do it for you.
  
  The gameplay is pretty standard for this older genre. There is a lot of leveling up that is required. 
 This is where the play becomes boring for me. I'd say more then a third of the time was spent on 
 leveling up my characters. Although there is a lack of save points in dungeons, the amount of times 
 you actually do die in this game is less than 10 times (at least for me) . This may be due to myself 
 leveling up like crazy. If you are on the go, and have something to do, there is at least a quick 
 save function that helps greatly, so don't worry about playing for an hour and not being able to 
 turn off your DS.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice for the DS. However there aren't many CG cutscenes that Square is 
 known for in this game, basically the title scene is all that is even noticed. And after seeing 
 how Zelda PH turned out, these graphics aren't good at all. Again, it's just a fresh coat of paint.
 
  
  If you like an older type of rpg, this game is right up your alley. It's meaty in length, roughly 
 35 hours or so to beat. The graphics are okay, and the overall experience is pretty good. I'm however 
 not going to give a pass on it just being an older port of a game none of us most likely never 
 played before.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowser_breath
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 is another port from another console. It is a good transition, yet it is slightly 
 repetitive in places. The 'job' section of the game is a lot of fun, and its great to watch your 
 character become either a red mage, monk, ranger, dark knight... The list goes on. As you progress 
 through the game you unlock these a new set of jobs. At the start it is very limited... One job, 
 but this soon changes. You have a party of Four characters, and you can change the partys jobs 
 to suit your gaming style. This includes the mages, warriors, rangers etc. The graphics are quite 
 good, it is 3-D in the battle scenes, but its not quite 3-D in the map. It is a more overhead view, 
 reminiscent of the Pokemon franchise, yet still tchnically 3-D. The graphics can be a bit murky 
 in the overworld, but the battle scenes make up for this, as they are very good.
  
  Gameplay also is done well, you have options for each battle, like attack, retreat, magic, items 
 etc. Also, every different job has their own unique ability which can be used if the need arises.
 
  
  Anyone who has played Pokemon, and im sure theirs a good chance you have, will understand the bad 
 points of the game. The battle system works just like Pokemon, random encounter when crossing 'enemy 
 territory'. This is very repetitive, as sometimes you can only walk a couple of steps before you 
 hear the dreaded battle scene music. This frustrated Pokemon gamers, yet their was a solution to 
 this problem: Repels! Unfortunately their is no item like this in FF3, so you just have to stick 
 it out. Overall, FF3 is not a bad game by any means but the title bears a lot of expectation which 
 cannot be fulfilled, as it is a very early title. Worth getting if your a fan, but don't be too 
 expectant if your new to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ralph_1986
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Good jRPG most focused on battles. Graphics are really nice, mostly like what we saw in FF 7. Sometimes 
 big pixels hurt eyes (while zoming) but generally it's fine, especially as for hanheld like DS. 
 It's one of the best things in this game- it's look. Really beautiful sometimes (like Gold Minor, 
 or Crystal Palace)
  
  As for music- a was a little dissapointed. Expected more from Uematsu. Can't compare it with such 
 beautiful sounds like in FF7 or FF8. Just average, nothing special.
  Battle system very various- you can try lots of jobs, what makes fighting interesting, but even 
 with this eventually you get a little bored.
  Game's lenght. Hmm.... you could easily beat the game in 25-30 hour time. It took me more (51) but 
 I was doing a lot of grinding and some sidequests. 
  Sidequests- if you really want to enjoy it, you must be able to use wireless communication/ wi-fi. 
 Otherwise- it sucks. Presonally i couldn't use it so it dissapointed me a bit because i couldn't 
 finish the most interesting side quests.
  
  The weakest link in here is definitly the plot/story (!) . It is just sad and miserable. After what 
 i experienced with FF7 or FF8 this on was less than zero, and I mean it! Final Fantasy series are 
 known of having beautiful, epic stories; well- you won't find this in here. The main characters 
 have no personal stories at all, and there's no such bad ones like Sephiroth for example. And keep 
 hearing the same- "warriors of light", "balanse of light and darkness" etc., etc., might drive 
 you crazy.
  Still, you have too remember that it's just a remake of a very old game.
  
  You shouldn't get bored with this game, it is really enjoyable and good, but comparing with other 
 FF series- nothing really special.
  
  Still, i would recommend this for all jRPG and FF fans without a doubt.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsplitsolo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  its a pretty cool game espicially with the job system. but it was kinda confusing in the begging. but 
 once your party is strong killing monsters and bosses is a total blast. for a ds game it looks prety 
 good. the story is a good long time so you always have something to do. combat is nice too, but can 
 get a little hard espeicially when facing a monster 10 levels a head of you. and on top of that 
 its WI FI compatble. in the begining it will be a bit hard but after a while you cant let your hands 
 go off of the ds. so overall its a awesome game with sweet combat, jobs, and graphics. a true final 
 fantasy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! It is just as good as the original NES version and has a few extra to keep 
 you busy as well. The game's story is great. But, you should know that if you ever played a Final 
 Fantasy game before. This game did get a facelift but dont run away from it. The graphics are nice 
 for DS standards. The conversion from 2D to 3D is a nice change. All of the sounds were updated 
 also to fit the change SquareEnix did. Also some story elements are different but are hardly noticeable. 
 The game's difficulty isn't to hard.. It is actually quite easy. The game is also short. Aside from 
 those minor problems this game is really good and is a must have for RPG lovers that have a DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WSGRandomPerson
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Final Fantasy to hit the Nintendo DS, and the first look North America of the 
 original game of Final Fantasy III. The game's graphics are great on the DS platform, but most 
 all the characters of the game look like children below the age of 12. The sounds of the game are 
 just like the other Final Fantasy music, wonderful to listen to, and will get stuck in your head 
 time to time. This game has a job system like most of the Final Fantasy games, but this one was 
 different. It is prolonged and grueling to master every job in the game with every character. Which 
 isn't fun, and takes alot of time of actually playing the game. The characters in the game, had 
 no real personality as far as I've seen. The story line got very boring, in the middle of the game. 
 The one good side to this game is, every weapon is dual-wield. The story line is boring, but yet 
 its another Final Fantasy game. So credit is given to where credit is due. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickmanx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  A jewel in RPG gaming if you ask me, back in the Famicom era, it was the first game to include 
 various concepts of FF gaming, like subquest, summons, and the re-aiming atack (aka i attack with 
 two characters the same enemy, one kills and the other goes for other enemy that is still alive)
 
  
  Remede with the new era technology, it is still amazing, with one of the best music in the entire 
 series, a big number of party possibilities, and more!
  
  The only bad part of this remake is the WiFi subquest, i mean, the whole porpouse of the WiFi settings 
 of this game is to unlock secrets, and if you try to use it to have fun with your friens, you cant!, 
 becouse you need a minimum of one hour to send another message.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _gorgon_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  ... but the game is sooooo repetitive, and eventually you will feel like you were doing the same 
 one time and another, and another, and another... 
  So, OK, the game is not bad at all, it has its moments. It has a good combat system, nice graphics, 
 plain but pleasant characters, some things that make it enjoyable. But in the end is deeply boring.
 
  But what annoy me the most is that if the name of this game was "Dungeon Crawling 2" instead of 
 "Final Fantasy III", most of the people will say that it is a mediocre game and would give it a 
 5 or 6... but is a FF and of course it deserves a 7,5 at least, I mean it, I don't know why people 
 love this brand so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00tmanX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III (FFIII from here on) is not a modern RPG. If you see this game, don't expect 
 a deep, story-heavy experience. Instead, expect a 3D remake of a very old RPG. Not that old RPGs 
 are bad, but one might wish that this game had, say, a good story? Good characters? Maybe if they 
 made it a tad easier? Well, ignore those issues, and get ready for the best RPG the DS has to offer.
 
  
  While being a 15-year-old game, FFIII has quite a lot to offer. Its greatest feature is its Job 
 system, which allows you to change any of your characters' abilities at any given time. While being 
 a great system, not all the jobs in the game are balanced; meaning that while some jobs are really, 
 really good, some are equally as bad. FFIII has a fair amount of other customization options also, 
 such as the ability to equip dual weapons, a single two-handed weapon, or a weapon and a shield. 
 Not extremely advanced nowadays, but it is still a nice feature.
  
  If you have played any other RPG, you should know what to expect from FFIII's battle system. Battles 
 take place in a turn-based manner, with you and the enemy simply trading blows until either team 
 is dead. In battle, you must simply command each character (With commands such as "Attack", "Use 
 Item", or "Use Magic") , and then your characters will carry out the commands. While this does sound 
 a bit dull, it actually requires a lot of strategy, and with the amount of customization allowed; 
 it does stay fresh for a long time. The only problem with the gameplay is that it always feels 
 like a very old game. While being a very good game, it doesn't give you anything that can't be 
 found in another RPG. Overall, however, this is indeed a brilliant game, and a lengthy one at that. 
 When it comes to gameplay, FFIII will not disappoint. 
  
  SquareEnix, like always, have really pushed the DS to its limits in terms of Visual, and Aural 
 quality. Featuring some of the best graphics on the DS, and a brilliant soundtrack, FFIII's aesthetic 
 quality is near perfect. For the DS, anyway.
  
  Acclaimed SquareEnix composer Nobuo Uematsu has, yet again, given us a great musical score, and 
 while I'm not a great music reviewer, I will tell you that the music in this game is brilliant. 
 The sound effects however, aren't so brilliant. There is only a single "beep" noise for most button-presses, 
 and while the other sound effects are good, they're just repeated too often. Overall, FFIII provides 
 a great aural experience, even if the sounds are repeated too often.
  
  For a handheld game with such a large amount of content, it's amazing that the graphics are this 
 good. The entire game is in full 3D, and it looks wonderful. The characters look great, animate 
 nicely and each has over 20 different costumes (one for each job) . The areas themselves are well 
 detailed, and while grainy textures are to be expected on a DS, FFIII still pulls them off quite 
 nicely, too. Sadly, the game's dungeons consist mostly of caves, but there are a few dungeon designs 
 that look really nice, such as the tower made of crystal, or the underwater caverns. While the 
 DS cannot handle 3D graphics extremely well, which causes some nasty loading times.
  
  With everything else FFIII does right, it also provides a very lengthy adventure. The core game 
 itself may take an average gamer in excessof 30 hours to complete, and also has numerous side quests, 
 all of which are quite long and difficult. Also, because of the game's deep job system, it's a 
 game you'll want to come back to after you've finished it.
  
  FFIII is, quite simply, a brilliant game. What it lacks in depth, it makes up for in longevity, 
 gameplay, and quality. Brilliant graphics, soundtrack and atmosphere, FFIII is certainly worthwhile. 
 If you're a fan of classic RPGs, FFIII will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemy111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  It is great, it's if you love rpg style games or final fantasy buy this. The story is good and 
 it provides a nice long period of time to play unlike others for the ds that are short, easy and 
 just get boring after a while. The character class' available are widespread and good. They range 
 from knights, fighters, mages, archers, summoners and many more. Each has its own moves and style. 
 It can get annoying later when you can not find the equipment that class can use, but still each 
 gets stronger as you use them making the game almost last a long time as you can try to level up 
 each to to their full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  I remember getting this game for NES along time ago. The story was ok, seemed to follow the story 
 of the first Final Fantasy game (get the 4 crytals and defeat the badguy) 
  
  I must say though, this is alot better than the NES version. One the graphics have improved, the 
 story has been slightly altered, and more features have been added for hours of more game play. 
 This game is a real challange compaired to the original (not released in US, but if you can read 
 japanese then your fine) This one also comes with a e-mail sort of thing were you can send mail 
 to your friends who have the game, not much of a wifi feature, but can deal. This game will keep 
 you entertained for hours and hours, maybe even anoyed at times, but its a very good game, and 
 a recomend to all with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuR3SkiLLZ3525
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant game. I completed it then started a new game and accidentaly saved over my completed 
 file... : ( The fight scenes were repetitive once you got into it, but they were still amazing, 
 and you really had to think about the order of attack, because they all have different speeds. 
 Ingus was my favourite character (Luneth looked lyk a... i wont say it) I love how you have the 
 jobs/classes like ninja, dark knight, mage etc and how they got better as you progressed. It was 
 easy to learn how to play it and from the start i couldn't put it down. Awesome.
  
  PuR3SkiLLZ3525 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyekenvort
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the long waited remake of the most unknown Final Fantasy is here for the DS, and I can 
 say this from the bottom of my heart: This game is truly a masterpiece!
  
  Final Fantasy III for the NES was the first Final Fantasy that I've played (I used an emulator) , 
 because my friends have always said that the Final Fantasy series are one of the best of all time. 
 I wanted to try to, so they told me to try Final Fantasy III, because it was the only one that 
 they haven't played to that day. So, I started playing, and I just stopped to ask myself: Is this 
 the best video game i've evr played? But before I remembered that Ocarina of Time was really my 
 all time favorite. This was the first game to really made me forget Zelda and started to think 
 if it was the best. 4 years later, my friends told me that they heard of a remake of Final Fantasy 
 III, coming for the DS. I was shocked that day! After school, I went to my local game store, and 
 bought a DS, and waited over a year for it's coming to Europe.
  
  When I bought it and start playing, I had no doubt that this one was better than the original. 
 The grafics are beautifull, the sound is incredible and the gameplay is solid old-school. And the 
 adition of the Master Smith, Iron Giant and other bonuses, which were unlocked with the Wi-Fi connection, 
 made me belive that this game IS better than the original.
  
  If you're a fan of role-playing games, this is the perfect game for you. Everything in this game 
 amazes me, and there's only one thing left for me to do in it: DEFEAT THE GOD DAMN IRON GIANT!!! 
 I just don't understand those idiots that think Final Fantasy VII is the best in the series...
 
  
  It definetely deserves a 10/10 and the right to be One of The Best Games of All Time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mahobudo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  FF3 is an amazing game if you like final fantasy. The graphics are simply amazing and at points 
 harking back to the feel of ff7. The music is catchy. Since this is a remake that hasnt been released 
 in america prier its odd to hear what seems like new songs from Noduo uematsu. These songs are 
 really well done and bring back many memories from the past games I have had. To make this short 
 they brought back the job class system which is very fun and give many customazation options. This 
 game uses CGI that is very well done. If you liked ff5 and ff7 this feels like a good mix of the 
 two. With a cyrstal system much like a materia system. Hands down this game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzpaladin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  In all honesty, Final Fantasy 3 is in almost all aspects, a great game. Let's start with the bad: 
 The game can get a little tedious with constant leveling up especially when there is a dungeon 
 you can't beat. Speaking of dungeons leads us to another problem, however. You can only save in 
 the open world, but any town or dungeon you enter you can only quick save. This tends to lead to 
 loads to backtracking if you happen to die. The only other thing is that the there are only two 
 battle tracks, one for normal battles and one for boss battles. This is usual in most rpg's but 
 it tends to get WAY repetitive. Other than those flaws, Final Fantasy 3 has beautiful graphics 
 for the the DS and some nice magic effects and other eye candy during battles and cut-scenes. Seeing 
 the different weapons you equip in battle also scores bonus points with me. There is plenty to 
 do with the job system and some bonus dungeons to boot. Battles are fun and strategic and you can 
 use the stylus to move about and move through the battle menus. Out of battles, there are great 
 sound tracks especially in the final dungeon. All this and a nice, not-to-cliche story to tie it 
 all up. FF3 will score high on RPG fans lists and is still a enjoyable experience for new players. 
 The game might not do to much new but it is a remade, modernized version of a FF game that works 
 with a great formula. Anybody looking for a good turn-based RPG for their DS should look no further. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed because this was my second Final Fantasy game and I thought it would be better 
 from all of the hype it was getting. It was still very good with its old RPG system still intact 
 and the decent touch screen features that I don't really use because the buttons are just as responsive 
 and well mapped. The storylines good and even when you're done with that the game keeps on giving 
 with sub-quests and the "Mognet". Think of the Mognet as the cruddiest mailing site you'll ever 
 sign up for. You don't need a password, it's free, but you can only send one letter to people per 
 hour (real time) and one letter to non-existent in-game characters per hour. Not one of Square 
 Enix's best works, and I'm just going to leave it at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanFM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  All in all, this is a great RPG for the DS. True, you hardly use the touchscreen or even both screens 
 at the same time, but this is an old-school rpg through and through (which is good, in my opinion) . 
 It doesnt get too repetitive considering the variety of jobs, and I love the constant change of 
 scenery. You really get a grand sense of adventure from this game, and the best part is you can 
 take it all on-the-go in your backpack or pocket. Definitely worth the purchase if you are into 
 RPG's.
  
  It poses a good challenge during boss fights and so forth, which can get frustrating considering 
 the job system from time to time. I had to look online to get a better understanding of the stats 
 behind my characters and the pros and cons of each job. You may feel like your party is weak -- and 
 may not completely understand why -- and the manual doesnt completely cover all the facts about classes 
 which you need to know to get through the tougher spots.
  
  So, given the games occasional frustrations (which arent big in fact) , it still holds up as one 
 of my favorite DS games, and if not, one of the most enjoyable RPG's of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun adventure rpg for the ds and it's actually the first FF on the DS. Anyway the 
 gameplay is very addictive, but the battles get very boring as you advnce through the game. The 
 stroyline is put together very well for a really long game you'd probably be playing this game 
 for 40 hours just to beat the story mode. Then you can get a few unlockables via Wi-Fi. There is 
 a problem in the game that you have to battle alot to gain experience to be strong enough to actually 
 beat the bosses. I spent alot of hours battling the same battles over and over to gain experience 
 points. The graphics push it to the limit for the ds so that means that you will have some good 
 looking visuals:) . Overall the game is fun it's just that there is no real Wi-Fi involved there 
 should be more of a multiplayer to the game. The only Wi-Fi is sending FF letters to your Friends 
 . I would recommend this game only if your a FF fan or looking for a decent RPG for the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  The real Final Fantasy III original got released for the Nintendo Family Computer back in 1990. 
 It never got released outside Japan and fans have been eagerly waiting to play the Famicom Classic. 
 There weren't any remakes, not even for the GBA. But it lit up fans' faces when they found out 
 the long-lost Final Fantasy was finally announced for the Nintendo DS. This is a spoiler-free review 
 so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  A previously 2D FF remade in 3D goodness, it's finally out, story has been specially enhanced.
 
  
  THE BAD
  Wi-Fi isn't too impressive, a bit more pricey than other DS games.
  
  Graphics
  Previously on the Famicom, the graphics were all... you know. 8-bit? 16 years later, 
 the same game gets an extreme makeover. Because of the DS goodness, Final Fantasy III is in full 
 3D. Everything from the characters to the entire scenery is all Third Dimension. And to be quite 
 honest, I think that's very impressive, full stop. Characters are abit FFVII-ish but is that a 
 bad thing!?
  
  Sound
  Again, previously on the Famicom, it sounded 8-bit. 16 years later? The music in the same game 
 gets an extreme makeover. It sounds a lot more clear and more serious than the original. Plus, 
 I like the soundtrack. Unfortunately it isn't an Uematsu masterpiece, but instead is a masterpiece 
 from some other composers remaking his work from the 1990 soundtrack. But the most important thing 
 is, I like it.
  
  Gameplay
  If you've played through Final Fantasy V, then you'll be very familiar with the style of FFIII's 
 gameplay. You only have four main allies who you'll have throughout 99% of the entire game; But, 
 their jobs can be changed at any time during the game. At the start you'll be limited to a few 
 jobs but once your game progresses, then more jobs will be available to you. And when I meant four 
 "main" allies earlier on, yes you do get temporary supporting characters. You can not control their 
 actions but they randomly help you and you can obtain them for a short time during the main story. 
 Final Fantasy III has a decent length. You'll be exploring dungeons, fighting strong bosses and 
 getting your way around the world for hours like you usually do in a Final Fantasy game. The gameplay 
 in FFIII is pretty much just like the other FFs but it's still very good!
  
  Character Design
  In the original, the characters were nameless Onion Kids. In the remake, they 
 have names and proper stories. And you don't acquire them straight away either. However they can 
 all be found during the start of the game.
  
  Storyline
  It isn't too bad. It is very similar to FFI but with a lot of difference to it as well. The DS 
 version also seems to have a slightly different story regarding the characters and such.
  
  Overall
  All I really need to say is thank god we finally have Final Fantasy III. The real Final 
 Fantasy III. If you are a Final Fantasy fan or simply an RPG fan who owns a DS, then go ahead and 
 buy Final Fantasy III. I thought it was well worth it, just a bit pricey though.
  8.5/10
  
  BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegrimguy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I was very cautious going into this remake, but i was extremely suprised at just how quality it 
 is. The graphics do need some polish, but are not terrible. But the best part as with very game 
 like this is the character depth and storyline depth. Theres a really great job system and many 
 new items and gear. I was really impressed, I found it was a bit slow getting into the game at 
 the start, and there is the usual storyline where darkness is taking over the world and you have 
 to save it blah blah blah. But apart from the corny storyline you should really go and pick this 
 game up, it is a great game and will really last a good 20-40 hours plus getting the 100% file, 
 this will last you a good amount of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joaoisonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I find this game very addicting! Cute characters, GREAT job system, good story.... But a very imbalanced 
 game.. Limited save points are annoying.. It will kill you if you're not careful.. Especially before 
 boss fights.. but being patient working on your levels you will be just fine and the game becomes 
 apparently easy.. wi-fi connectivity with this game is surprisingly lame.. but you'll be needing 
 it if you want to unlock the secret job, and a side quest.. trading job cards and so forth.. overall 
 i give the game a score of 8.5. Thanks to the cute graphics, the excellent job system and YES, 
 because it's a good remake of the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Woo hoo! Finally, someone with sense! &gt; Graphically, the final unique addition to the Famicom 
 game line-up is &gt; not much different from its counterparts. Like Final Fantasy II, it &gt; features 
 bigheaded, super-deformed characters and has fairly cartoony &gt; enemies. It does have more sprites, 
 which in turn leads to less &gt; repetitive looking dungeons. I think Hain (Hyne) looks totally 
 cool -- way better than the Dark Cloud... &gt; The sound and music makes leaps and bounds over its 
 predecessors. &gt; Final Fantasy III makes the absolute most of the Nintendo Entertainment &gt; 
 System's sound chip, featuring approximately forty or so high quality &gt; tunes. Gone are the 
 annoying blips and bleeps that plagued Final &gt; Fantasy I and II's menus. The sound effects, 
 ranging from the applause &gt; of contented bar dwellers to the cries of excited sheep, don't sound 
 &gt; very close to their inspirations, but the effort deserves credit and the &gt; silliness actually 
 adds a sort of humorous aspect to the game. Heh, those turdy sheep in Gisahl (SP?) . They rule. 
 &gt; Also, the gameplay was so simplified from FF2 that the game was easy! And short too! &gt; 
 This was the first game to feature a full-fledged Job System ! &gt; Though getting its inspiration 
 from the first game's class system, Final &gt; Fantasy III took that idea to the extremes, creating 
 a very, VERY &gt; original new gameplay engine that would be reused later in the series' &gt; history 
 (and quite well, I might add) . Basically, you changed jobs &gt; using spiritual capacity points, 
 of which you could only hold &gt; two-hundred, fifty-five at any one given time. Each job featured 
 its &gt; own stats and skills, which would be bestowed upon the character &gt; immediately. The 
 only problem I had with the job system was that many &gt; jobs are merely upgraded versions of 
 existing jobs. Yeah, that kinda sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This game confuses me. Its got a lot of potential for a great game, but it just doesn't come through. 
 I tried really hard to like this game, it is Final Fantasy. I guess there had to be at least one 
 disappointing game in the series. The sound effects are pretty decent, its typically what you would 
 expect from a Final Fantasy game. The graphics are pretty good for a hand held game, and vastly 
 improved from the original. It has some added cut scenes which are alright I guess. The combat 
 is really boring and unbalanced. Granted, i usually love turn based combat, but this was just terrible. 
 The difficulty curve is idiotic. You have to use potions to just to survive in the beginning area. 
 Then, they tell you to go somewhere you figure that means you should be strong enough to handle. 
 Well that's really not the case in this game. They tell me to go to the castle, so I go to the 
 castle. I run into some creatures and try to fight them but low and behold they one shot me and 
 all my party members! I was really looking forward to playing this game, and it had all the basics 
 of what I expect from a Final Fantasy game, but it fell flat on its face after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagaron_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  We in sweden never saw the Original Final Fantasy III , And it took allmoste 17 years before we 
 got the chanse... But as it is now it was worth the waiting
  
  Final Fantasy III is a wonderfull game is beautiful and magical BUT all games has there up's and 
 there down's just like this, the game is in my opinion way to easy and simple, there's no fight 
 when you really pray for your life and theres no boss that really scares you. its not like in Final 
 Fantasy VII when you allways had a miner panikattack before every bossfight, But this is just small 
 problems that you forgive very fast
  beacuse of the ATB, (in fight talk)
  The ATB feel so old school and and just fit just right.
  
  But there so many things that brings 
 this game up, Like the puzzles... I love the puzzles in Final Fantasy III even the small puzzels 
 and obsticals are fun because they find a new and unique way to solve them, Like tranform youre 
 slef to a frog or whay dont minimize your self, yeah you get the picture.
  
  but theres more to it,
  Like the new 3D Graphics that just blow's your minde away (its so beautiful 
 and awsome)
  and we alway got the music that is just like always written and preformed by Nobuo Uematsu, God 
 can he write music or what!?
  The characters is also one thing that makes this game so much better, The Characters have so colourful 
 personality's and they stick out from ech other enough to make them all intresting and that somthing 
 i love about this game.
  But the characters are fascinating in a nother way to. The style that Square-enix choose for this 
 game is just stunning, they could't finde a more fitting style of this game, The characters are 
 cute but still you take them seriously and that's somthing you dont see every day. just stunning.
 
  The story is just like the rest just breathtaking its deep and full of laughter and joy but still 
 with sadness and pain and that makes a great contrast if you ask me. The story never gets boring 
 or lengthy and thats good because its happen more often in games nowdays that the storyline is 
 boring and loose, and its a relife that Final Fantasy III dont got that disease.
  (And The Chocobos is back Yellow and free with a tuch of madness (haha) , But the coolest thing 
 about the Chocobo is the Fat one... Hes like a refrigeratior or storage room, if you have somthing 
 you dont need just for the moment you can give it to him and he holds on to it until you get it 
 from him, Now thats some cool ideas!) Its a long game with many fun turns... just for the record. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Carachters
  -----------------------
  Luneth : An orphan raised by Nina and Elder Topapa in the village of Ur. Adventurous by nature, 
 his curiosity gets the better of him as he tumbles into a hole created by the great earthquake.
 
  Arc : Another orphan raised by Topapa, and Luneth's best friend. Unlike Luneth, he prefers redaing 
 over gambolling inte wild. hes studies endow him with great knowledge that more than makes up for 
 his shyness.
  Refia : Raised in Kazus by the mythril smith Takka, Whose rigorous training led her to run away 
 from home.... again.
  Ingus : A loyal soldier of King Sasune's army, he narrowly escaped the djinn's curse. His prime 
 concern is finding the missing princess Sara.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  the Story (prologue) ----------------------------
  The gulgan thus prophesied:
  
  the earthquake was only the beginning
  The great tremors that swallowed thr crystals, the light 
 of our world, only to spawn monsters from the depths of the scarred land, are nothing but harbingers 
 of what has yet to come .
  
  Something is coming... fathomless, ominous, and full of sorrow...
  
  But hope is not yet lost.
 
  
  Four souls will be blessed with light, and so it shall begin... ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  One thing i haven't talk't about is the world, The world is big really big, And the world map Gigantic.
 
  The first world you start in is bid as it is, with villages, towers, Forest's, deserts, mountens, 
 big fields, seas, caves and castles but if thats wasn't enough theres a world nr 2........
  The second world is as big as nr 1 with just as many villages, towers, forest's, deserts, mountens, 
 big fiealds, seas, caves and castels , but here it gets fun, You see the world nr1 is a floating 
 continent and the world nr 2 is the original world, but the two worlds got seperated a few years 
 before the game starts now suck on that for a wile^^...
  
  As closeup words i say, If you got a DS and like the Final Fantasy games and (god forbid) dont 
 have this game.... Just buy it... Have fun^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conver
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  While I do love the Final Fantasy series, this game is indeed one of the games that got Square 
 (Square-Enix) where it is today. Never released sateside, this game remained a Japan exclusive 
 for almost 13 years.
  
  Final Fantasy III has had it's visuals improved from the original. Although I can't really compare 
 it to the original, I'm going to have to say the difficulty was not refined. One zone you'll be 
 running around leveling up, and then you go a bit further and you get steam rolled. Definitely 
 requires a lot of tedious running in circles near a town to level up.
  
  While I do love classic RPGs, being forced to level grind has never been a favorite past-time of 
 mine. Onto other parts of the game, the story is very genuine. Although it does still involve the 
 4 crystals that were ever-so-popular to Square at the time. Characters have much more personality 
 and are much livelier. The kiddy-type sprites are not what I would have preferred, but they're 
 alright.
  
  The music is great, of course. I would recommend this game if you don't mind having to level-grind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkkend
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about FFIII. Well it's a pretty good game, good visuals, an alright story mode, and 
 pretty good music. The thing the most that makes me made about this game is the saving. You can 
 only save when your on the main map of the game, which can be really annoying when your deep in 
 a dungeon and you have to go all the way out to save or progress, or end up dying and losing everything 
 you've got from that dungeon. Another thing that's annoying is you can't buy Phoenix Downs, infact 
 there rare items in dungeons. The game does have lots of different classes to choose from for your 
 characters that make you not only just want to go through story mode but it's also a goal collecting 
 them all. So overall this game is an okay game that can help pass time when your board but really 
 not worth the thirty-nine of your hard earned dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natashame
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'm high maintenance person when it comes to graphics, so you might not agree with me. When 
 I first bought this game, the before-playing-game movie had EXCELLENT graphics, but when i started 
 playing, I was totally disappointed. It looked all cubic, ya know? and when it comes to bosses, 
 sometimes they are insanley hard to beat. I spent like 2 days straight powering up, it doesnt really 
 help. But you can get really good swords, like the blood sword. If you a impatient person, DON'T 
 WASTE YOUR MONEY. It's really easy to die, and you can't save unless your walking around on the 
 map. Well, it kinda kept me entertained, and if you are a die hard final fantasy fan, get this 
 for sure. If not, rent it first to see if its yur thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boicreature
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3, a wonderful stepping stone to what are now known world wide for being THE leading 
 RPG franchise of the world. The graphics are wonderful, the sound is far better than the original 
 and there is an added intro movie. This is something that we all know about the game and have since 
 all the gossip was spilled out ages ago. So what makes this game really worth while, other than 
 the obvious changes? To start with, Square Enix has decided to add some extra storyline and text 
 to the game. What they have decided to add into the game is not enough to totally change or revamp 
 the game, so old school Final Fantasy lovers most likely not have any complaints, but it is enough 
 that newcomers will be pleased with a strong enough story to go off of. The only thing you can 
 really complain about when playing this game is the lack of save points and the lack of the use 
 of both of the screens on the DS. Both are things to consider when thinking about buying this game, 
 but neither totally ruin the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaaranime13
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  this is an old school game with a bunch of cool things to do. It is the best game for the DS so 
 far. I recommend this game all the way. I say if you go out to get a new game get final fantasy 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  You get a bunch of powers that u can use and you can also have a job wich u can be a red wight 
 or black mage, a thief, a warrior, a freelancer, or a monk and thats only for starters through out 
 the game u can get new jobs with new powers. again i recommend this game all the way!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostwraithe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the original Final Fantasy III. However on the DS the game looks amazing. The 
 spells look great, loads of jobs to choose from, completely customizable parties. Now the downside.
 
  
  The top screen is completely usless as an overworld map, it doesnt do anything. It just sits there. 
 The job system can be a tad bit confusing. It is pretty bland for an RPG.
  
  Overall the ability to use the stylus to go through menus, the visual appearance, and the depth 
 of the game make up for its shortcomings. Still a great game, but nothing special as an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rojeski
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm all for an old-school romp through a doomed world while juggling various tried and true RPG 
 elements. With that in mind, I had to give this game a shot.
  
  For it's time, I'm sure FF3 was the cream of the RPG crop. It was innovative and deep. It had an 
 epic, sweeping story told through the eyes of three plucky lads, a lass, and whatever filler character 
 they pick up along the way. It had memorable moments, inventive story-telling, and some of the 
 prettiest graphics to grace a Japanese TV.
  
  The unfortunate thing is that this is an old game that doesn't bring anything new to the genre 
 now, unlike it did on it's original release. These days, RPG gamers have read through far more 
 [interesting] dialog, faced infinitely more entertaining foes using a much larger variety of abilities, 
 and saved the world with characters they actually care about.
  
  Thankfully, the graphics and sound have received some updating, because nothing else stands out. 
 Can somewhat pretty graphics, typical Final Fantasy music, deep party customization, and couple 
 cheap parlor tricks sell this game? You betcha. However, let's be honest, years from now, you won't 
 have people still debating philosophy from the game's perspective and you definitely won't find 
 Luneth, Arc, Ingus or Refia on any Top 10 character lists.
  
  The insane number of possible party combinations is great fun to play with for a few hours, but 
 probably won't float the gamer to an ending. A lot jobs don't differ from each other much, besides 
 what can be equipped, and a strategic gamer will quickly realize the folly of making frequent job 
 changes. The goal for 80% of the jobs in FF3 is to do as much damage in as little time as possible. 
 So you have those guys that pump out damage, your healer classes, and one class that sometimes 
 acts like a tank. The in-between jobs are mostly either ineffectual or too specialized to be helpful 
 for more than a single battle or two. The inability to save in dungeons might be true to it's original, 
 but serves as little more than a good reason to put this game to sleep indefinitely. There's a 
 difference between challenging and frustrating. These days, there isn't a quality RPG that keeps 
 you from saving for long and almost always drops a save before a boss. It's just good sense.
  
  FF3 will offer even casual RPG gamers nothing they haven't seen before. If you don't mind playing 
 an RPG with all modern gameplay and story features stripped out of it and replaced with superficial 
 fluff, give it a shot. If you're a devout Final Fantasy fanatic, then this game will boost your 
 fanboy rating 5 points and grant you a skill that decreases your opponents chance to prove you 
 wrong by 10% in any inane FF-related debate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vammpiro
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  This game was firstly made at 1990, and this release for ds has just a few little changes, however 
 I read very reviews here that complains about the story line. Yeah, it's a clich&eacute;, but for 
 a game that was developed at 1990 it is not at all. Final fantasy III is a classical. And a hardcore 
 gamer that wanna be called as one, must play this game. The improved graphics is great, however 
 I expected more cut scenes inside the game. there's no one, and the opening of the game makes you 
 expect some of it. The gameplay is very good, the job system is just awesome, and it's the feature 
 that makes you continue playing, you can make a party that makes use of some strategics, or you 
 can have a hardcore party that relies on the dice and chaos theory, besides the job system, the 
 game is a common turn based rpg. but as I said, this game was designed at 1990. The biggest problem, 
 is the save point. there is no one in game, you can save only in the world map, and on the final 
 dungeon, you might play about 2 or 3h without saving. so if you die on the last boss you might 
 get a little mad, or at least pissed off. The music is not that great. let's say that at least 
 fits the game. the end of battle music is very nostalgic. I feel great just hearing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Count_Shadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  With my purchase of the Nintendo DS I bought Final Fantasy III. I was playing the original Final 
 Fantasy III only for a short while but this time I had the motivation to play it all the time...
 
  Let's study how good and how bad is the remake of the NES classic!
  
  First, I'll begin with the graphics. At the point of time I bought the Nintendo DS I was really 
 surprised about the smooth 3D graphics without any lags. And still I like the graphics of Final 
 Fantasy III, except the rendered backgrounds of Final Fantasy VII the character style reminds me 
 of FFVII. The difference is that the characters are the same in battle and in dungeons / towns. 
 In general the graphics of Final Fantasy III are nice but the towns of the World in Final Fantasy 
 III are looking always the same you can't really remember any specific town of the game. Contrary 
 to games like Mario Kart DS or Super Mario 64 DS the graphics of Final Fantasy III are just "good".
 
  
  A point which really surprised me is the soundtrack. The original themes are included again, they 
 only sound better. I'm very pleased about the soundtrack and more about the fact that Square Enix 
 did not change anything of this wonderful soundtrack.
  
  In general they changed nearly nothing in Final Fantasy III - and this is good! I was very annoyed 
 about the changes in Tomb Raider Anniversary but Final Fantasy III is a remake which reminds me 
 of the original and still there IS the  Well, the story is still 
 the same as in the original, so don't expect anything special. It's a bit boring after a while 
 and you can easily look ahead for the next turn in the story of Final Fantasy III. The greatest 
 contra of Final Fantasy III is the fact that there are NO save points. You can only save your game 
 at the world map and can quick save but this savegame will be deleted the next time if you want 
 to load it.
  Well, the quick save function is great, I used it very often but one time my group died in the 
 last dungeon and I had to start at the world map again... That was annoying. Even if I like 1:1 
 transfers, save points would have been preferable. And the job system is not as good as in Final 
 Fantasy V but it is still well balanced and a great fun to create your own strategies based on 
 the job system.
  
  In general Final Fantasy III for the Nintendo DS is a great remake with a lot of old-school-feelings 
 but it suffers from the fact that there are no save points and the old and cheesy story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankensteinman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game is quite good. First things first, the graphics and music. The graphics in Final Fantasy 
 III are amazing for the DS. The 3D is pulled of without a hitch and the graphics never look bad 
 even after a long play time in the hot sun. The music is good for the first 5 or so hours but it 
 becomes tedious, because if you are level grinding you will encounter the same music over and over 
 again. The tune after you win a battle is also quite annoying after a while. The job system is 
 great; it will make you want to keep playing the game much longer then you need to, because it 
 has so many options. Even though you dont need to level grind, you will find yourself doing so 
 just to get your job levels up. The touch controls are fine, nothing spectacular; they work well 
 and can make it easier to navigate the menus, but are really nothing amazing. The story was good 
 when the game was released but it seems a bit shallow now. Still the game is great and it will 
 keep you occupied for a long time if you want it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III was the only game that did not hit western shores... That is until now. I never 
 got the chance the play the original game, so this was my chance. The old-school combat style was 
 perfect! The game's 3D graphics are a major step up from the original Famicom version. I also found 
 the majoriy of the characters very likable, not mention to very adorable ingame. Most of the time, 
 you'll be fighting realistic monsters and bosses. The graphic could have been a little smoother, 
 yes, but they are pulled off. Good graphics are all to expected from Square Enix. From the opening 
 movie to the end sequence, you'll be blown away by the nailed graphics. FF3 has no voice acting 
 what so ever. The fact there are no voices can be frustrating because maybe you want know what 
 the characters sound like. The second I got over the fact voice acting wasn't in game, I had no 
 choice but to turn to the dungeons. At first the dungeons can seem long and hard, but they are easy 
 to memorize. The dungeons are also not full of monster encounters every step, so I guess that's 
 a bit of relief. After a long time exploring your way through the dungeon, you'll be able to fight 
 one of the games many bosses. I found the game a bit punishing ecspecially when you're defeated 
 by a boss and lose all the levels you worked hard to reach are now gone (if you didn't save) . Speaking 
 of saving, it was a hassle just to save. I felt forced to save every time I was outside a dungeon 
 and I accidently saved over my original file once because I wasn't paying attention to the file 
 I saving to (which was my fault) . Anyway, the lack of save points in the dungeons made the game 
 feel repetive at times by forcing you to save BEFORE entering a dungeon and forgetting that concept 
 has serious costs. The long interecate dungeons and challenging bosses help make Final Fantasy 
 III a must for any Final Fantasy fan or RPG lover. This game is reborn legend and you should definately 
 check it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torres_unix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Final Fantasy fan since the first game arrived
  from Japan to the US for the NES - between the US versions
  of Final Fantasy and Final Fantasy 
 2 there was something
  missing and I've discovered what: this game was the trend-setter
  for many familiar elements (chocobos, Mog, job categories, etc)
  and remains one of the classics 
 in Japan.
  
  This port is very flashy utilizing the DS's 3D capabilities to improve
  the graphics but without forgetting to remain true to the game
  mechanics of the original game. 
 Although the graphics are good
  they're by no means great; perhaps it could've been better to use
  high-res 2D graphics like 
 Mario Vs. Donkey Kong 2 to give the
  game a more classic feel.
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned this game certainly does not
  hold your hand, you're on you're 
 own from scene one all the way
  to the end and having some experience with Final Fantasy games,
  although not required is very 
 helpful.
  
  So far most of my time has been spent leveling up, but what's
  FF w/o the leveling sessions. I'll have to give this game a fair
  score for bringing back the 
 classic with new bells and whistles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowzzr
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game expecting a very nice handheld RPG experience. well, wait for a better RPG instead. 
 i do not recommend this one.
  
  SAVING PROBLEMS.
  
  there is a problem with saving in this game and it is what will turn anybody and everybody with 
 a right mind off.
  
  SAVE - you may only save your game outside towns. that is your permanent save. like all ordinary 
 games you save your file and load it when you turn on your console or DS again. very simple and 
 classic. but, as i have said before, you can only do so outside towns. nowhere else.
  
  QUICKSAVE - you can save anytime, anywhere. the catch - when you quicksave in a dungeon, you may 
 turn off your DS. however, when you load it by pressing on continue , you may NOT load it again 
 from that point. which means, when in a dungeon and you die, you will start the dungeon all over 
 again, because you will be forced to load your game from the last SAVE point (not the quick save 
 point.) so if by any chance you are defeated by a dungeon boss, sadly, you will have to go back 
 to outside of the dungeon (presumably where you made the last SAVE.) and start it all over again
 
  
  STORY. story is boring, nothing special. it's very fast-paced actually with nothing much to do 
 but go to dungeons and beat bosses. i dont really find it fun that in the FIRST HOUR you will have 
 your party completed. there is no strong story bind that gets you together with your party members. 
 the story just goes as, you get your character, you go to this place and find this charactr, go 
 to the next, you get him, then the other. it isn't very interesting so to speak.
  
  the conversations have their fair share of humor, but most of the time the humor seems forced.
 
  
  and just because it's an old game doesn't excuse the mediocrity in the story. because a story is 
 universal, if it's good then, it can still be good in the future.
  
  GRAPHICS. the graphics look like anime. but manga has different styles. and such manga style used 
 in the FF3 remake for the DS doesn't really save it for me. I FIND IT UGLY AND INCOHESIVE. the 
 characters look like babies, which tries very hard to make it all look good, however, it just doesn't. 
 i am personally a fan of some mangas, but i just find the graphics style of the characters in this 
 game very irritating.
  
  although the character designs aren't very amusing to look at, as if they were made by little girls 
 trying to be funny, the graphical backgrounds, though much pixelated, are very very good. the towns 
 look nice and colorful. they made the game ALMOST feel like a real FF game.
  
  MUSIC. the music is very nice, very engaging, it's what kept me playing, although that didn't last 
 very long for me.
  
  GAMEPLAY. classical turn-based RPG with many character classes to choose from. the character classes 
 will make you think what you want. however, that doesn't still save it from being a mediocre RPG, 
 an excuse to make money out of something from the dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_hero_riku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Now that I think about it FF III is the thrid FF game I've owned, and from these games I can tell 
 you THESE GAMES ARE HARD!! FF III is no diffrent. From the time you first play you are very likely 
 to die quickly. FF III gives you a party of 4 people and you must take down a slew of powerful 
 monsters. You can change your character job any time you want, though you may not want to. The 
 job system is bascialy a class. Your job can be Blackmage, White Mage, freelancer, dark night, 
 monk, and a bunch of others. Each of these jobs have there pros, and cons. Black mages are good 
 with black magic, white mages are good with white magic, but they both suck in the defense deparment. 
 Ever time you change your job your job lv goes to lv 1, so you may want to stick with the job you 
 chose after free lancer (which sucks)
  So even when there is a good job you might want to change too, the fact you have to start that 
 job at lv 1 may stop. The game makes you save at save points, which is were half of the hard factor 
 comes in. One you can only save when you are in the world map. So you can not save in towns or 
 dungeons. The other hard part comes from the monsters you fight. These monsters tend to be very 
 tough, like their lvs higher than you. What makes this game hard is when you combine these two. 
 You start a dungeon, you fight the monsters along the way, spend like 30 mins in a dungeon, make 
 it up to the boos, get killed casue they are so much more stronger then you, and now you have to 
 start all over. You can spend alot of time doing this over and over, not to mention that soon the 
 monsters out side of the dungeon start to get weak and you can harldy get exp from them, so it's 
 hard to lv up.
  
  The game is pretty long, like 30-40 hours, and if you tend to suck at it, even longer, heck even 
 if your pretty decent (like me) your game time can be higher then it should be, though the time 
 may not show up on the clock.
  Overall the difficulty may make you angry at times, the game is very fun to play, and any RPG fan 
 sould pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game because not only it was the only Final Fantasy game to not reach the US, but 
 I liked the commercial. I had a few expectations, but boy was I let down.
  
  The story is bad, but it isn't anything you haven't seen before. You are the chosen 4 warriors 
 of light and your mission is to defeat the darkness that's spreading throughout the land, and restore 
 balance to the world. That's mainly it, which is a good concept, but it needs more to go on other 
 than just that. After a few hours, things get very repetitive. You'll go from point A to point 
 B, then back to A, then to C, and then back to A, which gets very tiring after the first 8 hours.
 
  
  As DS games go, this game has good graphics for the system it's on. It looks like it could be on 
 the N64. There are a few blocks here and there, but that's it. That's one of the things the game 
 shines in.
  
  The sound is alright, but I've heard better. The music doesn't go with the events, and is very 
 plain and boring that you'll get tired of it quickly. The only track I liked was the Overworld 
 track (it played for the commercial for the game) , and I mildly liked that (it slowly grew on me. 
 Very slowly) .
  
  The gameplay is the same (turn-base) , but the main feature that is the highlight of this game is 
 the job system. You start out as a free-lancer, but you can change your job after you meet the 
 Wind crystal. Each crystal (there are 4 of them) carries new jobs with it, and after you meet it, 
 it will give you the jobs it carries. You can change the jobs on the fly, and you can have a different 
 experience than your friend. I have to say that that's the only good thing about the game.
  
  I was pretty disappointed with this game. The story didn't have any twists or surprises you 
 wouldn't expect. The job class is pretty good, but everything else was pretty horrible. If you 
 are a RPG or FF fan, don't rent or buy this game. If you really want to see how it is, then rent 
 it, but I would just avoid the game and save my money for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Charlie_
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent RPG for the Ds. The characters are all different, it has a mass of different 
 jobs to choose from, and many many weapons, therefore their is something for everybody. The classic 
 turn based fighting system still does not feel old. It also has the intriguing fantasy story which 
 keeps you addicted. Also i think the graphics (bare in mind this is a hand held console) are good. 
 And the interaction between characters is also interesting.
  
  The ONLY real fault i have with this game is that when you name a character the maximum number 
 of letters you can use is 6, So i can't fit my name on it :' (.
  
  But ohh well.. there are plenty more positives than negatives in this game. Totally worth every 
 single penny :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Link_77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  it is soooo much fun, get it and take it in. This game is a perfect match for everyone. IF you 
 have a DS, Then you must get this game, can i say it twice. get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get 
 it. I say this becuase it is that perfect. There is no flaws in this game, its perfect. I thought 
 this game was going to be bad, i thought it was a mistake when i bought it, but boy i was wrong. 
 like i said, this game is perfect and you should get right away. Please get it if you know whats 
 good for you. I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lg1300
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  It took me a while to go buy this game. I didn't get into FF until it's later years with 7 on the 
 Playstation. I had played Square Enix (then Square Soft) rpg's including Secret of Mana and Chrono 
 Trigger.
  
  This game reminds me a lot of the later, so to it I'm making my comparisons:
  
  Gameplay: I love the job system. Different jobs help keeps the combat exciting as you dive 
 down into 20 and 30 hours of gameplay. It's essential to your strategy as a player and adds something 
 which wasn't present in Chrono Trigger. Also, new characters will join as a 5th member. This helps 
 keep all characters part of the story.
  
  Graphics: They're better than anything else I've seen on DS, but I do think that the top screen 
 could have be utilized a bit better. It's hardly used during most of the game (despite being a 
 map in world view) .
  
  Sound: I scored the sound the lowest because the soundtrack isn't all that great. Music really 
 helps bring out emotional points in a game. I just remember being really moved by the score in 
 chrono trigger and that was accomplished on a 16 bit system.
  
  Value: If you find a copy, buy it! It's worth money. I was fortunate to find a used copy at my 
 local GameStop in mint condition. They have been sold out everytime I visit the shop. I can hardly 
 find it anywhere and it goes for more than street price on ebay. A real keeper!
  
  Tilt: I am a huge fan of this old school RPG playing style. I love not being force feed into the 
 next section of the story and actually having to do some work to figure out where I need to be. 
 New RPG's like Pokemon do not leave any guess work on how to get from point a to point b.
  
  I also like the difficulty of the game. It's not for the faint of heart. Bosses are challenging 
 and require the player to really go out there and level up.
  
  
  Overall, it's not as good as Chrono Trigger, but for an old styled RPG, it's worth looking into! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andraxal
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Story: The story of Final Fantasy III is about a set of young people who are all orphans, they 
 all band together with the spirit of the crystals and lay waste to the evils. However after finding 
 out that the world they know is only a small fragment of the real world they embark on a quest 
 to truly save the world which is now shrowded in darkness. They will meet unique individuals, but 
 the story will boil down to a power struggle between sorcerers. When a powerful mage was on his 
 death bed he gave powers to his disciples, one was granted eternal lordship over dreams, immense 
 power, and the other was stripped of his immortality. Of course the one stripped of his immortality 
 was very unhappy, and did not see his gift as his master had. Gameplay: Gameplay is very good. 
 The battle system is superb, and enemies have a variety of attacks. You can use the Stylus to move 
 and chose battle commands with; but better is the fact that you can use the menu with it. However 
 I thought that the Stylus could not keep up with me if I wanted to issues commands really fast. 
 The difficulty in this game is hard, very hard. Infact it is the hardest game I've ever played 
 on the DS. Some bosses are extremely hard and require a few hours of leveling up which is tedious 
 in this game-and also sometimes equally hard. The really hard bosses are nice, and I love to see 
 difficulty in my games however they really push the limits in this game. At times I really wanted 
 to throw my DS against the wall because some thing was so vastly supperior to me, however I stuck 
 it out. There is only one major boss which you REALLY have to gain like 10 levels to even face, 
 and that's the last one. I don't mind leveling up as long as it's not tedious, however it is in 
 this game. Graphics: For a DS game this game is pretty advanced in the graphics department. There 
 are only a few spots which need a little touch ups, there aren't any graphical glitches I'm aware 
 of. All of the attacks are very distinguishable, and you flow into random battles very smoothly. 
 This is one of the best graphically look games out there on the DS. Sound: The soundtrack in this 
 game is somewhat lacking at times. It is truly not one of the better sound tracks. At times you 
 hear the same music over and over until you want to rip your hair out. There are only a few tracks 
 which really stand out and barely manage to awe you. One of these is Doga's mansion theme, and 
 the Dark World theme. I would plug in some headphones into the radio and crank it up while playing 
 this game. Replay Value: There is no replayablity about this game, due to the fact that end game 
 only a few jobs are really distinguishable, and jobs become horribly underpowered to other jobs. 
 I wouldn't recomend using any of the jobs aside from the basic ones, because while they may seem 
 cool, and flashy they are pretty powerless nontheless. I've only beaten this once, and that's all 
 I'm going to for a LONG time. Final Note: I would recomend borrowing this game from a friend, I 
 wouldn't buy it unless it was in the discount bin. This is a nice classic redone, and polished, 
 I don't blame the remake for it's difficulty or issues. I'll not resale this game because eventually 
 I'll replay it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkNintendo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  Square Enix made a excellent job bringing FF III for Ocidental gamers. But on it&acute; s way FF 
 III Appears to loss something on the Way, and the name of that is Story. The Story of the game 
 is impressive simple, and this could be good, but it&acute; s not.
  The characters could have more dialoges, or extensive ones. Encourting so much the dialoges makes 
 you feel lost on the beautiful world of the game. Even with it, FFIII is a wonderful game, and 
 it will push you into it&acute; s world for fun hours, drivin a boat, a fly-boat , changing your 
 jobs ( yeah! Black Mages are back \o/ ) , fighting MUCH monsters, and listening to pretty great 
 songs. This game may not have a great storyiline, but it has a great heart.
  
  By Jp Kakashi ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Whilst staring at the lovely horizon kilometers away, as the sun begins to set dipping shreds of 
 sunny morning into china, 4 heroes crawl through dungeons, explore the depths of the oceans, soar 
 through the cotten candy clouds, and summon monsters at their disposal. Whether you're new to final 
 fantasy, old to final fantasy, or a simple farmland sheep, i guarentee that you will love this 
 game! It's great for passing the time since its a very lenthy rpg, its brilliant at scenery, and 
 its an excellent game for the summer. Choose between the strengths of a monk, the int of a mage, 
 the skill of a dragoon, the divine spells of a summoner and much much much much more! To tell the 
 truth, i dunno what gamespot's been smoking for rating this game 7.9... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Good
  Presentation is colorful and detailed; Job classes provide plenty of customization and unique options.
 
  
  Bad
  Top screen is barely used to any worthwhile effect; sound effects are lackluster (and lacking) ; 
 music is dull; spell animations are plain and uninspired; story is cookie cutter and drudging; 
 characters have no development past their names; difficulty could have used some tuning.
  
  You would think by now that Square Enix would have the art of remaking Final Fantasy games in the 
 bag. Any iteration of the series that comes to mind has seen one form of a remake or another in 
 recent years and more often than not, Square Enix internal studios handle the job. It comes as 
 a surprise then that when faced with bringing the only Final Fantasy game never released in North 
 America to those golden shores for the first time, that Square Enix would shirk the responsibility 
 to a third party studio best known for Alundra and Alundra 2, two PlayStation title that were seen 
 as a meager clones of Nintendos The Legend of Zelda series at best, and overall very poor titles 
 at worst. Given Matrix Softwares track record, its also no surprise then that Final Fantasy III 
 for Nintendo DS suffers from a lot of the same problems that Alundra did  and that theyre unfortunately 
 compounded by the fact that Final Fantasy III was never really a compelling title to begin with, 
 even in its Nintendo Entertainment System glory days. Final Fantasy III is a competent if hardly 
 remarkable remake of an oft-forgotten Japanese role-playing game that could have very well stayed 
 forgotten without anyone really noticing.
  
  In order to truly understand what Final Fantasy III is all about, one simply has to play through 
 the original Final Fantasy and call it a day. The games are incredibly similar and at times, it 
 seems like Square simply decided to take the basic concept of four characters and four crystals 
 from the original Final Fantasy and add a few new features and call it a brand new game. The game 
 starts with your first character  who you can name whatever you wish  falling through a hole 
 and ending up a dark cave. After navigating through the cave and learning a few of the games most 
 basic features, such as how to look for hidden switches by zooming in the camera and opening chests, 
 you happen upon your first, who you must then defeat. After dispatching with the large critter, 
 you meet your very first crystal. Its here that you get a taste of just how basic the storyline 
 in Final Fantasy III really is. None of the dialog in the game is complicated and more often than 
 not, it simply serves as a method for the game to direct you from point A to point B. Sure, there 
 are some side stories here and there involving the rest of the characters in your party, but theyre 
 hardly developed to any real extent and its extremely easy to predict how all of these situations 
 will end before you really get into them.
  
  At certain points within the game, your party will be given a fifth character, who usually serves 
 as yet another method for the game to either move the story along or help you along to wherever 
 youre supposed to be. The game gives you the option to talk to this character at any time you 
 wish, which will trigger a small random cinematic scene between that character and chosen members 
 of your party, but its entirely possible to make it through the game without watching any of these 
 cinematic scenes, so they serve very little purpose in the long run and feel more tacked on than 
 anything else. Other than these cinematic scenes that you can trigger, these character will from 
 time to time, take over the very first turn of battle for you to let over a relatively powerful 
 attack. They can be especially helpful during the games difficult boss fights, but they dont 
 happen very often so you really shouldnt count on them. Finally, most of these characters serve 
 some purpose in the storyline and once you get to a certain area, they will have served their purpose 
 and the game will find some way to get rid of them.
  
  As far as battles are concerned, theyre relatively more difficult than what most people are expecting 
 from an early Final Fantasy game. Magic using classes have a set number of magic levels and each 
 magic level only has a certain number of magic points available to it. Once the magic points for 
 that level are all used up, you can no longer use any of the spells that are in that level  making 
 things a lot more frustrating than they should be. Enemies hit hard, even in the early game so 
 its not all that uncommon for a few of your characters to die off, even while fighting weak enemies 
 like goblins or slime and its of no comfort that theres absolutely no save points in dungeons 
 at all. The only place in Final Fantasy III that you can make a solid save is on the world map 
 and the only place you can heal are at magic water springs scattered throughout the world. Not 
 every dungeon has these springs, so if youre running low on pretty much everything late into a 
 dungeon, youre pretty well in a stuck situation. The good news is that battles and field control 
 can be done entirely with the DS stylus, although in the end it doesn't add anything new to your 
 abilities.
  
  Perhaps the most interesting aspect of Final Fantasy III  and perhaps the only features that makes 
 the whole experience worthwhile  is the games job system. While the game does feature traditional 
 experience levels, you character must choose a specific job class in order to use more advanced 
 spells and skills. For instance, a black mage can specialize in black magic like fire or thunder 
 and sleep, and a white mage can specialize in a lot of healing spells. Theres a large variety 
 of jobs in the game, making replays possible if youve got the patience to stomach the condition 
 of the other features.
  
  Presentation wise, Final Fantasy III isnt that far off from the look of an original PlayStation 
 game. The graphics are generally pixilated, yet colorful and theres no real advanced look to either 
 the graphics or the overall experience. On the audio side of things, the music is completely forgettable 
  its drab and it doesnt help matters that you can disable it  and the sound effects are equally 
 dull and grating. Its of note that the game barely makes use of the top screen on the DS. The 
 main uses are simply to display a map of the world when youre navigation the world screen and 
 to show the field map when youre in the main menu. Both of these uses are forgettable and when 
 theyre in use, the top screen is simply black while you play on the bottom screen.
  
  It all boils down to the fact that Final Fantasy III is simply a forgettable experience, just as 
 it was when it was first released for the Nintendo Entertainment System all those years ago. Sure, 
 its a competent game, but it doesnt do enough to distinguish itself from the crowd, which is 
 what Final Fantasy games have always been known for doing. The basic story and lack of character 
 development combined with the generally unbalanced difficulty and lackluster presentation delegate 
 Final Fantasy III to passable bench. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy has really come along over the years. Now in its twelfth incarnation (excluding spin-offs) , 
 its a wonder that some in their original form never made it beyond the Japanese border. For a long 
 time, the third game was the only one that hadn't been ported over in one way or another and was 
 easily accessible to an English speaking audience. With the advent of the Nintendo DS, came the 
 shock announcement of a DS remake of this title.
  
  I won't go too much into the plot, as the hardcore will probably complain, but the general gist 
 of it is that you have awoken inside an old well. As you wander around, you discover a crystal, 
 which speaks to you. It warns that the end of the world is coming, and you have been chosen to 
 become a Warrior of Light. You and the others who you'll meet, must journey to stop the threat, 
 save the world and above all, preserve the crystals.
  
  The game begins well enough on startup, with a nice little FMV sequence, done in such a way that 
 would astonish anyone looking at their DS. Its about the same quality as a PS2 game's visuals. 
 Once you hit the game, you'll notice a drastic change in quality. This wouldn't phase a hardcore 
 fan though, because they've seen it before. If memory doesn't preserve, Final Fantasy's VII and 
 IX had stunning FMV but lower quality overall visuals. The game does however take on a Crystal 
 Chronicles format, which suits the game, but not everyone's going to like it.
  
  The game and indeed the systems have had a complete overhaul. In the original Japanese version 
 for example, you started out with all four characters, which were dressed as Onion Knights, and 
 all male. In the remake, its one freelancer, and the others you meet along the way. Other than 
 that, the story doesn't suffer at all, but would probably be a bitter pill to swallow for Japanese 
 players. The game has a kind of Job System, which is nice and in-depth. Certain characters can 
 equip certain equipment due to what jobs they have. They can switch at any time, other than battles, 
 but those who do suffer a transition period, where stats are lowered. This keeps people from changing 
 at will and adds difficulty.
  
  The game's overworld uses everything the original FF3 did, which is nice. There are secret paths/switches, 
 which using the new zoom ability (Press L) , give off a little shine. This helps players lots, and 
 is a welcome ability. In terms of battle system, all can dual wield, but some are more effective 
 at dual wielding than others, and some even require different items equipped to be used! (Bows, 
 Arrows) . The Job level system allows classes to become better at what they do, ie. Attack more 
 with equipped items, or Be able to cast more spells more efficiently.
  
  All this help doesn't retract the fact that this game can sometimes be too hardcore for its own 
 good. A term you'll quickly learn here is grinding - The process of training vigorously in order 
 to gain levels, cash and in this case, Job levels. Unless you keep these things up, and keep your 
 characters well equipped, this game will be intense. Some random battles are stupidly tough, and 
 boss battles? After the first bunch, its a real fight to the finish! The game is also incredibly 
 long, setting back a large amount of hours. The story is quite rich, so it won't disappoint, though 
 the grinding might detract attention from it.
  
  The DS hardware in terms of two screens and touch screen are a mixed bag. The touch screen is nicely 
 played out, with everything able to be managed with a touch. Casting magic on multiple characters/monsters 
 is as simple as dragging a square over them! The two screens however aren't used in as good a way. 
 Although there is a map, it is largely a guidance function, rather than an actual map. A radar 
 would have been nice for some of the more complex dungeons, even if it didn't contain chest locations! 
 There is a transition between paused and unpaused via switching action on the touch screen to top 
 screen, which is a nice touch, but is solely cosmetic.
  
  There is a newly added feature, known as Mognet. You can send mail to the denizens of Final Fantasy 
 III to ensure new sub-quests and items. You can also use the Nintendo Wi-Fi and send mail to those 
 around the world. Problem here is that one, it doesn't add to the gameplay and serves more of a 
 distraction. Two the Wi-Fi uses friend codes, so you can't just chat to anyone.
  
  So, heres the question. How much of a Final Fantasy nut are you? Are you prepared to level up lots, 
 put up with slightly below average visuals, and very long playing time? If the answers yes, which 
 I hope it is, then this is a good game to add to your collection, especially if you liked any Final 
 Fantasy's prior to FFVII. If it is no, look elsewhere. You're going to break your DS in frustration. 
 I personally like it, but I guess it is a matter of personal preference here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack-shinobi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game was my first D. S game it was the reason I got a D. S! It is about a teen who you can name 
 and other characters who you also name, as they become the warriors of Light!
  
  You journey all around your world as well as another to realize your destiny as the warriors of 
 Light! You start the game when your character falls in a hole and you learn how to fight monsters, 
 and to open treasure chests and alot of things needed to play the game... Overall this game is 
 a good game for a general RPG fan but great for a hardcore RPG fan!
  
  I have spent a long couple of hours at this game and I am sure I will put many more to come into 
 this game! This is the game that made me buy my D. S and it is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speeker_Boxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III takes players on a quest through a world filled with monsters, dwarves, pirates, 
 and even gnomes. With a colorful cast of characters, expected Final Fantasy gameplay, and a (slightly) 
 diverse job system, Speeker_Boxx rates Final Fantasy III an 8.5/10. The story starts off slow with 
 Luneth, one of the main characters in the story, and his quest to reach the surface grounds after 
 plummeting into a convenient hole. After taking on a couple of monsters with your dagger or longsword, 
 you proceed out of a cave and into your hometown. Here you meet and team up with childhood friend 
 Arc, a boy whose fear overpowers his confidence. After traveling to a bit more towns (maybe 5 minutes 
 later) you find yourself with Ingus and Refia, the last two heroes of the story. It wasn't a coincidence 
 that these four young warriors met up with each other; they soon learn that they are the chosen 
 warriors of light. After learning this information, the race is on to save the world from plunging 
 into a dark void. The gameplay of this game is expected from any handheld Final Fantasy game. The 
 four warriors each take turns attacking targets of your choice, with either weapons or magic. Special 
 magic, white magic, is used to help your party rather than hurt your opponent. Whether this type 
 of magic is healing your party, or casting a wind spell on flying opponents, it seems to be a must 
 have magic throughout the story. Another special magic that you get to play with, black magic, 
 is used to put the hurting on opponents. Casting fire spells, earthquakes, and even thunder spells, 
 this magic also seems to be a must have as it is in any handheld Final Fantasy game. Outside of 
 the battle, walking to different destinations can be a pain to some, as many complain about random 
 battles. Basically, random battles occur (randomly) when you are walking along a cave, mountain, 
 or even the outside world. You're only safe from random battles when you're in a town. Again, this 
 is all stuff we've seen before in a Final Fantasy game. More mechanics that make the game good 
 would be its catchy background tunes and good (but not great) graphics. When the game's all said 
 and done, you've beaten the final boss, it still manages to keep you playing. If you have a friend 
 with a copy of the game, you both can team up to unlock Mognet sidequests with prizes worth the 
 wait (the Onion Knight job, and the Iron Giant battle) . Furthermore, you get another challenge 
 by collection mastery job cards. These cards are only given to you once you've reached job level 
 99 on a specific job. Obtaining every job card keeps the game interesting, and gives you something 
 to brag about. Overall, FFIII is a decent game for the DS system that you shouldn't hesitate to 
 check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1aRmAnDo1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  It's an excellent game, but it's not perfect. Very challengng, mostly due to lack of save points 
 in a dungeon. That's one thing I did not like about this game. No save points. Many feel the same 
 way, but I suppose it does make the game more of a challenge, which is always good. Many games 
 now are much less difficult than past games. There aren't much more things I didn't like about 
 this game. I can't even think of another bothersome thing at the moment, but that does not mean 
 that the above is the game's only flaw. Many say that this game sucks or isn't very good at all. 
 Personally, I think that is totally untrue. Many people enjoyed the game. I know I did. In the 
 end, all I can say is that is a great game. That's it.
  PEACE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aries8269
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I have gone through and completed this game and I must say, it was definitely worth the time and 
 effort... really fun game and fairly challenging with the final boss. Wish there was a little more 
 to the story however this was a remake of the NES classic that never made it to the shores of the 
 US.
  
  Graphics and presentation: For being on the Nintendo DS, the graphics were definitely top notch. 
 This of course meant that the battery was taxed more and the game was almost completely reduced 
 to one screen. That was due to both graphic engines being used to create the eye candy that Final 
 Fantasy III brought to us. Intuitive use of zooming in and out gave us some more dynamics in looking 
 for clues or items to help us on our way. I recall one place where I gained several spells (by 
 zooming in) that proved invaluable for the next area i went into. One thing to note is that as 
 graphically intensive as the game got... I never encounted any slowdown.
  
  Sound: The music for the game was pretty well done. Obviously not one of the best scores of music 
 out there however it kept things interesting as I progressed through the game.
  
  Gameplay: While the option for using the stylus was there during battles... you will most likely 
 never use it as it actually will slow you down. The only other downside to the game play is the 
 fact that you could go from one battle to the next having only taken 2 steps or you could go 20 
 steps before you encounted another enemy. That aside, the game runs very smoothly from one plot 
 line to the next. While you still have to use your head for some things, progressing through the 
 game is pretty well marked out as to where you need to go and when. Oh yeah, be sure to talk to 
 the villagers more than once. Sometimes they offer more information that might or might not be 
 useful to you.
  
  Replay value: There are quite a few jobs that you can choose from and enhance your abilities in 
 however people will likely go with the most powerful builds and just bulk themselves up. Going 
 through again will seem a bit dull as there really isnt anything new. There is a secret dungeon 
 that you can get to and a special job but I wont put any spoilers here.
  
  Excellent game that is most definitely worth plaything through at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bull_plop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Im still plowing through this game, but still hooked. Overall its kept my attention for a good 
 while and I tend to forget how long ive played it for haha. I recommend to pretty much anyone. 
 The story is actually very good and easy to follow. The graphics are bright and colourful, and 
 although the cut scenes are just the same as the gameplay is, theyre still great to watch. The 
 music gets slightly repetitive but is still alright I suppose, nothing to write home about though. 
 I got this game quite cheap and its definitely been worth it, lasting me a whiley and im not bored 
 of it. In FFIII there are plenty of jobs for the characters to switch between, so theres no way 
 you wont find your own perfect party. The fight system is easy to use and very effective. the attacks 
 your characters perform can be quite cool sometimes and the monsters and bosses look impressive 
 on the little DS screens. the touch screen can be used, but is not essential to play, i prefer 
 just using the good ole buttons personally, much easier and more accurate.
  Overall, I dont really have any major complaints about it, if you like RPGs and if you remember 
 the classic golden sun on the gameboy - its not quite as good as that but it reminds me of it sometimes 
 =] - I would definitely recommend this to you.
  Think about buying it?? Do it! haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JelloHawk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 is a long waited rpg game for the DS. The game starts out with one character who 
 you are aloud to name right at the beginning.
  As through your travels you will find your party right at the start and wont lose them for the 
 longrun of the game. While playing through the game the extras such as the Legendary Blacksmith 
 will not have much noting to really tell you how to get it without using a guide of somesort. Also 
 some parts of the game really give you no lead on where to future your adventure to. What really 
 gets the attenion or affection from some fans is the old style that fits right with the newly enhanced 
 graphics. You will surely want to complete this game's story right away and throw all your fighting 
 tactics against the final boss.
  
  Now lets talk about the job system. The job system was a great addition to Final Fantasy III DS 
 because it goes so well with the gameplay. Such as you need may want a thief to steal some items 
 or unlock doors, or a red mage to pick up for the lower magic of a black or white magic caster. 
 This is basically the reason they left you with the same characters through the game and them not 
 leaving once after the start. Through the story you will also obtain guests to follow you and surely 
 help you through your journeys. Though the guests only decide to pop up in battle 1/4 of the time, 
 they still can help your party out a big way to progress through the storyline.
  
  Overall this game is great for anybody and definatley a must have for any die hard fan of the Final 
 Fantasy series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazyjoker
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 was originally released for the Nintendo Entertainment system in 1990. The game 
 sold well in Japan, but due to dying NES sales the game was never released stateside. Sixteen years 
 passed, and Squares third installment in its renowned Role Playing series has finally reached 
 American borders. This time however, the game has been completely enhanced with 3d graphics, new 
 content, and a brilliant soundtrack. The story, though simple in comparison to newer titles in 
 the series, has been thickened from the game's previous release. For example, the four nameless 
 characters from the NES game have been given names and personalities, adding a bit more to what 
 is essentially a rehashed version of FF1's plot. Final Fantasy 3's graphics are some of the best, 
 if not the best, the DS has to offer. Fans of Square's FF Tactics will notice many artistic similarities 
 between the two titles. Despite the game's cutesy appearance, the world of Final Fantasy 3 is very 
 detailed and great to look at. To compliment the games visuals is another masterful soundtrack 
 by Nobuo Uematsu. Variations of classic tunes along with a number of new tracks ensure that Final 
 Fantasy's soundtrack will please the players ears. As far as game play goes, if you've played 
 any FF title before 12, than you should pretty much know what to expect. You control a party of 
 heroes working to rid the world of some sort of evil. Along the way you'll brave numerous dungeons 
 and confront many a nasty boss monster. Speaking of monsters, youre going to be fighting a lot 
 of them. Don't let FF3 fool you with its new look, because this game is old school to the core. 
 Dungeons will seem much longer with the countless battles you'll find yourself in. Not to mention, 
 the lack of savepoints and the need to actually level your characters may turn a lot of casual 
 gamers away. Yet, hardcore RPG fans and Final Fantasy fans in general should be able to cope with 
 the FF3's old school mechanics. While the battle system is nothing new (offering the familiar turn 
 based combat from most titles in the series) , Final Fantasy 3's job system makes things a lot more 
 interesting and is really the core element of the game. There are over 20 jobs to obtain and use, 
 allowing players to experiment with various party combinations. Each Job has its own pros and cons, 
 and youll often find that some enemies may require the presence of a specific job to be defeated. 
 As you progress through the game your characters attributes will increase depending what Job they 
 are attached to. Luckily, if you grow bored of a certain Job you can easily switch to another type 
 as long as it is available. Fans looking for some DS related features will be disappointed to discover 
 that Final Fantasy 3 fails to take full advantage of Nintendos console. The new Mognet system 
 allows players to send each other items and letters (which is needed to unlock a secret Job type) , 
 but thats really all there is. Navigating around FF3s world with a stylus is more annoying than 
 it is innovative, and youll find the use of the d-pad and selection buttons a better choice for 
 controlling the game. This really shouldnt be a problem for any hardcore final fantasy fan, but 
 those of you looking for a fresh innovative RPG experience may want to look in another direction. 
 Besides the lack of any real DS related features, Final Fantasy 3s overall presentation is solid. 
 You can easily pick up the game and play in your spare time, or find yourself immersed in an epic 
 adventure to save the universe. Final Fantasy 3 is not the deepest FF game as far as a storyline, 
 but everything else will keep you entertained for the 12 or so hours youll find yourself exploring 
 the games world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phubbadaman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  This is one of the final fantasy games with the job system, which is pretty fun. Only problem was, 
 I wasn't that crazy about any of the end-game jobs in this one. Another game where its pretty easy 
 going, until you get to the final boss, and then she just kicks your ass. Add in the fact that 
 you can only save outside, and the final dungeon is pretty long, a lot of people get fed up with 
 dying to her and just quit playing. I'm getting slightly ahead of myself. Talking about the end 
 before I talk about the beginning. You start off falling into a cave with one of your four characters. 
 The next few hours you spend collecting your party and saving the first crystal. From here the 
 game expands pretty well allowing you to journey from here to there. You never really need to level 
 build and can put together pretty much any form of jobs into the party and succeed. The game is 
 good, its great to be able to play all the Final Fantasy Games, but this one was lacking a little 
 bit to me. Maybe it was just its age showing, I can't really put a finger on it, but I enjoy FF 
 1 much more and the ones that follow this game are much stronger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blace_07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Take the battle system from Final Fantasy I, add a few features to it, and thats what you get 
 with Final Fantasy III. Even thought the entire game is in 3-D, dont be fooled. This game still 
 feels completely like a 2-D in all aspects. Random battles are the bulk of the dungeons and the 
 dungeons are almost completely linear, but the thing is that this game pulls off all of these elements 
 that have been present in this series for years with the most polish. It doesnt frustrate me at 
 all to run into battles while I am exploring a dungeon, because I truly love battling (like in 
 every other Final Fantasy) . The bosses are some of the hardest in the series, and not just the 
 important bosses either. Unlike other RPGs where you get the generic bosses that are just there 
 to signify the end of the dungeon, the bosses in this game are hard adding a challenging experience 
 that is easily enjoyable to fans looking for that challenge. A feature that was added to this version 
 of the game is the camera viewing. You can adjust the view of the camera to go up close to the 
 person you are walking around with, or get a huge view of the field. You have to utilize this feature 
 if you want to find all of the secrets in this game as there are shiny spots you have to hit to 
 unlock hidden areas in towns and dungeons as well as items in jars etc
  
  The really unique thing about this game is the job system. Sure it has been in other installments 
 of the series, but this game features 23 extremely cool classes with some new ones that Im sure 
 you havent seen before. You have to unlock them by defeating bosses at the end of certain dungeons, 
 and these are the really hard bosses that might cause you to level grind for awhile. That is really 
 my only complaint about the game is the fact that there will almost definitely be a spot in the 
 game where you get stuck and have to level grind your way to victory. The job system allows you 
 to pick any of the four characters class which each of them has specific abilities and equipments 
 that they are allowed to equip. The jobs level up as you do and become more effective the higher 
 level they are. The jobs are hard to get useful when you first get them because they all have a 
 certain amount of battles before they truly change to that class, then you have to level them up 
 awhile to make them as effective as you previous jobs that you got to a high level, but in doing 
 so you make an even better character if you stick to the new class. This does contribute to the 
 grinding previously stated, but it makes it less annoying. If you are coming into this game expecting 
 the more complex systems from the other 3-D Final Fantasies, you may come out disappointed, but 
 if you keep in mind that this is just an old school 8-bit game just remade with prettier graphics 
 and a little bit of enhancements, you will get the most out of it.
  
  This game has been beefed up in terms of story compared to the original version. No longer are 
 you the unnamed Warriors of Light. You get Luneth, Arc, Refia, and Ingus, all given their own 
 distinct personality along with visual style. It still holds the same premise as its original, 
 but it is much enhanced. You start off as Luneth, basically the main character, even thought the 
 others are basically just as important. He gets talked to by a crystal telling him that he is one 
 of the legendary Warriors of Light. He meets up with the others along the way and they are set 
 on a course to save the world from the darkness that threatens to engulf it. It may be one of the 
 most generic stories in terms of todays standards, but looking back to the time period of which 
 this game was made, it truly was an amazing story for that time. I still think it holds up quite 
 nicely compared to other handheld RPGs. Some cant even pull off a good story, let alone a generic 
 one. This game definitely is worthy of recognition in this category.
  
  What might be the best part of the presentation, the graphics are just simply stunning in this 
 game. It starts off with the absolute best FMV I have ever seen on a handheld. The in-game graphics 
 are just as good. Unlike most RPGs on the handheld that are 2-D with a bit of 3-D added in, this 
 game is completely in 3-D, with some amazing character and weapon designs. The environments may 
 look a bit like other games, but it truly is the hardest part of any game to do on a handheld and 
 the environments in this game do look better than most games. This game also features one of the 
 best soundtracks I have heard on a handheld. It might just be my favorite. The one complaint I 
 have though, Is that besides the few classic songs they put into this, there really is not much 
 variety. I know that it is a handheld system and sound is harder to pull off than on consoles, 
 but some games just offer more variety than this one does. Besides this, the game still has better 
 songs than any other game I have heard on the DS and is a worthy part of this games amazing presentation.
 
  
  If you are looking for a well polished RPG for your DS, I say give Final Fantasy III the highest 
 regards. It is truly the best RPG on the DS this far. It may have a steeper price than every other 
 DS game, but it is well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viciouslilmonst
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 on DS is fantastic. It was remade perfectly in my opinion.
  The graphics are superb, they could've been a little better but that doesn't bother me whatsoever. 
 There's a great amount of jobs to choose from, the characters are pretty rad and the gameplay is 
 stunning. It is turn based ( I like it better this way than the battle system of FF12 ) and there 
 are a lot of different armor, weapons, spells, etc. The music has nice quality and sound to it. 
 The game was pretty expensive compared to many other DS games but it is completely worth it. I 
 just bought the game a few days ago and already I'm loving it. Saving in this game really isn't 
 THAT bad. You can only Save the game when you are on the world map ( Meaning not in a town, dungeon, 
 etc. ) but when you are somewhere other than the world map you can do something called Quick Save 
 . What that does is it saves your gil, armor, items, weapons, levels, etc. After you Quick Save 
 you have to turn off the system right away and when you decide to come back on and reload that 
 Quick Save it disappears. Also if you choose New Game or Load Game at the beginning when you are 
 coming back on, that Quick Save disappears also.
  Everything about this game is great. There is nothing I would change about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game truly brings out the best in Final Fantasy gameplay. The story is engaging, the characters 
 likeable, and the fighting, the best part about Final Fantasy, it the best I've seen in a while.
 
  
  The game follows the four warriors of light in their quest to conquer darkness. You will travel 
 over many areas, and will want to continue in throughout the game to learn more.
  
  The Job System is back and has many jobs for you to pick from. Summoner, Black Mage, White Mage, 
 Scholar, Knight and the coveted Onion Kinght Job are just a few of the many you can pick from.
 
  
  Random encounters and turn-based fighting is back again. But its not bad at all, actually, its 
 GREAT. You will love the suspense inbetween turns, waiting to see who will go next.
  
  If you never have played Final Fantasy and want to start, this is a great game to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slightly_Emo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III was originally released on the NES and wasn't released outside of Japan, now 
 we finally get a chance to play this classic RPG.
  Final Fantasy III contains the unique 'Job System' where you can change a party members Class which 
 change their stats and abilities.
  The Story in this game may seem a little plain but is actually rather interesting.
  In short, 
 the world cannot live without Light and Dark.
  A Huge Earthquake upsets this balance and the Crystal of Wind chooses you to restore the balance.
 
  The Graphics are rather good for the DS and the colours are very Vibrant.
  The Sound and Music are brilliant but some tracks can also be quite short and repetitive.
  Gameplay 
 is fun and battle is simple although the random encounters get annoying after a while, but they're 
 not too bad.
  You may have heard that the Game would be much better with Save points in Dungeons, but honestly 
 the Dungeons in the game aren't that long anyway! (Except the last one.) So even if you do die 
 half way through a Dungeon It'll take you about 5 or 10 minutes to beat the dungeon.
  What I did was get all the treasure in the Dungeon, Exit and Save then complete the dungeon.
 
  This is a great game all around and I highly recommend you buy it if your a fan of the series 
 or just want a good RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_muscat
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  FF3 for DS is a remake of the Japan FF3 from 1990 not the US FF3, now that that's out of the way 
 let the review begin. FF3 is like any other RPG today and is just as fun, but considering its over 
 17 yrs old that's amazing that it hold up the well today, even though it has been redone. The story 
 would have to be the weak part of the game, but then 17 yrs ago it was most likely great so you 
 can't really hold that against it. The game also has a job system which has around 24 jobs (I think) 
 which give your player different stats which really adds to the replay ability. The graphics in 
 this game are HORRIABLE when up close, but because you arent close up to anything you can't tell 
 that the plants only have dozen pixels from as distance. The frame rate also is bad, but at least 
 it only slows down while on the world map so it doesn't really matter. To me the graphics are better 
 than FF 1 on PSP because they are full 3D unlike FF 1 which is 2D. The sound is like any other 
 FF game with all the standard tunes, as well as you CG movie fix. But are only 2 in the game, the 
 opening scene before the menu and a little one at the end of the game otherwise it's all real time 
 cutsences. The games story takes about 35-40 hours to complete and to me the only really challenge 
 was the final boss whom I had to gain 20 levels after the second last boss (the one before you 
 enter the dark world in the tower) before beating. The games save points can be a bit tight because 
 you can't save in a dungeon or town only on the world map; even so it's still good because it adds 
 to the difficulty a bit. All in all this is a must buy RPG for, RPG lovers, FF fans, Pokemon haters 
 who like RPG's and people looking for a good game. But then their is really nothing that makes 
 this any better than other RPG's other than the name and the huge job system, but this it still 
 is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperGogeta24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  I'm not a hardcore FF fan but this was very enjoyable, although the touch screen is barely used 
 but this doesn't matter - personally i think touch screen FF would mess it up.
  Well, you are Luneth (or whatever name you choose) a and you start off in a dungeon (a cave) and 
 you have to fight your way out where you meet a crystal and it chooses you as a warrior of light. 
 now it drops you into the story, no tutorial. Every game needs a tutorial, especially games like 
 these. I didnt know how to save for a few tries after i game-overed several times. you gang up 
 with Arc, Refia and Ingus (or whatever names you choose) and you set off to kill Djinn - an evil 
 genie - and save the princess. already you need to train to have a chance against him and get yourself 
 some magics and this is pretty much how the rest of the story goes, although some parts need less 
 training.
  I found the dungeons were too long and repeatedly died because it was only possible to save outside.
 
  despite this i really liked the storyline and the gameplay although travelling was a bit tedious 
 a times and the dividing monsters got on my nerves. The job system is good and allows you to choose 
 the party 'formula' that suits you.
  all in all, this was a good game that is worth buying and playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliwam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  The Good: Classic RPG gameplay plus fresh 3D graphics makes for a great experience for any RPG 
 fan; Lengthy quest
  
  The Bad: Storyline still hasn't improved since the original FF game; Dungeons are short, but you 
 can't save in them, meaning that it can be quite punishing at times
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Most of the Final Fantasy series was released worldwide. Though this game is one of the few that 
 wasn't. This game was the REAL FF3 on the SNES. The other one was actually FF6. Though now Square 
 Enix is releasing their classic RPGs on Nintendo's portable consoles. Well, since they're doing 
 that, why not put the game on the DS that almost everybody outside of Japan missed? Oh, and since 
 it's going to be on the DS, why not upgrade it? Well, fortunately they did. As a result is a solid 
 RPG that has that old nostalgic feel to it, while still feeling like a new experience at the same 
 time.
  
  You very likely have not played this game before, though there isn't too much new stuff about it, 
 especially in terms of storyline. If you've played the original Final Fantasy game, then you'll 
 feel right at home here. You have four Light Warriors who gather the power of the magic crystals 
 and are sent on a lengthy quest to rid the world from dark forces. Same storyline, different tasks 
 and monsters. Though there is a bit more personality in the characters. They even have their own 
 names (though you can name them yourself if you want) . Luneth, who gets caught in an earthquake 
 of destiny, is somewhat like a leader (well, it feels that way since you start the game with him) . 
 Then there is Arc, somebody who prefers the journey through libraries rather then actual dungeons, 
 but he joins Luneth because he wants to prove to everyone that he isn't a wuss. There is Refia, 
 a daughter of a blacksmith. Due to her carelessness, she wasn't affected by the curse which was 
 cast upon her village, so she was able to join and help Luneth out. Then finally there is Ingus, 
 who works for Castle Sasune, and is having a little love relationship with Princess Sara. It's 
 nice that they have a bit of personality and a bit of background, but it really goes unnoticed 
 as you get deeper into the game. They all can have the same jobs, meaning that who they are doesn't 
 really make a difference. There are a few other characters with a bit of personality is well, but 
 it's only just a few. The storyline is still very straightforward. Though they were slowly making 
 improvements.
  
  If you've played the original Final Fantasy (or the second one) , then no introduction is needed 
 for the formula of this game. It's just your standard classic RPG. World Map, dungeons, random 
 encounters, weapons, magic, blah blah blah... You know the deal (if you don't, then I'm wondering 
 why you are looking at this game) . Though a new addition is the job system. Everybody starts of 
 as a basic freelancer, though as you get to more of those magic crystals, more jobs will be available 
 for your characters to switch to. They can switch between available jobs at any given time, but 
 I would strongly recommend against that. Along with the basic character level, there is also the 
 Job Level. The higher the job level, the better the character is in that job. Plus there is a job 
 adjustment phase whenever you switch jobs making your character suck for a few battles. It's a 
 good addition, a good stepping stone for future games of the series. There is also a small little 
 gimmick for this version of the game called Mognet. It's like an e-mailing device which allows 
 you to send messages to friends inside and outside of the game. I personally prefer sending e-mails 
 through my computer's e-mailing programs and instant messengers. However, Square Enix put it in 
 because they want you to use it. They're basically telling you, If you want that ultimate weapon, 
 you better use our little gimmick. 
  
  We've all seen some bad 2D to 3D transitions before. Though in this game, that graphical upgrade 
 really does help out. The graphics aren't perfectly smooth and animation could've been improved 
 in a few areas, though it really does breathe some fresh air into this old classic RPG. This game 
 does a tremendous job of keeping that old nostalgic feel from the classic RPGs, while integrating 
 3D graphics to make this game feel as if it were a brand new modern RPG. Plus, who doesn't like 
 watching adorable little characters duke it out with God-Almighty super-powered dragons that do 
 insane amounts of damage? Also, you are able to zoom the camera in and out, and it's even used 
 as puzzle solutions in some areas. That's another addition that gives a breath of fresh air to 
 the game.
  
  The sound of this game is good. You can just listen to the music and you would be able to give 
 a vague description of your current situation. All the music is distinguishable and memorable. 
 There is some variety too. If you're on the World Map, you'll know it by the music. If you're in 
 a town that has a problem, you'l know it by the music. If you're in a certain dungeon, you'll know 
 it by the music. As for the sound effects, it's also pretty good. It's sweet being able to hear 
 your fighters' blades slash your opponents to death with a killer amount of slashes.
  
  This game will provide you with a very lengthy quest which will keep you occupied for hours. Also, 
 add on the time you will absolutely need to train your characters. Remember, this game comes from 
 a time of difficult games which will neglect to help you. If difficult RPGs annoy you (due to the 
 need of level grinding) , then I'm sorry, but this game may prove to be too aggravating for you. 
 If you don't take the time to train your characters, you will be destroyed faster then you can 
 say, Chocobo! Not even by the boss, but by the minor monsters you meet in random encounters if 
 you're not prepared. Also, there are only a limited amount of Phoenix Downs (the reviving items) 
 in the game which you may only find in certain areas in this game, and is the only way you can 
 revive your party members (except for after you defeat a boss) . Trust me, if you're not willing 
 to take some time to just go through some random encounters to level up your characters, then you 
 will probably find this game too challenging. You also have choose the right jobs and the right 
 amount of them. Having four fighters will only prove render you screwed in some areas. Having four 
 mages will only leave you to be being killed very quickly. In some areas of this game, certain 
 jobs are necessary. Also, the only place where you are allowed to save (excluding the Quicksave 
 feature) is on the World Map. So if you go through a whole dungeon, only to fall at the hands of 
 it; s boss, then you will need to go through the whole dungeon again. Most of the dungeons aren't 
 that long, but it will still feel aggravating. You are given some help in this game, but you will 
 need to learn to be independent in order to get through this game.
  
  If you are looking for a long challenging classic RPG for your DS, then this is the game for you. 
 It's like fried eggs and bacon (the game being the bacon ofcourse) . You and your DS will make a 
 great couple with this game. It's a great combination of classic RPG gaming and new 3D graphics 
 which visualize cute little characters taking down killer zombies and demons. The graphics aren't 
 perfect, but they still do give a great upgrade this classic RPG. The sound is memorable. The gameplay 
 is pure RPG greatness. It's a long quest that will keep you busy. You just need to be ready to 
 face the relentlessness of classic gaming. If you aren't, then I wouldn't recommend it to you. 
 However, if you are, then I shall scream at you, Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Players of FF outside Japan were excited to hear an updated port of FF III was being brought to 
 the DS. For the first time, outsiders could enjoy the true FF III (as opposed to what was labeled 
 as such on the SNES) , and with enhanced graphics and touch screen capability to boot. What we got 
 was a great game that's hindered by a frustrating lack of save opportunities, making it a bit more 
 nerve-wracking than necessary.
  
  You start the game as Luneth, a young lad who discovers he has a special power to be a Warrior 
 of Light, and must help save the world from an advancing darkness. He picks up three companions 
 in short order, discovers they all have a common bond, and with occassional help from a guest traverses 
 the worlds the game offers to -- as cliche as it is -- bring balance to the world. Unlike most FF games, 
 that offer fixed characters who can use certain items only, here each character takes one of over 
 20 jobs through the course of the game, each with its own powers, weaknesses, and equipable items. 
 As always, new transportation modes are slowly parcelled out to allow access to new areas of the 
 map, including everyone's favorite, the chocobo. In the end, you'll learn who is responsible for 
 bringing the world to the brink of destruction and put an end to their scheme.
  
  The touch screen is so simple and intuitive, it may ruin future FF games for fans who'll want to 
 run up to their TVs and touch areas to activate them. Double-tapping a creature to physically attack 
 them works well, and selecting a spell from a large menu and tapping a creature or party member 
 to effect with it is a great enhancement, the only pitfall being on rare occassion the touch mapping 
 isn't 100% true to the visual presentation. The story is engaging, but blessedly simple to follow, 
 so you never feel at a loss for what's going on. You're intrigued to find out what's next, and 
 never left wondering 'what the heck just happened?' The job system allows you to decide just how 
 much emphasis you want to place on brute force vs. magical spell, an option not common in many 
 console RPGs, period, let alone FF games. As usual, there's also a large number of secrets for 
 those with the gumption and willpower to seek them out.
  
  The one true Achilles' Heel is the lack of save points in dungeons. Earlier in the game it's not 
 so agitating, but towards the end game (and specifically, the final assault) it becomes annoying 
 when you're faced with the chance to lose an hour or more of progress. Their desire to make it 
 not so easy comes at the expense at those who have outside lives and may not want that risk. While 
 it allows for great customization, the job system has two faults: you retain no powers of an old 
 job when switching (leaving you somewhat loathe to do so) and there's no prerequisites for the 
 better jobs (so a character with no magic experience can take the most powerful spell caster job 
 when it opens) . The all-or-nothing spells like Silence and Confuse are generally useless, as invariably 
 the monsters you actually have need to affect with them will be immune to the effect. Also, given 
 that there's a second screen, using it for a dungeon map seems a no-brainer, but it's sadly not 
 given to us.
  
  The rare disconnect between what you see on screen not synching to a stylus touch, the game flows 
 and controls well, and every command can still be issued via standard button presses. The graphics 
 aren't top notch, but are certainly a vast improvement over the original source, and are suitably 
 'cute' for a JRPG, though as is typical, some advanced monsters are reused models of weaker monsters 
 with new coloring. The sound can be a bit tinny at times, but is still more than acceptable since 
 it's an update rather than a brand-new game. You can probably squeak out around 40 hours, and while 
 that's a tad less game time than recent FF games, for a portable game that's still fairly impressive. 
 Overall, as long as you can stand the lack of save chances afforded by the game, this is still 
 a game any FF aficianado ought to be willing to take a crack at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboyJR123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  great gameplay. turn-based combat system works. however the job system may make the game a little 
 too complicated. Nice and clean 3-D graphics (which are not really seen on the ds) and excellent 
 music. Also many hours of gameplay keep the game running long and suspensefull. Good storyline. 
 Wi-Fi connection is not that exciting and no multiplayer features. Enemies tend to appear constantly 
 and out of nowhere, making the game fustrating at times. boss stages are almost impossible to beat. 
 Very few places to save the game. (on the field. not in dungeons or towns) . lasting value would 
 probably be a couple of months due to long gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lautaro_aust
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  The Final Fantasy series is one of the most revered series that has a legion of loyal followers. 
 With this popularity it means that whenever any game comes out on any platform with the name Final 
 Fantasy on it many people carry high hopes along with it. Final Fantasy 3 has the distinction of 
 being the first real Final Fantasy on Nintendo's popular handheld. This addition to the series 
 comes close to the quality of past Final Fantasies in some aspects but in other ways it is a serious 
 step backwards from its console counterparts. The gameplay in FF3 is archaic in design, it is seriously 
 difficult to play through this game after having completed FF10 and FF12. For one thing the high 
 encounter rate of random battles is a return to the days of Final Fantasy VII, even more so than 
 that aforementioned game. The battle system is simple but it is accessible to most people. Anyone 
 who has played any old rpg can easily get into the battle system. A welcome addition is the world 
 map that can be traversed when traveling from town to town. Though this is kind of marred by the 
 high encounter rate. Its nice though that airships are available in the game much like past Final 
 Fantasy games. The gameplay is probably the weakest aspect of the whole game.
  
  Graphically the game is very solid and it really shows that with the right developer the DS can 
 handle 3D graphics reasonably well. The style of the graphics is akin to those seen in the past 
 games such as FF9. It is nice to see the graphics return to the past style and not so realistic. 
 This style suits the DS well, the textures in the game are reasonably good with the jagged edges 
 standing out at times. The soundtrack in this game is nothing short of spectacular, however the 
 DS cartridge is obviously lacking in memory with most of the songs looping far too many times. 
 Some of these songs seriously start to grate the ears after hearing them for the 50th time. All 
 other sound effects are standard and do little to differentiate themselves from other games in 
 the past.
  
  This game is an excellent buy for the Nintendo DS. Most games on the DS are short and there has 
 not been a good roleplaying game on the DS yet. For this very reason this game is a must have. 
 This game easily goes for 20 to 40 hours and it really is value for money.
  
  Overall all that can be said about this game is that it is a must have if you are a fan of rpgs 
 of old. It does little to differentiate itself from past Final Fantasies but thats not necessarily 
 a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Things I liked:
  - the music (it gets better in the second half of the game)
  - the diverse variety of classes
  - the graphics (very pleasing to the eye... comparable to MPH 
 and Mario Hoops)
  
  Things I didn't like:
  - complete lack of save points (I quicksaved SO much)
  - mandatory use of Wifi to get the lvl99 
 job items
  - how the game's difficulty jumps through the roof in the final dungeon and especially in the case 
 of the final boss
  
  Also, just to note, the game lagged a bit during combat. It's nothing too noticeable, but when 
 I was grinding, I'd always notice it and I'm sure the seconds added up.
  
  Overall though, the game is great. It was fun (until the end hehe) . Just remember to save early 
 and often (when you can) . And be AT LEAST lvl60 for the final boss, 51-53 for the Crystal Tower. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123dcb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is rellay fun and addictive in my opinion. You get 4 people in your party 3 boys and 
 1 girl. Theres these things called jobs. There kindave like classes or proffesions. By the way 
 this a turn based Rpg not like castlvania. The game can fell extremley difficult at times.
  I reccomend getting a stratagey guide. It helped me alot. As previously stated before the top screen 
 is barley used at all. Another bad thing is that you cant save in caves or dungeons. One example 
 of that bothering me is when i was in this dungeoun I had to walk such a longg way and when i got 
 to the boss I died And since i couldnt save I had to start ALLLL over agian.
  Still though GET THIS GAME!!!!
  
  Thanks for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squire_Ramza
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I'll never forget the first time I ever played a Final Fantasy game as it became my favorite game 
 series and my hook into RPG's and I consider myself a Final Fantasy maniac and have played every 
 game in the series besides 11.
  
  I remember turning on my DS and being blown away by the games opening and the graphics which are 
 still pretty good. My first thoughts were that it would be a solid fun game but after some time 
 of playing that thought didn't last long. Soon after reaching a little more than 8 hours into the 
 game I began to find many annoyances with the game one being not able to save in dungeons.
  
  The things in the game's mechanics that annoyed me is the previously stated lack of saves in 
 a dungeon but that was only a small annoyance since difficulty is something I usually welcome. 
 The magic system was one of my least favorite things about the game. Not only do you have to buy 
 the spells which are annoyingly priced but you also have to take different mp levels into account. 
 It was extremely annoying buying a good higher level magic only to find out you had about 3 mp 
 for it. Now comes my biggest pet peeve with the game which was the incredibly frustratingly annoying 
 primitive job system. If your like me with the job class system then you'll prefer magic classes. 
 This game took the fun out of it for me by making your characters base stats directly tied with 
 what class they are when they level up which meant that my magic based team would be severely hindered 
 (something the other games would balance out such as FF5 and FFT.) when I decided to change their 
 job to a more physical type one such as a knight not to mention the period in between job changes 
 that you have to fight in order for your character to adjust to their class. I suppose I only have 
 my self to blame for not seeing that sooner.
  
  With the games mechanics aside the visuals for the game are really good for the DS. I found the 
 opening scene to look incredible and couldn't believe I was watching it on my DS. The soundtrack 
 was also great and I bow to Nobuo Uematsu for coming up with the original soundtrack to the game 
 and I give a huge bow to Tsuyoshi Sekito and Keiji Kawamori for the excellent job they did when 
 the soundtrack was rescored.
  
  To sum it up this game was a disappointment to the series for me and goes along with Final Fantasies 
 Crystal Chronicals, IX, XI, and X-2 as steps in the wrong direction for the series. Truly a total 
 let down and waste of technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Updated graphics, lengthy quest, good story. The Bad: Rand encounters, turn-based and 
 repetitive combat. Gameplay: This is your typical old-school Final Fantasy game, revolving around 
 an epic story. It features the same style of gameplay as the NES and SNES versions (along with 
 the various ports that have also come out) . You still have your overworld, cid's airship, chocobos, 
 armor, items, magic, etc. The combat is still turn-based and it still has many random encounters. 
 The differences in this game include the various jobs you can choose and change at will. So besides 
 leveling up your characters general stats, like strength, defense, magic, etc, you can also level 
 up your characters' job level, which will make his or her job specific stats more powerful. You 
 can keep your job level if you leave it and come back to it at a later point in time also. And 
 you can only carry certain weapons and armor for most jobs also. The magic system is a little different 
 too, but I've seen it before in some older FF games. Instead of having magic points, you have magic 
 levels. Spells require you to have a certain magic level. Spells are used like items, and can be 
 used the amount of times you have in your level. Going to inns and magic wells will replenish your 
 magic (and health too) . Leveling up gives you the ability to carry more of a spell, and makes it 
 more powerful also. Graphics: Yep, it's 3D!! :-D But it still doesn't look all that great, lol. 
 It looks nice and good enough, but the resolution is not what it should be and the game can look 
 kind of blocky and simple at times. Still, it's a new look and more appealing than 2D. Sound: Old 
 school FF sounds and soundtrack here. Value: A very lengthy adventure, but also at a high price. 
 Tilt: I don't think this game will appeal to casual gamers or newcomers to Final Fantasy. While 
 it looks like a new game, remember that this is a remake of an OLD Final Fantasy game. That means 
 alot of random encounters, repetitive turn-based combat, and a relatively simple story compared 
 to today's epic RPGs. The improved job system will be very interesting to hardcore fans who like 
 this type of old-school gameplay and they should definitely check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx51LLYR4BB1TxX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best FF i have played. This game has everything what makes a good rpg nice chrcters 
 tons of jobs to choose from great music and a very nice world. There are tons of job cominations 
 to pick from it makes the game very fun. Over all the good things about the game are 1) great world 
 2) 22 jobs to choose to from 3) very nice music like you would expect from any FF game. The only 
 bad thing i see about this game is the onlinbe feature it has its pretty useless it would have 
 been nice if you could play online with other players only thing online feature does is you can 
 send messages which is pretty useless. To sum it all up if you like a great rpg with tons of jobs 
 to choose from and nice world and nice music then this is the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex0130
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  To start I'm going to say that this was my first Final Fantasy game ever, and I loved it. The games 
 not perfect so lets go over all the important stuff.
  
  Difficulty- Well this was my first Final Fantasy game as I already said, and for some reason I 
 had this idea in my head that Final Fantasy games were really hard. The weird thing is this game's 
 difficulty was just right for me; it wasn't too hard or too easy. I will say this though it did 
 seem easy in some of the dungeons but the bosses were always a challenge, especially the last boss.
 
  
  Learning curve- Well as I said twice now this was my first Final Fantasy game so the learning curve 
 may have been a little high for me. It was definitely closer to 30 minutes than 60 minutes though, 
 and that was to fine tune it all. I think the controls are pretty simple and since the battles 
 are turned base you can take your time learning the controls.
  
  Time spent playing- Well I'm between 20 to 40 hours and I have beat the game but I only beat it 
 once so its a long game and if you want to play it again, or try all the jobs, or do the side quests 
 it will surely get you many more hours.
  
  Gameplay- For me game play is most important and Final Fantasy III delivers. You start out with 
 one character in your party and the rest quickly join up. The game play is classic RPG game play. 
 You run around an outside area (the world) then enter a town or a dungeon and work your way to 
 the boss. Final Fantasy III has your traditional random battle encounters, and after each battle 
 you'll get some experience points and many times money and possibly an item or two. The battle 
 system is simple enough you choose your commands you can use items too. Final Fantasy III also 
 has a job system which is maybe my favorite part of the game. As you progress through the game 
 more jobs become available. As you fight both your characters level and his job level will raise. 
 It is important to understand that these are different because you can switch jobs at any time 
 you will have to gain separate levels for each job. Its fun to try out different jobs, each job 
 changes your characters appearance, and they each are distinctly different looking. You got classic 
 jobs to choose from such as Knight, White Mage, Ranger, Thief, and many more. There are only a 
 few downsides to switching jobs, one there is an adjustment time which is where your characters 
 stats are cut in half until he adjusts to his new job. Its usually only about four battles though. 
 The other is that not all jobs use the same equipment and weapons, so most of the time you will 
 have to buy new equips when you switch jobs. The story isnt the most exciting or suspenseful but 
 it gives you a point of playing and makes you want to keep going to continue it.
  
  Graphics- Well the graphics were nice, though they arent the best they still are smooth and look 
 good. I have no complaints about the graphics and am satisfied with them. Dont be fooled though 
 that amazing looking intro isnt actual game play unfortunately. Sound- I loved the music! Its 
 great and goes well with the game. Theres not to much more to say about it.
  
  Value- This game has a ton of value. As I have said it has a lengthy story and plenty of side quest 
 and things to do. As far as replay value I can definitely see my self playing it again using different 
 jobs and what not.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- Well Ive already said a lot so Ill summarize. I like this game very much. It 
 is absolutely one of my top favorite games. So Im going to give it a tilt of 9 even with the problems 
 it may have. I couldnt find anything that is really bad about the game, so I dont have a cons 
 section. As I have said though its not perfect. There arent anythings that I would call bad 
 or say need to be fixed or changed, but I do think it could have had more. Over all I recommend 
 this game and its a good game even if its your first Final Fantasy game, seeing as it was my first.
 
  
  I hope you found this review helpful.
  
  By Alex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finaaalf9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  what to say what to say? ok here we go, as a die hard fan of FINAL FANTASY i had abit of a dilemma 
 on my hands as i played an xbox 360 that my older brother obtained i can see the logic in buying 
 one but not for him really as he dosent really have time to play it, so here i am completing one 
 of his games in less time than he could and then im like hmmm what console do i get next a 360 
 hmmm or wait for a ps3 or wow my friend comes along and shows me vids for the wii so you can emagine 
 im kind of in a predicament so im looking deep inside myself and my younger brother gets a ds this 
 really has me enthused and my minds blank unsure what to do and i think ok wii with release you 
 get zelda but still it isnt FINAL FANTASY but did play a 2d gbc version and enjoyed it abit so 
 ok i played ds for ages i was even given it when he slept i wont mention the game i played its 
 too embarrassing  oh ok it was sims 2 lmao you know with the 
 hotel so i looked here actually on gamespot and saw FINAL FANTASY III and watched the vids and 
 read the review over and over and the vids too over and over even showed friends i knew loved the 
 game franchise so then it was a curse i needed it a ds i got after christmas was even before christmas 
 talking about buying a pink ds if i couldn't get a white one lmao, but no lie i would have if they 
 wasnt sold out too.
  so then FINAL FANTASY III id have to say i really loved this everything about it the cute character 
 design the hardness it had as i said i like to die on games these days it makes me want it more 
 the music it so damn amazing that it could make you cry in some places on the game well just a 
 few but what drew me alot to it was that it was true i wouldn't go saying its the best thing since 
 sliced bread but i would say its like the bread you buy that isnt sliced you know you can make 
 the door wedge slices toped with cheese and sliced onion and placed under the grill till lightly 
 golden mmm it was like that playing it a tasty game for when on the move i played it everywhere 
 making a coffee making dinner on the phone smoking a ciggie or mainly a roll up not the wacky stuff 
 dont worry i even played it on the toilet or wc whatever you prefer to call it but some of the 
 best moments playing this title the big brown bear was leaving the cave and having a swim in the 
 golden river bellow, thats how good this game is you have to play it with no interruptions its a 
 game that you need a clear head to really play it it can get tough at times and the game play some 
 may say is limited but i real gem if you like rpg, s and the feeling of taking it anywhere you go 
 lmao abit too much info on the last one i said huh lol,
  ill say again not alot of info on this game just to buy it and cherish it as all FINAL FANTASY 
 titles should be kept even i suppose X if you are in for an easy ride but yes this is true really 
 true no regrets here and as for not being able to do a proper save in dungeons and other buildings 
 its all good its not annoying its sweet and for the menus there is no real delay its nice a really 
 nice game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatrats
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Bought Final Fantasy III for the DS and haven't stopped playing it since! This is an epic game 
 for the DS and the most detailed storyline I've seen on a handheld console for some time.
  
  The graphics aren't world breaking but they are very good especially during battles with the 
 numerous monsters such as the Werewolf, Larva, Griffons and the bosses that I have encountered 
 so far.
  
  You start off as one character and then you pick up 3 friends along the way very early on in the 
 game. I say characters because you can choose what to call yours when you meet them which means 
 that you can become very attached to them.
  
  The huge levels are literally breathtaking and there are so many different areas to explore. You 
 can be in a mystic cave one second and in a gnome village the next (although I have to admit this 
 is quite annoying to get into) . Remember to change one of your characters jobs to White Mage as 
 soon as you can otherwise you will have to fight extra battles!
  
  All in all an excellent game and well worth the money. It will keep you going for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar311
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  good figthing scenes and awesome graphics for ds good story line and wonderous moogle messeges 
 and secrets... last area is way to hard though and the moogle mail is once a day so ya gotta set 
 ds times ahead several times so it dooesn't get a perfect but it was soooooooooooo close... good 
 figthing scenes and awesome graphics for ds good story line and wonderous moogle messeges and secrets... 
 last area is way to hard though and the moogle mail is once a day so ya gotta set ds times ahead 
 several times so it dooesn't get a perfect but it was soooooooooooo close... good figthing scenes 
 and awesome graphics for ds good story line and wonderous moogle messeges and secrets... last area 
 is way to hard though and the moogle mail is once a day so ya gotta set ds times ahead several 
 times so it dooesn't get a perfect but it was soooooooooooo close... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  the final fantasy 3 never hit a american system before well no it has.
  
  ill do this reveiw simple with a pros and cons list.
  this has to be one of the best games on 
 ds it sure is the longest next to pkmn.
  
  well in this game u take the role of 4 warriors of light who must triumph against evil.
  
  
 pros:
  the game on a handheld looks good in 3d pretty good.
  the game is 30-40 hours its long but it keeps u occupied.
  the job system is amizing alot of 
 weapon upgrades shields.
  great music in this game classic dedede du em when u win a battle its tight.
  u can save any 
 were in the world screen.
  the world screen is huge in the begining but then u figure out that theres a even bigger world 
 screen out of ur own ur on a floting island.
  a lot of bosses in this game i think around 20 but most of them are optinal like 6 of them.
  
 
  cons:
  the game does run slow in 3 parts of the game but it only last a few secs
  there isnt a log so if some one tells u were u need to go and u put i down for a week and come 
 back u could get stuck.
  u can not save in towns and caves
  the game still needs some work.
  the top screen is only used in 5% of the game when in the world 
 screen its the map in movies it plays part of the movies or when u pause the game it shows u were 
 u are.
  also the touch controls during battle or menus is a little hard u need to tap exactly were it is 
 but running with stylus control is easy.
  bosses are cheap sometimes they can atk 3 times in a row and the damage from them is lke 5000 each.
 
  
  the gameplay is overal good other than it is a random turnbased battle i like the time based in 
 ff6,7 overall.
  grpahics could improve but its on the ds i see not much more improvement still looks cool.
  sound 
 the music is amaizing but when battling sometimes u hear the atks before the person atks or u hear 
 some static some times when u do atk.
  value well it is the only ff3 that ever came out and it is the highest price ds game well i say 
 go buy it u wont beat this game if u rent it and since theres no mem cards on the ds ull have to 
 start ur journey over if u rented it.
  it is worth the buy even with all those cons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mari14
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  hmm what can i say about this game it has it's ups and it has it's downs but overall it is suprizingly 
 good to me. The graphics are pretty decent not the most of which of Soul Caliber 3 or anything of 
 revolutionary meaning but it has meaning of absolute value if your a lover of this kind of game 
 you have a pretty good taste. Of course if your a fan than you certainly should get this game and 
 don't be heisitant. Plus this game i say is worth the wait and should certainly be on your wishlist 
 if you like this kind of game. Oh and GO FF!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenderUnit22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  With the DS remake of Final Fantasy III, finally players outside of Japan get a chance to experience 
 the third installment of the long-running and genre-defining RPG series. And while the gameplay 
 shows its ages, dating back to the days of the NES or should we say the Famicom, it still makes 
 for an entertaining experience that can last for a very long time.
  
  You're initially playing as a young orphan named Luneth, charged with a quest to find the 3 other 
 warriors of light by the crystal of light and eventually oppose an evil darkness threatening to 
 shatter the balance of the world. Over the course of your travels you get to explore a vast world 
 and creepy dungeons and learn more about the 4 heroes' past and who is behind the evil plan. However, 
 by todays standards the story can be somewhat predictable and the characters lack a bit of depth. 
 Luckily, the game quickly focuses on exploration and combat which the game handles quite well.
 
  
  The for the most part random battles you'll encounter on a frequent basis are fought in a completely 
 turn-based manner. At the beginning of each round you can assign commands to your fighters and 
 the order in which they play out during the combat phase is based on stats mixed with a bit randomness. 
 Most elaborate gameplay feature is the job system that allows for quite diverse fighting styles 
 by assigning various jobs like White Mage, Black Mage, Ninja or Summoner. With more than 20 different 
 jobs to choose from, each of which has its own strengths and weaknesses like the number of spells 
 you can cast or the type of weapon and armor that can be equipped, the game certainly features 
 enough options to tweak your party to your liking.
  
  When you're not crawling through creepy, linear dungeons, guarded castles or enchanted forests 
 you find yourself on the quite open-ended world map that expands as you gain access to more vehicles 
 and a number of airships. And while the game still plays out in a very linear fashion as you're 
 often restricted in your exploration options, it's always exciting when you unlock new pathways 
 to before unaccessible areas. The world map is also the only place to save your progress other 
 than the quick save which lets you save your progress anywhere outside of combat to shut down the 
 DS when you're in a hurry. Paired with a certain difficulty in some of the large dungeons you're 
 too weak for, the lack of save points inside said dungeons can make for a few frustrating moments 
 when you're defeated by an end boss and have to start all over again.
  
  The remake is given an all new 3D overhaul on the DS and while the graphics can look awfully pixelated 
 when you zoom close in, the game overall looks excellent. Especially amazing are the different 
 costumes that come with each job class and there are some nice effects that come with each magic 
 spell and special ability. Somewhat disappointing is the fact that the action is mostly happening 
 on only one of the two screens and most of the time, the little information if any shown on the 
 secondary screen is pretty useless. The game makes good use of the touch screen capabilities of 
 the system though as everything can be controlled with the stylus as well as the normal button 
 controls.
  
  The soundtrack is for the most part what one would expect from the series with some memorable pieces 
 composed by Nobuo Uematsu. Other than that, the game's sound is uneventful but solid and adds to 
 the high production value of the game. So do some Wi-Fi capabilities that incorporate among other 
 things a messaging service to a friend list as well as other features, although these features 
 don't figure into the core gameplay that much.
  
  All in all, Final Fantasy III is a great dungeon crawler that will entertain for many hours thanks 
 to its great job system and challenging battles. It does lack a bit in story-telling compared to 
 the current competition, but it's definitely worth checking out not only for Final Fantasy fanatics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokepalkia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  I love play final fantasy games and square-enix games and im really adicted to this games.
  Congratulations square-enix for make cool games
  If you really like play rpg games and if you 
 want entertainment for much time this game should be a good option!!!
  Good grafics... Good gameplay... Amazing story betwen two worlds... Cool jobs.... Intense boss Battles!!! 
 This is Final Fantasy III
  Im looking for more games from square-enix for ds because i really like them!!
  Thanks Square-Enix 
 for make this game..
  PokePalkia
  
  PS: dont forget the Wi-Fi connection on this game to obtain the Onion job, the best job from this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhawk360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Final fantasy III is considerd one of the most challengling games in the series and so far its 
 lived up to its name for me because im still having trouble getting the second gem. The gameplay 
 of this game basically is a traditional role playing game with a level up system ect but the thing 
 that makes this game stand out is the way the level up system works, you have two types of levels 
 your character level and your job level.
  there is also a zoom in element were you have to zoom in and look around for secret switches, this 
 really extends and deepens the experience. The graphics are smooth and nice to look at however 
 when you use the zoom in function you get the jaggies (very technical term) outlining everything 
 which de-values the experience slightly. the cgi videos are so beautiful and i cant honestly see 
 the difference between them on the ds and the ps2. you really cant expect any less from final fantasy 
 when it comes to music, its always just ight admittedly its not to my taste but if instead of there 
 current sound track they had Mark Ronson or Clive Harris (google them if you dont know who they 
 are) then the game would suck to be honest.
  
  This game will bring you complete value for money because i think it has over 100 hours of gameplay 
 if you done it properly this is a must have game but not quite perfect with its aggravating save 
 system and uncomfortable difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfsong
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Wow, where do I start?
  
  This game has a great story, it's the first final fantasy game I've played and I loved the interesting 
 story! There's lots to do and loads of choices like Jobs and Missions (via mognet) . The Graphics 
 are really good- all 3D except the map view. The detail of the houses and towns is really good. 
 The little extras like the dancers and piano are also very quirky and funny. The whole look of 
 the game is very nice. The sound is ok- it can get a bit annoying after a while but it's not too 
 bad!
  
  The game is also fairly long which is really good!!! The normal monster battles can be pretty easy 
 but the bosses can be hard- the Final one is so difficult!
  
  Overall I loved this game... go buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBerserk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great ds game ported from the nintendo. plays just like final fabtasy 7 well it reminds 
 me of 7. its a must have for all ds fans out there. best rpg out for the ds and well designed and 
 good graphics as well. if your not into the series maybe give this game a rent cause it is definitly 
 worh playing for all ds fans outthere. story is ok in the game but the gameplay and graphics realy 
 hook me in to play this game over and over and ill never get tired of playing this game.. . .. 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameroz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  The first thing I would like to say about this game is that if you like RPG's with good battle 
 scene and gameplay then this game is for you and the graphics are amazing as well. The story is 
 not that long sometimes it gets kinda confusing but after a while you'll get what it is all about. 
 I recommend you get things you see in the caves everywhere you go because it will help you during 
 the game and with battles make sure your good with jobs you know which one does which and it's 
 good to look at the map as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link1045
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  OMG! FINALLY I'VE BOUGHT A GOOD GAME!! was the instant reaction after about 30min of gameplay. 
 For the past few months games have been c*** looking, c*** playing or flipping short each time 
 i buy them, maybe i need to pick better, or things just haven't been going well for nintendo... 
 But now, seeing as you can always trust Enix games to b long and graphically amazing (especially 
 for the ds) , i'm really happy with this. Firssly, the intro sequence looks beautiful, wiht all 
 the characters lovelily rendered in true FF style, but when you get into the game, you notice that 
 things are, for the first time i've seen it done WELL on the ds, 3D! Then, you get classic random 
 battles, with turn by turn play, with outcomes depending on strategy and stats. Sure, it's plain 
 RPG style, but thats what i love! Also, this is absolute value 4 money. I sepnt 55 bucks for, what, 
 about 30hrs enjoyment? Cuz, with Mognet, and just the fact that it's FF, you know there'll b sidequests! 
 As an added bonus, the very original 'jobs' gameplaygives you extra replay-a-bility, with the ooption 
 of playing through again using just one sort of job, can't wait!
  In conclusion, BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DuNN-
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Game was great lasted many hours, graphics I guess are okay for the DS. The game lacks online play, 
 the wi-fi is only to send messages not battle. It also lacks wireless multi-card play, yes you 
 can send messages though. I think if you are a Final Fantasy fan then I think you should pick this 
 up to hold you over until revenant wings. Overall this game was pretty easy not too hard at all 
 even the end of the game is easy. Pretty good storyline, I would not recommend the Bradygames strategy 
 guide. Just get the FAQ from Gamespot. The great part of this game is the fact that it may last 
 you a long time if you really like it, maybe 100+ hours with tons of training. Oh and don't think 
 just because I gave it a low rating that you shouldn't buy it, I never rate very high I think if 
 you like RPG's you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbubbles122344
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  this game was had great charecters and classes to pick from. it also had some very nice wepons 
 and armor truly a final fantasy it had alot to do with FF11 some say that is bad but i like it. 
 it does have ome new aspects such as the classes but honestly the originals are the best (red mage, 
 black mage, white mage, thief, and so on. great addition to anyones hand held library of FF games. 
 good prices good gameplay LOVE THE OLD SCHOOL GRAPHICS. all together its a must buy game and will 
 have good replay values!!!
  
  GO RED MAGES!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- the graphics arent great but good and good for the DS.
  
  Sound- The music is always good in this franchise I really injoyed the music in this game.
  
 
  gameplay- the gameplay in FF3 is just the same as any other final fantasy turn based with 4 charictors 
 on the field at a time.
  
  value- this game has a very high playing value perfic for a long plain ride or road trip. the shere 
 addictiveness of this game will make it last and leveling up your team just to fight one boss then 
 just doing that again is acctully fun in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMSHAWN
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 is technically a port but doesn't seem like it all all. Firstly it's from a system 
 that no one in NA actually had so its not a game youve played before and the graphics are INSANE. 
 The dungeons are a little too simple but that doesnt detract from the fun. The job system is brilliance 
 but I prefer ff5s system. The one cave that got a little overly comlex was the crystal tower (that 
 wasted all of 4 hours) . A great, not so Portish game that can and probanly will leave you playing 
 for over 100 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vimz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  square enix has made a god send this amazing game has great graphics straight forward gameplay 
 and a in-depth story this remake is even greater then its original.
  what makes this game really great is its job-system giving you control of the rolls your characters 
 play plus it has some good costumes.
  nothing can make this game bad except from the top screen that doesnt do anything other then that 
 this game is one of the best final fantasy games out of 13.
  
  good-good game play, great graphics for a ds game, nice touch with job system, nice job costumes and 
 in my books 3rd best final fantasy game.
  
  the bad-the top screen doesnt do anything except opens for the menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 335678549
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Final fantasy 3 has lovely 3d visuals a neat battle system and a scarily deep job system. The entire 
 game has been recrafted with charming new 3d visuals to create a richer experience. The battle 
 system is fun and has a huge amount of depth due to the excellent job system. The job system allows 
 you to assign roles such as a thief, red mage or ninja to any of your characters adding a lot of 
 freedom and customisation. The main chunk of your time playing is taken up learning about the interesting 
 story, fighting battles, visiting towns, raidng dungeons and taking on impressive boss battles.
 
  
  best bits - Charming 3d visuals - good touch screen support - Huge depth for the more hardcore 
 gamer - 30 hours + of adventuring in your pocket! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroXraven
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Ok so I was really expected something great which is what I always screw up doing. This game is 
 good don't get me wrong but alot of it is just way to old school feel. The fighting is boring and 
 very repetitive and i'd say that the only good thing about this game is adding to ur collection 
 of Final Fantasy games to make it complete. I spent alot of time playing it but thats only because 
 I gave 40 dollars for it and I didn't want it to feel like wasted money. But this is still a decent 
 game. The Graphics are top notch for a DS game and the poening video is defintley eye catchy for 
 a DS game but im afraid im gonna have to give this game a lower rating than i'd hoped to give it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I just spent a lot of hours playing and final finishing this game and let me tell you, it was fun 
 and one of the best games on the DS to date. The story is fantastic and the controls are old school 
 (in a good way) This turn based battles are great and fun. The only thing I didn't like was the 
 lack of save points in the game, yes like other FF games you can save in the world maps and this 
 is good, but it's really annoying that if you are in a big cave or in the crystal palace towards 
 the end of the game and you spend like 20 mintues to get where your going to start from the your 
 last save point. Besides this grip, it is recomended. If the beautiful graphics don't get you the 
 story certainly will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikijoraygor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This was a great starter for a Final Fantasy for DS. It had great things like music, Blocky but good 
 and colorful graphics, Unique jobs, simple combat system, fun battles, unique characters and intresting 
 sub characters and bizzare bosses {In a good way} Now the bad things, Touching is not needed at 
 all, top screen is rarely used, Arc is a loser {That's not important} there is like no save points 
 in duengons, It can be frusterating, the magic system is a bit diffrent [I'm not sure if that's good 
 or bad it's like Good/Bad with the magic levels with there own amuont of MP} There are parts when 
 your in a situation like your mini and you should put everyone in the back and make everyone a 
 mage. {Due to all stats being reduced to like 1} the first few bosses are wimpy but when your far 
 they are so difficult that I had to train my people for 2 days straight. The sound brought a few 
 giggles like some of the duengon music. Flatout this may be a worth a purchase for a first Final 
 Fantasy for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty_sen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  this game will pack you over 60 hours the map is huge once all unlocked
  and if you train at the place where your supse to go then youl level up in no time!
  
  base 
 line
  
  good
  decnet Graphics, fulied animtions, alot to explore, ONE AWSOME STORY will keep you hooked for the 
 whole game! , totaly 3d all the way
  alot of jobs to chose from, the level up is set at a relly good gain
  
  bad
  dosnt do much 
 with the top screen normaly only a map, cud of done alot more with wifi insted of just a messenger 
 like co-op , the Graphics coud of been cleaner
  
  take it from me ive had over 100 video game and so far this wuld be in the top 20, this is a abslot 
 must buy for RPG or just about any one!!!
  if youl never tuch an RPG or dont have a lot of time on your hands then this probly isnt the game 
 for you but other wise get it at all costeds
  
  A MATTY MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enral
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 29, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  If you have a ds, looking for a good rpg, never played the nes final fantasy 3 before; then this 
 is the time to run to the nearest gamestore and grab a copy of final fantasy 3 ds to add to your 
 greatest game collection.
  
  This is a game that have been totally remade to 3d from a nes 2d version. The story is solid and 
 nice and the characters have been given a name and own personalities unlike the old version.
  
  Battle is a standard jrpg format where everything is turn base. You can have different jobs 
 to your liking.
  
  Graphics: One of the better looking ds rpg graphics you can find out there. Nice intro CG too which 
 looks real good on the ds.
  
  Replay value: Pretty high I guess, I don't mind replaying it.
  
  Gameplay: Oldschool rpg that 
 you'll find in the final fantasy series with magic/chocobos/save the world kind of thing.
  
  Therefore, go get this game now or you'll regret! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeremyc56
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 23, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you really get used to in FF3 (Final Fantasy 3) is the graphics. They are detailed, 
 and most of all they are very smooth. The sound is ok, Square Enix did a good job for a handheld, 
 and it certainly better than GBA's FF1&amp;2. As usual the game involves 4 main characters in their 
 journey to save the world. You make money by killing monsters and you buy better weapons to equip 
 to your character. There are 23 jobs in total, these include: warrior, black mage, white mage, 
 summoner and more. Each job has a speciality , like the Dragoon can jump in the air for 1 turn 
 and then perform a nasty attack when they come back down the next turn. Like all FF games, FF3 
 takes a very long time to finnish. Even if you do manage to kill the final boss there are side 
 quests with stronger bosses than the final one.
  So FF3 is value for money. The 4 main charcters are Luneth, Arc, Refia and Ingus. As you go you 
 unlock more jobs for your characters to change into when ever you want. Also you unlock alot more 
 land after about the first 14 hours. At first you are stuck on a floating contenent, you cant escape 
 because you never have an airship at the right time until later. Because of course airships can't 
 go over mountains. You can also get lots of spells to learn or just to use as an item in battle. 
 Black mages cast mainly offensive magic whilst white mages cast mostly defensive magic such as 
 cure and protect. In the end Final Fantasy 3 would be one of the best games on the DS so far and 
 a recomend it if you are in the need for something addictive!
  
  Final Fantasy Owner - Jeremy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Panda_Hat
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 17, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  It takes the game back to basics and gives it a whole new view. Most people who have played the 
 latest final fantasy's and the spin offs have mostly broken away from the original turn based style 
 system and most don't seem to rembere how great that kind of system was.
  
  Though the story is short, and simplistic at best the old age; Save the crystals from the depth 
 of hell. 
  
  It still is suficiant enough to work with the overall game play, as well as the colourfull grphics 
 and job system, it gives the game a breath of new life, and definatly one of the most enjoyable 
 games I've played so far on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 16, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  So Square-Enix hid a Final Fantasy from us this whole time. Good! This old retro-style game with 
 new graphics and a MUCH better story line than the original (the characters now have names and 
 a story behind them) is all that you'ld want to find in a Final Fantasy game, if you can stand 
 the small annoyance of RaNdOm BaTtLeS . The Job acts sort of like another weapon or shield to upgrade 
 and will at first make you go cross-eyed. The stats of your characters is different form other 
 Final Fantasy's. For instance the magic system is done in levels and quantites of certain spells 
 instead of one big MP bar. You also get to choose what goes in your characters Right and Left hand 
 which is another good addition. There is barely any side quests so once you go through the story 
 you won't have much to do, but don't worry, it's a long game. So if you like Final Fantasy and 
 have a DS buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlamingFury
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III, the first time it has been seen in anywhere apart from Japan. This may have 
 been a good thing. If the game didn't feature amazing 3D graphics and a nice soundtrack, no-one 
 would have played it.
  
  The story is weak. 4 heroes are chosen to head forth into the world to save it form being overwhelmed 
 from darkness. So far, the story hasn't improved much, but if you ignore the story and just play 
 the game for the gameplay (Like Dragon Quest 8) , then you'll find a thoroughly enjoyable game.
 
  
  What I didn't like about FF 1 through 6 was the fact enemies were stationary. Call me fickle, but 
 some graphics are needed. And FF3 manages that perfectly. Enemies move and bounce around just like 
 they do in 7 through 10, so it's fine by me.
  
  The sound in the game is great. There's new, tropical music on the overworld and all your old favourites 
 are back for the combat sequences. Though it would be good if they had a few different victory 
 sounds, it's still great.
  
  The job system in this game is great. It adds huge value to the game as you can just switch a characters 
 job on the fly. The only problem with this system is that to unlock all the classes, you need Wi-Fi, 
 so many people in countries like Australia, which lack McDonald's having hotspots, will find a 
 bit of a problem if they lack a router.
  
  Don't be daughted by the few reviews out there that give it a 2. This game is great, and though 
 it costs $80 here in Australia (PS3 sell for $120, PS2 $80 and DS $70) it is well worth the extra 
 $10 on normal retail price, and you won't be dissappointed by the gameplay (But you will be by 
 the story) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 9, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Now, don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this game. I certainly don't hate it. However... It was most 
 certainly a disappointment.
  
  The game has a very basic storyline. 4 heroes set out to restore light to the world using the power 
 of 4 crystals they find on their journeys, helping villages and people out on their way. Not much 
 seems to be put into conversations, even though they were expanded upon from the original. Not 
 a huge problem, but it makes it less enjoyable... However, the inclusion of actual characters was 
 a plus.
  
  Gameplay follows almost exactly the same route as every other FF, especially the early ones. However, 
 the MP system is odd, and at times, hugely frustrating. Until you unlock the Magus and Devout classes, 
 your White and Black Mages have loads of casts of the weak magics, and only around 1 of the higher 
 spells, rising to barely over 10. Also, compared to other FF games, their magic is surprisingly 
 weak, with the only really effective magic being the Summoner's summoning spells (Not Evoker, as 
 they're based on chance) . Also, you unlock new classes for your team of four as you discover new 
 crystals.
  
  Sound in this game is alright, but nothing spectacular. I personally find the battle theme annoying 
 after hearing it over and over again in this games brutal onslaught of random encounter battles, 
 which seem to pop up after every step. The world map and city music isn't much better. Although, 
 it definitely isn't the worst, by any means.
  
  Graphics in this game are surprisingly good for a DS game. Certain annoying aspects come up, though. 
 For example, hair and capes are static, and in many situations, you see them strangely pointing 
 behind the character as if it was literally stiff and immovable. This can get rather annoying, 
 but doesn't come up, making it a minor problem. The 3D characters look very good otherwise, though, 
 and alot of work was obviously put into the world map. However, every character looks essentially 
 the same in the job costumes, which is a disappointment.
  
  This is also a fairly short game for an RPG, clocking in at 24 hours if you don't take much time 
 to train and do sidequests. I'd only suggest this to extremely hardcore RPG or Final Fantasy fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EarthsLastStand
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 8, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Since it was not released in the U. S., the original Final Fantasy III never really made big outside 
 of Japan. I've had the chance to play the original and it fails in comparison to this game. As 
 the angry nintendo nerd would say the original game sucked balls. However this game is one of the 
 best if played out of the Final Fantasy series, although it is no mach for 12. I would recommend 
 any one who has the patience to sit through this game to play. The learning curve at the begining 
 of the game is farily easy to get used to. In no time you can pretty much take out alot of enimies 
 with ease. Training is a Breeze. and The monsters increase their diffcullty as you push on into 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stratmankudzu
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best Final Fantasy to date on a handheld. including all the reissues. (untill 
 they decide to rerelease VII on DS that'll be the best.) Overall the gameplay is very easy to get 
 in to. The action is what you'd expect from a turn based RPG. The grafics and sound are amazing. 
 If you have a DS and have a love for RPGs you have to get this game!!! - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmaster33
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  final fantasy 3 is an rpq game for the ds.
  You start off the game with a boy named lunneth and end up with a big crystal that tells him to 
 be a holy warrior etc.
  
  graphics- best graphics ever seen for an rpg game for ds square enix have really put a lot of effort 
 in the designs.
  
  gameplay- you can play with the buttons or the touch screen which is good, i liked it because it 
 uses the touch screen frequently and if you dont want to use it players can use the buttons so 
 its more easier.
  
  sound- very good, the dungeon music is way better than other ff games and fits with the setting.
 
  
  if you like final fantasy games for exaple: final fantasy 4,5 for the gba then you will really 
 like this. though it gets hard at times. dont miss this game even if you havent played any ff's before. 
 thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 4, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The Game is decently good, if thats even a word to describe it. I know this game could not have 
 been more then what it already is, so im not going to complain about that. Im going to sum it up 
 right now
  
  Gameplay: Can you say Grind FeST?!? the game is all about leveling up and kicking the other enemies 
 @sses. Which by the way, beating bosses and enemies feels like your grinding was well worth it. 
 Weapons are varied and the class selection feels fresh, its just not super deep. But a nice addition 
 indeed. The story is alright, nothing memorable. that about sums it up right there in gameplay. 
 Grind enemies, level up, pick new classes to mess with, get new weapons, and follow the story.
 
  
  Sound: its sound, nothing great and nothing bad
  
  Replay: Pretty decent, a long car ride maybe, or something to kill some time, but i found myself 
 not really WANTING to play this game. Once you beat the main story i cant see you going back as 
 theres almost nothing extra about this game.
  
  Graphics: Looks pretty good for a DS game, i wasnt expecting psp style graphics (i dont expect anything 
 but that for the psp) so i cant complain nor say they were great. My Opinion: It was a decent grindfest 
 of fun. If you love final fantasy and old school rpgs for that matter, your going to feel right 
 at home. If not, well you better research this game before you make that final purchase. Overal: 
 Its a imported version of a old game, it finally hit shores of the US and it gave us what we wanted. 
 An old school final fantasy with some decent classes and some good gameplay. Its not bad, its just 
 not that amazing. Agree or dont. im not saying i hate it, im just saying its a game you play then 
 forget about. one more thing, not being able to save in dungeons is stupid, why would they do that? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 3, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Final fantasy 3 makes it's way to the ds in hopes of getting a new fan base and reah the fans of 
 the already released ff games on the gba. Square dressed the game up with ps1 like grahpics and 
 a new soundtrack and a more storey, the game still remaines the same old school dougen explorer 
 it has been. The storey involves 4 people brought together by chance and they must save the world 
 from destruction. As you know during all this you'll help towns people out, explore towers and 
 dougens, and take on big bosses. Also random fights about every 5 steps you take. But the fact 
 is not being able to just buy phenix downs, to many random encounters that can just tear your party 
 apart, and bosses that punish you to much if your not ready will make some ligh haerted fans run 
 from this game. But the jobs avialbe for your party, the charicters you meet, and the new sence 
 of challenge as your progress though the game make it nice and rewarding in the long run. Lets 
 not forget the openig cutsean you just gotta love that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 1, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III. The one game in the series that Japan's Squaresoft (now Square-Enix) kept from 
 us North American players all this time, finally saw light in our shores. They didn't just release 
 a port though, they figured after all the wait, we deserved a little bit of a treat to go with 
 that, and they definately delivered on that. Read on.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : Simple, yet complex. Enthralling yet straightforward. It really is a good balance 
 of old-school and new. It uses the time-old turn-based combat system of older RPGs. To spice things 
 up a little it enhances the original Job System to make things interesting. Basically you choose 
 a job class and along with it come special stat distributions and a special power (a black mage 
 can use black magic, a ninja can throw weapons for major damage) . You can change jobs anytime outside 
 of battle once you unlock your first set of jobs. To add to things, there is a character level, 
 which determines your stats and HP and then there is a job level. The Job level raises depending 
 on how much you fight and does not depend on experience points. As your job level goes up (each 
 job has its own levels you must raise) the effectiveness of that job (especially in specialty attacks 
 like black magic or throwing objects) will become greater. It isn't as in-depth as say... Final 
 Fantasy Tactics or Tactics Advance, but for such an old game it gets the job done in a way that 
 makes it feel like it belongs with the rest of our newer games. Most of the battles aren't too 
 hard as you move on and you usually only need to do a little levelling to get through the game, 
 minus one exception I will explain later. The bosses are just challenging enough while not being 
 too hard.
  
  Ok so the combat is good, what about the story? It starts off simple and has an interesting twist 
 in the end, but essentially is very trite and straightforward. The translation has been done well 
 though and adding depth to the characters paid off since now at least everything is interesting. 
 It is good enough to keep you going but not good enough to keep you drooling for more.
  
  The dungeons are simplistic but one must understand that this is merely a beef-up of an old NES 
 game, so you can only expect so much out of it. Still, there are a few twists like invisible walls 
 and secret switches to keep you on your toes and force you to look a little closer at where you 
 are going. The thing that most people complain about are the lack of save points. I would have 
 to say that this is not a problem. You are only allowed to save on the overworld and nowhere else. 
 Considering each dungeon is short and fairly easy to get through, there is no necessity in putting 
 save points halfway through. It does add a sort of challenge that is reasonable. I found that if 
 you raise a couple of levels in the entrance of each main dungeon and then run from all battles 
 on the way to the boss (saving after you level up of course) then you will have no problem getting 
 through this game. There is one exception though, and this is the final dungeon. The developers 
 could have put a midway save point there at least. It can take more than 45 minutes to get through 
 it and when you spend all that time, get to the last boss then die it is VERY discouraging. The 
 last boss is truly a challenge compared to the rest of the game (relatively speaking... you will 
 likely be around level 50 when you get to the end, which is fine throughout the rest of the game 
 but DOES NOT cut it for the last boss) . This challenge would be welcomed if you didn't have to 
 spend about an hour getting there and then dying, having to do that hour of gameplay time again. 
 On top of that, they give you no clues about what you have to do when you face the last boss in 
 order to hurt it, so you may be frustrated by that as well (I was for a while) . It took me my fourth 
 try with a bunch of levelling up in between each try before I took the last boss down. With that 
 being said though, in the end the lack of save points is fine otherwise.
  
  Lastly is the amount of content here. You start off thinking you are in this small world, then 
 you soon find out thare are actually THREE world maps (granted one is small but still) , and that 
 is quite a bit. There is a good amount of exploration to be had, and with all the transportation 
 types (a canoe, a boat and three different airships) , you will enjoy doing so.
  
  Something esle to note is the controls. The buttons are set-up great and work perfectly. On top 
 of all that, you can use the touch screen VERY effectively. Depending on my mood, about 50% of 
 the time I used the touch screen. It is nice to see that a game is just as playable without the 
 use of the touch screen as it is, and it gives you that choice.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : Talk about pushing the DS to its limits. There is a GORGEOUS 3-minute (about) 
 video at the beginning that looks as good as a console FMV. On top of that, the game looks almost 
 as good as FFVII, in some ways better and some ways worse. That is pretty impressive but there 
 are a few sacrifices they had to make to pull this off. First of all, I believe the original could 
 handle more than 3 enemies on the screen at once, but since all characters and enemies are in 3D 
 now, they had to cut it down so there would be no slowdown (which there is VERY little of) . Another 
 thing is tha lack of upper-screen use. When on the overworld it displays a world map... when anywhere 
 else it is blank. If you go into the menu your gameplay screen scrolls to the top so that you can 
 see the menu, but essentially the dual screens ARE NOT used much at all. The last complaint is 
 that even though the whole game is in 3D, there are some spots where sprites are used, and they 
 are in bad spots so that it makes the sprites stand out and look disgusting. For example, near 
 the end of the game you will enter a beautiful palace, but then the pillars are sprites and you 
 can see that they are, making the beauty fall a bit. Nonetheless the attention to detail with each 
 job class and making sure each character has his or her own unique touch for each job class was 
 nice. The enemy variety isn't bad and they all look pretty darn good. Most of the environments 
 look great as well, and really overall this is a great looking DS game, it just could have fixed 
 at least a couple of its blemishes. By the way... spell effects look great.
  
  Sound (8/10) : Nobuo Uematsu comes back to S-E temporarily to help re-do the score for FFIII. He 
 did a GREAT job of retaining the feel of the old 8-Bit game while making it sound modern at the 
 same time. There are a few times when it feels really outdated but overall the music sounds good. 
 It can feel a little unimpressive at times too but at least the normal battle, boss battle and 
 especially last boss tracks are very well done. Sound effects are generally decent. Nothing more, 
 nothing less. They sound somewhere in-between the 16-bit and 8-bit games with some cases of 32-bit 
 sounding effects.
  
  Value (7/10) : This should honestly be higher scored. There are three High Summons which are not 
 necessarily easy to get, there is a secret dungeon with a really hard boss, there is a set of special 
 equipment that is gotten through some quests and there is the secret ultimate job class. Not to 
 mention the prospect of maxing out each character level, HP and each job level (which can be done 
 even for somebody like me... who doens't enjoy level grinding) . The problem is the way in which 
 most of these tasks are done. Without Wi-Fi or knowing somebody else locally with the game, the 
 only side quest one can accomplish is getting the High Summons. The rest require sending mails 
 to various people through this function called the MogNet. It is basically there for sending letter 
 to your friends through Wi-Fi or locally, which really is a neat little feature, if only it weren't 
 REQUIRED for getting the extras. Not everybody has access to Wi-fi and that is an unfair way to 
 be able to fully enjoy an RPG that isn't an MMORPG. This really detracts from this game's value 
 (which should be a 9) , but the only thing preventing this from being a 6 is that the game really 
 is fun and maxing out levels is reasonable, not to mention the pretty decent length of the game. 
 It took me about 35 hours to beat with only the High Summons quest being done. That is pretty good 
 for an NES game, even if it has been re-done.
  
  In the end, this game is a good RPG to add to the DS's library of games. It is fun and fairly deep, 
 but the fact is that it is still an NES game in the heart, which means it is simplistic in many 
 ways. RPG fans will likely find much to enjoy from this game, and FF fans will definately want 
 to pick this up (especially with all the history in this game... a lot of this game has been used 
 in almost every Final Fantasy since then) . For anybody else, especially those not familiar with 
 RPGs, you may want to consider starting off elsewhere, though you likely will find plenty to enjoy, 
 it could also get boring fast and maybe even too difficult. Square-Enix did a great job of making 
 sure this old gem got the treatment it deserved, though. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluclwd
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game it was a back to my roots type of game. anyone that loves the series will love 
 the game. anyone new to the series should try it, because it is not that hard to pick and play, 
 especially if you are a fan of the genre. the cg sequences are amazingly good and the music isn't 
 bad either. depending on how thorough you are, 40 hours for 40 dollars isn't a bad deal. i have 
 to say though if you aren't a fan of role playing games, then this game is probably not for you. 
 to anyone else though, and say this game is totally worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  I am a huge Final Fantasy fan and Final Fantasy III did not disappoint. If you liked Final Fantasy 
 V's job system, then Final Fantasy III's should be up your alley (though it is not as complex as 
 Final Fantasy V's) . The graphics of Final Fantasy III are great, especially for the DS. The Sound/music 
 in the game was alright, nothing that really wowed me. The mognet idea was an interesting one, 
 but I never got to utilize it since there is nobody I know around where I live that owns Final 
 Fantasy III. being able to use your stylus to play the game was interesting, as well, and done 
 well, but you can still play it with the D-pad and buttons if you want, which is good for people 
 like me who are used to playing Final Fantasy that way. The stor was alright, it's your typical 
 classic Final Fantasy save the crystals story. This game can be tough, especially now that you 
 can't buy phoenix downs. Overall, if you are a Final Fantasy fan, you should get this game, or 
 if you're an RPG fan all together, you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoiSora603
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Game Summary: This game is a remake of a much older game originally developed for the NES and never 
 released in the U. S. Now we finally get the chance to play this title on this side of the Pacific. 
 In this game, you'll play as Luneth, a young man who is destined to become one of the four Light 
 Warriors whom prophecies say will save the world from certain doom. Yeah, THAT'S never been done, 
 right? But seeing as how this game was originally made in the days when that was standard fare 
 (who am I kiddin', that's STILL pretty standard fare) , you can't really hold that against the game. 
 In fact, it's part of its charm. Gameplay: For a remake, the gameplay really didn't feel too dated. 
 The job system has been seen in other games, but every game that uses it manages to put its own 
 spin on the system, and this game is no exception. Each job brought something to the table in battle, 
 and it was ultimately up to you to determine which job distribution suited your style best. Everything 
 in this game had been done before, but when you consider that this is actually one of the games 
 that did it FIRST back in 1990, then like I said earlier, you can't really hold that against the 
 game. So what DID I hold against it? How about the fact that this game was developed for the DS, 
 yet the features available on the handheld weren't utilized. Sure, you could use the touch screen 
 if you wished, but it was much easier and more natural to just use the old-fashioned controls and 
 put the stylus away. Also, the game was pretty ignorant of the DS's namesake feature, the DUAL 
 screen. Most of the action took place on the touch screen. The top screen was pretty much used 
 to display maps, and it was also used in the occasional cutscene, but that was nothing to write 
 home about. SE really should have used everything they had to work with in this game, but instead, 
 they missed a good opportunity to add some innovation to this remake. Graphics: I was very pleased 
 with what I saw in this game. The visual style used matched the mood of the game perfectly. The 
 character models weren't perfect, but they used the capabilities of the DS quite well. I also absolutely 
 loved the colors used in this game. Each environment was colorful and vibrant. As your characters 
 changed jobs, their appearance changed, and not only that, but each character looked slightly different 
 in their job. So, for example if your party consisted of four ninjas, you would see that each character's 
 ninja costume was a slight variation. Very nice touch. Sound:
  
  The quality of the music was quite good. The score itself wasn't too memorable though. There were 
 quite a few tunes that stood out though. That's really all I have to say about the sound...
  
  Value: Those new to the RPG genre might be a little intimidated by this game. There are much 
 better games out there for that crowd. It's steeped in the traditional RPG gameplay that developers 
 are now trying to avoid. Hardcore fans of the genre will appreciate it, and die-hard Final Fantasy 
 fans will want to add this game to their collection seeing as how this is the first time the game 
 has (legally) seen North American shores. Replay value isn't too high in this game. It's quite 
 difficult, the story isn't memorable, and the gameplay fun can be had elsewhere, so once you play 
 through the game once, you may not feel the need to play through again. Overall: As negative as 
 I was in this review, I really did enjoy the game. RPGs have now moved beyond the traditional RPG 
 conventions, so it's nice to harken back to the days of old with a title like this. The storyline 
 and characters are simple, but cute, and even a little funny. A good word for this game would be 
 charming. If you miss the old days of RPGs or just wanna see what they were like, then by all means, 
 get this game. But if you have a problem with spending hours (and I mean hours) leveling up just 
 to survive each new area, then you might shy away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamespotEXE
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Now when I first heard that Final Fantasy III was coming out for the DS, I was overly excited and 
 knew I was in for a treat! It was the 'lost' game in the series, never having come to the U. S., 
 that is, until now.
  
  I found Final Fantasy III to be extremely enjoyable and highly addictive. It's a truly inspirational 
 game, and if you own a DS and don't have one, get it -- honestly, if you own a DS and don't have 
 a game, you're missing out on an unforgettable, amazing experience. Gameplay: 9/10 You know, playing 
 Final Fantasy III really shows you that RPGs have evolved very little over the years, all of them 
 with this same, basic format. The job class system was a vein of fun, which you can tweak with 
 until your party customization is perfect. This game is quite challenging, but the difficulty seemed 
 just right for me, since I LOVE to grind for levels (for some reason... don't ask) . Many sidequests 
 (but few unlockables unfortunately) will keep you busy for hours on end. I found the storyline 
 a bit cliche and rather straightforward, although there were some surprising twists. The only thing 
 that somewhat disappointed me in this category was that gameplay could've have been speeded up 
 because battles that used to take just seconds to scroll through have lengthened to nearly an entire 
 minute due to the new 'polished' look that has been given to the game; some things were also changed 
 that reallly shouldn't've been changed, but overall, gameplay was solid.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 This game probably has the best graphics of any game on the DS, right up there 
 with Metroid Prime Hunters... arguably better, though. Throughout the game, your eyes will be at 
 ease looking at the adorable characters obliterating vicious monsters and bosses with the Ragnarok 
 or pounding them with Meteor. Although there were some jagged edges here and there and the 3D and 
 intro movie/cutscenes could've been smoother, the graphics were generally... incredible.
  
  Sound: 8/10 Nice soundtrack, Square-Enix! You'll be surprised how pleasing the melodies are to 
 your ears, and you'll be even more surprised how nice they sound on the DS, too. My biggest problem 
 here was repetitivity. I was never stuck in a region for too long a time, but grinding certainly 
 could've been more enjoyable with different music. It was all pretty great music, though.
  
  Value: 7/10 My greatest disappointment. You will DEFINITELY get your forty dollars' worth in 
 this game, but unfortunately, replay value was a total letdown. After finishing the game, playing 
 any farther seemed to be discouraging to me... Making a fresh start on another save slot might 
 be a better choice after beating Final Fantasy III... Considering everything, though, and how much 
 the DS has to handle to run this game, this aspect is forgivable.
  
  Tilt: 10/10 This game is the one of the best ones I own for my DS, so I'm giving a ten here. I 
 loved it!
  
  Overall: 9.1/10 Superb | Final Fantasy III is a game that'll attract players of all genres, old 
 and new, novices and veterans, etcetera. In a few words, Final Fantasy III is a completely reformatted 
 version of a superb game, keeping all aspects Final Fantasy gamers have grown to know and love. 
 An unforgettable experience. An unforgettable adventure. An unforgettable Final Fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakule2000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Well this game gave me hope to give trust to Square again..
  
  Battle System is back the Music Style is back....
  
  but the Story...!?!? its .. bland so to 
 say.... anyways onto my review:
  
  Story : ... well at least its better than Final Fantasy 12's
  
  Battle System : Whoooooooo! 
 its freagin' back! its kinda cool to just *poke* the enemy you want to attack ... and it finally 
 gave me high hopes again for FF
  
  Sound / Music : Well it sure sounds FF-ish and that is good ... but I think somethings missing? 
 Graphics : hehe it reminds me about FF 9 ... well hmmm ... Its not the best graphics on the system 
 but it helps give that Vintage FF flavor [huh?] Overall : It welcomes new fans of the series to 
 play the old ones but disappoints some of the older fans of the series.
  
  F*CK YOU ENIX! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 is an anomaly of a game. Originally an 8bit famicon title seemingly relegated to 
 eternally stay buried in the land of the rising sun and available only to the most scurvy ridden 
 of internet pirates it heralded a number of new concepts for the console RPG and the Final Fantasy 
 series in general.
  
  When it was originally released in Japan it was the first final fantasy game to contain what we 
 now call the job system and it was also the introduction of summon beasts. Fans of the series are 
 likely well versed in this sort of trivia but I ll summarize for the rest of you- you start the 
 game with a party of 4 characters in the NES version all of whom are classed as onion knights. 
 You quickly obtain the power of one of the 4 crystals and gain the ability to change your characters 
 class to series staples such as Knight, black mage, white mage, red mage, monk and thief. As you 
 go through the game you open up other jobs such as the newest addition at the time- Summoner. Unlike 
 the future installment- final fantasy 5, in ff3 you get penalized for changing jobs, you still 
 accumulate ability points to master techniques and such but when you switch from say a knight to 
 a white mage for a few random battles your character is virtually useless. It kind of encourages 
 you to change your class infrequently so choose wisely. So the original nes game is the basis behind 
 this DS edition, it features the aforementioned job system and the same general storyline , towns, 
 dungeons and such. They've merely added actual characters in place of the generic onion knights 
 but you still obtain all 4 party members within a very short amount of time in game. The problems 
 that exist in this game; however, are entirely due to it's graphics engine. You either love the 
 gameplay or hate it really, it plays just like the NES version did, no save points in dungeons, 
 classic magic charges as opposed to MP like latter games and a generally high encounter rate and 
 higher then most are used to difficulty. The graphics though, while it is some stunning looking 
 3d considering the console it's on, push the hardware and the limits of the SD cart too far. The 
 problem can be summed up simply- load times and battle pacing. Whereas the NES edition like most 
 classic rpgs on old hardware goes through battles at lightning speed , this new DS version follows 
 the cues from much later entries such as FF7. There are load times before and after each battle, 
 a long load time when booting the game up. Now complaining about loading can seem a bit nit picky 
 but given the high encounter rate I much prefer to be in and out of battle as quick as possible 
 to get back to exploring dungeons and such. To make matters worse , when in battle most attacks 
 have small load times the framerate is low and generally fights that on a simple 2d sprite engine 
 would be over in seconds now take minutes. The worst offense is easily the way the game engine 
 handles magic- to free up processor power the engine switches to what is basically an in engine 
 cut scene of one character doing their magical attack, the spell effect is displayed in lavish 
 drawn out detail and then it loads back to the regular view showing you the results of your technique. 
 It reminds me of summoning spells in the playstation final fantasy games but there is no apparent 
 quick animation option to speed things up. Seeing as there is currently no legal way to obtain 
 an English version of the 2d original version of final fantasy 3 , it's a damn shame that this 
 DS retread comes up a bit short because , oddly, of it's overambitious graphics engine. Despite 
 my complaints and overall distaste for just how old school FF3 is, I would still recommend it to 
 anyone out there with a DS who wants to play a final fantasy game and is able to cope with the 
 problems listed above. It's by no means a bad game but the 3d graphics forced upon it prevent it 
 from being as great as it's north American premiere deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekaman2x
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out slow, like most of the games in the sereies, right when you expect it to be 
 like all the others it takes you in a whole diffrent direction. The game finally brings back hope 
 for the Final Fantasy series being on a porablte divive. Just like in every FF game it has a few 
 flaws. I wish they used the double screen a bit more then they did. I can only hope for the best 
 for future games. Overall i beleive that its a great game for the mass to play and I know that 
 the next one to hit the shelves will be in my grasps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihma
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure if it was me or not but the story didnt seem to have any twists or exciting moments 
 (like the when the knights in FFX charged Sin on the beach and got wiped out.) But what i truely 
 dissapointing about this so called Best in series was the job-class system. Now im not saying that 
 all the classes were the same or just messed up, but what bothered me was the boss fights in corrilation 
 to the job-classes. When I play FFI or FFV I enjoyed building my own team. Now if you havent played 
 FFIII i will explain this. You HAVE to use certian jobs to beat certian bosses. When you find a 
 cache of dragoon armor some ppl would say ok... well spare gil nope, you have to make all your chars 
 dragoons for the upcoming boss (Garuda) or you will not win with his magic hitting all 4 heros. 
 I will be honest, not all bosses are like this but most will require you to change at the very 
 least 1 persons class. Making a team that interacts in its own way is part of the fun for me so 
 when I'm forced to use all dragoons or all black mages to beat the boss it brings a feeling that 
 just left me wanting to quit. And what was worse is having to lvl the jobs, which if you plan on 
 using melee classes (like the viking) you will need to spend some time so they do more then 1 attack. 
 I know most people will disagree with this review or probably complain based soley on the rating 
 i gave it but in short, I wish SE had made FFV for DS over FFIII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furbygan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  This is definately not a remake of FFIII version for SNES! Although the story still revolve around 
 the Crystal, which is Fire, Water, Wind and Earth, the graphic is definitely well improved compared 
 to SNES. The graphic is better to improve as this is the first FF game for DS.
  
  If you have not played FF before and don't know what exactly the story is in this game, I'll brief 
 it to you, probably it'll contain a little spoiler.
  
  Apparently you start the game with a character named Luneth. AS you may know, the game allowed 
 you to recruit a team members of 4, which is the max for all FF game. I shouldn't use the term 
 recruit as the team members in this game is fixed. In order words, you won't have any alternative 
 party members for you to choose with unlike other FF series such as FFVII. In the earlier stage 
 of the game, you'll only have 1 job - Freelancer. The characters in FFIII in Famicom (dated back 
 in the 80's) however, start the journey with a job called Onion Knight. Pretty weird name it may 
 seems, but don't misjudge by the name itself. When you reached LV 93+, ALL STAT will dramatically 
 improved based on the Base Level. The downside is if the Onion Knight job level is before LV 93, 
 all stat seems to be the lowest compared to other job. Besides Onion Knight (which could be unlocked 
 in this game) , they're also other job available such as Thief, Monk, Geomancer, Magus, Devout, 
 and many more. You will gain more job profession as you obtain the other 4 crystal respectively, 
 and each crystal enable you to unlock more job professions.
  
  The storyline for this game is good and unfold as you progress later in this game. Don't feel dissapointed 
 for the map design as it may seems small and there aren't as many town to visit, you'll probably 
 change your mind when you.... (shoudn't talk much, keep on playing and you'll find out that you're 
 actually only in ... at the beginning of the game)
  
  One major attraction for this game is the graphic. For the first time the FF game is in 3D environment 
 in Nintendo handheld device, you will definitely be amazed by it, only for a short time... When 
 entering battle, you won't see any battle gauge like (FFVII and so on) as this game didn't use 
 that features. It's some sort like a turn based battle where the one with highest agility will 
 take action first. Normally you just choose which action to perform (attack, guard, item, etc) 
 then wait the action to be performed. If you wanted to use magic such as Haste to increase your 
 agility, and think you might be able to move first, well, sorry but you're wrong. The only effect 
 Haste does is only increase attack speed, which I didn't even bother to use as you could hardly 
 see the effect. You still remember the job Time Mage or Time Wizard right? Sorry to let you down 
 but this game does not include that job. In the end you'll find out that it's White Mage or Devout 
 (also include Sage) is the one that will be able to use Haste, Aeroga, Tornado. Isn't that weird 
 as time-based magic (that alter the flow of time) that can only be casted by Time Wizard, turned 
 out to be casted by White Mage...? In fact, the MP cost is slightly different in this version as 
 the MP cost doesn't count by a spell MP cost. Instead, each magic (consist from level 1 to 8, where 
 level 1 is the weakest and level 8 is the highest spell) uses count by point/times. For example, 
 you had a level 8 MP of 3, and you had equip it with Flare, Meteor and Arise. Each uses of the 
 magic cost 1 point. In other words, you can either use Flare 3 times, Meteor 3 times, Arise 3 time 
 or cost either of them 3 times. It's definitely differ from other FF version where higher level 
 magic cost more MP.
  
  The battle music sound alike throughout the battle scene except the boss battle theme, which is 
 also the same for all bosses. There aren't any boss specific battle theme unless for the final 
 boss, which sound pretty much like it comes out from a SNES console. As for the bonus, there aren't 
 any extra content that you would expected to unlock such as Bestiary or Music Player. It's a downside 
 for this game and it's the main reason that make this game get a poor rating in the aspect of Replay 
 Value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxgt
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the first final fantasy game that i have played in which the story actually bored 
 me. The game throws you into a dungeon were some crystal proclaims you and some other unknown characters 
 as the warrior's of light .It just so happens that the next three people that join you party are 
 these warrior's. Speaking of warriors that reminds me of the job system wich is pretty good. After 
 every crystal you visit (four in total) it opens up more job classes for you character's thus enabling 
 more skills and tactics for your crew. The dungeons are pretty nice looking and the locations vary, 
 but that does not excuse the game's dificulty. It's can be a very hard game if you don't have certain 
 job classes in your party. And the boss battle's can be pretty tough. So far i have enjoyed what 
 i have played of this game and i would recomend it to some one with fairly good rpg skills, meaning 
 that if your trying to get into final fantasy then start out with another one because this one 
 isn't the best one out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer_of_thor_
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  If you own a Nintendo DS and are a fan of RPGs, odds are you have at least looked at Final Fantasy 
 III. Final Fantasy III is a remake of the original Final Fantasy III for the Famicon, which never 
 made it over to North America. The game that we know as Final Fantasy III is actually the sixth 
 game in the series. The game has been graced with many updates, visually and some mechanically. 
 Final Fantasy III is presented in some beautiful 3D graphics, this is relatively speaking of course, 
 they cannot compete with Gears of War, you must keep in mind that this is on the DS, a portable 
 system. The game really doesn't do anything special with the touch screen or using two screens. 
 The lower screen is where most of the action takes place, while the top screen is usually displaying 
 the world map. Occasionally the top screen will display some text during cut-scenes, but nothing 
 extraordinary.
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, it is more or less your standard turn-based RPG. You end up with 
 four party members and you have to equip them and level them up, nothing new here if you've played 
 a turn-based RPG before. There is a job system in this game, with many to choose from, which is 
 pretty cool, although many of the jobs are pretty much useless. The variety in jobs gives you many 
 possible combinations, which really adds to the replay value of this game.
  
  The story in here is pretty cliche. The world is in trouble, surrounded by darkness, Warriors of 
 the Light must save them, yadda-yadda, you've heard it before. It's not horrible or anything, it's 
 just nothing inventive. You'll stay interested in the game, so that's a plus.
  
  One of the more notable things in this game was that you could not save while you are in a dungeon. 
 So if you die, you start from the beginning, or the last place you saved (you can only save in 
 the world map) . They did add a quicksave feature in the DS version, so you don't have to keep your 
 system on if you want to stop. The lack of saving in a dungeon makes this game fairly difficult, 
 especially when you reach the final dungeon. There are six bosses in there, all of which are quite 
 difficult. I lost hours and hours of gameplay when I lost and had to start over several times in 
 this dungeon. This created a lot of stress, but did give me a more fulfilling victory afterwards.
 
  
  The game really doesn't utilize the Nintendo WiFi Connection all that much, you can send mail to 
 other people, but really, nothing exciting. It would have been cool if they had a battle arena 
 or something, but not a huge loss.
  
  Final Fantasy III may not be the best game in the long line of Final Fantasies, but it is most 
 definitely a great RPG. It is a great buy for anyone that owns a DS, and you will get your money's 
 worth out of it. Once you beat the game, there are many sidequests and such to attain to, so even 
 after 30 or so hours of playing, you technically aren't finished. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone that likes Final Fantasies or turn-based RPGs in general, or anyone looking for a great 
 game on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReggieWhite2
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy I-II, Final Fantasy IV-VI. All of these games have been released in the states and 
 ported over to the GBA. That makes Final Fantasy III, (not to be confused with the SNES FFIII, 
 which is really FFVI) the only game in the series that has never seen a release in America. That 
 has all been changed. Square Enix along with Matrix Software has brought FFIII to the DS in style, 
 sporting 3D graphics and a remastered soundtrack. FFIII makes for a solid old-school RPG and is 
 a fine example of how a remake should be done.
  
  One day a youth named Luneth loses his way and stumbles into a cave where he uncovers one of the 
 legendary crystals. The crystal informs him that he and three others have been chosen to protect 
 the world from impending doom. Not exactly an original story by any means, but what would you expect 
 from a game that was originally released in 1990? Cliched story aside, youll care enough about 
 Luneth and his companions to see this journey through to the very end. FFIII was the first game 
 in the series to introduce the Job System. If youve played FFV or Final Fantasy Tactics, then 
 youre probably very familiar with this system. The Job systems allows you to issue different classes 
 to your party members. A Theif can steal items from enemies and has good agility so more often 
 than not, he/she will be the first one to get to distribute commands. Dragoons are masters of the 
 air and can jump off screen to land on foes to inflict major damage. Unlike FFV, the Job System 
 isnt nearly as deep and you cant mix and match job skills. Only Sages and Devouts can cast high 
 level magic and only Summoners can call upon Odin in battle. Hardcore FFV addicts may be disappointed 
 by this news but it does keep the game challenging. FFIII offered a level of gameplay many early 
 RPGs couldnt match. The Job System here may not be evolved like FFVs but its still a lot of 
 fun to mess around with. Jobs themselves actually gain levels. Like your characters, the job levels 
 range from 1-99. With a some minor exceptions, you can change into any job class at any time. Due 
 to the leveling and some slight stat modifications, your characters may not be as proficient with 
 a new job as they would the current title they hold. Most of the time when you change jobs youll 
 experience a decrease in stats. This can last from 1-10 battles depending on the job youve selected. 
 The longer a character sticks with a job, the better they excel with it. Youd be surprised at 
 the damage a high level Thief can do with a weapon in each hand.
  
  Know that FFIII is and old school RPG. At times the number of random battles can become quite frequent 
 and there are no save points in any of the dungeons youll explore. There is, however, a quick-save 
 feature. If you go in a boss fight unprepared or you havent gained enough levels, you will be 
 slaughtered. For those that like to hunt off the beaten path for more powerful weapons and the 
 like, FFIII does offer a good amount of side quests. Some side quests make use of the DSs wi-fi 
 functions through a system called Mognet. By mailing letters to friends you can gain access to 
 side missions that would otherwise be unavailable to you. Use of Mognet is also the only way you 
 can unlock the ultra cool Onion Knight class.
  
  FFIII was made for all intent and purpose to take advantage of the DS hardware. Fans probably would 
 have been perfectly fine with an enhanced GBA version of FFIII, but Square Enix took things a step 
 further. The 3D graphics look gorgeous and the character designs replicate those of Final Fantasy 
 Tactics. The only thing that really puts a dent in the visuals are the spell effects. Youd think 
 that spells like fira and thundara would look jaw dropping on the DS, but in truth, they look pretty 
 tame. You can use the stylus to move your character around and select items but FFIII is a game 
 where youre better off just using the control pad. All of the music has been updated and while 
 there isnt as much diversity in the music, a few themes really stand out from the rest. If you 
 come into Final Fantasy III expecting a mind blowing experience, youll be disappointed. If you 
 expect a solid, old fashioned RPG experience with gameplay that has aged nicely, then youll leave 
 pretty satisfied. Its taken years for this game to get a release in America and it was worth the 
 wait. When you need an RPG that will burn off 60+ hours of your life, Final Fantasy III will get 
 the job done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-stuart
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This adventure is, my friends, a work of art. It was obviously put together with a lot of care 
 and a lot of love and attention. It is the role-playing experience many have been waiting for on 
 the platform (DS) , and should be a model for other games  in the genre  to come. Magical, wondrous, 
 inspiring  these are all words that come to mind after having experienced what is, without a doubt, 
 the finest RPG (role-playing game) weve yet seen, and will perhaps ever see, on the Nintendo DS 
 system. The story and characters tickle the imagination, and carry the player along on an adventure 
 that weaves through all the colors of the rainbow. Four orphans are  not by chance  chosen to 
 become the Warriors of Light, and it is their quest to bring balance back to a world left shaken 
 by darkness. Heavy! Final Fantasy III does consist of some of those deeply-human themes weve come 
 to expect in most RPGs today, but it is also a light and lilting journey through a magical world. 
 Along your travels youll encounter cute dancing maidens, fat, cuddly birds called chocobos, as 
 well as scores of evil creatures let loose by a dark force that must be overcome. But what makes 
 this game so special, and why do you refer to it as the finest RPG? Is it the battles? Great 
 graphics, right? You love the graphics! Or is it that you just like a good story? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Review: Final Fantasy 3
  
  There are two Final Fantasy games that bear the title Final Fantasy 3, one is the original Final 
 Fantasy 3 that was released for the NES in Japan, the other Final Fantasy 3 is for the Super Nintendo, 
 and is actually Final Fantasy 6 since it is the 6th game in the series released in Japan, but the 
 name was changed since it was only the third Final Fantasy game released her in the United States. 
 This is the First time the original Final Fantasy 3 has been released here in the USA; will it 
 live up to the high Expectations of Final Fantasy Fans?
  
  Story:
  4 young heroes must visit the 4 crystals to help protect the world from darkness. Can all of them 
 overcome the darkness, and work together to save the world, or will the darkness destroy the balance 
 and consume the world?
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are Amazing, this is easily one of the best looking DS games released, right up there 
 with Metroid Prime Hunters, Final Fantasy III is one of the games that show what type of graphics 
 the Nintendo DS is capable of.
  
  Music:
  Another good soundtrack from Nobuo Uematsu graces this game, but I would have liked to have seen 
 the soundtrack re-mastered better that it was, still it was re-mastered fairly well, and still 
 maintains the Final Fantasy Atmosphere well. The sounds are still great and any fan of the series 
 will feel at home just listening to them, but for some reason I felt that the music was below what 
 one expects for a game from the Final Fantasy series, even if they original soundtrack is over 
 10 years old.
  
  Control:
  If you have played a final fantasy game you have the general idea as to how you should play this 
 game, the difference is that this game is based on it's NES original, so you will only use two 
 buttons to play this game, but it would have been nice to have seen more touch screen usage in 
 a game with such simple controls other than just menu options, but alas it was too much to ask 
 for from Square this time
  
  Design:
  The Design is as solid as one would expect from a Final Fantasy game, but something is missing, 
 and I don????? t know what it is, I mean that I keep trying to fall asleep every time I play this 
 game. And that is a really bad sign. I don????? t know I guess it seems bland in comparison to the 
 best in the series, but that shouldn't detract me from this game since it didn't with final fantasy 
 1 and 2 for the GBA, and those 2 games are far more primitive than this game, but this is me just 
 trying to figure out why it is that I don????? t find my self as attracted to this game as I usually 
 expect myself to be as a fan of the series. But what really pissed me off is that this game is 
 not the cats meow, and Square saw fit to charge fans $40 for this game when most of the rest of 
 the DS library sells for $30, I feel that it is not deserving of the extra $10 dollars out of your 
 pocket.
  
  Final Fantasy fans might like this, but if you are anything like me, you might find this game.... 
 sub par.... for that reason I say rent it before you buy it. Especially since for some odd reason 
 SquareEnix saw fit to charge and exorbitant $40 for this game making it the most expensive game 
 available for the DS.
  
  Graphics
  10/10
  
  Game play
  8/10
  
  Sound
  8/10
  
  Fun factor
  6/10
  
  Tilt
  6/10
  
  Average score
  7.6
  
  Final Fantasy 3:
 
  Pros:
  Classic Final Fantasy Game play
  Classic Final Fantasy music
  Amazing Graphics
  Ok story
  
  Cons:
  The Classic NES Final Fantasy Game play seems really dated
  Hey if you 
 want to remake a Final Fantasy game with new graphics how about Final Fantasy 4,6, or 7?
  I found myself bored with this game after a while.
  Costs $10 more than other DS games? Why? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aal9922
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  i was'nt going to get this game at first because i thought that that graphics would be bad because 
 it was on a ds system but i decided to spend my extra $30 so that i can get the game. when i played 
 it, i did'nt want to stop because the game was fun. the graphics are a little cartoonish when it 
 comes to the characters but the graphics are okay. the gameplay is cool too because everything is 
 like 3-d and you have to take turns fighting just like all other final fantasy games... well except 
 final fantasy 12. well this is a good game and is good enough to spend your money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emblazing_Sand5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  If your a big Final Fantasy fan then this is a must pick up game. FFIII will really keep you busy, 
 amazing dungeons, hard core gameplay, complex job system, very nice polished graphics. What really 
 makes FFIII the best game is the job system. The starting job is the freelancer pretty simple, 
 but useless throughout the game. The job system consists of 4 sets from the 4 elemental crystals. 
 There are thousands and hundreds of job combinations so use your brain and be creative ;) .
  
  The 1st crystal is the Wind Crystal- Black Mage (BM) , White Mage (WM) Red Mage (RM) Warrior, 
 Thief, Monk. The 2nd crystal being the Fire Crystal- Knight, Scholar, Geomancer, Ranger. The 3rd 
 crystal is the Water Crystal- Dragoon, Evoker, Viking, Dark Knight, Bard.
  
  The 4th and final crystal is the Earth Crystal- Magus (upgraded BM) , Devout (upgraded WM) , Sage, 
 Ninja, Summoner.
  
  Now there is a secret job called the Onion Knight but im not going to tell you what it is, play 
 the game and find out ;) .
  
  You will be amazed at how the gamplay is. Difficult quests, difficult bosses, difficult dungeons, 
 but in order for these to be easy you have to LVL BOOST. That is the one thing that makes you play 
 for a long time without lvl boosting you will not get farther. Very good storyline, you will be 
 suprised of what you will hear and see. This is an RPG gamers dream come true a truly amazing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunterwithnoend
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  (bad spelling) its pretty fun doring the first part of the game but by the time u reach the final 
 boss its a little old. if your 2 low a level to fight a boss stopping to train can be a pain so 
 you train along the storyline to keep from slowing down. My advice if u need a game to keep u going 
 this isnt that bad, the story line like the rest is pretty good. they still have cid and his air 
 ship. could use some changes in the gameplay . sorry this is a D/Cing review to much good reviews 
 and no bad 1s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I don; t even know where to start! This is my first Final Fantasy game and I just couldn't believe 
 how boring it was!! I just don't know how can people like this games or even like FF at all!!! 
 and the game is a little hard, because you get to face some PRETTY-strong bosses and why you can 
 only save in the outside world??? What is the big deal about not saving in towns or catles that's 
 much better because you don't get to face monsters. I hated getting out of a really LONG dungeon 
 just to save and go in again! I made a mistake buying this game, even if is WI-FI it's not worth 
 it... and also, pretty dumb story and eye-bleeding graphics!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbone4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game has made it as one of my favorite handhelds rpgs of the year. The job system is very 
 classic. The story is cool too. The best part about this game is probally fighting the master of 
 the game. I mean really it took me like 30 mins to beat it. What kills me a little bit is that 
 you have to use mognet to do sidequest of the game and all... But its good anyway. About this job 
 system I LOVE IT. My favorite job is the dragoons GO GET'EM DRAGOONS! The sound is pretty cool 
 too, I still see they kept the classic song. The story is good took me a good 50 hrs to beat it. 
 Keep it up square enix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III has been one of the more confusing titles in the series. Despite the incredible 
 sales of the series and most of the 2D games having been remade or ported multiple times, FFIII 
 had never been released outside of Japan until the release of this game. In fact, due to the different 
 numbering systems in the US and Japan, many confused the game with Final Fantasy VI, which was 
 sold in the US as FFIII. After a very long wait, the last missing game in the Final Fantasy series 
 finally hit Western shores. The end result was an enjoyable NES-era RPG with a nice graphical overhaul, 
 minor story additions, and improved gameplay balancing that will likely please any fan of classic 
 console RPGs.
  
  The world is in danger. The four crystals of light, each attuned to fire, water, wind, or earth, 
 are granting their powers to the four chosen Warriors of Light. The chosen ones are, of course, 
 children. But hey, you can't blame the crystals for picking people who aren't allowed to be out 
 after sunset without their parents, as crystals do not have brain cells with which to make an informed 
 decision. These four have a mission to stop the advancing darkness from dooming the entire world. 
 Sound familiar? Yes, it's much like the first game in the series, and many others afterwards. Remember, 
 back in the NES era, the stereotypical RPG clich&eacute; s were not established yet, though they 
 were well on their way of doing so. Sadly, for a remake that is being released in 2006, most first-time 
 players will be very familiar with the general storyline.
  
  Final Fantasy III's most noteworthy feature is that it introduced the switchable job system to 
 the series. Later found in FFV, FFX-2, and the Final Fantasy Tactics series, FFIII's system is 
 relatively primitive but offered a lot of options. As your party member gains experience using 
 a certain job, their experience with said job would increase, boosting their primary class stats 
 a little bit. Most of the classes do not have much of a noticeable boost as they level up, though 
 some benefit is there. As a result, switching to a job for the first time will still be rather 
 effective, as the character will not be noticeably weaker than one that stuck with that job for 
 multiple levels. There are a few minor exceptions, like how monks are pretty weak at the start, 
 then start to really dish out some damage once the job has gained a few levels. However, for the 
 most part, it gives the player the freedom to pick and switch at will.
  
  One notable feature of the magic system is that, much like the original Final Fantasy, the spells 
 and their associated MP are divided into levels. With most games, each spell consumes a set amount 
 of MP from one common pool, giving you the ability to cast a few big spells, a lot of little ones, 
 or a wide range of possiblities in between. Instead, each spell has a set level assigned to it, 
 from 1 to 8. Each character then has a separate pool for each of the eight levels, with each cast 
 taking 1 MP from that pool. This certainly differentiates the casting classes. Some have a high 
 number of lower level casts but none of the level eights; others provide a handful of level eights 
 but relatively few casts of the lesser spells, and so forth.
  
  While the difficulty was certainly decreased from the original game, it still might give players 
 trouble in various situations. Save points were not introduced in the series until FFIV, leaving 
 the world map the only place for players to save their game. Spending an hour clearing out a dungeon 
 and dying to the boss means that you need to start the entire dungeon over again, losing all of 
 your gained experience along the way. Still, some dungeons are not that bad, while others can be 
 a bit more trying. Otherwise, the game is your standard Final Fantasy fare, at least relative to 
 the first six games. A wide variety of dungeons await, as do the standard array of bosses. There's 
 naturally a fire dungeon and boss, water ones, and so forth. Each still has their hidden passages 
 intact and secret switches. However, holding down a button to lower the camera from a top-down 
 view to one from the side can cause hidden switches to sparkle, which definitely makes them easier 
 to find.
  
  Most of the changes from the original are hard to notice, but generally for the better. The addition 
 of gaining job levels both allowed you to boost that job's power, plus it allowed you to more rapidly 
 switch jobs than in the original. There was also a rebalancing among the jobs. Some jobs were virtually 
 worthless in the original, but became a powerful option in this version; the Geomancer is a very 
 good example of this. Some very powerful optional jobs, the Sage and Ninja, had their power decreased 
 to be more in line with other jobs and were given earlier in the game as a required story event. 
 However, other issues that should have been balanced were not. Late in the game, many melee jobs 
 can do as much in a normal attack as mages can with their limited number of high-level spells, 
 making offensive casters virtually obsolete. Uncontrollable guest characters that tagged along 
 for a dungeon did nothing but follow in the original, but occasionally attacks to help you out 
 now. Some bosses were made much easier (Garuda and the optional Leviathan and Bahamut) , while other 
 optional ones were removed entirely (as in the four guarding treasure chests in an undersea cavern) . 
 The item-carrying limit was removed, making things easier but making the still-present Fat Chocobo 
 essentially obsolete. The characters went from being four generic sprites to four unique characters 
 with their own personalities, but their characters were barely developed and hardly affected the 
 story at all.
  
  Graphically, the new art style looks a lot like a mix between FFIX and FF Tactics. The characters 
 are very doll-like and lack noses by design. Each job gives the characters a different displayed 
 outfit, even in cutscenes and on the world map. Everything is as you would expect from the series, 
 from the pointy hats of the black mages to the white robes of the white mages, the robes of the 
 monks and armor of the warriors. The world itself is a faithful 3D conversion of the original 2D 
 world, and is bright and colorful. Unfortunately, except when you have a menu open, the top screen 
 is pretty much never used, and is totally black. Also when you zoom in to look for secret switches, 
 the textures can become quite pixilated. Nobuo Uematsu's soundtrack returns with better sound quality, 
 and has a number of good tracks. The world map music itself is among the best world themes in the 
 series. Unfortunately, the total number of tracks is a bit limited by today's standards, and can 
 get a bit repetitive in some dungeons.
  
  The game will take about 28 hours to complete, including the optional dungeon inside the final 
 dungeon and other optional content like defeating the higher summons. There is a new and difficult 
 bonus dungeon for this version. However, gaining access to it requires that you use the tacked-on 
 mail system, which you can use to send mail to game characters or friends online. Thanks to the 
 friend code system, you'll need to either send messages to either friends you know, or organize 
 something with others on a message board. Given the one message per hour limit (unless you annoyingly 
 toy with the system clock as a way to speed things up) and the way you'll need to seek out people 
 to unlock content just for the sake of seeking out people, it just feels poorly implemented and 
 will likely just lead to people skipping this content, or just never finding out about it in the 
 first place.
  
  Despite its age, the remake of FFIII helped the game hold up pretty well. Final Fantasy fans will 
 undoubtedly want to pick up this final lost chapter in the series, if only to see the origin of 
 summon spells, moogles, and other features that have become staples of the series. Those who long 
 for classic RPGs will also find a lot of value here, as it's very similar to other notable NES 
 games, and still maintains a totally turn-based battle system. Fans of the newer dramatic and epic 
 RPGs will probably be a bit turned off, however. The tactical turn-based combat may seem slow to 
 some, and there's no flashy cinematics or dramatic romances that the series has been known for 
 since FFVII redefined the series. In the end, unless you simply dislike RPGs from back in the 2D 
 days, there will likely be a bit to like with FFIII, and a purchase will likely leave you satisfied. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brent175
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I'm finding FFIII to be fairly enjoyable, although I'm not sure I would rank it up there with several 
 other Fantasies. I have several problems with it: One, despite the advances in graphics and sound, 
 I think I enjoyed the game better when I played it on the NES. At least back then the gameplay 
 had an excuse for being tedious and uninspiring.
  
  On a side note, isn't it strange how someone (at least myself) can spend hours fighting and gaining 
 levels on a game such as Wizardry or the original Final Fantasy, but when it comes to a remake 
 I have little patience for it?
  
  Anyways, with all the polish that Square put into FFIII you would at least think that they could 
 put some kind of new spin on the gameplay (I'm not asking for much) . I think this game's saving 
 grace is that it's so darn pretty to look at. From simple battle animations to the glorious summoning 
 spells, I will admit that it's all very easy on the eyes. And as a Final Fantasy fan, I'm always 
 interested in seeing new visual spins on old spells and abilities. Another aspect that holds my 
 interest is gaining and experimenting with all the jobs. They have all more or less been tweaked 
 and I find myself eagerly anticipating the acquisition of a new crystal and its accompanying
  jobs. But again despite the bells, whistles and eye candy that come with each new job, the system 
 is archaic and inflexible. If you want to enjoy more customization options for your characters, 
 grab FFV or even VI.
  
  Overall, I'll still give FFIII good marks because it is a finely polished
  offering. Truly, it 
 is lacking in depth, character growth, gameplay and replayability, but at the same time it is well 
 rounded and a fresh take on the Final Fantasy universe that harkens back to an era of light hearted
 
  fantasy. Not only that, but it carries on the Final Fantasy flair and
  isn't that truly why we keep coming back to these games in the first place? Anyways, if you are 
 going to do a remake lets see a real one and not just a rehash
  please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is the first game of the series to land on the Nintendo DS. With that, comes 
 better graphics and what should have been better game play. Unfortunately, FFIII just doesn't feel 
 like the others. First off, you play as orphans. You play through the whole game with the same 
 four characters. But they throw in a bunch of different classes to give your party some variety. 
 You will need to use certain classes to get through certain areas, so that will sort of force you 
 to level up your different classes. The game play is the classic RPG style. You fight monsters, 
 level up, and add skills to your character. Same old stuff. The thing is, this game is just so 
 predictable. When you're doing a quest and you complete it, it's going to lead you to the next 
 one. Then that one will lead you to the other one. And so on. During all of that, its so predictable 
 that you really know what's going to happen in the game and what they will tell you to do before 
 they actually tell you. Another thing that brings this game down is when you complete a dungeon, 
 you usually fight a boss of course. Then when you get to the next area you need to go too, all 
 the monsters you encounter are as strong as the previous boss. So now you have to level up for 
 a while in order to get through it. And it seems that you have to do that each and every time you 
 get somewhere new. It just makes the game so boring. On the visual aspects of the game, it looks 
 good. Not great. The maps and characters have great detail to them. The animations run pretty smooth 
 also. Sounds in the game are okay. Nothing that great. The music is what you come to expect from 
 the FF series. It just fits the game like a glove! So overall, Final Fantasy III is not that great. 
 I don't know if even FF fans will enjoy this one. It's just missing something that made FF so great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Outstanding graphics- a beauty to display on the Nintendo DS. This game will have you 
 hooked for hours. There are many challenges so you won't be done too quickly. The sounds are very 
 good. Enemies are varied and difficult. The story is engaging and suspenseful. The game is unique 
 and simply extraordinary.
  The Bad: Getting far without saving brings annoyances. The sound may get repetitive if you are 
 stuck in a region for a long time. You will need to gain a lot of experience to proceed through 
 defficult regions, so patience is key.
  I have never played a Final Fantasy game until I purchased this one, so my perspective may be different 
 from active Final Fantasy gamers. I just thought I'd let you know this before reading...
  Final Fantasy is a series I never got to play. I never had a Play Station 2 and I never purchased 
 the releases for the Nintendo Game Cube and Game Boy Advance. I decided to start with this one. 
 Man did I make a great choice...
  Game-Play: This game is a challenge the whole way through. It isn't one of those games that is 
 easy until the end. I like challenges in video games- as long as they are good. This game is good. 
 The story is awesome and you have to pay attention to get a full experience of the game. The number 
 of variations you can apply to make your party powerful and balanced is tough to overcome. There 
 are jobs, many weapons, many spells, many types of armor, many items, and many more things. At 
 the start of the game, you play as Luneth who is an orphan. You eventually meet Arc, then Refia, 
 and finally Ingus. These are the main characters to your party and they all have individual personalities. 
 Each one also has a brief history of some kind. In the game you will encounter many main characters, 
 and some even help you in combat. There are many locations so you have to explore to progress. 
 I really like the fighting in the game. You play as your four characters and select methods of 
 combat to perform such as attacking, defending, running away, using items, and more possibilites. 
 After defeating foes, you can increase in level, promising more health, and your job level can 
 increase. Let me talk about jobs. There are many different things your characters can become. Mages, 
 Knights, and Freelancers are some examples. Each of the twenty three jobs promises certain things 
 the others can't accomplish. Some jobs overlap, and it is up to you to balance everything out to 
 establish a strong team. Bosses are the main challenge of the game. I had trouble with a few of 
 them. They are similar to everyday foes but they are stronger, are on a higher level, have more 
 health, and strike faster and more frequently. Some attack twice and even use spells to damage 
 the entire party. Since you can't save right in front of a boss, you have to get past the dungeon 
 and then fight it. This is annoying because if you lose, you have to get to him all over again. 
 Game-play gets annoying in this region of the game. More than one boss may be fought at a time; 
 it gets harder and harder. That's it on the Game-Play. 9/10
  Graphics: This game is awesome with its visuals. I really enjoy the thorough designs. The towns 
 look great and the many enemies and bosses all are different and they aren't rushed. It's not like 
 some dull thought out game that has graphics worse than cartoons launched in the beginning of time. 
 Plus for a portable console, the game does a remarkable job. I've seen worse in games for the Nintendo 
 Game Cube, Xbox, and Play Station 2. Graphics earn a 10/10 Sound: Music is rich and suitable for 
 the mood of the game. The music is great. I also like the sounds of the weapons being clanged, 
 and the noises monsters make during combat (mostly attacking sounds) . There isn't any voice acting 
 but you hardly even witness that in portable games in the first place. The only complaint I have 
 is that when you are stuck in a large region, you will hear the same music constantly. It gets 
 old at one point so it will be in your head and become agravating. Sound gets a 9/10.
  Value: For 35 bucks this game is worth it! You should get it if it is 50 dollars! Trust me, it 
 is worth it. 10/10
  Overall, Final Fantasy 3 is worth purchase. The graphics, sound, and overall game-play is near 
 perfect. I enjoyed this game and I would hope you would too. I hope this review helped you in a 
 way or two. Peace,
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KandPrCOOL
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has a very good plot but is a cheep game in terms of game play and Graphics that make 
 your throw up want to throw up. The game itself has a good story line but it was overall a kind 
 of dissapointing game. The characters look kida freaky and stupid in the begining (expecially the 
 second character you get i call him Arc) . The dungeons are kinda anoying and stupid and the graphics 
 as i said make your throw up want to throw up!87 If you are reading this and havent bought the 
 game yet take some advice and either look for it on eBay cheep or check your local game store and 
 buy it used off the descount rack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PATD123
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game is a major letdown. Instead of telling you how angry i am, i'll tell you how much this 
 game sucks. The gameplay is the normal early final fantasy rpg stuff with some character classes. 
 Big whoop. Although i don't like for games to be linear, i would have loved for this game to have 
 a complete straight path. I had no idea what to do during parts of the game, and the storyline 
 didn't even follow itself. After that nonsense, the game gets extremely hard (the battles are fairly 
 boring, making training no fun.) The graphics are nothing special, a little less than what you 
 would expect from a ds game. The sound is, well, if you know me, you know i never pay any attention 
 to sound, therefore go look at another review for the straight beef. (You have about the same clue 
 what that means as i do.) The value is pretty crappy , too, because of how hard this game gets, 
 making this game not worth its while. The tilt is the only reasonable score, even though most people 
 don't like games that are so hard they make you want to throw the ds through the window. This is 
 by far the worst final fantasy game EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good graphic game considering its for the nintendo ds. The game is a pretty 
 long one too, it took me about thirty hours to get to the end, and I still can't beat the last 
 boss! the random battles do get pretty annoying sometimes if they just keep popping up, but other 
 than that its a very fun game. It definetly has a final fantasy feel to it, like for example, the 
 music it makes when your done beating a battle is exactly like what it is in the systems. Its very 
 fun to because you can dual-wield weapons and that makes you really powerful. You can also summon 
 like the other ones too (it wouldnt really be a final fantasy if you couldnt summon at all after 
 all) . So if you are a fan of the final fantasy games, and you would really like to get one on the 
 go, I definetly recommend getting this game as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eminem550
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Bad
  
  Not what I have expected for a Final Fantasy game, thats because it does not show alot of emotion 
 and there are not alot of taking between characters, and since then I had no Idea who was the main 
 character of the game, thats because the main charecter is the one who talks the most in the RPG 
 games.
  Another thing that disappointed me was that the story line was very simple and ..... well finding 
 crystal type of game, same as FF 1, if they changed it a little it would have been better.
  The badest part of this game was that THERE ARE NO SAVING POINT, how do they excpect us to go in 
 a half an hour dungeon without saving, i mean the past two FF had saving point ,why not this game, this 
 could be the worst thing that have ever happend in th history of Final Fantrasy.
  
  Good
  I am surprised with the battle system, and the magic system, they were both good, which made me 
 feel alot better with this game. I like the graphic a little, but they should have made it smother, 
 because I see alot of crap in the background.
  The music wasn't that bad, but i know Square-Enix could do better than that.
  
  so buy the 
 game if you like old school RPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wazzo_Wisto_2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  well this is my first Final Fantasy game and I found that it's greater tahn I thought it was and 
 the day I bought it, it was the last game in that shp because only a few arrived to mexico so I 
 went happily to my house to play it....
  unfortunately, the wi-fi play is not what I thought, I found that it was just sending messages...
 
  But the game is good and the most interesting fact is that it is almost exactly ike pokemon series. 
 The only thing I didn't liked was that in certain parts you could get trapped or yourself can spoil 
 your whole game.
  But, I will wait the for next Final fantasy game for the DS
  Keep playing your games!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so there are how many Final Fantasy game out? How many verisons of them out? On how many systems? 
 Aren't we tired of this yet? The answer is NO my fine feathered friends. The Big N and Square have 
 been at odds for a while, and finally us fanboys are getting what we wanted after long and patient 
 years. It's nice to play Final Fantasy III, you can see how the series evolved (if you want to 
 call it that) into what it is today. Although personally I haven't been a fan of any of the 3-D 
 Final Fantasys, this game turned my head a bit and I decided to give it a try. In this particular 
 game it's not good characters (Like Final Fantasy II slash IV did) or a good story (like Final 
 Fantasy III or VI did) that drive this game. It's the combinations of jobs that you can create 
 that drives it. It's cool to be able to switch jobs practially in the middle of a fight. The graphics 
 aren't the best on the DS, but the stand close to PS1's Final Fantasy VII. Although you can use 
 the touch screen, you have the option of playing with the button, but either way the game plays 
 EXACTLY like all the previous verisons of the series. Hey if it ain't broke, then don't fix it, 
 although I was hoping for more innovation since the DS is such a cool and interesting machine to 
 begin with. The controls are easy to use and pick up.
  The sounds and music are typical Final Fantasy, good, really really good. This game is for the 
 Final Fantasy collector or if your looking for a strong RPG on the DS. It's not revolutionary, 
 but standard in the Final Fantasy realm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobtralizer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  i love this game because it is a new game in a sense but plays like an old one (because it is a 
 remake!) this game may get boring for some but i love rpgs so not for me. the main problem with 
 this game is you cant save in dungeons so if you lose to the boss (witch is common) you have to 
 go through the whole thing over! But dont think this game is impossible. its not as hard as some 
 say. the only other problem is that to unlock some important secrets you need wi-fi to send messeges 
 via mognet and every time you send a messege you have to wait an hour. over all this is a great 
 old school rpg that i would easily reccomend for rpg fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitch39X
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've ever played in my whole entire life. This one is not the best 
 Final Fantasy game, but it's decent, and worth playing. gameplay is far decent, graphics is good, 
 and the sound is better. It's a good game if you want to try it out. It doesn's suck that bad. 
 It's depends on how you play it good, and you'll find a way to beat it. Final Fantasy 3 is one 
 of the most recommended games in history, and I mean that it is slightly better than Final Fantasy: 
 Chronicles, but it's not better than Final Fantasy 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiall1984
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  this game has it all great story good graphics great sound a job system it is ever thing you would 
 want in a Final Fantasy game i just wondering what nintendo was think not releasing this game 15 
 plus years ago it is by far one of the best of the frist 6 games i still my self think VII is still 
 by far the best ever made in the seires hands down but this one could be a close 2nd or 3rd ever 
 made so i glade i own it i love playing it its one of those games u can play over and over cuz 
 all the differnt thing you can be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zev_1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  As most of the reviews say ---This game has some of the best graphics on the DS. For those of you 
 that enjoy the Final Fantasy stories, this game is definitely for you. By now most developers are 
 starting to notice that good graphics are possible, by pushing the limits of the DS. It's not just 
 a GameBoy with a touch screen.
  If you are patient and have the time, then this is the game for you. If you are looking for a quicky, 
 look elsewhere. As usual, the stories produced by the FF3 gang are great... but the repetitive nature 
 of the battles with monsters can get a bit frustrating. Maybe it's the fact that the same scenes 
 during the battles ad to the monotony.
  Being that this was one of the first games to take advantage of the graphics capability of the 
 game, I think they did a great job. However, in the end, it should always be about keeping the 
 gamers enthralled and captivated with hours of interesting game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr0w0lf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  A solid history makes a great game, it's the case of FF III for the NDS. The job system really 
 makes your options *almost* infinite, although you might need some specific job on a specific location.
 
  
  In my opinion one of the best stories on the Final Fantasy series that explores the unique system 
 of the Nintendo DS.
  
  The graphics are good, but could be even better, so far it's the only point that, in my opinion, 
 could be better worked. Everything else is so well achieved that it can't even been put on words. 
 Just try it out, you won't regreat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  If Final Fantasy III is a sign of things to come, then DS owners will certainly be very happy with 
 the future of the RPG on handheld systems. From the beginning the game feels great, and with the 
 magnification feature, you always feel like there is something that you are passing by that could 
 give you extra boost.
  FF3 brings back the old school fighting scheme of it's namesake with a complete graphical overhaul, 
 that brings the game into the 21st century.
  The graphics look great for the DS, and the little sprites even change when you change classes 
 or equip different weapons.
  The story is a bit of a letdown -- it never really feels motivated. Not to mention that sometimes 
 it's difficult to know where to go next, which either forces the user to search the web or end 
 up in an area full of high level mobs.
  The class system is a bit confusing at first, but you get the hang of it once you realize that 
 there isn't much to it. Any character can pretty much be anything they want to, and as players 
 level up their characters, their job levels will increase and they become more proficient at their 
 jobs. This could mean increased damage, increased mana, or even increased hitpoints.
  Overall, while Final Fantasy III may be just a beefed up port, it is the sign of good things to 
 come. I give it an 8.7, and recommend that you pick it up and wait for the next gen of handheld 
 RPG's on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhiice
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I've never loved my ds as much as i do now since i got final fantasy iii. The game is just an overall 
 kick in the nuts, in a good way. This swift kick tells you that the ds isn't worthless and to screw 
 the psp. The gameplay is like any final fantasy game (the crappy atb system) . The enemies are made 
 very well, except for the fact that a different monster could just have a different colour scheme. 
 The diffuculty is just right, at some times its to diffucult to continue so you have to train (which 
 was a pain in the butt) and sometimes its so easy that its way too fun. The different job classes 
 are just really cool and they utilize them very well. Having to be a certain job class for certain 
 bosses was gold. Speaking of bosses theres so many of them. Twenty-one regular bosses and fourteen 
 optional bosse. THATS THIRTY-FIVE bosses its crazy. The story is pretty cool to, sometimes it gets 
 kinda repetative but still fun. Enough twist in the story to keep you hooked on playing and enough 
 cute looking characters to give the teletubbies and sesame street a run for their money. This game 
 is an overall masterpiece and i give it a 8.9 not quite superb but still really really good. MAIDEN 
 ROCKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  To be honest this game was a bit disappointing to me, not that it wasn't great but I felt that 
 they could of done more to it. Instead of puttng all the nice cut scenes in the preview they could 
 of put some during the game and defiantly one at the end of the game. Maybe have a mini game or 
 make it a no linear game. However let me not take away all the essentials. A classic RPG with an 
 updated graphics is good enough to make any FF fan want to get one. You start playing the game 
 from the begining instead of waiting for a cut scene in which most games in the genre has and this 
 is probably what most gamers want but I am not one of them. And at the first location you fight 
 your first boss with a level of probably 2. There after you are in search of the other warriors 
 of light to save the world a bring peace and balance. The same clechy in which we will never get 
 tired of. There are numerous secret well not secret but optional bosses and items to find. Most 
 of which will make your game easier for example a summons spell can only be retrived if you fight 
 that Creature and you aren't doing it for the summon but you do getting experience points and money 
 and rarely they even drop an item that can give a specific class a tremendous advantage if being 
 used. The classes aren't that great even though there are choices in which is always a good thing 
 but if you ever in your life played any FF games then you know that the White and Black Mages are 
 a must or don't even think of playing the game because I will promise you that you will need a 
 whole lot of leveling up in order to progress to the next scenario. To rap it up this is a great 
 game that a FF fan, Old School RPG fan, and any gamer that doen't like to use the touch screen 
 will like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy games generally have high ratings, due to one or other great feature, or generally 
 the combination of all. However, this version doesn't fire up any.
  
  ~GRAPHICS:~
  Too choppy and dismembered, the World Map is really bad for DS graphic standards. I've seen much 
 better games like Golden Sun on the GBA present a magnificent World Map. The battle graphics are 
 nice, though.
  
  ~SOUND:~
  A nice feature of FFIII. It presents nice soundtracks, but none are really captivating and desirable 
 to hear. This was a remake from a older game, so I don't expect it to be top-notch.
  
  ~GAMEPLAY:~
  This is the best of FFIII. It shines here, as more than 30+ hours of game play combine 
 to give an unique quest. It also brings mini quests which enchant the game's value even further. 
 Quite nice. In spite of this, it present always the same animations when battling, and that's boring.
 
  
  Overall, FFIII is an average game which can satisfy any FF fan. However, newcomers to Square Enix's 
 games may feel a bit disappointed - and with reason, as this game fails in too many aspects. Still 
 fun to play, but only get this if you really like the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: its_liljesse
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  god where to start
  this game is seriously a must have for the ds, and its also a good way to complete the final fantasy 
 seris with this beatutifuly remake of the 3 instalment. the game play is fresh and fun. doesnt 
 use much of the touch screen but over all the game is a well done. the grapics are simplly great 
 the story line a lil dry but still added character to the game. sound is kinda repetitive but all 
 in all a well rounded game which leaves you wanting more.
  
  goods
  *storyline is good
  *gameplay is good
  *unique character system
  *graphics are well done
  
  bads
  *the lack 
 of save points leaves the game very unforgiving
  *music is bland
  *story line is a lil pridictible
  
  a serious must have for anyone who is a fan of the final 
 fantasy serious. you will not be dissipointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trance-Necron
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Ah, Final Fantasy III. With no doubt the best NES FF that had the best of everything, story, gameplay, 
 music. Always has been one of my personal favorites, and I was so exited once I heard it was coming 
 to the DS. And even in 3D with improved story (like there was a lot to improve to an already perfect 
 NES story) , new content and imrpoved music. So, did it live up to my expectations? Hell yes it 
 did. Now let us get on with the review.
  
  First thing people will notice are probably the graphics. From the amazing FMV intro to the cute 
 ingame graphics, this game looks great for a DS game. While zooming in people will notice that 
 it'l lget a bit pixellated, but it isn't that bothersome. The DS can do pretty much for a Nintendo 
 handheld when it comes to graphics, but don't go expecting miracles. Also, this is Square's first 
 DS game. They can't pump out the best of the best just yet. It can only improve from now on, right? 
 Overal, the graphics are quite charming, the quality being beyond FF VII but below FF VIII, like 
 I said, the DS can't do miracles (yet) . The character models have plenty of detail and even facial 
 expressions (cute ^^) ! The world itself is pretty nice-looking too. The world map looks fine and 
 dungeons even better. The best examples for dungeon-beauty, in my opinion, are with no doubt the 
 3 Final Dungeons. Just go and see for yourself, combined with their great music, they are amazing. 
 In battle everything stays fine. The enemy-models are nicely animated as well and bosses look impressive. 
 The spells and summons might not have the amazing, lengthy, flashy effects and animations like 
 in the Playstation FF's, but they are good enough (and close enough to the original spell-effects) .
 
  
  Next will be the gameplay. FF III was the game with the first appearance of the jobsystem that 
 would later be expanded and used in FF V and FFT. And here is where poor FF III takes a hit: It 
 is a shame FF V got released so close to FF III. FF V offered a more complex and improved job-system, 
 putting FF III's in its shadow. It's a shame, really. But even so, the job system still makes the 
 gameplay more interesting and adds to the replay value. I wished tehy kept the Capacity points 
 of teh original, however, it would make changing jobs better. Now people always have to fight a 
 number of battles with decreased stats, and that way players don't really want to change jobs. 
 Even though FF V's job system is better, and with FF V Advance's unfortunate timing, FF III's job 
 system still makes the gameplay more fun and interesting than it was in the first two Final Fantasy 
 games. Moving on to the music, I was pretty much amazed. The original soundtrack of Nobuo Uematsu 
 got wonderfully remixed for this DS version. Every tracks fits nicely with the moment or place 
 it is played in. And although some tracks can get repetive, it doesn't change anything to the quality 
 of this soundtrack. Some of my favorites are The Final Battle and Forbidden Land Eureka, which 
 are in my opinion just that: great. But there are also some tracks that have taken a small hit 
 compared to the original. While the boss music is good, it still misses that 'darker' tune the 
 original boss music had. And Noah's Lute doesn't sound so mystic anymore. But those are just minor 
 complaints and don't hinder the music from getting a nice 10.
  
  Then we arrive at the story. Well, I can sum it up in 3 words: Underrated like hell. Unrightfully 
 this game's story is put in FF II's story's shadow. If we just look at the series' standards, not 
 at personal tastes and likes or whatever, one has to admit FF III wins in story aspect. Sure, it 
 is the average  story again, but then again, can you point me many 
 other FF's that don't have this, now clich&eacute;, storyline? It was no different in FF II, either. 
 FF III was the first Final Fantasy to offer a 'developed' story. By which I mean, a story with 
 background. Even the villain of the game finally had a motive and a backgroundstory. Something 
 which the villains of the first two games unfortunately lacked. There are subcharacters with personalities 
 to spice up the story, and for the DS remake your main characters even received names and personality! 
 There's some good dialogue and a few touching moments in this as well. All changes to the best 
 story of all NES FF's are for the better. I was pleased, yes. Great job, Square!
  
  The replay value of this game is quite good, certainly worth a playthrough or two because of the 
 job-system. The difficulty is just right, and at times I wished they just had left it as difficult 
 as teh original. I honestly can't see were people are getting the 'WAY TOO DIFFICULT WAAAH!!!' 
 from. Some bosses can be a bit challenging, and loosing to one after a dungeon of an horu without 
 saving can be frustrating, but all in al lthis only happened to me once (Salamander) . You may have 
 to train a few levels here and there, yeah, but training goes very quickly. I managed to get from 
 lv 55 to 60 in Bahamut's lair under 45 minutes. It's really nothing impossible. The right jobs, 
 the correct levels will always do the trick. That you can't save on the world map can be a bit 
 frustrating, I agree. 1 save point just before the Final Dungeon really wouldn't have hurt, but 
 even without it I rushed through that dungeon without loosing or even getting close to it. Like 
 I said, correct levels and jobs. Just be prepared when you enter a dungeon. Compared to more recent 
 RPG's, FF III is a tad more challenging, but it is honestly nothing impossible. Actually, having 
 to try to beat a game again, was a welcome thing. There are some sidequests and optional bosses 
 in FF III as well. New stuff can also be unlocked through the wifi mail system, Mognet. Sure, Square 
 Might have come up with something better, and it is frustrating when you don't have access to wifi, 
 but it is not as horrible as people say it is. The 1 mail each hour limit is easily avoided (I 
 got my Onion Knight under 20 minutes, go figure) and the unlocked content is nice. People who love 
 to grind will be happy to learn that there's an Iron Giant and lv99-job level equipment waiting 
 for them. It could have been better, but the wifi content is still a welcome and nice addition. 
 Me myself, I had a blast with FF III. Being able to take one of my favorite Final Fantasy games 
 wherever I go, improved, is a dream coming true. The touched up visuals, the great music, good 
 story (considering its age) and a lengthy quest make this a promising start for Final Fantasy on 
 the DS. If you can deal with the fact that this is nothing more but an amazing NES game on your 
 DS, by all means, buy it, play it and love it. But if you are somebody who expects a FF like FF 
 VII or beyond, you might want to lower your expectations, buy it, play it and learn to love it. 
 Even if you are new to Final Fantasy, don't hesitate to give it a try if you have no problems with 
 improved NES games.
  Gamers, just forget those things called 'today's standards' and then you should have no problem 
 to enjoy Final Fantasy III.
  
  I finally got this classic masterpiece, and it will keep me and hopefully many others, busy until 
 the RPG's of today arive. Final Fantasy started great on the DS with this one, it can only get 
 better. Don't let us down, Suare Enix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmy_Frank
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  Game play ~ Final Fantasy 3 plays just like how you would expect any Final Fantasy to play, a turn 
 based RPG. You travel the FF3 world as the chosen ones to save the world from darkness. The Game 
 play will feel at home for anyone who has played a Turn based RPG before. However the learning 
 curve is not high and the player may feel comfortable after a couple of battles. The lack of save 
 points may drive some players crazy but this will force you to strategize better than before. FF3 
 has an abundance of side quest that utilizes the wifi capabilities of the DS which extends the 
 game play with bonus material like collectable items and even a new job. FF3 Also offers a Job 
 system which allows the player to chose between a total of 25 jobs, each with unique abilities, 
 for their 4 heroes. There is no real in depth explanation of the job system in the game so the 
 player must teach themselves as they proceed through the story.
  
  Graphics ~
  Its not a Xbox 360 or a PSP but the graphics in the game are the best that I have seen on the Nintendo 
 DS so far. I would compare the graphics to those of the early Playstation 1 days. The introduction 
 and various cut scenes throughout the game look amazing but the graphics in the standard game play 
 is nothing to get too excited about. Sound ~
  Like the Graphics in the game, the sound has set a new standard for the Nintendo DS. Engaging music 
 accompanies the player through almost every situation in the game. Although some tracks may be 
 repeated, they never get old.
  
  Value ~
  The $39.99 price tag is not what I expected to pay for this game but as I progressed further into 
 the game I was satisfied with my purchase. The game is lengthy if you take the time to complete 
 the side quest, but if you just stick to the main storyline you may be able to beat it in around 
 20 hours. Replay ability is not really there for the normal gamer but people have been known to 
 go back and acquire a complete file. 
  
  My final Thoughts ~
  Overall Final Fantasy 3 is a Solid game that will satisfy the majority of DS owners. Its presentation 
 is beautiful and its sounds raise the bar for games to come. The game play does not really offer 
 anything new to the table but the game sticks to the proven Final Fantasy Formula. However, not 
 offering anything out of the ordinary, Final Fantasy 3 does what it does superbly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the2ndman
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Overall i think its pretty good. i found it hard to follow what little of a plot they had, was 
 left unsure of where to go sometimes.. but hey id probably skip a lot of the plot anyways and just 
 rush from boss to boss. I personally enjoyed the magic system, even though its annoying to have 
 mana you cant use. The first thing that comes to mind is final fantasy tactics, with the job levels. 
 i found i always had a surplus of gil. Most dungeons have chests with fair sized piles of Gil in 
 them, and you get about as much gil per battle as experience. Definitely worth the time and money.. 
 im probably going to play through 4-10 times using different classes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlade101
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 13, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I got the game and immediately started playing it. It was fun and had a good story right in the 
 beginning. Its graphics were kind of good. Quarter-way in it starts to have a good tilt and then 
 it keeps getting better. Its newer and better than the old super nintendo FF3 game. It makes a 
 good rpg and its fun to test out each job.
  The cool thing is you get to name the playable characters. It's also fun to send mail to the FF 
 denziens and hear their storys. The game is great that all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_alchemist0
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I was real excited when i heard that there was gonna be a FF on DS and even more when i figured 
 out it was FF3. buuuuuut i got really mad at it when i would go through a dungeon that lasted 2 
 hours and was around 10 floors deep and then die on the boss! there is no saving in a dungeon (unless 
 its guicksave which is usless when you have time on your hands) you can only save for real on the 
 world map. so you have to train quite a bit before you go into a dungeon. p. s. watch out for the 
 bombs... they will self destruct and kill one of your characters... and pheonix downs are rare 
 in this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  PROS:
  Using the stylus to do basic functions seems to make plodding through this otherwise generic RPG 
 a little easier.
  Graphics are pretty good, and battle animations look great.
  Leveling up seems to go very quickly since battles usually last one or two turns at most.
  Music 
 is very Final Fantasy. You won't get sick of it, but you won't want to buy the soundtrack, either.
 
  
  CONS:
  Story is almost non-existant, with no character development for your main 4 people. NPCs get more 
 backstory than the heroes.
  Downtime when you switch jobs makes you never want to experiment. Being useless for up to 10 battles 
 after switching was a bad move by the developers.
  No way to know when your job is going to level up. Seems to use an AP type system to level your 
 job, but nothing tells you how much you get per battle or how much you need to your next job level.
 
  Spells and equipment are way too expensive, especially when you have to have multiple sets of 
 equipment for each character when you have to change jobs.
  Regular enemies are way too easy and bosses are too difficult.
  There are no save point throughout 
 dungeons, so if you make it to a really hard boss and die you lose everything.
  No tents or cabins exist in the game, so you have to go to an Inn or find a restorative well (never 
 in dungeons) to get back to full.
  No MP in this game. You can only use a certain level of spells a certain amount of times before 
 you run out. Because of this, there are no ethers or any type of item to let you cast more spells. 
 If you played Final Fantasy I and II you'll know what I mean.
  
  Rollercoaster difficulty and no save points other than the world map really hurt this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amxbox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  well this is a game really worth playing and is really fun! but if you are impatinet you will be 
 fusterated with this game. 1 it has lack of saveing features in it, you cant save before bosses 
 (its stupid and makes the game harder) because if you dont beat the boss you have to start the whole 
 dungon again which takes up a load of time. the top screen is barely used just the bottom one is 
 mainily used but that didnt suprize me there. the graphics were great but could of possible been 
 better... but it was better than 2d.
  
  well i would highly recomend this game and its really challenging so dont be expeting an easy game.
 
  
  =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 20, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  This game just feels like a cheap rip off of pokemon - but dont get me wrong the game is still 
 good
  It just lacks features such a XP etc.. like pokemon has. You seem to be able to do different HP 
 attacks on the same creatures but they all die.. wether u hit 2 or 12 as long as you hit it twice 
 or 3 times, whatever is required
  
  The music and characters have a good design/tune to it. But maybe a bit annoying after a bit the 
 tunes only seem to change when you hit a new city or cave.
  
  Maybe its a DS design, but saving then having to reboot is rather annoying aswell. Pretty much 
 no tutorial is given to new comers so remember to save your game or you will have to reset it all 
 again.
  
  seems overall an ok RPG but lacking the depth pokemon has 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indra_agustia
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a while since there is not much of good RPG for DS. It's basically 
 a nice game overall.
  
  The good things are:
  1. Good graphic. 2. Good music. 3. Good story.
  
  The bad things are:
  1. Mognet, sending 
 mail is limited to 1 every hour. Better find a friend code and do this from the start if you want 
 to unlock some secret.
  2. Only one active screen for some part of the games, like dungeon. Come on ... DS supposed to 
 be Dual Screen.
  3. Short game play even with limited saving ability. Spending quite a portion of time leveling 
 up for the last boss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy was a very good game which surprised me since i am neither a kingdom hearts fan nor 
 a ff fan. at first i wasn't sure that my money was worth the game since i had never played a ff 
 game before, but after playing it i think that I'm soon to be another ff fan.
  
  First off, the game has great graphics which actually contribute a lot more than one would think. 
 Also, the story is so well thought out and as you play you find yourself not only getting immersed 
 in the fame but also on what will happen next in the story.
  
  Another great point about this game is that each member of your party has his/her own character 
 making things even more interesting. The game basically progresses as you are searching for the 
 four crystals and you face certain obstacles along the way.
  
  At times the game can get a bit too hard because you must do certain things in order to advance 
 in the game, making it hard if you accidentally stumble across a new place you have yet to need.
 
  
  Also, this game offers a wide variety of jobs, spells and weapons and armor which you can choose 
 from making you think about what your character is really going to wear.
  
  My advice, if you're an ff fan, get the game. If you aren't, get the game. As long as you love 
 a good long game you can play in short bursts (enabled by the quick save) or a nice long game to 
 play this is for you. It will please any rpg fan, and i give this game a 90/100. Only because its 
 one of the best games i have ever played, but it can get a bit boring due to the constant training. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaliRei
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I was unable to bring myself to finish this one. I really try to give off-line games a good shot. 
 However, this game was not worth the port to the DS. Very few significant changes have been made 
 to the game since the NES release back in days of yore. The plot is painfully cliche and what little 
 has been done to improve it in this release falls far short of acceptable. Well, so what, it is 
 old and to be expected; at least they've got sweet new graphics right? No. The change to the graphics 
 has been drastic but is still not a drawing factor to the game. It is currently on the level of 
 an SNES game, which is unacceptable for a remake by such a large company. Well, at least it has 
 music from a famous composer, right? Correct. Uematsu did indeed create music for this title, but 
 you'll question that fact if you've heard music from FF4, 6-10. It seems that until FF4 he didn't 
 really have the ingenuity we've come to expect from better video games. (During FF5 it seems he 
 had some issues as well but made a massive recovery with FF6-10.) Well, Final Fantasy's are about 
 game play right? That is debatable, but the fact that game play in this title is repetitive, dull, 
 lacking creativity and a level grind against random encounters is nearly indisputable. They try 
 to emphasize the customizing capacity of the job classes but really the classes are one special 
 ability away from being nothing more than equipment changes. The game is unreasonably hard for 
 someone that wishes to run through the game with minimal grinding. To add insult to injury, intelligence 
 and creativity fail to aid the player in this hardly epic quest to finish a boring game. Avoid 
 this game if boredom permits. If not. . . well, I warned you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EffixC
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  Well, as we all know,'FF' now becomes a so awersome word that it means beautiful CG in game, handsome-ever 
 and pretty-too-much characters we can control, and always-contains-love theme. The battle system 
 is also a mark, to help me differ it from other RPG games. But, how can we image when 10 years ago, the 
 FF was just some simple pc graphic in SFC? That's the famous FFIII, which was never released in NA, but 
 now, it's back.
  
  See other FF, from FF1 to FF8 (of course, no FF3) , have been re-made in GBA, PS, but the FFIII is always 
 not on the list. Why not? So, Square-Enix made a great desicion, that's to release FFIII-in-3D on the 
 most hottest platform - DS.
  
  When I first injected my FFIII card into DS and powered on, I was shocked, how can a portable-handle 
 console thing bring me the beautiful CG? Then, in game, all characters are just so cute! It IS good 
 to see the game is in 3D,'cos today's players have seen too much awersome game video -- hey, since 
 we call 'video game', the visual part is - of course - important!
  
  The game system, such as battle system is still the old school, no ATB or sth eles, but the job system's 
 been improved - I can change my job in any place any time, all I need to do is to fight some more 
 monsters to let character be familiar with that job.
  
  To say what, or not, the final battle against Dark Cloud, is too easy, donno why, but I just defeated 
 her in no round, nobody died, no phoenix down used, and... DangDang! I just made it!! Oh, whatever, I still 
 need time to improve the jobs, you know what I mean, the Onion Knight, the ultimate job in FFIII... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  A final fantasy for the DS? Is it to good to be true? Well, maybe. You see, this Final Fantasy 
 3 is the origanal Final Fantasy in Japan that never made it to the USA or UK until fairly recently 
 and, while it does look great and they did a lot od work on it to make it fit in or look even better 
 with today's games, it's still the same old game underneth it all. That's not really a bad thing, 
 it's just that it doesn't hold as much of a thrill (unless you are an FF collector) as before because 
 you've probably since the game's basic mechanics both recycled and update into modern RPGs years 
 ago.
  
  STORYLINE:
  Hey, come on, it's an Final Fantasy RPG. OF COURSE it was good. It's had the typical old-school 
 FF style, a group of typical underdog characters unravil a great mystery and save the world while 
 doing it, all with that beatuiful artsy and heart warming feel. It's top notch stuff, which is 
 why the FF serise still remains a big name in the RPG world.
  
  I won't give it all away, as that would kind of ruin the point in play this one to begin with, 
 but I can tell you how it begins with this white hair dude name Luneth (or whatever else you want 
 to rename him) falling down a hole in the ground into a mysterious cave. Of course Luneth, being 
 trapped and discovering monsters in the cave, begins to search for a way out. He winds up in a 
 strange room with a gaint turtle living in it. Of course he (you) kill this turtle and soon after 
 you do a voice in Luneth's head starts proclaiming him a choosen one and Luneth looks around to 
 discover that the scource of the voice is a giant floating crystal. Anyway the crystal starts reciting 
 cryptic revalation that the darkness is coming and the world is going to end unless Luneth seeks 
 out the other warriors of light and simplely teleports him back to the surface... still utterly 
 confused. As soon as he gets back home the elder talks to Luneth and tells him to seek out the 
 other warriors as well. Needless to say, that does really help him much until he trys to talk with 
 other townfolk about and discovers his freind Arc as does something stupid and dangerous to prove 
 that he's not a coward. So off Luneth goes to help Arc before he gets himself hurt, thus starting 
 a chain of events that leads him toward the goal the crystal had sent him on.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is really simple to figure out altough it does take a while before all 
 the combat options are available to you. It early linear RPG stuff; kill enemys and gain experience, 
 gain experience and level up your character thus improveing the stats. The stats adjust themselves 
 automaticly so there is next to no cutomization other than changing equipment and your job class 
 and even then changing job classes don't effect your over all stats perimantly, so while you may 
 be able to gain levels and change classes your character is basically unmoldable because as soon 
 as you shift classes again your character will be built as if you had never used a different class. 
 The only purpose for stay any class at all is to gain job levels to unlock some moves and occationaly 
 another job class. It may sound complicated when explained via typing, but it's actually very plain, 
 VERY simple, and a slow points in the story, somewhat boring over time.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Downright wonderful, considering it when from a pixialted Japanese game to a new age DS game. If 
 anything, the graphics is Final Fantasy 3's selling point. The even have CG cutscenes in there 
 to spice things up.
  
  SOUND:
  Also wonderful, but you probably already guessed that. Most final fantasy games usually get strait 
 A's on everything reguarding presentation reguardless on how the game actually plays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco2050
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  You'd think that with thirteen Final Fantasy's worth of experience, Square Enix would incorporate 
 part of that experience into the new FF III, but apparently sticking to its roots is a virtue with 
 its fair share of banes.
  
  The battling system takes one major step back, using a turn-based system that relies on your characters' 
 (as well as your enemies') speed to determine who goes first. This is actually more of a bane than 
 anything; you cannot respond to whatever your enemies do to you that turn, and by the time you 
 get another chance, it may well be too late, especially in a boss fight. Even anything that moderately 
 resembles an ATB system will be nice.
  
  Important items like tents and ethers are missing. Furthermore, essential items like phoenix downs 
 are not sold in shops. The only real difficulty of the game stems from these few lacking items; 
 you may feel an urge to shut down your system every time your party member faints, because it means 
 wasting one more (very rare) phoenix down. To add to the difficulty, dungeons do not have save 
 points, which bogs the whole game down. Dying at a boss's hands (which happens often enough given 
 the lack of recovery items) means going all the way back.
  
  The job system is nowhere as flexible as some of the later FFs (e. g FF V) , though it's very simple 
 to understand. Most jobs are versatile; traditional melee jobs like knights get to use a bit of 
 magic as well. The difficulty of the game varies very sharply at different points of the game. 
 New dungeons (and hence new enemies) often seem tough, but after a few battles, they can be defeated 
 easily. The same can be said of bosses, but as mentioned before, the lack of save points means 
 you are ill-advised to try.
  
  The graphics and sounds are the only saving grace (s) . The graphics are along the lines of FF VII, 
 except for smoother polygon for characters. The environments are nicely rendered, and it's a joy 
 to zoom in every once in a while for item hunting. And the FMVs are in 3D, it explores the DS's 
 graphics capabilities to the max. The sound is nothing less from the hands of Nobuo Uematsu. The 
 music rarely gets into the way, blending in with the environment as one.
  
  One of the mechanics that succeeds is the magic/MP system. There are 8 levels of magic, and three 
 spells per type (black, white and summons) . Each level of magic has its own pool of MP, and each 
 spell consumes one point of MP from that pool. It feels restrictive at times, but prevents abuse 
 of high-level spells and forces players to strategise in order to conserve MP.
  
  Final Verdict: It would have been perfect if it had deviated slightly from the original, just to 
 make up for its flaws. Still, a must-have for RPG fans, even for the story and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who plays video games has heard of the Final Fantasy series unless they've been stuck 
 in their basement playing Smurfs on their Coleco. The series has spawned off throngs of different 
 merchandise, games, toys, and even movies! Final Fantasy 3 for the DS is a remake of the Japanese 
 game for the original NES. This version comes with updated graphics and a bit more character to 
 the individual characters but the story is still quite shallow. You do have to keep in mind that 
 this revamped version, the places that were really updated did not include the story. Other than 
 names, and the fact that they are all orphans, there's really not much background to the people 
 you play. You do have a group of four eventually and it doesn't get any bigger or smaller or with 
 different characters.
  
  The gameplay involves walking around and getting into random fights. The battles are turned based. 
 Unfortunately there is no time meter or turn meter so it is difficult to tell who goes next. As 
 another option, you can use the stylus to pick your enemies to target and outside of battle, you 
 can use it to run to the location you point at. Though the stylus doesn't revolutionize the gameplay, 
 it does give gamers another option.
  
  Saving in this game is only possible on the world map. Going into dungeons is a mass part of this 
 game but there are no save points located in them. Some of them are very large with various levels 
 and stronger enemies as you go in. Sometimes, I found myself trying to get back out because my 
 characters were suffering greatly and I could not save! The leveling in this game is standard is 
 in most RPGs except for the jobs. In the game, there are dozens of jobs to select from so each 
 character has a level, and a job level. Jobs can be switched at any time outside of battle but 
 will take time for your character to get used to it again before battles count toward their job 
 experience level.
  
  There are no restrictions to what jobs each character has. All of your characters could be ninjas 
 if you wanted to have that or three white mages and a geomancer. It is entirely up to you. Obviously, 
 some mixes work better than others but tinker around and you'll find the right fit.
  
  As an added bonus, you can add friends over the wi-fi network that Nintendo has provided and get 
 secret items. Although this won't prolong your game experience for too much, it does give you some 
 extra initiative to go and get the Onion Knight class.
  
  Sounds in the game are pretty run of the mill and nothing in the game is going to wow anyone but 
 it is quite adequate and in no way shape or form, a travesty. There are sword slicing sounds and 
 the music on the overworld map can be annoying because it is repetitive but you can zone it out 
 rather quickly.
  
  There are boats and flying airships and submersibles that you can access to make the world trip 
 faster. Another reason this is important is because there are a few secret areas in the game you 
 can access because of it. Spells in the game work on a level 1-8 basis. Instead of magic points, 
 spell casting classes get a certain amount of usable rations. For example, if spell 1,2, and 3 
 are all level 1 spells, they all cost the same to cost instead of one costing 5 Mp and the next 
 8 Mp and the next 1 Mp. Though it has been done before, it isn't much of a change.
  
  The game will take you quite a few hours to finish. If you are trying to get everything in the 
 game, it will take a little longer. What would have been really nice was a real story in this game. 
 RPGs are usually known for great stories but this one doesn't do a great job of that. The original 
 was worse but I wish they could have made this more endearing on a story level.
  
  One very odd aspect of the game revolves around the fact that the DS has two screens but for this 
 game, it only uses the bottom screen. That's right, there is nothing on the top screen, not even 
 a picture. During the overworld traveling, there is the overworld map and the bottom is you moving 
 around but for most of the game, there is nothing but a black screen. This is extremely disappointing 
 that they would not use the technology that is available to them.
  
  If you own a DS, there aren't a lot of good RPGs out there so you should definitely give this one 
 a scoop and give it a try. You won't be disappointed, especially if you yearn for the old school 
 days of Role Playing Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieed15
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played FFIII, it was on an emulator. Yes, I know, shoot me. The point is, I wanted 
 to play the thing so badly that I played a horribly translated port. The result was a muddled gameplay 
 experience and a bad feeling for the game in general.
  
  Now, around three years later -- and many more since its original release -- Final Fantasy is back 
 with its only offical US release. The game boasts updated graphics, interface, job regulation, 
 and some storyline heft that the orignal left out. So how does it stack up against other FF games, 
 or other DS RPGS?
  
  Gameplay: The premise of FFIII is the all time original. A bad guy is using the power of darkness 
 to take over the world and/or destroy it. It's up to the main characters to stop him at all costs. 
 During the game you'll traverse a large game world, numerous dungeons and towns, and fight loads 
 of baddies. The story is freshed up a bit with the addition of actual characters with back stories, 
 unlike the orginal in which they were just clones. (Think FFI.) Some guest members will join the 
 party from time to time, and although they are NPCs they will randomly use an ability at the start 
 of battle which can be quite useful.
  
  Obviously, however, the best part of gameplay is FFIII's historical Job System. Adding to elements 
 from the past two games, FFIII's job system has 20 jobs in all and most are unlocked through the 
 course of the game. While some jobs are rather useless as you gain others (Black Mage has no use 
 when you get Magus, and Magus can even be replaced if you have a good Sage) the game still goes 
 to good lengths to allow you to customize and use a variety of warriors and teams. Leveling up 
 your job and becoming the best Dragoon, Ranger, or whatever, you want to be; is really addicting. 
 It isn't as deep as FFV's, and overall the gameplay is still that of an old-school RPG, but if 
 you give it time you'll become a Job-leveling junkie.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, this game is amazing. It's one of the best, or the best looking game you 
 can own for the DS. The character models are colorful and lively, and I was pleased that they didn't 
 overuse models to the point of irritation like some 2D games I know of. (*cough*Adventure of Heroes*cough*) 
 Like Gamespot mentioned in its review, your character's looks change with its job. I actually used 
 every job on everyone at least once, just to see how they looked. Oh, and even the game world and 
 over map are great. This is just a great looking game. Sound: The game slups a little in the sound 
 department. Nothing obnoxious or annoying, but nothing amazing or memorable either. I could have 
 also done with some more sound effects too. Since when do spears sound exactly the same as a harp 
 bashing someone's head?
  
  Basically, buy FFIII if you like RPGs and you own a DS. I would say that the only reason you could 
 hate or be bored by this game is if you are seriously bred and raised with the new RPG games which 
 feature loads of story depth and character fixation. But come on, the gameplay is great, and it 
 even looks gorgeous -- so have a look at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chime_17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I just beat this game and I have to say it was a good one! There are a lot of things to do 
 in Final Fantasy 3 and I had fun playing. When you start the game you begin with a character and 
 head out on the adventure. When I first turned on the game, I was blown away by the intro video 
 and was excited. Once the actual game started I was still feeling good. This game is a pretty long 
 game, taking me 44 hours to finish it. No to mention that it is a hard game, boy, I had to train 
 for hours and hours to battle some of the bosses! The graphics in the game were not so impressive 
 compared to the opening video but still good. After finishing the game you can still play to train 
 to the highest level if you want but that could take much more hours to complete. Overall, Final 
 Fantasy 3 was great, the adventure was interesting, graphics were ok and there is a decent amount 
 of stuff to do. I recommend it to anyone who like the Final Fantasy series or anyone looking for 
 a cool rpg to play. Two thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKTHECHAMPION
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Well, some people say this game isnt the best Final Fantasy game (these people tend to have played 
 a lot of the Final Fantasy series) . Others say its the best. As you can see, there are many different 
 opinions about this game. I really like this game, and Ive also played Crystal Chronicles and 
 Final Fantasy 4. So, here is a more detailed review of this game.
  
  Graphics: 10
  These graphics are exceptionally good, especially for a portable game. When youre in battles, 
 you can actually see the weapons in the characters hands, unlike in some games. When you switch 
 a characters job, they get a completely new outfit to accompany it, and these outfits seem to 
 be very detailed. And not only are there different outfits for each class, but each character gets 
 a special touch added to their outfit to make it seem more like what that character would casually 
 wear. The bosses in the game look different, and better, in fights that they do when youre not 
 fighting them.. In addition to that, the maps you move to town on are fairly detailed, youll know 
 what something is when you see it, and nothing looks like something it isnt. The more detailed 
 maps, such as the dungeon or town maps, are also fairly detailed, with treasure in the nooks and 
 crannies and secret passage ways that are fairly common. There is also another map, the one on 
 the top screen, which shows all of the world in a detailed way. It has indicators where towns, 
 castles, etc. are, but besides that, it also shows where mountains are, and where land ends and 
 water begins.
  
  Sound: 10
  The music is fairly good, and the weapon and magic sounds are pretty good for me. Like when you 
 attack an enemy with a magic attack such as Thunder, it makes a lightning sound when lightning 
 strikes, or when you attack an enemy with one of the games large selection of weapons, when you 
 hit an enemy with it, if its a metallic weapon, it makes a metallic clang when it hits. Value: 
 10
  Youll definitely get your $40 worth of this game. Ive been playing it for about 40 hours and 
 have yet to complete it. And not only is it long, but its also challenging, and has great graphics, 
 gameplay, and sound. And if you can find it for less money, youre just getting a better deal.
 
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 10
  Well, Im not sure what this means, but I think it means What do other people think of the game? 
 And if that is the case, everyone I know that has the game loves it.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Well, there are several factors in gameplay, so Ill divide it up. Storyline- Great storyline, 
 maybe youve seen a storyline similar to this before, but as the game grows longer, youll find 
 its not the same. The storyline holds many twists, turns, and surprises that almost nobody would 
 think would happen. Controls- Besides a little bit of underuse by the touch screen, the controls 
 feel normal and comfortable within minutes of your first time playing it. Damage Ratio- The damage 
 ratio in this game seems fair, and if you train your characters enough, they can defeat any enemy 
 with no problem. Exp. Ratio- To level up in this game and gain statistics, you must gain experience. 
 The ratio is fair, but remains a challenge if you want to get to level 99.
  
  Overview- 10/10
  This game is very good, with many different weapons for characters, several 
 different job options (I think it's 21 total, but I may be wrong) a very intriguing storyline, 
 very nice graphics (especially for a handheld) , a very good value for your money, a fair damage 
 ratio, good controls, good music, and challenging. In short: This game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grady24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy in your hands. How amazing, no more sitting on your bed for 12 straight hours trying 
 to make your way through mazes full of monsters. This time aroudn you get to sit on your bed, your 
 couch, your computer chair, in the car, going to the bathroom, you name it, for 12 hours trying 
 to make your way through mazes full of monsters. The best part about this game is the vast ammount 
 of jobs you can use at any time for all characters. Also the way you use equip and cast magic is 
 cool. you can only have 3 magics per magic level. and like each level u get say... +2 level 1 points 
 and plus 1 level 2 points. and so then you can cast 2 level 1 spells and 1 level 2 spell until 
 you regain your mp. A few annoying things are the way the top screen isnt used much, its blank 
 for the majority of the time, and also when you are in town or in a cave or castle you cannot save. 
 You can do a quicksave if your battery is dying, which means you can exit the game saved and turn 
 the power off right away, but when u turn it back on you cant load your other saved games witout 
 losing the quicksave. and once u load the quicksave its gone also so if u die it goes back past 
 your quicksave. This game is essential the same final fantasy game you always play but it is still 
 an extremely awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VG_Veteran
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  this chapter, which almost fell off the face of the earth, definitely satisfied raving fans who 
 wanted to close the gap in the series. that's about it. it doesn't serve the purpose of being a 
 decent game. point is, it was far too late to localize it without a major overhaul. and i mean 
 MAJOR. they touched up the look and sound (it would be suicide not to) , but left the game play 
 and story outdated. clearly not enough effort went into it.
  
  oh joy, it's the four elements crystals premise that we all know and love/hate (i wouldn't count 
 on the former) again! i know this came out before they exhausted it, but if it's going to rear 
 it's ugly head today, they might as well make the most of the story with a brilliant new interpretation. 
 this is not the case. your characters are notably improved over the androgynous, uniform nobodies 
 of the first FF III. they are given names, unique appearances, dialogue of their own (as opposed 
 to constant banter from god knows who) backgrounds, and genders (thank god) . something's missing. 
 erm, personality traits? yep, your heroes are still as boring as hell. and so is the plot, so bare 
 bones it hurts. you really ought to know what the four set out to do.
  
  game play isn't pretty either. it is smart in some areas. stats are fixed to certain combinations 
 of job and character level, while performance aspects are determined by how versed somebody is 
 in a job. problem is, once you unlock new (sometimes superior) jobs, you'll abandon your old job 
 and NO benefits will carry over. training in two jobs helps a tad, but doesn't necessarily make 
 one versatile. abilities are cemented to your current job. often times it is only one or two unique 
 actions, so magic (white, black, summon) is about as deep as it gets. so many of the spells are 
 utterly useless in battle, especially black ones, which they completely disgraced in this entry. 
 status ailment spells are horrible gambits and completely not worth it. you'll be using damage 
 dealers (horribly nerfed) and curatives hundereds upon hundreds of times more.
  
  i really can't stand this MP system. it doesn't work! they took it out of the DoS FF1, so why not 
 this game? you're given charges for a certain magic level instead of an MP pool. there's a lot 
 of low level charges, but not nearly enough for higher levels, forcing you to be conservative. 
 spellcasters, as their name implies, are not useful that way!
  
  i can't believe they left CTB in (enter in whole party's commands and watch the battle) . this alienates 
 you from your party since you don't know what order they act in. it lets you think more, but that 
 doesn't help if turn order screws up your potentially brilliant strategy. most of the time, you 
 win before the enemy can even act anyway. packs of foes are pitifully small, and often you'll face 
 solo monsters with high HP. they made it so lone monsters and bosses can act twice, but non-bosses 
 mostly do basic physical attacks that can easily be mended.
  
  the graphics are alright, but not the DS's best. in my opinion, good 2-D is better than bad 3-D. 
 after all, this game is packed with jagged edges and blurs. you wont notice them from a distance, 
 though.
  
  and the sound is well done. while the quality isn't stellar, the composition is excellent. the 
 battle theme is on a short loop, though. the sfx don't really warrant any commentary.
  
  if you want to fill a hole in your collection or experience old-school, then i guess this is for 
 you. if you want a superb game (let alone a good FF chapter) i cannot recommend this to you. look 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnTheGamer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  So this is it? The final Final Fantasy to be released in America and it comes with mixed reactions, 
 but this should be expected since this game was made 17 years ago. This game is of course headed 
 by Hironobu Sakeguchi with music done by Nobuo Uematsu and of course the then Squaresoft. Since 
 this game is so old it is full of cliches but when the game came out they probably were not considered 
 cliches.
  
  The game takes place with the main character Luneth or whatever you choose to name him falling 
 into a dungeon. Once he's out a crystal begins to talk to him. It tells him he is one of the chosen 
 who will save the world blah blah blah. You've heard this story before and the characters are about 
 as detailed as the story is. None of the characters are developed or have personalities, they simply 
 just do what is right without expressing unique ideas. A cool feature in the game is some of the 
 more important NPC's will actually join your group. Now they can't attack every turn like everyone 
 else but every few turns they will use a special attack or healing magic which is useful.
  
  Speaking of the battle system it's not to bad. It isn't like the recent FFs where it shows 
 who's up next to attack; this is old school right? The battles go by fast and you level up quite 
 a bit. The bosses closer to the end are very hard and will require multiple times before you figure 
 out a good strategy. Now this brings me to a big complaint. There are no save points in the dungeons 
 which means if you die from the boss you'll have to restart the dungeon all over again. You will 
 have to power level a lot in this game. The job system is good but not perfect. Each time you want 
 to change a character's job you will have to go through a certain number of battles. This can range 
 from a few for a job like the one you already have or all the way up to 10 for a completely different 
 job such as Warrior to Black Mage. Their are a ton of different job classes and each have a cool 
 move . For a Dragoon it's a jump into the air or for a White Mage it's their magic.
  
  This game easily has the best graphics for any RPG on the DS and in my opinion the graphics are 
 the best on the DS. The enviroments are all detailed although the dungeons look alot alike. All 
 the job classes have different outfits and in the battles the weapons are all unique. The music 
 in this game is great. Done by Uematsu, this is what a Final Fantasy should sound like. The soundtrack 
 is great but a lot of it seems simlar to me.
  
  Overall this game is an easy choice for any fan of Final Fantasy or old school RPGs. People who 
 play newer RPGs will be turned off though by the lack of save points and the amount of power leveling 
 you will have to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  To be fair, I'm not really a fan of RPG's, but I wanted to try something new. Only a couple of 
 things annoyed me from the start, and though I may pick this up again, I'm already bored... at 
 least for now.
  
  I was disappointed by the lack of a gamesave feature to let you save anytime anywhere. Sure, there's 
 a quick save feature, but once you use it, it's gone forever, as the instruction booklet claims. 
 The other, more annoying thing for me was that everytime you backtrack down a path you've recently 
 covered, you have to fight the same enemies again and again. This seriously disrupts the gameplay, 
 and I'd just rather have something more polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Ah, the FF we all played on our emulators back in the day. You remember, right? It was badly translated 
 and pile of rubbish we've come to regard as the worst FF ever. Now, flash to 2006 and it's the 
 game on the DS we all can't get enough of! It has its highs and lows but in the realm of things, 
 it's worth the purchase! Read on!
  
  GAMEPLAY ~
  Like many of my other portable FF reviews, Ill break this and some of the other parts down into 
 positives and negatives I do this so it makes reading it a lot easier enjoy!
  +Positives+
  + Classic FF build doesnt disappoint when it comes to overall satisfactory in turn-based 
 battles and dungeon crawling. Even thought it is an updated version of a game spawning from the 
 late 80s on the Famicon, it feels like an old friend has returned far more healthier and physically 
 fit!
  + The original FF to introduce the job system. With over 20 jobs available in-game you wont be 
 disappointed. Thought not as advanced as later games, but everythings gotta start somewhere. Many 
 of the jobs in-game were used to build characters in the next FF installment.
  + FF3 has an additional character (appearing randomly in battle) giving support to the team at 
 different times in-game, making certain areas a breeze when an extra hand is needed.
  + FF3 takes complete advantage of the DS touch screen by allowing the stylus to control all aspects 
 of the game, from battles planning to zooming in and out on certain objects. The entire environment 
 is touchable allowing you to experience FF from another standpoint.
  -Negatives-
  - The job system makes NO SENSE WHAT-SO-EVER in the leveling department. Its my hypothesis that 
 the leveling is determined by not the amount of battles faced, but by the difficulty of the enemies 
 defeated. I could be wrong, whatever it is, the game does not explain it at all
  - When choosing between jobs the game will state a wait period determined by the number of battles 
 you need to complete before the job takes full effect. Sometimes it's a short wait, sometimes it's 
 not. But if you make a mistake and pick the wrong job than try to go back and choose the correct 
 job the wait time for effectivness will normally be increased, almost double. What is the point 
 of even having a effective period ? It's like an in-game 120 day evaluation!
  - Many of the jobs feel obsolete right as you acquire them (Ranger, Bard, ect.) whilst other jobs 
 unnecessarily become obsolete later on (White Mages replaced by Devouts and Black Mages replaced 
 by Magus) for no real reason other than to fill up space in the job menu.
  - The stylus and touch screen, thought feeling like the ultimate tool seems to be too slow for 
 boss battle navigation and random battle menu navigating. Plus sensory points located for the characters 
 in battle arent exactly fine-tuned. It should be used primarily as a leveling tool and for basic 
 menu browsing / dungeon navigating, for that it is brilliantly devised.
  Not too much to complain about, overall a huge interactive world all with a touch of the stylus... 
 what more can you ask for in a revamped title?
  
  STORYLINE ~ 5 / 10
  The story was originally unfolding garbage and its still that. Even with all the upgrades, the 
 only thing truly changed was the fact they gave each character an identity. Low and behold even 
 that fell flat. Each character has a terrible name to occupy their existence no wonder they were 
 orphaned.
  Play the game for its upgrade and not its lack-luster confusing and worthless storyline.
  
 
  GRAPHICS ~
  +Positives+
  +Even thought it is a 3D upgrade from a 2D original it kept surprisingly true to the original. 
 All of the same areas exist but just now have a 3D look to them. Ah, its like the FF64 we never 
 got!
  +An outstanding CG movie that looks great on the Ds with no serious slowdowns and truly tries to 
 represents itself as a new breed of game.
  + The game host over 20 jobs and each costume is different per person. Each costume represents 
 a little piece of their personality, be it a Dragoon with pig-tails to their emblems in the shape 
 of a shield on the Knights shoulder. A lot of work was put into it each design, and it shows.
 
  + FF3 also contained random close-ups when spells are cast or special moves were performed. The 
 spells werent too impressive (even the summons werent really impressive either) but watching 
 the spell caster get his / her own limelight for a few seconds was like icing on the cake.
  -Negatives-
  - This isn't the first time Square made a 3D rendition of a 2D title (see Romancing 
 SaGa) and just like before, Square decides to take the 2D sprite design literal and form the mutated 
 sprites represented here in FF3. So each character looks like a midget with a beer gut and two 
 peg legs to stand on . This goes for almost every costume design as well. The more bearable appearances 
 appear in later jobs, but for the first couple of crystal classes you gotta see their misshapen 
 bodies in an abundance of well designed costumes this defeats the point Square not cool not 
 cool at all
  An on that point what was with the Dark Knight design? It looked more like a Black Chocobo Warrior 
 if I do say so myself.
  - I appreciate that Square gave me an over-world map, thought small, it was still useful and did 
 its job. Yet there was no dungeon map to behold. True the dungeons werent too long, and none of 
 them truly held any challenge in the long run, but when you get a spell that says shows a detailed 
 map (Im looking at you Sight spell) I want it to perform its given task and that involves giving 
 me a detailed dungeon map. So to remedy this, I purchased the BRADY GAMES OFFICAL FF3 STRATEGYGUIDE!
 
  
  STRATEGY GUIDE ~
  Dont waste your money on it. Yeah, it has a run-down of jobs and their leveling attributes and 
 a bestiary filled with tiny pictures of the monster and no real information given on them. But 
 it is also filled with a world full of errors and misprints. Some of the dungeon maps have incorrect 
 layouts and wrong treasure information. Whilst the dungeon enemy list has the wrong names listed 
 and HP errors to boost! True there is a side-quest information and dungeon map, which is why most 
 people pick it up, but no explanation on Wi-Fi involvement, or how it works to gain the special 
 side-quest. I hope Brady Games are happy they sold me 90+ pages of worthless information, I hope 
 they eventually choke on my money
  
  SOUND ~
  Nobuo Uematsu returns again to re-score a game he originally scored in the 80s. This isnt his 
 strongest work to date, and his best work has yet to come, but it holds well for the given item. 
 The stand-out tracks are the ones youll hear over and over again. From watery dungeon to the catchy 
 random battle theme. Its all here. Uematsu does have one track up his sleeve which was a real 
 pulse pounder, the boss theme. It set the atmosphere to each and every boss battle and made you 
 wish they would never end. Other than that, it feels like the same 5 songs are being played over 
 and over again.
  The SFX are a nice treat with sweet sword slashes and brushing bashings, its a nice array of sounds. 
 An you know why they are so nice? Because they are the recycled SFX from FF7. Yup, almost every 
 SFX is ripped right from that game. Nice recycling job there Square, for once, it worked in your 
 favor!
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  Here is where I was truly disappointed in FF3. Unlike all the GBA re-released FF games on the market 
 with gives you an additional dungeon to test your metal in once its all over and done with. FF3 
 does not offer such a treat. Instead it offers a few in-game side-quest, an optional powerful boss, 
 plus a few Wi-Fi involving side-quest leading to both a new job and Ultima (te) weapon.
  To activate these side-quest you need to use MogNet, which involves you sending messages between 
 yourself and real-life friends as well as the denizens of the game. Since I do not have a Wi-Fi 
 hotspot near me or care in the least to interact with other people with my Wi-Fi, I guess Ill 
 just have to for go these side-quest. Doesnt Square realize that most RPG players are anti-social 
 creatures who dont have friends to interact with in real life, let alone friends with both a DS 
 and FF3 game?
  FF3 does offer you 40 hours of solid gameplay (leveling, leveling, leveling and more leveling) 
 plus a nice quick-save option for the gamer on the go. The game was overly easy with my characters 
 only dying due to my stupidity (low levels) and one character dying during the final bout, other 
 than that, I breezed through it.
  
  OVERALL ~
  FF3 will stand as a flagship title that will launch more 3D FF games for the DS in the near future. 
 Since it was a remake it stayed true to the original, but when given a blank slate to design on, 
 these 3D FF games will truly be a wonder to behold. As long as it stays as it is and doesnt become 
 anything like FFCC than we are all safe!
  If you are looking for the best RPG to hit the DS, look no further than FF3! You wont be disappointed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I just want to say this game looks so deceptive; I mean it looks horrible and hardly any fun but 
 trust me this will keep you out of work/school for a day or two just to see what the next step 
 is. I was extremely cautious of this game for a long time actually, until I heard so many good 
 rumors about it and I hate to admit it they were all right...
  Lets get down to business...
  
  Gameplay: The game play is perfect as far as im concerned, 
 in fact id say its even more fun then some of those more graphically enhanced FF's. It allows 
 you to roam towns and a world map with quick load-time on transfer. There is now job tittles your 
 characters can take on to base there attributes in and make them more effective in battle. And 
 to the people who are more familiar with FF games theres finally less time you need for training, 
 it appears they sped up the lvl up time, but thats where the job tittles probably come in for the 
 extra gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Though the story line is good still, you may not find it stealing your heart or anything 
 because of the fake looking characters lol. Umm they still did add in a great minute or 2 clip 
 in the beginning. God if only DS lite could handle graphics on that scale the hole way threw though 
 im glad it cant cause then it would be price-y. So overall its best described as these graphics 
 grow on you.
  
  Sound: Kind of boring, some of the same old stuff we have been hearing for years on the FF genre 
 yet the quality is good and its not repetitive thank god At least they gave it its own theme for 
 the beginning movie. As expected of FF games
  
  Value: Well I personally bought it cause I had an extra 35 bucks and love FF games but trust me 
 its a good game, you probably wont regret buying it unless you dont have a lot of time on your 
 hands. Otherwise its great
  
  Recommendation
  I would recommend this to anyone looking for a game thats actually worth 35$ Cash, Said and done 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosDrone
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Having never played a Final Fantasy Game before, this was a great game. I have to admit I had to 
 use some guides, since I was not familar as how FF works or RPG's for that matter but now its made 
 me a fan. The graphics are pretty impressive and it doesn't feel to repetitive. Though alot of 
 'level grinding' is needed to help with various bosses and attention to some details is also needed. 
 The job classes are pretty diverse, as well as the monsters you encounter, the story is just 'meh', 
 but I don't mind it.
  Those deciding if to pick this up, should. Totally worth every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormydog1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I was very excited. I am a huge ff fan and have played almost every 
 game. I am a huge job of the Job system, and this game does not disappoint in that respect. This 
 game is quite challenging, and to get to the last game you have to fight more then six bosses in 
 a row (and they are not easy!)
  
  Their are some WIFI capability, mainly being a mail system where you can send letters to npc's 
 and pc's. You can also trade Job Cards later in the game, so that you do not have to master a certain 
 job to get their master master. I was kind of mad that you cannot duel other players of wifi, with 
 such a complex job system.
  
  Overall, this game is a definite buy for all ds owners. I currently have:
  All level 70
  mastered 
 dragoon, master dark knight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 would have to be high up there with one of the best RPG's for the Nintendo DS. 
 Now i told my mates i got Final Fantasy 3 and their reactions were oh my god that game was so bad 
 BUT! This game is not the Final Fantasy 3 you know, the real FF3 never hit any other shores than 
 Japan's. Anyway, the story is about 4 characters that are the Warriors Of Light and are on a journey 
 to even the balance of Light and Darkness in the world.
  
  Gameplay: The story is long and has many places for you to explore. There are many different enemies 
 to fend off and it'll have you staring at your ds screen for a fair while. The game also lets you 
 save 3 different files which opens the door for you to play over again while still keeping your 
 previous game. This game also has Wi-Fi which means you'll be playing it even more!
  
  Graphics: Good to an extent. The out of battle graphics are a little edgy and could be improved, 
 but the cut scenes are nothing less than fantastic! all you need to do is watch the intro of the 
 game and you can tell! The in-battle graphics are not overly horrible, but are nothing fantastic 
 either...
  
  Sound: The music isnt that bad, but does get repeditive, especially since the game is so long. 
 The attacks and magic you use in battle can also get rather annoying...
  
  Value: I wouldnt give it a 10 because of that it is a game that wouldnt change much if you played 
 it over again. While it would still be a nice, long game either way, there would be no alternate 
 ending or anything. The main reason i gave it an 8 was the Wi-Fi option and the 3 file saves so 
 you can play the game over again if you wish
  
  All in all: As i said earlier it is a game that will keep you staring at your ds screen for many 
 hours. I also found it quite addicting.. If your a fan of the FF series you should definately give 
 this game a shot, and if your a newbie to FF (like i was) you should also give it a shot and i 
 bet you'll be coming back for more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hikaru_ultma
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  wow this game is great so far... from what i can tell this game is gonna be hard but not the hardest 
 so far im at the castle trying to get the prince in but im only lv 25 so im gonna train to 30 but 
 so far this game is cool
  well thats all i have to say but im gonna tell u wut i named my characters...
  white hair dude 
 with ponytail (u no first person) : zemmas
  dude with the blond hair comed to his i's: hikaru
  dude with hair kinda like mine that is zemmas 
 best friend: cisco
  chick with red mullet: zana
  ok so thats my characters and heres there stats and roles
  zemmas: blk mage: lv 26
  hikaru: 
 black knight: lv 27
  cisco: dragoon: lv 25
  zana: wht mage: lv 26
  man but i really need to no how to upload videos cuz i just got 1 to upload 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uchiha_madara
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best RPG by the best RPG game maker, Squar Enix. Even though its a classic, 
 playing it didnt felt like classic but rather like ani other Final fantasy games. This game is 
 awesome. I like story which is pretty awesome. This game is also pretty tricky. you must have a 
 Guide, read Faq, or be extra careful to the story line. one thing i hate about RPG is the training 
 part, its boring and time confusing. but since I just thouth about it, It makes me feel as that 
 is the part that makes RPG so good. Alot of training can be oring but it pays off. If ani one asks 
 me aboout this game, Ill recomend it to them. I would give this game a 9.7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjiminat0r
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  If I could only use one word to describe Final Fantasy III on the DS, it would be this: Finally. 
 And in saying so, I dont think Im alone.
  
  The DS has been out for near two years now, and in all this time weve never been handed a good, 
 solid RPG for the system. Square has been teasing us all fall by sending plenty of games out their 
 doors, Mario Hoops and Children of Mana come to mind, but they had yet to deliver one of their 
 trademark breakthrough RPGs. Sure, there were a few half-hearted RPG releases on the systemthe 
 aforementioned Children of Mana, Lunar: Dragon Song, Deep Labyrinth, the list goes onbut none 
 of them managed to strike gold, much less a chord in our hearts.
  
  Here, with the release of Final Fantasy III, RPG fans have something to sink their teeth into. 
 FF3 is a title that, while not perfect, is far and away the RPG of choice for the DS at the moment. 
 First off, its an improvement on an already excellent game. FF3 on the DS is a remade version 
 of the  original Final Fantasy III. This story has never seen 
 the light of day outside of Japan, so it was choice material for the DS first Final Fantasy. No, 
 its not the Final Fantasy III you played on Super Nintendo with Locke the thief and his crew. 
 Sorry. That was a great Final Fantasy but it was actually Final Fantasy VI, so dont go getting 
 excited for a remake of that one. That one is getting released on the Gameboy Advance next year. 
 But I digress.
  
  So heres the skinny: Though youve probably never played this particular iteration of Final Fantasy 
 before, its stalwart components are all still here. As per usual in any Final Fantasy created before 
 1997, there is trouble amiss in a vaguely medieval land, and at the bottom of it is an evil guy, 
 in this example we have Xande, whos working bad mojo on an ever-important crystalor in this 
 case, four crystals. You and your merry band of Chibi ass-kickers will promptly set off to shut 
 Xande down and restore the land to its former Chocobo-breeding glory. While this may sound all 
 well and good in terms of getting your Final Fantasy groove on, it will quickly become apparent 
 that the above two sentences are the extent of the story that will be stretched across thirty-plus 
 hours of gameplay. This, in short, is no good. In order to complete FF3, youre going to have to 
 dig deep into your dedication drawer and muster up whatever tolerance you have for boring storytelling. 
 This is not to say that nothing ever occurs throughout the course of the game, its just that none 
 of it ever comes to bear on you as the player, or your characters. Tensions do not arise between 
 party members. Neither do friendships. Or histories. Or anything that might serve to make the characters, 
 you know, interesting. But thats alright, because it will be your own personal pride that will 
 make it or break it for you in FF3, anyhow. If youre anything like this reviewer, youll be pushing 
 through FF3 solely on the basis that the game doesnt want you to. This puppy is hard like a bed 
 of concrete, and in order to play it youre going to have to grit your teeth and enjoy the challenge. 
 Power leveling will become your go-to move in this adventure, and the purest satisfaction will 
 come from exhaustively exclaiming that its about damn time when you trounce a bossfight. If 
 you can come to terms with this, or better still, if you hunger for it, then Final Fantasy will 
 provide you with the gameplay you need. If you cant see yourself sliding into either of one those 
 categories, you may want to hold out on this one and stay on the bench until Final Fantasy: Revenant 
 Wings hits shelves.
  
  Speaking of pretty games, Final Fantasy III is among the top lookers on the DS right now. As far 
 as DS RPGs go, FF3 sets the bar for visuals. Every character is animated in full 3D and sports 
 a range of animations to supplement their dialogue so that the player can get a feel for the conversation. 
 The world map is lush and the airships look sprung-to-life as they rip across it. Honestly, some 
 of the later airships are a pleasure to have earned simply to fly the about the world to watch 
 their oars slice through the air and their propellers churn it just as eagerly. Your characters 
 individual weapons are modeled for the in-fight sequences, as is their respective attire for each 
 job and the attention to detail does not go unappreciated as its the obvious strength of this 
 particular Final Fantasy.
  
  The other stand-out aspect of this FF title is the job system, mentioned only briefly above. Aside 
 from having specific attention paid to it on the visual front, in the form of specific models for 
 each character in each job and wonderful hand drawn art for each variation of character/job as 
 well, the job system adds a layer of depth to Final Fantasy that is present only in rare cases. 
 Final Fantasy Tactics and Final Fantasy V both sported job systems of their own, but its inclusion 
 on the DS Final Fantasy is a treat just because it is such an uncommon aspect in the FF titles. 
 Admittedly, the jobs23 in alllack the depth that I was hoping for upon hearing of them in the 
 first place, but they were still welcome nonetheless. The idea of being able to outfit my party 
 however I pleased was appealing, as I have an affinity for the Dragoon and Ninja classes, but I 
 was disappointed that the jobs existed as separate entities. For instance, lower level jobs that 
 seemed as though they would feed into higher level ones, such as the Monk class being the seed 
 of the Black Belt class, didnt exist. Regardless of your characters proficiency as a Monk, once 
 the option to select the Black Belt class becomes available, his previously accrued skills are 
 not taken into account and you are effectively starting from scratch. It left me wondering more 
 than a few times why I suffered using some of the lower level jobs, when, in the end, the experience 
 put into them would never pay off later in the game. A minor frustration, but a notable one that 
 annoyed me quite a bit come the halfway point of the game. However, the long and short of it, my 
 friends, is this: if you need an RPG that you can bust out on the go, Final Fantasy III has your 
 number. Great visuals, lots of challenge and considerable length make this title strong enough 
 to stay in your collection for a while. Oh, and if youre wondering about that beautiful FMV sequence 
 in the game thats all over the internetsorry to be the bearer of bad newsyou only get treated 
 at the beginning of the game, and not once more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archais121
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Im already a fan of Final Fantasy but this was above and beyond my expectations I loved  
 this truly and excellent game even if your not a fan you will still like this game somewhat. I 
 dont even know why I'm writing a review when i could be playing it ........ SO buy it and have 
 fun ar rent it to test it out you know whatever works for you i guess........... *cough* even though 
 buying it is better *cough* This game is just so amazing. I love it. Just made it to level 92 so 
 fight on. FINAL FANTASY 3 IS one of the best games for the DS.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  FF3 is a great RPG and for the better part its now on the DS. This game LONG so unless you are 
 going to stay up for about 2 to 3 days strait you are not going to bet this in one flip of the 
 power button. You probably wouldn't beat it that way anyway unless you saved every time you got 
 on the map area.
  
  Gameplay: The Story is weird but very interesting. You are Luneth, an orphan found by Topapa (an 
 elder) and someother lady I forget. (Real nice forgetting your foster moms name.) It turns out that 
 some evil Fat guy turned the town of Kazus's people into ghosts and I don't mean the White covered 
 ghosts. I'm not going to give that away its for you you to know when and if you get this game. 
 Ok so you get a very shy friend of yours, Refia who likes reading over Gamboling (thats how its spelt 
 in the game. Plus you meet up with the blacksmiths Foster daughter not daughter. Plus then meet 
 up with Ingus a Kings soldier. The Kings castle is cursed to. (I Reccomend exploring the castle 
 usefull items plus a sword named Wight Slayer) So you beat that Evil guy and Rescue the Castle 
 and Kazus. Then you met the Crystal and you are now Warriors of the Light That is the taste of 
 the first part of the game. This game is long very long. The boss battles are like 2 hours long 
 for some figuring out how to beat them.
  
  Audio: All the old FF music is here the after the battle music and the main screen music. Some 
 OK sounding sword slashes and punches. There is now Dialog so i can't say resi type dialoge. An 
 alright sound system with the music.
  
  Video: Graphics are Beatiful 3D. The charectors are like dolls and although Luneth has a girlish 
 name and girlish hair he is a guy. Jobs change apperance and by that i mean outfit. For Refia on 
 the Theif job you can see her Belly Button. Weird right. What I wish would happen is if you had 
 Different armor on you could see that armor. To finish up Great grapihcs on such a small System 
 if you will. This game is hard in places so don't expect any like only 1 damage attack and they 
 are down normal enemies like the Goblins. Plus there are Animal like Mages like the Petit Mage 
 that looks like a Lemur in ways. Obviously if they are mages the use magic and can get in the way 
 in one particular or two parts of the game. This game you can even just go to caves and such to 
 get items. Plus some Denizens give you little tasks. If you are wondering there Are Chocobos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Storyteller
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  At the begining it's a little hard to get used to the controls, especially if you don't play FF 
 games much. For a starter game for DS i wouldn't recomend it, but if you LOVE RPG's then go for 
 it. =3 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
 (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) (Blank) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExciteTruck
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is a very pretty looking. probally the best looking ds game out. but graphics aint everything. 
 theres a little thing called gameplay. the game is very challenging and may make you get loco at 
 somtimes. you can pick jobs for your party. you can be black, white and even red mages. so many 
 job combonations to choose from. there are lots of weapons and fun baddies to fight. but the combat 
 isnt that great at somtimes. and the game can feel pretty bland and repetitive at some points. 
 the sound is bland also but that dosent mess all the game up. So the game has some flaws. its still 
 a good game for final fantasy fans. but not that good for everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobwill1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 features a rather idiotic story about crystals, and the balance of light and dark 
 in the world and some uninteresting characters that have no real personality, but is a good retro 
 console RPG.
  
  The graphics look like they came out of a Playstation game, I often thought that they look about 
 as good as Final Fantasy 7. It might look dated by most people's standards I think it looks amazing 
 for a DS game, and is hampered mostly by the lack of 3d features in the DS hardware.
  
  The game uses a profession system, which works by the player picking a profession for each of his/her 
 characters. Each profession allows certain abilities, the use of certain kinds of magic, and various 
 weapons and armor. The distinctions between the classes will seem obvious by their names, and the 
 manual is wonderful in explaining things, which is something that is lacking in many games anymore. 
 The player has a great deal of control over their characters, you can change your character's profession 
 any time you want, which allows you to adapt to whatever situations might arise during game play; 
 however, it's not very realistic, for instance you find yourself on the wrong side of a locked 
 door, just turn a character into a thief and you can open the door; however, the game does require 
 a fairly long adjustment time before your characters are proficient in their new jobs. So, if you 
 change professions frequently you will find that your characters are almost useless in a fight.
 
  
  Speaking of fights, the fighting system is exactly what you would expect from a remake of an early 
 final fantasy game, it is strictly random encounters, and occasional boss fights. Combat is turn-based. 
 One annoying aspect is that when you're planning a strategy you won't know what order your characters 
 will act in, you generally can have a good idea based on your own experience with your characters 
 and it's somewhat predictable, but every few turns something will happen out of the order you expected, 
 and it can make planning coordinated actions a bit more difficult. For instance, if you need to 
 revive a party member during a battle you're going to need one character to revive them, and another 
 character to heal them otherwise the revived character won't survive even the first attack, and 
 if the designated healer goes before the designated reviver, or the healer goes after an enemy 
 then you might end up with a character that is still dead and two wasted spells or items.
  
  The inventory system in battles is a bit cumbersome, to use a special ability (like casting 
 a spell from a magic staff) you need to go down several options on the main menu during combat 
 to items, then you need to select what you're holding in your hand (most easily done by pressing 
 the up arrow) and you select whichever item you want, then you can select your target.
  
  If you like the Final Fantasy styled RPGs, I'd say you need to pick it up, this is the first time 
 it's been officially released in the US after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigguy7786
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Alright I know this took awhile to come out, Since i bought the game the day it came out on Nov 
 14,2006 of last year. Its one of those Final Fantasy you can just pick up and play, old school, 
 the right school. Some people didnt like it, but for the ONLY FINAL FANTASY TO NEVER MAKE IT TO 
 AMERICAN SHORES it was pretty damn good. I admit that they could have used the touch feature a 
 little more better other than just to use commands, when we are all used to button smashing while 
 picking attacks and such. But CHOCOBOS!!! CHOCOBOS!!!! I was very entertained by this game, but 
 it did feel a bit easy, since i beat all the summons first time encounter, and i was either the 
 same level or a level or two beneath them. Anyway, badass game for Final Fantasy fans, and if your 
 looking for a good RPG on the DS. Which is lacking at the current moment. Buy it, Love it, and 
 find some friends to play with it even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadioactiveApeX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  It's not easy to take a game that's almost 20 years old and make it into a present-day blockbuster, 
 but Square-Enix has successfully turned Final Fantasy 3 into the best RPG on the DS to date.
  
  The story in Final Fantasy 3 is almost like a missing link between Final Fantasy 2 and Final 
 Fantasy 4. It continues to develop the theme of the four warriors of light restoring the light 
 to the four crystals like the first two games in the series, but, also, adds more story elements 
 and character development into it like FF4 did. When playing through the game it's easy to see 
 the transition in the series.
  
  The game uses a turn-based battle system like all of the early FF games. Some people have been 
 complaining about this, but, as a fan of the SNES games, I actually find it somewhat nostalgic. 
 There's something very addicting about hitting the A button for attack over and over again. The 
 job system in this game works pretty well. Every time your party acquires another crystal they 
 gain the ability to learn 4 new jobs and any character can learn any job. The only problem is that 
 there is a small transitional period after switching jobs during which your characters will be 
 very weak. This may discourage some players from ever changing jobs. Also, there will be times 
 where you will need a character to be a certain job in order to progress through the game, but 
 you may not have been training any characters in that job so you are forced to weaken one of your 
 characters to progress in the game. The magic system works very well when compared to other Final 
 Fantasy games. There's no complicated gambit system or grid board in this game. You simply buy 
 the magic and then, if your character is powerful enough to use it, you can use it. The only real 
 problem with this game, however, is the save system. You can only save on the World Map, which 
 means that if you are in a dungeon and you run into a really hard boss battle and die, you have 
 to play the entire dungeon over again, because you can't just save right before the boss. This 
 is forgivable throughout most of the game, but during the last couple of dungeons, where you have 
 to fight several hard bosses without being able to save, this gets really annoying.
  
  The graphics in this game are simply amazing. Making this game for the DS instead of the GBA was 
 clearly the way for Square-Enix to go. The in-game graphics look like they're probably somewhere 
 in-between FF7 and FF8, but then the style of the game captures all of the charm from the old SNES 
 games in the series. Both of these styles working together create an amazing fusion between the 
 PS1 games and the SNES games.
  
  The music is pretty good. The game reuses a lot of the same music from old FF games, which adds 
 a nice nostalgic feel to the game, but they also use the same music over and over again which makes 
 it sound repetitive. Also, since most of the music is taken from other games, it fails to capture 
 the feel of THIS game.
  
  The scope of this game is huge and your characters move through about 3 different world maps before 
 finally arriving on the real one. The game itself will last most people somewhere between 25-30 
 hours, which is good for a handheld RPG. Also, there are a few extras like extra dungeons and bosses 
 and, of course, the whole Mognet system adds length to the game.
  
  Overall Final Fantasy 3 is a great update of an old-school game and, if you like RPG's, this game 
 shouldn't be missed. FF3 is highly addictive and i found that soon after I got it I was unable 
 to put it down. After playing this game, I hope Square-Enix changes their mind about remaking FF6 
 for the GBA and switches it to the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty boring in the beginning then it becomes really fun. Sadly the fun that you 
 have won't last you too long because after a short while the game will be over.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the very addicting gameplay that you are going to expect from most rpg's.
 
  
  Graphics: To be honest the graphics for the opening video are pure awsome... Sadly, think that 
 the creators spent more time working on that than on the graphics for this game. The graphics a 
 mildly good but they are EXTREMELY blury.
  
  Sound: The sound has all of the amazing Final Fanttasy tunes that we have come to know and love.
 
  
  Value: Once the game is over most people won't feel like replaying this game all over again. The 
 Wifi features are 
 
  bad that you might throw up. You have to send a message to your friend but the sad part is that 
 your friend has to phsycaclly know when you are about to send a message so he can recieve it. They 
 say that you get a rare item for sending a messege but I haven't gotten a rare item yet.
  
  Tilt: I found the game to be very enjoyable once I got past all the few flaws so I have to say 
 is get this game if you care only about the gameplay.
  
  Please do not buy this game expecting it to be like Final Fantasy 12 or any other great Final Fantasy 
 game because you will be greatly discouraged. Besides That this game is worth getting if you already 
 have bought almost all the other good DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko_goku69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  aa
  a
  aaa a a a a aa a a a a aa a aa a a a aa a aaaa a aa a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a aa a a aa a a aaa aa a a a aa aa a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajaa
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  DO NOT EVER BUY THIS GAME it is very boring and you end up doing the same things over and over 
 again I would never get this game again. there is a job system and it look cool but than when you 
 do it you characters lose there abilities and you have to redo every thing game is very dull you 
 end up getting stuck than beating the part and getting stuck again this game is very boring and 
 you end up having to go out and level up your people or you can get lot some where and do not know 
 where to go. For 39.99 you could buy a game like Mario kart or animal crossing but not this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianozed
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  gameplay- I gave it a score of ten because it is very good and very addictive. It is also the best 
 final fantasy game in nintendo haha
  
  graphics- I gave it a score of ten because it is very good and very addictive. It is also the best 
 final fantasy game in nintendo haha
  
  sound- I gave it a score of ten because it is very good and very addictive. It is also the best 
 final fantasy game in nintendo hAHA
  
  value- I gave it a score of ten because it is very good and very addictive. It is also the best 
 final fantasy game in nintendo HAHA
  
  reviever's tilt- I gave it a score of ten because it is very good and very addictive. It is also 
 the best final fantasy game in nintendo HAHA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megathrowbot2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Almost twenty years ago Square Soft released its Final Fantasy. The next Final Fantasy the United 
 States saw wasn't actually number two however, but four as the second and third games were only 
 released in Japan. As of 2006 though the only game not released was the third installment in the 
 epic series, and now Square Enix has brought that too us with many changes, but still the basic 
 formula you'd expect from a classic Square Game.
  
  The first thing you'll notice after starting up Final Fantasy III (besides a few adds) is a Full 
 Motion Video that spans both of the DS's screens. I was amazed at this, and still am a bit. It 
 looks stunning and if this is what the DS is capable off, then I fully expect to see more FMVs 
 in the future. The orchestrated music accompanies by this heart-pounding sceen is wonderful as 
 well. I've gone through the sequence many times before just to put on my headphones and hear the 
 music.
  
  After this is finished and you've started the actual game you'll be dropped down (literally) right 
 into the first dungeon. The enemies here are very simple, but as an introduction for the game it 
 serves itself quite well. You can move around the map using the stylus, in fact, you can play the 
 entire game just using the stylus, or go for a more classic feel and use the buttons.
  
  The story, although more fleshed out than the original game, is still very simple and rather cliche. 
 Like in the first Final Fantasy you are the Warriors of Light, and you must restore peace to the 
 world by reviving all of the crystals. There are a few minor twists in the story, but nothing big 
 and only enough to keep the plot fresh. Not to say that's bad- it holds a certain nostalgic appeal 
 to those classic gamers out there and provides a nice calm motivation for you playing this.
  
  Gameplay is what made the early Final Fantasy games. And in this case that means a lot of leveling 
 up your characters. Battles are your normal RPG affair. You have the options to attack, guard, 
 use a skill or an item, run, and change the row your character is in. The battles are turn based 
 so you select all the characters moves before the action takes place. The twist in this game is 
 the first job system in video games. After playing the game for a little while you'll receive your 
 first jobs. These can range from a knight and black mage to a summoner and a ninja. Each of your 
 four characters can equip a job, which you'll receive five of after reaching each crystal. Each 
 job has a special ability, the mage classes use magic, thieves can steal, and a knight can protect 
 other party members and so on and so forth. The MP system isn't quite the same as in most games 
 though. Each spell as a certain level assigned to it (1-8) and each of these levels has a certain 
 amount of MP, so instead of MP being used collectively like in most games, it's just assigned to 
 different levels in this game. As you win battles not only will your characters level up, but their 
 jobs will too allowing them to hurt more. Occasionally your characters will be required to use 
 certain jobs, and changing jobs does slightly weaken your characters for a number of battles, but 
 only enough so that you won't change jobs every other battle.
  
  The graphics for the game are just what you'd expect from a Final Fantasy. They're nice and simple, 
 though hold quite a bit of detail truly showing off the power of the console. The textures are 
 very nice and although you may spot jagged lines if you look, the game holds in own cute style 
 with every character and job class having a distinct look. Overall Final Fantasy III is an extremely 
 satisfying remake of an old game. It manages to bring something new to the series while still keeping 
 old fans interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostyLPfan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Where to start, well the graphics are just plain awesome for the DS i wasn't expecting something 
 in 3-D like this. The music that goes along with is awesome as well although it can get pretty 
 annoying if you just want to level up for awhile. The game play is great although when you just 
 want to level it get very repetitive, but overall it is very good. Pretty much the value is great 
 it is a game i would give to my kids when i had them. And the Wi-Fi conection is great . It's a 
 good way to meet friends and have conversations with them except for the fact that it takes forever 
 just to write a letter. Overall its great but instead of me going on and on and on i guess i'll 
 just say go out and buy it if you like RPGs. I'm sure you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poenalime
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Just like i said, great game. I got hooked on it in about the first 15 minutes of play. The graphics 
 are pretty solid for being a hand held, and the game uses wi-fi and wireless connection to unlock 
 a special, optional job, dungeon, and of course, the hardest boss available there. A couple more 
 hand held improvements: the music and dungeons. The sound has gone from beep and boop noises to 
 REAL music! Also, each dungeon has a specific design, making you excited to go exploring each time 
 you unlock a new one. Don't forget the thing that makes final fantasy, final fantasy. The job classes 
 are still going strong! You start out as a freelancer, but as you continue farther and farther 
 through the game, you'll unlock jobs such as black mages, dragoons, ninjas, and black belts. There 
 is also the unlockable job.... The mighty onion knight!! By which level 99 has completely maxed 
 out stats. Over all, if you are looking for a game that will stay interesting for days and days 
 and days, this is totally worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhundley
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Now, I'm just a guy that kind that likes this kind of game, but it incorporates a lot of what I 
 look for in a game. I can compare this game to other classics such as Shining Force and Chrono 
 Trigger. The graphics and sound aren't the absolute best, but for the DS, they are still pretty 
 good. I like the fact that there is a wide variety of jobs and items. If you own a Nintendo DS, 
 it is definitely a game worth buying. It's one of the few games on the DS that will take you longer 
 than three or four days to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jstur14
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun RPG even though the story isn't one of there best. The updated graphics make 
 the game look very good compared to what it used to look like ( Wish they would do that with the 
 rest too, instead of the lame upgrade to graphics they do for the GBA ones) . The DS functions arn't 
 used as good as they could be though, I don't use the touch screen ever when playing it. The Job 
 system is a very good system and it does a good job if you balance them out right. I am enjoying 
 this game a lot and I am about 13 Hours into the game now. If your a RPG or a Final Fantasy fan 
 I would recommend picking this up, The storyline is good but not as engaging as it could be but 
 overall it is a very well put together RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III review - Nintendo DS
  
  Graphics and Presentation- for DS, good; in general, for someone who has played through the PSOne 
 and PS2 generation, pretty lackluster. I'm not a big fan of the character designs, though they 
 have a nice bit of personality. The textures and polygon counts are very reminiscent of Playstation 
 games like Final Fantasy VII. However, there is an impressive and only slightly grainy FMV intro 
 to the game that's pretty nice looking. I can't help but be disappointed that the top screen is 
 almost never used during game play, and is simply blank during battle and dungeon exploration. 
 I was expecting to have the action on the top screen and the menus on the touch screen, controlled 
 with the stylus. With two screens, you shouldn't have to pause the game to access menus. It would 
 have been great to be able to move about the world map while being able to use potions, change 
 equipment, etc. without changing screens.
  
  Sound- Classic Final Fantasy tunes, as usual each song fits the situation. Can't complain here.
 
  
  Gameplay- Solid, classic FF gameplay, standard RPG story, with a bit fewer features than I'm used 
 to. I was surprised to see that there is no optimum option to equip the best armor available. I'm 
 no stranger to micromanaging, but most recent FF games have had it (even the other remakes) , and 
 this game seemed odd without it. The configuration seems to be missing some things I've grown accustomed 
 to as well. No window color change? No active/wait option? And the message speed is slow, even 
 when set to fast. I understand that this is a remake of the third oldest FF game ever, but a few 
 up to date options could have been added.
  
  The game seems to be a tad more challenging than other classic FF games I've played, but, like 
 any RPG where you gain experience points and level, any challenge can be overcome if you don't 
 mind grinding a bit.
  
  The Job system is here. In a nutshell, you pick different classes for each character, called Jobs, 
 which have different abilities. The Warrior is a tank, the thief is quick, can steal and pick locks, 
 the black mage uses offensive spells, etc., allowing you to customize your party as you see fit 
 (to some degree) . However, it's grossly underdeveloped compared to Final Fantasy V and Final Fantasy 
 Tactics. That was to be expected, but because it you don't have the option to cross abilities from 
 Job to Job as in the aforementioned FFV or Tactics (like building a Warrior who can cast White 
 Magic, etc.) , it's not nearly as interesting. There's almost no reason to change jobs once you 
 find ones you like. The magic system is reminiscent of the older FF games instead of the more modern 
 MP system, and while it's unique (magic is divided into levels instead of using MP) it's also annoying 
 only being able to use your most powerful spells once or twice even though your lower level spells 
 aren't cutting it.
  
  One neat thing about the game is that you can control it 100% with the stylus, even for movement, 
 and it works fine.
  
  Overall, I think it was great that Square Enix decided to remake this game for Nintendo DS. I wish 
 they would have added some modern features to the game, like the optimum option and the ATB system, 
 and I would have liked more realistic character models. I also would have loved to see better use 
 of the dual screens. But the gameplay is solid, the graphics get the job done and if you like classic 
 Final Fantasy gameplay, this game won't disappoint. Final Fantasy III for Nintendo DS proves that 
 a good 3D RPG can happen on the DS, so who knows, maybe Square Enix may later make an original 
 FF game for the system that really takes advantage of its features. And there's always Dragon Quest... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnderHell
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Finally, the one Final Fantasy that never saw daylight in America reaches shores. The anticipation 
 was high and finally the wait is over. Final Fantasy III (not to be confused with Final Fantasy 
 III for SNES which was really Final Fantasy 6) is truly a masterpiece worth owning. If there's 
 any rpg for the DS that deserves a shrine to be built for, it is Final Fantasy III. Story:
  Quite cliche but hey, this ain't your modern rpg. A young boy by the name of Luneth falls into 
 a hole which ends up being an unknown cave. While exploring it he comes across a crystal with a 
 mysterious voice that unfolds his destiny. He must seek out 3 other Warriors of the Light and save 
 the world from impending darkness. Saving the world isn't so original but I'll tell you, saving 
 the world never felt so good. The story grabs you and wont let you go till you finish playing, 
 or of course you turn off your DS and forget about it forever. But although cliche it still is 
 quite interesting and very worth playing through.
  
  Graphics:
  Final Fantasy truly uses the power of the DS. Cinematic intro is breath-taking and so are the environments 
 of the game. The detail in the game is great and definitely gives it the Final Fantasy look. Fully 
 3-D and fully kickass. The game-play graphics are well done for a system such as the DS and there's 
 nothing really icky about the way things look.
  
  Music:
  The musical score is outstanding. Square-Enix never ceases to amuse it's fans with a beautiful 
 soundtrack. Final Fantasy III definitely has the Final Fantasy sound. From the dungeon music to 
 the world map music. Everything just seems to fit in place and deserves having the volume all the 
 way up for it.
  
  Game-play:
  Game-play is very traditional and well-worth. Such a classic fantasy deserves to keep its beloved 
 turn-based battle system. There's nothing really complex about the game-play and everything seems 
 easy to get use to. The bad thing is the game can sometimes be really hard and the random encounters 
 can get a little over abusive. Sometimes after every few or so steps bam! there's a battle. Some 
 cool little features could be the use of the touch screen. You can play the whole game using the 
 touch screen although I find it more comfortable using the controls. Also the game has quick access 
 buttons using the R and L buttons. The R button quickly takes you to the menu screen. and the L 
 button can zoom the camera in or out. The camera is a cool little feature that allows players to 
 find hidden items. Some items can only be discovered whilst the camera is zoomed in. Doing so allows 
 the hidden item to sparkle and enabling the player to find it. The game also allows for Wi-Fi connection 
 but sadly not for multi-player and only to send messages to friends and unlocking certain side-quests. 
 A multi-player feature would've really made the game an online experience worth trying. But don't 
 let that empty shell give you second thoughts. The game itself is a must have.
  
  Closin Comments:
  All in all Final Fantasy III is spectacular. But of course every game has it 
 flaws and Final Fantasy III is no exception. Multi-player would've really been enjoyable and the 
 many random encounters can get really frustrating. But other than that the game is unbelievable 
 and surely deserves to be part of your DS collection. If you're an rpg fan and you own a DS then 
 Final Fantasy III is a game you'll love for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowsoul1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is one of the games you could get hooked on. It has hours of game play and many 
 side quests to earn items and spells. The game has you searching all over the world to restore 
 light by finding the four crystals. As you find each of the crystals you gain more jobs like the 
 Summoner or the Ninja. And unlike other Final Fantasies, instead of facing bosses to get their 
 summons, you can buy them for a hefty amount of gil (20,000) or if you choose you could still fight 
 the bosses to get their summons. The summons that you are used to are on here so don't think if 
 you want to summon things, that you cant use your old favorite summons. Even when you finish you 
 can still strive to work for hours try to make the Ultima Weapon. The Game play is Excellent. I'll 
 stand up against that anytime. The DS uses its 3D capabilities to bring this game to a new life. 
 The sound is more of a classic version of Final Fantasy. I would make sure that whenever you had 
 the money you would consider getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avand963
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  first of all i love the fact that the game lets you either use the touchscreen and the stylist 
 or use the buttons. The gameplay is what you would expect from a final fantasy game. It has some 
 cool features such as being able to change the job of you characters. There is also the usual character 
 leveling system prior to ffx where you just progress very methodlogically and you purchase your 
 spells. the story line is solid and easily followed, but you must talk to everyone in every town 
 to get the whole story and to find out where you are to go next. Mognet is a very cool idea, it 
 allows you to communitcate with friends through a sort of email, you can also send mail to in game 
 characters and get responses from them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tionik06
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  
  I have laid this review out according to what I, or any other Final Fantasy fan, would want to 
 jump to immediately and not find buried in long paragraphs. Gameplay:
  
  This is the most gameplay heavy Final Fantsy I have ever played. It's battle system is turn based, 
 which is good because in this game you have TONS of options to consider in your strategies. The 
 job system is nice because while you level up your character normally (HP, DP, etc) the Job System 
 allows you to level up individual skills. The knight job can run in and take a hit for a comrad 
 (which is excellent when you have crystal armor and only take about 1hp on huge physical attacks) . 
 The thief can open locks without having to spend huge Gil on Magic Keys. The ninja can throw old 
 items at enemies to cause damage. The list goes on and on and makes the gameplay really strategic 
 and interesting. I'd have to say my favorite job was the Geomancer. The Geomancer takes the energy 
 of natural surroundings and turns it into a magical attack , but this takes neither mp or hp, really 
 cool. Oh, one more thing, NO MINI GAMES! Story:
  
  This is a part that, compared to other Final Fantasy games, severely lacks. The story is basic. 
 Darkness is taking over the world and you and 3 other friends must capture the light of the 4 crystals 
 to defeat it. There are no Final Fantasy mind jobs like in FFVII or FFVIII or even so much as FFX 
 where the characters' worlds get turned upside down and beleifs come into question. It is always 
 just, we gather the crystal light, we kill dark stuff. Another weak point is that the scenes where 
 certain characters die is not fully exploited. Like three people the characters know die, and not 
 so much as a tear is shed, unlike all of us did for Aerith in FFVII. So expect a very standard 
 old school story. saaaaadness. However this is sort of expected seing as this game's time is so 
 close to FFI and FFII which had crappy stories too. Music:
  
  Well perhaps excellent Final Fantasy music makes up for this? Not quite. Although there are a few 
 good songs in the game, the rest get pretty annoying. Not only are there only about 12 songs total, 
 but for some reason they are all low in sound quality and noticeably distorted when wearing headphones 
 or jacked into decent speakers. Movies:
  
  Upon first loading the game and seeing the intro movie, I had a feeling this game would be awesome. 
 The trouble is that the intro movie is deceptive. I thought it was a sort of collage of the movies 
 to come while playing the game. Sadly, no. Not only do the scenes in the intro movie never happen 
 (which sucks cause they look like they could have really enhanced the storyline) , but there are 
 no movies throughout the game AT ALL. Saving:
  
  Saving is done a bit differently in this game than other FF titles. There is a quicksave (can use 
 while in dungeons, but gets deleted as soon as you load it) , and there is a map save. With map 
 saves you can save anytime on any world map and it is really convenient......... except at the 
 end of the game. It is absolutely unforgivable that for the last 3-4 hours of this game, you have 
 to fight through excruciatingly difficult enemies as well as 6-10 bosses without ONE SINGLE SAVE 
 POINT! Overall:
  
  The game at least looks good in it's 3d, and is very enjoyable if you like old school rpg's where 
 it is mostly about gameplay and not the story. If you get this game dont expect it to take over 
 your life like more recent Final Fantasy titles. It is exactly what it says it is. A remake of 
 Final Fantasy III, an old school RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urbanninja11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  I don't know where to start this is such a great game. the music is catchy and you will be humming 
 it all day. the charcters are memorable and you will get a laugh out of them very frequently. this 
 is role-playing at its simplest and is very straightforward. its basically just, you take your 
 turn and the enemy takes their turn. You get awesome magic and summons too. personally I prefer 
 the summoner's summon magic more then the magus's black magic because the summons are really cool 
 and deal way more damage then black magic. than there's white magic. you know like healing, buffing 
 your charcters, and few attacking spells. it just feels really good when your about to die and 
 you get that one last curaja in. you can than breathe a sigh of relief. oh, I almost forgot there's 
 also 23 job classes in the game which you unlock as you progress through the story. you can change 
 your job freely anywhere outside of battle. there is much difference in every job and they all 
 have their own special abilities. for instance the warrior has an ability called advance which 
 more then doubles your attack but slightly lowers your defence. so its probably not such a good 
 idea to use that ability on bosses. this is a very lengthy game it took me more then 55 hours to 
 complete the game but thats because i take my time and i mess around a lot too. this is my first 
 final fantasy game and i enjoyed it very much. its a great place to start if your new to the final 
 fantasy series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaker08
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  When I picked up this game.... Wow. This is a true FF game to say the least. The story's there, 
 the sound and music is amazing, and the graphics (especially the opening FMV) are really good looking 
 for an handheld like the Nintendo DS.
  
  Story: The storyline may not be amazing by today's standards, but when you think about it, it's 
 improved a lot from the original. While there aren't many scenes, this game, unlike the earlier 
 FF games, gives each character a distinct personality. There's some very good character development 
 in this game as well.
  
  Gameplay: Turn-Based battle. Gotta love it. Don't expect it to be easy though. This game was made 
 way back when, when developers weren't afraid to give you a challenge, and this game is no different. 
 You may find yourself at times having to grind for an hour or two to beat a difficult boss, which 
 isn't that big of a deal, because while battling may get repetitive every once in a while, it's 
 still quite fun. There are a multitude of different jobs to pick from for your party, and each 
 one has it's own look and feel. Whenever you change jobs, your character's look changes to reflect 
 it, such as being covered in gold armor when changing to dragoon, or taking the silver armor look 
 for becoming a Knight. Exploring caverns and caves and other types of dungeon's is actually fun, 
 as you don't run into that many random battles, and exploring is pretty cool in this game. Speaking 
 of exploring, something that has been added to this game is the ability to zoom into the map in 
 order to find small shining spots on the ground. This could be anything from Phoenix Downs to different 
 weapons or armor. Graphics: The graphics in this game are stunning. The full 3D looks very well 
 on the DS. It stuns you before you even start the game with the best FMV i've ever seen on a handheld. 
 The characters look great, the monsters look great, and the environments are pretty good too. Sound: 
 Every Final Fantasy so far has had an incredible soundtrack and this one is no different. The music 
 in this game catches you and pulls you in. It's peaceful when it wants to be peaceful and it's 
 angry when it wants to be angry. It's amazing what it does with the DS capabilities.
  
  In closing, this is a game I recommend for all DS owners who love RPG's. This is by far the best 
 RPG for the DS. While it may be a little challenging at times, you'll come out of it knowing that 
 you did a great job on a incredible game. It's probably the best DS game i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  At long last Square Enix brings Final Fantasy III to those of us that don't reside in Japan. With 
 it I have mixed feelings but let's go through the postives first. The graphics in thjs game are 
 awesome even thought characters are kind of blocky. The enviroments are stunning for a DS RPG. 
 Graphically this game does set the bar for future DS RPGs.
  
  The sound design is wonderful from the music in the opening sequence to the in-game soundtrack. 
 Everything you expect from a Final Fantasy game's audio is here including the now famous victory 
 music. Now that the good stuff is out of the way here are my main problems with this game.
  
  Combat is BORING. Now you're probably thinking to yourself that I've never played an RPG before. 
 Wrong. I like RPGs esecially Golden Sun for the GBA but in Final Fantasy III combat seems tacked 
 on. The stylus doesn't get much love and even with the inclusion of Job classes combat feels stale 
 and considering this is a role-playing game, that is a very, very bad thing.
  
  In terms of story, something about orphans. It's the standard RPG fair and you really won't care. 
 Bottom line: Hardcore FF fans pick this up, everyone else leave it alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkej
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is the lastest Final Fantasy out and the next Final Fantasy is coming out later 
 this year. The graphics are great the gameplay is ok but in total it is the best rpg that I have 
 seen, as for sound it is a little low but the value is great, it will be sold at around AU$60 which 
 is pretty good for all of this and it is the best game for the gamers who like to spend hours playing 
 if you don't like playing for a long time well then it mustn't be the game for you. Review by parkej 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twit92
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III had a good storyline but the job system can get really annoying and the game 
 will lose its funnessosity unless you stay as one job for the whole game and it takes to long to 
 get new jobs and some of the battles require you to switch jobs so then you have to train for hours 
 to get the job level up to where your last job level was.... ugh. Another thing I hate is that you 
 can only save on the overworld which is the worst idea they ever had because the older Final Fantasy 
 is known for there long and many floored dungeons and it made me want to throw the DS against the 
 wall and smash it with a baseball bat, especially when I got to the boss battle and  
 had to start again up the stupid tower and fight all the same battles AGAIN....... ugh. I also didn't 
 like that I had to waste my spells on myself to get to where I needed but that was only when Desch 
 was in my party and could also be just me. If all of this still sounds fun after reading this be 
 my guest. OH..... and if you reveiw games like I started doing always put the reveiwers tilt to ten. I 
 hate it when people dont because there will always be a reveiwers tilt even if you said the game 
 was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunkAtYourNeck
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Boasting what are no doubt the best graphics on the DS right, as well as an impressive musical 
 score and a stunning opening FMV, Final Fantasy III is really a case of flash over substance. This 
 is not to say the game isn't fun, but with so much effort put into the aesthetics, it's no wonder 
 the story-telling really comes up lacking.
  
  Final Fantasy III's gameplay isn't so different from other RPGs, but what make other RPGs much 
 more engaging is their method of storytelling. Traveling from dungeon to dungeon or town to town 
 often times felt like you're controlling a party attempting to accomplish their goal. Well, while 
 the party's goal is pretty clear from the beginning of the game, the party of Final Fantasy III 
 more often than not feels like its constantly getting trapped in everyone else's problems. What's 
 worse is that when things finally do move, the horribly primitive dialogue hinders the believiblity 
 of the events, so it just isn't compelling. In addition, the cast of Final Fantasy III undergoes 
 nill character development and nothing really makes the party members stand out from other RPG 
 characters.
  
  However, the gameplay is still quite enjoyable. There are over 20 different jobs to build your 
 party with which leads to a ton of customization options and leaves plenty of room for the player 
 to have fun and experiment. Unfortunately, the unforgiving encounter rate and lack of save points 
 can sometimes amke the journey feel like a drag, but as of now, it manages to be the definitive 
 RPG for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  This was the first Final Fantasy game I've ever played and it turned out to be a great game. A 
 game that is so deep and addictive is hard to put down. What can I say? This game has some great 
 redeeming qualities to it. Gameplay: This is all about travelling to towns far and wide and to 
 battle all sorts of ugly enemies and bosses. The combat system is awesome, but it just gets so 
 darn repetitive. This is the main flow of the game.
  1. Enter a new town.
  2. Figure out the problem.
  3. Enter the cave or dungeon.
  4. Battle enemies in your path.
 
  5. Defeat the boss.
  6. Town rejoices and the day is saved.
  7. Repeat.
  At least the battling has some action to it and the set up is well done. Just the repetitive, monotonous 
 hacking, slicing and dicing gets stale after a while. However, it is strangely addicting, I just 
 want to save the day again...
  
  Graphics: Pretty cool looking. I like all the character figures, they look cute and adorable. Which 
 is strange, because they look nothing like the characters in the manual. Instead, they are a charicature 
 of themselves. The graphics get an A.
  
  Sound: The sound of heaven. It is so good that I have the same enchanting melodies in my head throughout 
 the day. It might get repetitive as far as the battle theme and the map theme goes, but the music 
 is still beautiful no matter how many times I hear it.
  
  Value: It is strangely addicting for some reason. I think it depends on the person playing it. 
 If you like battling bizarre creatures while traveling through a fantasy world, then this game 
 is for you.
  
  Tilt: The best RPG I've tried since pokemon. It's worth a shot.
  
  The only flaws I could point out is that the save feature is terrible. I can't save before I battle 
 a tough boss. I hate to start all over again and to battle the annoying creatures that get in my 
 way twice in a row. When they faint, resting should restore them to health. I hate wasting phoenix 
 down, which is a precious item. This is a perfect game to play while waiting for Pokemon Diamond 
 and Pearl. Final Fantasy III is by far the best DS RPG on the market today. This is a must for 
 RPG lovers. It might have its frustrations, but it is still worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thevincent56
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD (2) 1. JOB SYSTEM_the job system is great. Each job has its own ups and downs, so you 
 can strategically make a unique party. Everyone likes job systems. The dress-up is sweet, too. 
 2. MUSIC_continuing the legend of Final Fantasy, the music is terrific as usual. Perfect BGM, what 
 else can you ask for?
  
  THE BAD (4) 1. LOSING_basically, losing is a rip-off. You lose one single fight, and you go back 
 to the menu screen! It gets very frustrating. You also continue where you last saved off. There 
 are problems wth saving.. (read #2) 2. SAVING_another rip-off. There are two ways to save -- Save 
 and Quicksave. Quicksave is bad because it automatically shuts the game down. Also if you lose 
 a battle, you lose the Quicksave data! Save is cheap because you can only save in the outside, 
 which rarely happens. 3. BOSS BATTLES_the bosses are overly hard. They will own you. Then you have 
 to go back to the menu screen. -_- (Grrrr) 4. PRICE_$40!! All the other games are like $20-$35! 
 Overrated for a game that has more bads than goods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkdumpling
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, there isn't much to say about Final Fantasy 3.
  
  Overall it was a great game... but I wouldn't know how great it would be compared to the other 
 games in the Final Fantasy series. I really enjoyed the story.
  
  I'm also not a big fan of turn-based RPG's, but for some reason FF3's system captivated me... maybe 
 it was the graphics. I would say that the graphics are AMAZING for the DS.
  
  The downfall of this game would be closer to the end... Basically you have to clear 5/6 bosses... 
 WITHOUT ANY SAVEPOINTS. So basically before you even attempt to try the bosses... you have to GRIND. 
 GRIND. and GRIND. some more.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buster9999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Games awesome. You gotta play it. if u dont u stink. Look at the possiblitys.4 characters 23 jobs 
 274,900 somthing combinations. Its better then most of the others and yes this is from a FF player. When 
 u play it youll only get off if 1: u win or 2: Your at a place u cant beat.. (i myself havent won 
 but im at temple of time) . When u play u just cant stop. Probably best game theyve made yet. There 
 are some hard parts but its good. But when u win the fun goes away.
  So for the people who play this game i hope u like it alot. Trust me u will OR YULL DIE! just kiddin, or 
 not! No i am, OR AM I! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is a really fun game so long as things are progressing forward and you know what 
 you are doing. Where it goes wrong is that it doesn't offer much in the way of guidance. A good 
 example is that there should have been an in-game tutorial that would go over all the different 
 jobs as they became available. Instead you either do trial and error or you look in a guide. Also, 
 the difficulty is extremely unbalanced which is what often makes this game quite frustrating and 
 is only made worse by the absence of any save-points within the dungeons. There should at the very 
 least be a save point before each boss. One minute the game couldn't be any easier and the next 
 minute your thinking what just happened? The added plot to the game does help make the game enjoyable 
 and the 3-D graphics look great on the DS. The battles are classic FF random-battles and turned 
 based. Actually you take all your characters turns at the same time and unfortunately it doesn't 
 tell you what order everyone is going in which kind of ruins the strategy element a little bit. 
 The music in the game is great. My last gripe would have to be the fact that the game primarily 
 only uses the bottom screen. On the overworld you get a map on the top-screen which is what the 
 whole game should have been like except inverted. The map should be on the bottom so you could 
 select towns and dungeons and see what's what. In my opinion all the action should have happened 
 on the top screen with menus and maps permently displayed on the bottom screen. I know the DS can 
 at least handle that.
  
  Overall FFIII is a great game, roughly 20-30 hours in length, for FF fans but I wouldn't recommend 
 it to those who are not into Final Fantasy games yet. Hopefully with an FF tactics, FF XII, DragonQuest 
 IX, and many other games just announced from SquareEnix we'll get something a bit more well-rounded 
 that anyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yosk1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun... really fun. It has all the nescisary elements for a good rpg. the class system 
 works nice, and it adds more strategy. After all the main quest is done, there is an interesting 
 end game portion and this game is easily one of the best final fantasy's ive played yet. If you 
 are into RPG's, or strategy games, you should definitly pick this one up. word count word count 
 word count word count word count word count word countword count word count word count word count 
 word count word count word count word count word count word count word count word count 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff3138
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas, and let me tell you this game is awesome! I didn't even ask my dad 
 for this, but he got it since he couldn't find the Wii. The graphics are fine, they don't bother 
 me. The gameplay is a solid turn-based strategy game. There isn't much wrong with this game, and 
 I always find my self wanting to play. The sounds and music really come in well and make the battles 
 and running through dungeons more intense. The only problems I have with this game is the lack 
 of not being able to save in a dungeon (not quicksave) and the Wi-fi and multiplayer, I mean c'mon, 
 MAIL!!!!!!!! If your a major Paper Mario or Legend of Zelda fan you will love this. Now I'm going 
 to play Final Fantasy III. C'ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-dawggg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  I have waited for this for a looong time, and now its out.23 Jobs,4 Character 200000+ Combonations (yes 
 i stole that line shut up) . Its serriously that customiziable. This game must have the best graphics 
 for a ds to date. I recommend this to a Exprienced RPGer or a First timer. The gameplay is long and 
 steady. You would think the Same battle System would eventually grow thin. But twith the FF series 
 it hasnt. Its easy to learn, You can use you Stylus or the Buttons and D-PAd, Jut a couple of downsides 
 is just some of the jobs and kinda just recycled material. Some bosses are Very easy, But some will 
 make you so mad. Now if you are still reading tthis go out and buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shimazuxi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Final fantasy III is one of the best portable games you can purchase. It rivals tatics advance 
 in every way its so addictave with its old school play and its job swap system. Even non final 
 fantasy addicts could enjoy this thriller. I recomend picking it up if you have the chance. Without 
 a wait, heres the review.
  
  Gameplay: the game play is what makes it worthwhile. not just is the fighting system old school 
 like all the old final fantasies but you also can swap up to 23 diffrent jobs! And with the mognet 
 system you cna unlock certain items and job (onionknight) and make friends, and best of all it gives 
 u a break from exp grinding. It features job suchs as Red mage, black mage, white mage, theif, 
 monk , dragoon, dark knight, onion knight, summoner, ninja, and more! Graphics: i love the 3d doll 
 graphics. But this is also what keeps it from having a 10.0. It lacks a certain polish to the graphics 
 and has some good glitches. It is still great, don't get me wrong, but it would need to be better 
 to have a 10.0
  
  Sound: Great. but yet again another thing that holds it back from 10.0. I love the sound, but the 
 boss theme and battle themes are a bit cheasy. They could've added some heavy metal rock (hellz 
 yeah) XD. Naw but seriously their are small ways they could have improved to make the sound tone 
 better quality, but still a great quality it has.
  
  Value: Deffinatly worth every penny you have. you know i've wrote like 8 reviews and don't know 
 what value means.. but if it means the cost.. well i'd pay 200$ for it if i had too, its worth as 
 much as it costs no cent less.
  
  Review's tilt: 10, no probs here
  
  All in all : 9.8 - superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Say welcome to Final Fantasy III, the final link to our amazingly long series of Final Fantasy 
 games. For the first time, the Japan-only game gets a re-release across the pacific, made into 
 3-D and put on the Dual Screen Portable. This review, beforehand, does point out that the reviewer 
 has never owned any other games from the famous series, though he has played through many of them. 
 But that's beside the point.
  
  The game throws you down into some cave in the beginning of the game, and gives you the same ol' 
 lecture of 'the darkness', pronouncing you 'Warrior of the Light'. You set out, and quickly gather 
 three more to aid you. Suddenly, the Warriors of the Light move to fight off vile fiends in different 
 dungeons around the continents.
  
  I'm not normally so harsh on a game, but it's appalling me that this is being rated a 9.2 by the 
 users at Gamespot. Obviously, there's a few too many Final Fantasy fans around here that don't 
 look at the merits of the game itself. Therefore, I begin with my critiques.
  
  The game itself is fun. But the dungeons quickly drag it down to a level of ugliness. In certain 
 dungeons, the developers apparently felt rather cruel. They force you to change into toad or mini 
 form for what seems to be no apparent reason, just to get further in the dungeon. Due to a rather 
 frustrating MP system (which will be explained upon in a bit) , this is a trying task.
  
  The MP system is the worst part of the game. It gives more MP in rings, almost like a target for 
 darts. The outer ring is the largest, and thus holds the most MP, while the center has nearly none 
 at all. This causes frustration in the game, as you curse the heavens while you have absolutely 
 no MP to use moves that can actually finish your enemies. You end up being relegated to attack 
 enemies using worthless spells, while your enemies use the spells you believe you should be using.
 
  
  Then, the job system. While fun to watch the character's outfits change, there's a sort of... 'down-period' 
 where one cannot gain experience in a new job. This is the most frustrating part of the game, and 
 it pains me to believe that they thought it'd be fun to NOT change jobs on a whim.
  
  Also, ignore the Wi-Fi marking on the package. If you want, you can stalk friends by sending them 
 letters across the internet. How thrilling.
  
  The last point: where's the top screen? All the action takes place on the bottom screen, but it 
 amazes me sometimes to find my top screen black for sometimes hours at a time. Maps are only there... 
 sometimes. Unsatisfactory - I expected better.
  
  However, this is still a great game. If you're looking for the true port of the original Final 
 Fantasy III, this game has it. The action stays true to the series too, with turn based attacks.
 
  
  The graphics are actually rather nice. Sure, it's a bit rough, but it's almost funny to see your 
 3-D characters walk around and talk. There's a certain indescribable charm to it all. And the music 
 is incredible. Fabulous. It sticks to true Final Fantasy form. I disagree with Gamespot with my 
 whole self on this point, and praise the soundtrack.
  
  The story, though sometimes a bit loose, does bind itself together. Slowly, you gain more jobs 
 as you continue - with enough play, you'll enjoy it.
  
  This game is for the true Final Fantasy fan. With all it's criticisms I can name, it's hard to 
 say exactly why I like this game. Perhaps because it's still enjoyable through it all? In the end, 
 it's a great overall game - enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loyed
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  FF3 starts of fun and good and stays that way for a while. the game has some good graphics and 
 vast selection of games and the job system has tons of selections to make for your characters. 
 the world is also pretty big and there is alot of weapons and armor to aquire throughout the game. 
 The story line is kinda sketchy though you start off in a random cave and some crystal says your 
 chosen (like in half the other rpg's out there) and then you go off doing some random stuff and 
 meeting the elements
  
  the bad stuff is that battles get really repetitive further in the game you get and in spots in 
 the game when you have to turn mini or into a toad gets enoying because you turn into a toad which 
 consumes all of your partys mp then if u want any hope in surviving you have to turn human again 
 without any inn near by which isnt my thought of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the previews of this game and images, I was in shock. Final Fantasy III, the true Final 
 Fantasy III is coming to the US finally. Now I can complete the series all the way to 12. I was 
 amazed to see someone sold this game back to EB Games, I quickly grabbed it for 34.99 with my 10% 
 off card and hurried home to play it.
  
  The opening graphics blew me away with vivid colors and quality 3d models, which I may say were 
 better than in Final Fantasy 7. You can at least see the character's facial features and expressions. 
 Enemies are all fully modeled in 3d, and some are verrryyyyy tiny, and some are extremely large, 
 one of the first bosses you fight is a large turtle which absolutely dwarfs your character.
  
  However shortly into the game... you guessed it, Crystals and the Warriors of Light come into 
 play. I can't say this is suprising since this is techincally the 3rd Final Fantasy ever, just 
 with a graphical update. Upon being told to go forth and save the world from darkness, your original 
 character (Default name Luneth) finds one of his friends from town plus two other people who... 
 wait for it... are all orpans... oh you're still waiting? TA DA!!!! They happen to be the Warriors 
 of Light. Don't think I spoiled anything for you, you knew this.
  
  Upon reaching the first crystal, there are a few job classes open, Freelancer, which is the most 
 basic class, having level 1 spells, both black and white magic, and general access to weaponry 
 and armor. Oddly, it is the only class that looks unique for each character. Every other job class 
 looks almost the exact same for each of the four characters, with the female character being the 
 only one who really stands out. Getting back to jobs, each time you find a crystal you find a new 
 set of jobs.
  The first crystal is very basic, composing of Warrior, Thief, Monk, and Red White and Black mages. 
 As you go further along you get more exotic jobs like Geomancer, Dark Knight, Ninja, Devout, etc. 
 However, besides the fact you just switch jobs to get new abilities (although you cannot do this 
 on the fly in battle a la FFX-2) , leveling jobs adds some features like extra hits in your regular 
 attack or more effective magic casting as you get higher in job levels, but overall, character 
 levels + weaponry dictate how much damage, hp and magic you have. However, as you level your jobs, 
 you DO NOT gain any new techniques or magic spells. All techiniques are tied to the job, and all 
 of your MP is directly tied to the characters level. I guess the purpose of this was to have a 
 Final Fantasy 1 feel, but to be able to change your job class at any time. Ok, I give it credit 
 for that having been the precursor to FFV and Tactics.
  
  Ok so that's not bad, and is forgiveable that they didn't totally revamp the system, however, this 
 game has a lot of bad gameplay. The gameplay itself is very VERY stale. Simply attack with your 
 melee characters, and if you have a mage or two, have them dual wield two elemental staffs or rods 
 depending on which type of free elemental spell you want to cast... effectively making that 40+ 
 casts of that level 1 spell useless. For about the last 12 hours of my game this is what the regular 
 battles have consisted of.
  
  Thief attacks, maybe steals once to every 5 attacks. White Mage uses Lightning Rod to cast Thunder, 
 Black Mage uses Ice Rod to cast Blizzard, Knight attacks. Maybe I might have to cure with the white 
 mage once in a while, but against most enemies this is unnecessary considering my knight or thief 
 kills most regular enemies in one attack. Yes, this is exactly how my game has gone against regular 
 enemies the whole time.
  
  One time, I fought 3 chimera mages, and they got a suprise attack on me. They all used this Lightning 
 attack that hits everyone. It killed my thief in one hit, then the knight the next hit, the mages 
 survived the 2nd hit due to high magic def... but the 3rd had them succumb. I illustrate this point 
 because this is what a LOT of boss battles have been like for me.
  
  Bosses generally get 2 to 4 actions per round, and some like to use attacks that hit everyone. 
 If they don't do that, chances are the attack is just a melee attack that takes off about half 
 hp from any given character, and a critical hit basically means death. Oh, death, lets just use 
 a Phoenix Down. Sorry chief, if like me you had to revive a lot against bosses, you can't just 
 go pick up a new stack of Phoenix Down. They are drop only, no stores sell them.
  
  White Mages only learn Raise or Arise late in the game, and usually those spells are in conflict 
 of being cast with some other essential spell like Haste or Protect...
  
  The boss fights are basically how fast can you damage them before your white mage runs out of Cura 
 or Curaga spells to heal after their huge attacks. They aren't even strategic. There's no boss 
 that can be killed by using a Phoenix down since it is undead, there is no boss that requires you 
 to cast reflect on it since it constantly heals itself, there is nothing remotely clever, its just 
 weather a huge beat down and a bunch of major life ending attacks.
  
  Should you not succeed (you probably won't for a while) , you will realize there are no save spots 
 in any dungeons, and you can only save outdoors, not even in town. This is quite annoying considering 
 the fact you have to trudge through some REALLY long dungeons which occaisonally have monsters 
 that can wipe you out that appear out of nowhere (see Chimera Mage incident) .
  
  So, for the most part, regular enemies are stupidly easy and extremely repetetive, and bosses are 
 uncreative and hard as a cinder block. Don't expect much in the way of sound, there are very few 
 standout songs, the magic and attacks and effect sounds are very standard and there is no voice 
 acting (which isn't that odd considering it is a DS game) , however I expect more from Final Fantasy. 
 I imagine I will be finished with this game at the 40 hour mark, which I am just past 20 hours 
 (+ a few hours due to deaths at the hands of bosses) . This is a pretty good value, especially for 
 a DS game, but knowing what I know now, I wouldn't pay 40 dollars for this game on any system, 
 the 33.50$ I paid was reasonable, but I will most likely never play this game again, unlike a lot 
 of other Final Fantasy games.
  
  While I appreciate this game as part of a legacy, and think it would have been a masterpiece had 
 it been released back in the early 90s worldwide. But it just can't stand the test of time outside 
 of graphical touchups.
  
  Good
  + Graphics are very impressive.
  + It was the progenitor to a lot of Final Fantasy staples like changing jobs and epic storylines.
 
  + There are lots of jobs...
  
  Bad
  - ... most of those jobs suck.
  - Difficulty. Bosses are VERY hard, most enemies are button masher easy.
  - VERY repetetive even 
 for an RPG.
  - Save system is poor.
  - Sound is substandard for Final Fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  *NO SPOILER*
  
  In the beginning of this game you fall down a hole created by the earthquake. this game takes a 
 lot of strategy, which i didn't have when I started playing this game. you are faced with goblin 
 fights, treasure chests, blah blah blah. if you get far enough then you are faced with a land turtle. 
 i kept on losing this so I stopped playing it for a while. i spent my time playing elite beat agents 
 and NSMB instead. I finally game this game another try and suddenly beat the turtle. then i became 
 addicted to this game. this game is not all worth it but if you get used to it then it gets very 
 fun. i suggest you don't use the stylus because you can get strained and personally not using the 
 stylus is easier. Overall, this game is worth playing. I never really liked FF games. I got a ds, 
 asked the guy at eb games if it was any good and he said buy it. so this is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamsterkirby
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Fun, does not get boring too fast, just right enough that even a 8 year old could complete 
 this game at some point.
  
  Graphics: Simply stunning. For the Nintendo DS, Final Fantasy III's graphics may just beat Nintendogs 
 by a hair.
  
  Sound: Classic, does not get annoying, ACTUAL music, unlike some people who just make little video 
 game music. Music is just beutiful.....
  
  Value: This game is something you can get attached to. When i beat this game, i restarted it and 
 played it again with all Freelancers, hard, but still love it.
  
  Tilt: Overall, great game, long-lasting, difficulty is just right! Get this game, period.
  
 
  Total:8.9 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolal2000
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Before this game came out i was excited beyond belief for it and is it neared i just got even more 
 excited, however when i finally got it it was... okay... at first the graphics impressed me, and 
 it seemed kind of fun but eventually i just lost my motivation (of course buying a wii in there 
 might have something to do with that) . The storyline, though kind of cool, i guess, is not exciting, 
 i just didn't feel involved, which is very important for rpg's in my books. I expected this game 
 to be truly epic, in final fantasy fashion, but... i don't know it was just lacking. kind of just 
 boring you know... no real reason to finish it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubermoe
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I cant seem to stck to a single game for like more than an hour so i cant really enjoy them all. 
 i still play FFVII again and agin and juggle that around with FFXII O. o FFIII for the DS is very 
 much enjoyable. i can leave i for like a day or 2 and come back to it and it'll be as fun as the 
 day i 1st got it. to be honest i thought i wouldnt like it but after a while it sucks you into 
 it. i went to the library to study and i remembered that i had it in my bag! lolZ i played for 
 one min and it got me. the next thing i knew i was playing it for like 5 hours T. T got no studying 
 done. i think i got like a 70 on that exam xD. oh wellz :D) )
  Another cool thing that gets me is the jobs. almost the same as FFX-2 but i think i like the FFIII 
 better. the FFX-2 was just annoying cuz im like one of those people that has to get 100% on a game 
 like in yoshi's island O. o jobare always fun and its like having a bunch of diff characters :D) ) 
 thats always fun. the only thing that threw me off was the wi-fi. i thought it was gonna be awesome 
 but it was some weird e-mail thingie. what was that about? and both people have to be on stand-by 
 to recieve stuff from each other. and you can only sent stuff to each other like once every hour!! 
 AND!! the typing of this e-mail is horrible ... -.- it's no even worth typing up!! overall ... 
 its a good solid game that i can enjoy on the go fo hours at a time. missing my stop on the bus 
 and going all the way to brooklyn T. T that was not fun ... but the game is! ~toodles~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dn3datomiced
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is the lastest Final Fantasy adventure, released on the Nintendo DS as the final 
 missing link in the series. Prior to this release, there has been no official release of the game 
 stateside, but this is old news. That is, in fact, the biggest draw of this game, with the second 
 biggest being its reenvisioning as a 3d title. It's the very heart and soul of old-school JRPGs, 
 but unfortunately, that's entirely the reason it falls flat...
  
  As you begin your quest, you are immediately thrust into a situation of peril. Your currently unnamed 
 hero has just fallen through a hole in the ground and soon comes under attack from various underground 
 denizens. After clearing a path through them, you stumble upon a crystal. It calls to you, and 
 tells you your destiny. You are to become one of the Warriors of Light. This plot is essentially 
 similar to the previous entries in the series. Indeed, very old school.
  
  The plot never really takes off. You return to town, and your elders are already prepared to send 
 you off on your way, with your adoptive mother just as willing to send you to your inevitable doom. 
 More on that later.
  
  It doesn't take you very long to build your party, and you're off on your way to fight the endless 
 horde of random battles and dungeon crawls that are assuredly part of your task as a Warrior of 
 Light. The highly vaunted job system, most definitely made famous by the Tactics spin-offs of the 
 series, doesn't come into play until you solve the first big quest in the game, and because of 
 the dungeon pacing, you aren't likely to finish it before you're at least level 10 or higher with 
 your characters, due to the jarring changes in difficulty.
  
  This brings me to another not-so-small issue with Final Fantasy III: It's never clear as to where 
 you're supposed to be able to handle yourself. Up until the cave you must enter for the afformentioned 
 quest, the roughest, toughest place to find a fight is literally right outside, but you'll regularly 
 trounce these enemies. Set foot inside before you've reached level 6 or so, and your party will 
 probably be killed in no more than 2 turns. Even after level 6, you'll have to leave the cave after 
 one battle to avoid being wiped out.
  
  There are a couple spots where the difficulty seeming leaps for no apparent reason, and there's 
 no middle ground, even out of the way, for you to acclimate yourself with. It becomes a smaller 
 issue later in the game, but it really hurts new players or infrequent savers. This also carries 
 over to the dungeon designs in-and-of themselves. There are no places to save aside from the world 
 map, and these dungeons are not short. You will, at least once, plod through a cave, whupping up 
 on enemies just fine, though every little bit, they're taking you out, piece by piece, only for 
 you to finally reach the boss with less supplies than you expected you'd need, and be blown away, 
 forced to reload a save from, at times, as much as an hour old. The solution? Come back when you're 
 tougher. That's it.
  
  The job system itself was, personally, the biggest pull of picking up this title, as my fond memories 
 of Final Fantasy Tactics was of its brilliant employment of the job system. This job system is 
 nothing like it. Your jobs are limited to the number of crystals you've freed, meaning that there's 
 little incentive to keep switching up your jobs, and more than likely, you'll find yourself parading 
 around with 2 warriors, 1 black mage, and 1 white mage, because the game nearly punishes you for 
 doing anything else.
  
  No black mage? You won't be able to take advantage of enemies' elemental weaknesses. No white mage? 
 Ha! Potions are pricy and really don't do much beyond levels of 15 or more. Plus, there are white 
 spells you need, yes, need to know to progress. Red mage? Your limited MP will neuter the effectiveness 
 of either, because the MP you'll spend on offensive magic will eat away the precious capacity to 
 cast those spells you need to progress and heal. You're almost shoehorned into such an arrangement 
 because of the game's structure, and if you think that switching jobs on a whim will solve your 
 problem, you'd be wrong.
  
  When you change jobs, you go through an adjustment period. This period reduces the key stats associated 
 with your job, reduced your attack and defense, and if it's a magic-based class, halves all of 
 your available MP until the adjustment phase completes. Also, if you change from a magic-based 
 job to a non-magic based job, your MP will completely deplete itself. Switching back to a magic-based 
 job leaves you with the amount of MP you had before changing, so more than likely, you will have 
 to either find a wellspring to drink from or find and inn to replinish your MP. However, since 
 your MP is tied to your player level, there is no large penalty for changing from one mage to another 
 at some point, so there is a small saving grace to the whole system.
  
  The MP system is not the system you're probably thinking of, if you're like the other 99% of the 
 RPG crowd. There are 8 different circles of magic. Each circle has a separate MP amount associated 
 with it, and typically, each circle has around half of the previous circle's MP available. When 
 you recieve your first navigation powers, you will likely only have 1 or 2 MP available in the 
 circle they belong to. The clincher is that these powers usually share circles with other useful 
 spells, like poisona, which removes the poison status, as well as others, and Final Fantasy III 
 doesn't hold back when it comes to status afflictions.
  
  You'll find that carrying 5 antidotes, which seems about right based on most other JRPGs, is woefully 
 inadequate when pushing on in your quest. Even more rare types of statuses, such as stone, rear 
 their heads on a frequent basis, and the item based remedies don't exactly come at a bargain basement 
 price, so you will find yourself using quite a good deal of MP in certain circles curing status 
 ailments often.
  
  There is actually a good game lying under all of these complaints, though, and the point of bringing 
 all of these up like this was not to dissuade others from playing. Rather, it was to point out 
 that the game is not as flawless as others would lead you to believe. Unfortunately, there are 
 people out there to whom Final Fantasy could do no wrong, and will simply give the game high marks 
 for being Final Fantasy alone, not on its individual technical merits and flaws, and Final Fantasy 
 III, like any game that can stand on its own, has both.
  
  The game itself looks fairly good, and its graphics roughly parallel Final Fantasy VIII in their 
 quality. Most of the environments are built in a tiled style, though, which detracts from the otherwise 
 unique look of the game. The characters are fairly expressive for being so small. The visual style 
 present in the gloriously astounding opening CG doesn't carry through the rest of the game, sadly, 
 but what is there is still quite good. It's worth noting that the upper screen is conspicuously 
 blank rather often. There are more than a few places where it would have supplimented the action 
 quite nicely, such as listing stats during battle, or showing where you've been in a dungeon.
 
  
  The core gameplay of Final Fantasy is still intact, so if you love it, you'll love it. If you don't, 
 this game isn't going to change your mind. You still fight in rounds of combat where you give each 
 of your characters a command, and then the order of action is randomly chosen. There doesn't seem 
 to be any defining factor for who goes when, as one character may lead the fight one turn, but 
 end up acting last next round. You can also place your warriors in one of two rows, with the front 
 row offering a greater melee capability at the cost of taking your licks harder. If you enter combat 
 under the back attack scenario, your rows will be reversed, leaving your defense-row characters 
 exposed, and making your offense-row characters beginning in a position where they can't maximize 
 their offensive capabilities without taking the time to manually change change rows, often times 
 culminating in an ugly battle leaving you with many wounds.
  
  The music ranges from simply amazing, in the case of the opening CG, which is simply gorgeous if 
 I hadn't mentioned that already, to enjoyably quirky, like the ghost town theme, to underwhelming, 
 such as the overworld theme. Overall, though, you'll find most of it enjoyable, and some of it 
 quite hummable. it's just not wholly consistent in quality. Some of the tracks in the game could 
 have used a little more depth.
  
  The DS's hardware capabilities are barely put to use. The microphone never comes into play, the 
 top screen is rarely useful, and the only mileage you get out of the wifi function is sending mail 
 to other Final Fantasy III players through Mognet. The touch controls are barely there, either. 
 You could hypothetically play the entire game with nothing but the touchscreen, but because of 
 spacing issues during combat, tricky walk/run sensitivity while moving around, and the controls 
 being relegated to the corners of the screen as small buttons, it's really not terribly functional.
 
  
  As I can't think of anything else to bring up, I'll end by saying that you will definitely get 
 your money's worth if you buy Final Fantasy III, but it's not really a terribly unique or engrossing 
 game. From the popcorn wreath plot to the gimmicky job system, it's more of a brilliantly faithful 
 remake of its namesake, but it's maybe a little TOO faithful. Adding a little edge to the plot, 
 making more use of the DS's innate hardware, applying the job system as more than a quick class 
 switch, accommodating more than just quicksaving in dungeons, which really doesn't help at all, 
 and ditching the chibi look for a more mature look as exhibited by the opening CG all would have 
 contributed to making this a more worthy game.
  
  In the end, though, it's still a good game. Just don't let anyone fool you into thinking it's revolutionary. 
 Despite the new coat of paint, it's still the same game that came out in Japan 17 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATOMB
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics remind me of the good ole' days on the N64. They are good and clean as well as nice 
 effects. The control is solid and the menus are easy to navigate. The game is entertaining and 
 fun for the most part. Yes leveling up nad redundant battles are a bit boring but over all it's 
 just plain enjoyable. This is not the BEST RPG ever maid but it is done right and done well. Even 
 if you are not a Final Fantasy fan you will still enjoy this Neat little RPG game. There is tons 
 of items and spells and weapons to collect, Learning the different jobs and juggling them is a 
 fun chore. A goo variaty of badies too! Pick this one up now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathmageMokey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Right from the get-go, this game astounded me. Less than a minute into the game, before you even 
 start playing, the introduction video gives you a great taste of the videos in this game. The graphics 
 in the videos in this game are on level with a PS2 game. Once you actually start playing, you get 
 another surprise. The gameplay graphics are just as good as FFIX for the PS1. The fact this is 
 a DS game with such a handle on graphics not only shows you the power of the system but the craftiness 
 and brilliance of its developers also.
  
  Now off the graphics and on to the actual gameplay. Graphics mean nothing if the game has terrible 
 play. This game, however, does not. You never have to use the buttons when you play this game. 
 You can play the whole game just using the stylus. It's rather nice, just pointing, tapping, and 
 dragging rather than continuously pushing buttons. However, if you prefer the buttons to just using 
 the touch screen, it has a nice control scheme, easy to master.
  
  An immersive story serves to draw you in, and then there is the Job system. Changing your Job is 
 not immediately accessible. You must first beat a quest involving a magical Djinn.... But I shan't 
 spoil that. If you master a Job, you keep all of the abilties you gained during your spell with 
 that class. Then, you can switch Jobs and get even more skills. This can allow characters to have 
 a seemingly endless arsenal of attacks, spells, and specials. If you are using the Job to which 
 those moves came from, they will cost less or be more powerful, depending. Really, this is a great 
 adaption of a great game with truly stunning graphics and a wonderful class system. It will provide 
 hours, if not days or weeks of fun, and the story will hook you. Completely under-received by critics 
 and reviewers.
  
  Now, I'm not going to lie. A little of this game seems outdated, and sometimes it seems like the 
 DS's hardware is harshly underused. But, you know, this game is 16 years old. They could have done 
 a straight port, and left things exactly as they were. But bringing something to a new system doesn't 
 mean you have to include everything from that system. The microphone or more Wi-Fi may have felt 
 like an add-on. They did, afterall, turn a 16 year old game into a fully 3-D masterpiece, full 
 with CGI. Sometimes, the game may seem outdated. But it is faithful to the original. Why should 
 the developers change a system that worked to put in a system that people now-a-days would like? 
 I don't thinkl they should. Such a great game should never be changed, no matter how dated the 
 system seems.
  
  Really, this game is all about preference. I am a fan of RPG's, and I like Final Fantasy. I'm not 
 in love with it, which is why I pointed out some cons. If you don't like Final Fantasy, you probably 
 won't like this game. However, fan or no, you can't deny the stunning effect of the graphics on 
 the DS.
  
  The one thing I wish though is simple: I want more of these. Final Fantasy Vi would be great here... 
 They could also bring the original PS games to the DS, because it is powerful enough to play them. 
 If they turned all of the PS and before Final Fantasy games into DS games, they would really have 
 a huge fanbase, as we could see all of the old ones in stellar 3-D, and play the PS ones on the 
 go. That is my input. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badoonkboyneo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  The Final Fantasy that was never brought to America is finally here, and it was totally worth waiting 
 more than 10 years. Square Enix has really pushed th DS to it's limits. Not only is the gameplay 
 superb, the graphics are killer, and the story is great too. Most of the graphics work went into 
 the opening scene, but that was enough to hook me. All Final Fantasy elements are here, such as 
 Cid, the airship guy, chocobos, and this was the first game to not only introduce a job system, 
 but also... moogles. Everybody loves moogles. KUPO! There is a lack of phoenix downs, because you 
 cant buy them, which pumps up the difficulty, but I think it's all about management of the ones 
 you do get. This was also the introduction of the job system, a system that has lived on through 
 other games. Choose to be a Blackbelt, and kill enemies without weapons, or be a Red mage, casting 
 spells and wielding weapons, all is possible. One of the greatest new features is Mognet, a system 
 that uses the Nintendo Wi-fi system to connect and send Final Fantasy's version of email to friends 
 outside and inside the game world. This also opens up the secret class Onion knights, the original 
 job class in the Japanese version, now a totally uber class worth trying to get later on in the 
 game, but I wont tell you how... The story is typical Final Fantasy, but done so much better when 
 teamed with the graphics. Bad guy wants to destroy the world, 4 kids chosen by crystals to stop 
 him, find out they are connected in more than one way, etc. But the graphics tell the story way 
 better than I do.
  
  If you can, please pick this up, Final Fantasy veteran, or newbie, this is worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lothis
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The last game to complete my collection of Final Fantasy games (except for 10 which I have beaten 
 and borrowed from my mother and never bothered to buy) that I absolutely refused to just download 
 the ROM and emulator for after hearing of its announcement to be released for the DS. This game 
 was also the sole factor in my deciding to get a DS. All that aside, this game is completely awesome. 
 In Japan, this game was released for the Famicon in 1990, a couple of months before we received 
 Final Fantasy for the Nintendo Entertainment System. Nintendo of America slapped the numbers II 
 and III on the Super Nintendo games Final Fantasy IV and Final Fantasy VI, respectively, to cover 
 up from us dumb Americans that they withheld Final Fantasy II, this title, Final Fantasy III, both 
 for the Famicon (or NES for those not versed in Japanese games) , and Final Fantasy V for the Super 
 Famicon (again for those not versed in Japanese games, SNES) . This game is the actual Final Fantasy 
 III with its proper number, not the game most people tend to think of when they hear Final Fantasy 
 III, which is actually Final Fantasy VI, with Terra, Locke, Edgar, Shadow, etc. Also another common 
 misconception is that the man in the Final Fantasy III logo is Kefka, the bad guy from Final Fantasy 
 VI, but this is not true. This character is actually Luneth, the main character of Final Fantasy 
 III, and this same character was on the box art for the Famicon version of the game.
  
  This game stars four yourths. Originally all nameless boys with no background, they have all been 
 given names and a background story in this remake and one is even a female. Luneth, the main character, 
 is a boy from Ur, along with his best friend, Arc. They set off, at the request of the Wind Crystal 
 and Topapa, the elder of Ur, to restore the balance between light and dark to the world. They meet 
 up with the daughter of the blacksmith Takka, Refia, while she is trying to steal Cid's airship, 
 but she joins Luneth and Arc's cause. They also meet up with Ingus, a knight of the nearby castle, 
 who is also interested in helping with their initial quest, but stays with the other three after 
 it is revealed that he too is a Warrior of the Light.. The story is revamped in this game, mainly 
 just the back grounds of the four main characters, to add more depth. Surprisingly for those Japanese 
 to English purists who says official translations are never good enough, the game's dialogue matches 
 up almost perfectly with the fan translation of the NES ROM, save some key differences that were 
 obviously changed for the DS version exclusively. The story is deep and the game is quite long 
 compared to the earlier two entries in the series. This game also introduces the now famous Job 
 System. The original game had you earn Change Points from battle in order to change jobs, but in 
 the DS version, they did away with that and instead implemented the transition period. When going 
 from one job to another, your character's stats will be weakened for up to 10 battles, depending 
 on what job you're going from and what job you're going to, as well as if you were already in a 
 transition period or not.
  
  Several of the jobs have been touched up, all in positive ways, in order to fit this game in with 
 the way Final Fantasy was always meant to be. For example, in the Famicon version, Knight was nothing 
 more than an upgrade to the Warrior job, but in the DS version, Knight is a defensive upgrade and 
 Viking takes on the role of straight up Warrior upgrade. Other changes are present too, like Dark 
 Knight being unable to cast white magic and being given the Souleater ability from Final Fantasy 
 XI (though it works like Cecil's Dark Wave command or FFX-2's Darkness command) and Bard and Ranger 
 have been improved over all. Many would have considered them very much useless in the Famicon version, 
 but now they have more abilities that have become traditional to Bards and Rangers. The only job 
 that truly got hit with the good ol' nerf bat was the Sage. The Sage was able to cast all White, 
 Black, and High Summon magic in the Famicon version. In the DS version, the Sage cannot cast High 
 Summon magic, but instead regular old random White/Black effect Low Summon magic. Unique to the 
 DS version is that instead of starting out as an Onion Knight as your characters did in the Famicon 
 version, they start as an entirely new job, the Freelancer. This job is in all reality weak and 
 as useless as you would expect from the starting job (unlike the Onion Knight) . Are you a fan of 
 the Onion Knight? Well fear not, the Onion Knight is present too, in all its original glory, as 
 an unlockable through the optional questing done through sending letters with the new Mognet service. 
 There are 3 such quests in all, one for the Onion Knight, one for a secret cave, and one for the 
 Legendary Blacksmith, which rewards all your hard work in leveling a job up to 99. The downside 
 is that you MUST send 7 or more mognet letters to actual people either through WiFi or LAN, so 
 if you don't know anyone you are just out of luck.
  
  The sound in this game is simply beautiful. The sound effects are pleasant and appropriate and 
 the music is all beautifully remixed from the original sound tracks. The graphics are given a total 
 face lift too, upgraded to full 3D, rivaling the graphics of Final Fantasy VIII and Final Fantasy 
 IX. I gave the graphics score a 9, however, because the DS is capable of much smoother graphics, 
 as demonstrated with Super Mario 64 DS, and the graphics in Final Fantasy III are a tad bit blocky. 
 Still, a massive improvement from the 8-bit days.
  
  This game is such a wonderful game and there's no doubt in my mind that it would have been regarded 
 as high as games like Final Fantasy VII and Chrono Trigger had it only been released in its time, 
 1990, instead of 16 years later where, even with its enhancements, it is still showing its age. 
 Regardless, I'd recommend this game to anyone and everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCCHA
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Solid roleplaying experience. Though not very difficult dungeons, Final Fantasy is not 
 known for that. Sometimes it can be a little confusing as to where to go next, eventually you can 
 figure it out (I referenced a guide 4 times) . The enemies are normally not afraid to kill one of 
 your party members, but the difficulty seems just right.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good, but the top screen gets such little use that it was really 
 disappointing.
  
  Sound: Excellent music. The composer really outdid himself.
  
  Value: Easily over 20 hours can be put into this game.
  
  Tilt: I loved this game. Gamespot 
 was far too hard on this in their review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyKung-Fu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game is of a one-of-a-kind DS game. Try to pick this game up but for a pricey $42 (where I 
 live) . Is it worth it? Yes it is. This game is worth every penny it cost. The addicting music, 
 the cool and pretty weird monsters, the awesome jobs, and a must in any FF game, chocobos. The 
 wonderful cute little bird horse thing that we all love. I wouldnt call this game easy. You will 
 be throwing you DS across the room in madness at times. After you calm down you will probably give 
 up but try not to you will get used to dying. This game makes a fine addition to any FF or RPG 
 collection so in conclusion definitely pick up this game if you got the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightfellower
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III sets itself in a worldly fight between light and darkness. In this epic power-struggle, 
 light once triumphed, and it was up to four Dark Warriors to restore the world back to its equilibrium. 
 Many years after, darkness is threatening to eclipse its counterpart. Reverse the process, and 
 now Four Light warriors must be selected to save the world. Enter Luneth, Arc, Refia and Ingus, 
 four orphans bounded by a common thread: to unleash the powers of the Light Crystals to save all 
 mankind.
  
  FF III marks the birth of the signature job system which is to be used extensively in the series' 
 future games. There is a huge variety of jobs each character can undertake, ranging from the likes 
 of White Mages to Dragoons. As the story unfolds, more jobs will be unlocked and expectantly, the 
 usefulness of which will also progressively increase.
  
  Rather disappointingly, as much as the promise in providing in-depth character customisation; FF 
 III falls short, managing only in giving us different designs for each job. The cute design did 
 little to hide away the fact that each character plays almost the same: attackers attack and magic 
 users cast spells. There isn't any incentive to master a job, since there is no skills and abilities 
 for one to master from. It's almost safe to say that the games' most promising feature has become 
 its greatest undoing.
  
  One well known fact of the game is its tremendous difficulty. Despite its innocuous appearance, 
 FF III is a unforgiving, old-school RPG right at its core. Expect lots of grinding and leveling 
 up to beat the game, a trait prevalent in earlier RPGs but washed down considerably since then. 
 The save-anywhere-you-want function come to expectation in portable RPGs is also found wanting 
 in this remake. Battles are typically hard, and the challenging boss at the end of each dungeon 
 means that gamers shouldn't find the 'game over' screen too unfamiliar. New comers may find FF 
 III a nightmare, but veterans of the genre may find this new-found difficulty refreshing, rather 
 than that much-maligned apprehension.
  
  It's also difficult to take this game for granted. Items such as Phoenix Downs, which revive a 
 fallen comrade, are distributed sparingly. Mega healing potions, save the occasional Elixirs, are 
 non-existent in the game. This inevitably forces players to make intelligent use of their limited 
 resources in order to last the whole game. Noteworthy, there also isn't any save points in dungeons; 
 piling up the frustration, or satisfaction meters, depending on the breed of gamer one belongs.
 
  
  Game play wise, FF III returns to its roots with traditional turn-based battles. While hardly exciting, 
 this system makes short works of battles, saving much in-game disruptions in the form of random 
 battles; a fact helped by the high enemy encounter rate. The combination of using a stylus and 
 the D-pad to work through menus and battles ends up surprisingly great, and controls has been fantastic.
 
  
  For all shortcomings in game play, if any, they are more than made up for with the amazing graphics. 
 Especially impressive is the opening FMV, which seems to have broken all rules on how a DS title 
 ought to look like. The game itself isn't bad-looking either, where actions such as summoning and 
 magic have their desired graphical effects. Characters designs are also given a modern uplift; 
 and as much as its development falling short in this remake, it's a welcomed change from the homogeneity 
 in the original game. It's no exaggeration to say that FF III reminds you of how an older PSone 
 title would look like, and it is perhaps the best looking game the DS has churned out.
  
  The game didn't skimp on its sound department either. The scores come from the strokes of the Master-Nobuo 
 Uematsu himself, and that is good assurance. There isn't a particularly piece of tune which really 
 stood out, but all pieces manages to fit nicely into their respective places, making each musical 
 transition a smooth affair. Sound effects should also be given much credit, as the sound of each 
 sword slash, fist punch, or firing cannons are genuine enough for this DS title.
  
  It is the use of the DS functions, or the lack of it, where FF III bears most criticism. Majority 
 of the game's actions are orchestrated in the bottom screen, limiting its counterpart to doing 
 meagre functions such as showing maps and menus, or worst- perpetual darkness. The game supports 
 Wi-Fi in the most obnoxious way- letter exchange with friends, and as little fun as it sounds, 
 this is the sole way to obtaining a secret class and a hidden dungeon after one completes the game. 
 Being a DS title, more innovation is expected; and that just didn't happen with FF III.
  
  With the huge hype surrounding the game even before its release, it's hard not to feel a tad disappointed 
 with the final product. Unlike other Final Fantasy titles, the story isn't much to write home about. 
 But considering the age of the original title, this remake hasn't done too much wrong. Right at 
 its core, FF III is a charming, enjoyable and challenging; albeit short RPG which should satisfy 
 the role-playing needs of most DS owners. Fans of the genre shouldn't be too disappointed by this 
 remake either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfpimp4151
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  this game was absolutely excellent... except... 90% of the game is on the bottom screen. actually... 
 maybe 95%. this is a great buy but it isnt using really any of the DS's capabilities besides the 
 wifi. Id recommend it but just keep that in mind. the story is good, the fights are good, the battle 
 system works, and this is overall a great DS game and a worthy ad to your collection. All the professional 
 critics didnt give this game justice but this is great despite what they say. And video game music 
 is a deal breaker for you, this game also has great music perfect for every scene. This game has 
 a great amount of depth in it and is by far the longest game Ive played on the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tengen23
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  For a Final Fantasy game in the main line of the series, I rank this about the middle of the road. 
 Compared to later games in the franchise like FF7 or FFX, this game is not quite as good, but compared 
 to some members of the franchise like FF1 or FF5, this game rocks.
  
  The biggest drawback to this game, like all of the older ones, is the graphics. However, with the 
 new DS release that problem has been solved by implementing a new 3D engine. The graphical style 
 of the game is lovely. I think of these graphics as an example of what Square could have done if 
 they had developed a Final Fantasy game for the N64.
  
  The gameplay is also quite decent. Of course, you can't expect the depth of the fighting system 
 that came with games like FFX, but for an early game in the franchise this one packs a punch. There 
 are plenty of varieties of jobs to choose from so your party can change abilities all the time. 
 There are also some nice special techniques here that don't have counterparts in too many of the 
 FF games, like the Dark Knight's souleater attack. My only complaint with respect to the job system 
 is that there aren't enough jobs that can use magic, so that I often feel forced to include a white 
 or red mage in my party just to have effective healing spells on hand.
  
  The biggest complaint I have is the story. So far, and I am only about half way through the game, 
 the story has been very linear. Also, the story doesn't have a lot of depth: there is just one 
 event after another, many of them seemingly unrelated in the grand scheme of things, just moving 
 you along toward an inevitable big boss fight with some being that is trying to destroy the world. 
 The story isn't any worse than the FF games around that period like FF2 or even FF4 to some extent, 
 but it's not especially engaging.
  
  If you want a game that will provide hours of fun in a simple, but enjoyable role-playing engine, 
 check this one out. If you are a fan of the Final Fantasy franchise, as I am, then you definitely 
 have to check this one out. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviru
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  So, I bought this game about three weeks ago and I had quite high expectation about this game. 
 It turned out my expectation was fulfilled.
  
  First, the gameplay is like old school RPG and that's why I like it so much. It reminds me of those 
 old school RPGs I played in PS. I'm a bit old fashioned guy and I'm not a really big fan of those 
 new action RPG. Although I got bored a couple times because of the tedious leveling up, overall, 
 I still like it. I give 9 for the gameplay because of it reminds me of old times...
  
  Second, graphics. Don't expect something awesome for the graphic. Cause this game is a remake, 
 it doesn't have an awesome graphics like many RPGs in other consoles. But still, it's an RPG and 
 graphic for me is less important than the gameplay and the story. So, I give 7 for the graphics...
 
  
  Third, the sound. The sound is great at first, but after a while, it got boring listening the same 
 song over and over again, especially when I was grinding. I had to crank the volume down and listening 
 to sumting else or I could get sick of it. Don't get me wrong, I like all the background songs, 
 but there's time when you get sick listening to the same song for like 4 hours. For the sound, 
 I give 8, coz I actually liked it, tho not good to listen to them over and over again.
  
  Last, this game worths the money, especially if you're a big fan of Final Fantasy series. I give 
 9 for this game since I will keep this game for myself as one of my collections... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Yeah when I bought my ds and saw that final fantasy III was coming out for it it further confirmed 
 that my money was well spent. This game great at every thing it does have but, gets hurt by the 
 things it doesnt have. The gameplay is some of the best turned based action in an rpg. Mostly, 
 because this game help event the turn-based traditional rpgs as we know it. The jobs are pretty 
 cool and they have seperate lvl from you character lvl. (So you character can be lvl.20 and lvl. 
 30 blk mage) It just wish they had the depth like in Final Fantasy Tactics on ps maybe they didnt 
 want to make it to complicated for younger audiences but hey its rated Teen and some higher level 
 jobs you wonder why to switch to them especially job lvl dont convert over for instance you'll 
 have blk mage that can eventually do lvl 1 to 7 spells but later on you become a Magus which (your 
 black mage will probably be about lvl. 50 to 65) is supposedly stronger black mage which can spells 
 up lvl 8 but the job lvl starts all the way over lvl1which your pretty much at the end of the main 
 quest so the question lies do I want to start training a new job to eventually lvl8 spells at the 
 end of the main quest. . Battles can get pretty hectic sometimes even after training this a good 
 and a bad thing. Im probably pretty much an expert when comes to rpgs so I like it when its a challenge 
 then train beat the crap out of monster that was once hard. I have died a few times in this game 
 but not because I zoomed through without training its just this game has uneven difficulty levels. 
 In almost all rpgs you fight monster in area then at the end of an area its a boss. And you can 
 pretty much tell when you're ready for the boss when you can destroy the harder monsters in the 
 area with hardly any problems but game is different Ive trained and destroyed the hardest monsters 
 in a area only to get to a boss that destroyed me. And this wouldnt even be bad actually probably 
 make me happy since I like rpgs that actually that give a challenge if not for the fact that you 
 cant make savepoint in a dungeon that you can go back to if you die. Only on the world map are 
 you allowed to make savepoints that you can go back to if you die. And dungeons arent exactly small 
 either so if you see the boss and want to save you have go all the way back through the dungeon 
 which is severly fustrating consider that most dungeons you will have atleast have 15 random fights 
 plus another 15 to get back and sometimes you do all that only to find out you still arent strong 
 enough. So You might be in a dungeon for hour and half or more (mostly later dungeons) going through 
 it and training thinking you're almost 100% sure you can win If you just put on you best fight 
 and still lose and not really the point you lost its the point if didnt go back and save you have 
 do all that training over plus more to continue in the game. Foremost most people who are not diehard 
 rpgist that would be the end of the adventure for them atleast till they are done being pissed 
 off with the game which can take a very long time days, months, and maybe never especially since 
 is the not thing in the story that keeps you into it. Since its in 3D and the beginning trailer 
 looked better than some ps1 FMV so I was hoping for a FMV cutscene only find out none of the cutscenes 
 in the beginning movie are put into the actual game which was a real disappointing since they story 
 is pretty dry and goes straight to the point so you dont know your character only the picture you 
 have in your mind. This is defiantly a game you play for the gameplay and to see the next boss 
 you can pound. Dont let that stop you if you want this game though it still great rpg. And if you 
 train till you cant get anymore good exp from the monsters in that area you should do pretty good. 
 But for safety either run back to the world map save and run back to the end of dungeon or later 
 on in the game use item to leave dungeon save and run back to the end of dungeon. Either way its 
 frustrating. Graphically the game looks pretty good they could of made it a little smoother but 
 hey I'll give them credit for changing a 2d to 3d on a handheld. This is a game that will last 
 atleast 30 hours or more. The value in my opinion is kind of steep $40.00 it should be a $35.00 
 game but square nonetheless knows that ppl would $50 if they asked for a final fantasy game thats 
 3D and new. I recommend this game to those who want to add on to final fantasy collection, those 
 who love turn-based rpg gameplay, and die hard turn-based rpgist who want a challenge. If you expecting 
 deep story or atleast a twist in the story you wont it find here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haz_420
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the final fantasy series, ever since I bought the ps 1 just so i could play 
 final fantasy 7, then continued to live on my friends couch for weeks so that i could play final 
 fantasy 10 when they were not. As far as turn based rpg's go, the final fantasy series has always 
 been on top of their game.
  
  This version for the nintendo ds is no different. The graphics are a bit pixely, but the sound 
 and game play, and the fact that you can use the stylus more than makes up for it. If your picky 
 about graphics, then go play an xbox 360 on a nice sized HD TV. If your into handheld gaming, there 
 has to be more to the game than just graphics, and final fantasy III fills that demand.
  
  I've been playing this game for over 40 hours, and it hasnt gotten boring once. Well maybe at the 
 part where i could not beat the boss odin, that was getting a bit fustrating, but if you ever come 
 to a part you cant seem to pass, either level up your characters a bit more, or perhaps your not 
 using the right jobs for the mission. Anyways, this isnt a hint guide, this is a review, and my 
 first review i've ever written i might add. So if you like it, show me some love, and maybe ill 
 write some more, and if you dont, then i guess you probably stopped reading by now.
  
  Anyways, overall this is a must have game to be added as part of your collection, and a game that 
 will never lose its gameness. I started off playing magical starsign when i first got my ds, but 
 as soon as i got ffIII, its been the only game i've really been spending any amount of time playing. 
 Sure i play the occasional metroid pinball or prime hunters, but i dont spend the time and energy 
 that i do with ffIII. Sometimes, late at night, i'll fall asleep while im playing, and wake up 
 in the middle of a battle, near dead like i was pushing the buttons in my sleep. Thats how good 
 this game is.
  
  So yea, that about sums up my review, like i said, if you enjoyed reading my first review ever, 
 let me know, add me as a friend, leave a comment, or whatever it is you nerds to do other nerds 
 to show that they have been accepted :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musashimiatsu
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  So I beat this game yesterday and I got to say it was pretty good. Graphics and gameplay were nice. 
 Very challenging which is certainly a plus. Somethings I didn't like were specifically the music. 
 Not a big fan of it. I didn't like the fact that the stylus didn't play that much of a role at 
 all besides a secondary option to using the directional pad and the four DS buttons. Mognet is 
 kind of useless unless you're using it to gain the Onion Swordsman job which by the way i think 
 is not worth it unless you seriously want it. The job system had its ups and downs. I didn't like 
 that i couldn't seamlessly change to another job without my stats dropping. Another thing I liked 
 was its longevity. It took me about a bit over 50 hours to finish it. This is of course not including 
 the Mognet quest which would add at least 10-15 hours on top of that. If you're a casual gamer 
 I wouldn't recommend this to you as it's not that easy to get into not gameplay wise but I believe 
 it's a bit difficult for the normal gamer. All in all i have to say this is still a nice addition 
 to your DS but the price tag at the moment might warrant you to wait a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandyCAcura
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game is great, it has tons of hours of play to keep you going, The difficulty is hard but 
 that makes it all the betterif your an RPG fan period you'll love it if your a FF fan you LOOVEE 
 it even more! It's a MUST Have if you have a Nintendo DS! And if you don't buy one so you can play 
 it lol xD! Yeah its that good ^___^. It has a ton of classes you can choose between lots of items, 
 side quests, cool graphics and a very cool story line =) It is very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 is the first Final Fantasy game I have played. It is amazing. The only FF not to 
 be previously released in the US has finally made it here toward our shores. The game starts out 
 with a single character learning that he and 3 others are the chosen Warriors of Light who are 
 to battle the darkness out of the land. After you progress through the games first dungeon, you 
 start on your real adventure. Besides the story, the game also looks pretty good with the characters 
 redone in 3D for this installment. And while the opening movie looks so much better than the actual 
 gameplay, it still looks pretty good. The sound quality is amazing, and the opening score is one 
 of the best i've heard. Overall this game is worth buying, fanboy or not, because it deserves to 
 be played. Isn't that why Square brought it over? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_9608
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  For a player who has been playing Final Fantasy games since the release of Final Fantasy X for 
 the PS2, I have found this game has good graphics, storyline, and gameplay mechanics for the DS. 
 I give the gameplay a 9 out of 10 because the gameplay is so easy to get used to. You can use either 
 the stylus or the directional pad and buttons to move the character. I don't use the stylus for 
 this game due to how slow I would be playing.
  
  I give the graphics a 10 out of 10 because the graphics for this game is just awesome on the D. S. 
 The opening scene that appears right before the main menu is 3-D at its best especially for the 
 D. S.
  
  I give the sound a 8 out of 10 because I think the sound is too plain.
  
  I give the value a 9 out of 10 because I think this would be a great Christmas gift for an RPG 
 player who likes Final Fantasy games in general. Once when you play this game, you will get hooked.
 
  
  My tilt for the game is a 9 out of 10 because I personally enjoy this game. I wish that Square 
 Enix would put the job system in every Final Fantasy that it makes. I like the job system because 
 you have option of choosing which character could be a white mage, black mage, etc... Unother than 
 like Final Fantasy where you have the job automated already in it. This game is definitely the 
 best RPG game that I have played for a hand-held system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixsense
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is the only Final Fantasy I hadn't played until now. You could imagine my excitement 
 when I heard it was coming out on the DS. I was not disappointed! It was exactly what I was expecting. 
 When I bought it, I drove home as quickly as I could, took my DS out of its case, opened the game 
 package, and put the game into the DS. I pressed the appropriate buttons to skip through the various 
 warnings, and watched the opening FMV. It blew me away! I didn't even know my DS could DO that! 
 It was almost like the time when I realized my SNES could do the rain thing in A Link to the Past. 
 I knew that this wasn't going to be just another Final Fantasy remake.
  
  Well let's begin the journey, eh? Story: 8/10
  We begin with a boy named Luneth falling through 
 a hole and into the cave. Little did he know that that fall into that cave would lead him to his 
 destiny
  
  The story is basically the four chosen Light Warriors must protect the crystals from the approaching 
 darkness. Nothing new, right? Well Square Enix tweaked the story just a bit to have character 
 development. It has humorous and unpredictable moments, which is something that you would expect 
 from a Final Fantasy game. People keep griping about the lack of originality in the game's story. 
 Well, of course the game's story isn't going to be that expansive. It's a freaking NES game! What 
 do you expect? A huge story like Final Fantasy VIII's? I'm glad they didn't change the story. I'm 
 glad they didn't create super-extra scenes that will take away from the old school aspect of it. 
 This is supposed to be a remake of an old game. Therefore, keep it old school!
  
  Gameplay
  
  Battle System: 9.5/10
  Even though the battles are turn-based, it's nice to go 
 back to the old-style of RPGs sometimes. Going into my first random battle of the game, I was glad 
 to see that the monsters and single party member had detail. You could see the weapons that you 
 will wield in the coming round in battle, and the backgrounds are quite detailed.
  
  You could use the stylus to select commands in the menu, or you could do it the classic way.
 
  
  You can change job classes once a certain event occurs in the game. Although there is an adjustment 
 period when you change jobs, I don't mind it. It makes sense that a Warrior would take longer than 
 a Freelancer to become a White Mage. You just have to pick the right time to change job classes 
 that drastically.
  
  The battle system leaves room for strategy. The battles are harder than normal. If you're like 
 me, you would use magic all the time and attack when you need to. Your party would be like this: 
 Red Mage, Black Mage, White Mage, and Summoner. I soon learned that I CANNOT do this unless I'm 
 leveled up and have a strategy. You need to pick and choose the right job classes for your party 
 members in order to be successful in this game. I like that you can't just hit the Confirm' button 
 all the time and expect to win most of the time. Also, if you change jobs, there is a job adjustment 
 period'. Your character will not perform well at his/her job until a certain amount of battles 
 pass. For example, if a Warrior wanted to change to a White Mage, they would have a job adjustment 
 period of 2 battles. It makes sense, doesn't it? You need to pick the right time and place to adjust 
 jobs sometimes.
  
  Oh, and don't forget to level up. I like this game because the battles are harder. They get easier 
 if you level up. It's not like you're playing a PSX or PS2 Final Fantasy and having a really easy 
 time with it (although, I would say that Final Fantasy XII is the exception to that rule) . I guess 
 Square's trying to get back to the Old School ways of Final Fantasy.
  
  When you cast a spell or use a special attack, the camera sometimes zooms in on the character performing 
 it. I think that's kind of neat, especially on the DS. Also, sometimes you will have a fifth party 
 member (Guest party members) . They sometimes attack the enemy alongside your party, even though 
 you don't see them in formation or the menu. You can't change their equipment either. You simply 
 see them performing the attack. Sometimes it helps, sometimes it doesn't. It's just nice to see 
 them in action. Sometimes they contribute a lot to the battle.
  
  Menu: 8/10
  Again, you can use the stylus to select commands in the menu.
  
  The menu is the same generic 
 menu seen in every Nintendo Final Fantasy. Not a surprise, considering that it's the third game. 
 I can't fault Square Enix with not doing anything else with it. What else are you going to do with 
 the menu? Maybe reconfigure the menu to contribute to the mood/story of the game? The background 
 is a stone-like blue. The font's nice. It's easy to use, and very organized. Beautifully drawn 
 character portraits are nice addition to the menu. I love that they change when the character's 
 job class changes.
  
  Field: 10/10
  Wonderful 3-D graphics on the DS?! WOW!
  
  The world map is beautiful. It reminded me a bit of Legend of Legaia, but better. The towns are 
 wonderfully crafted. The dungeons, although short, are also crafted in a way that could show the 
 beauty of a temple, or the dampness of a cavern. Square did a good thing here. This is the best 
 looking DS game thus far. The background colours chosen for this game adds nicely to the mood of 
 the areas, and the overall gameplay. I also enjoy the fact that you can see your characters on 
 the world map/town/dungeon in their job costume'. It's a very cute idea. The characters themselves 
 were designed very nicely almost like a mix of Final Fantasy IX and Final Fantasy Tactics. Whenever 
 you view a scene, the camera zooms in on the characters (first-person view) , rather than viewing 
 the scene from far away in the third-person view. The characters are also in their costumes!! Sometimes 
 you get the opportunity to speak to your guest party member by tapping the stylus on the talk' 
 icon on the touch screen. They'll give you helpful tips, or start a conversation giving your party 
 members more development or telling the party the guest's story.
  
  The only thing I could ask Square to add is a town map on the top screen, rather than keeping the 
 world map on the top screen when you're in a town. A map when you're in a dungeon would also be 
 nice. Oh, and the zooming in with the camera is a bit annoying as well. Sometimes you have to zoom 
 in with the camera if you want to find certain items or passages. The camera's too fast sometimes 
 for my eyes, so I get a little dizzy (heh, I'm prone to motion sickness) . I don't know if that 
 happens to anyone else, but it seems to happen to me sometimes whenever I play any new video game. 
 Sidequests: 7.5/10
  Considering that this is the third installment of Final Fantasy, I wouldn't expect that many sidequests. 
 The existing sidequests are good. Hence, where the marks are coming from. The newest sidequest' 
 in FFIII DS is the Mognet feature. I don't like it that much. I guess that Nintendo/Square Enix 
 is trying to throw in support for globalization/peer-to-peer DS socializing/selling more DS's/more 
 people buying FFIII DS. Although I like the idea of globalization, I'm not quite used to the whole 
 online gaming thing. The in-game mailing is very cute. It's nice to get messages from Cid or Princess 
 Sara. However, in order to unlock the secret job and the bonus dungeon, you must send mail to other 
 people who have a DS and Final Fantasy III DS. I think it's a bit of a hassle to find people who 
 fit both conditions. But that's just me Characters: 8/10
  The characters are so cute! I don't mind that they look kiddie at all! The characters have some 
 development, and if you take the time to use the talk' function when you have a guest party member, 
 you begin to see what your characters' personalities are really like. It's almost like a Dragon 
 Quest VIII feature. Controls: 9/10
  I've stated before that you can use the stylus for the entire game, or you can use the classic 
 controls. Use the classic controls. They aren't that annoying.
  
  I don't really like using the stylus for games unless the game's called Brain Age'. The problem 
 with the stylus is that you have to be right on the mark. If you're selecting enemies to attack 
 in battle, then you have to put the stylus ON THE ENEMY and not anywhere else. If you're using 
 the stylus to move, sometimes your character doesn't move in the direction you want him/her to 
 go. Therefore, use the classic controls. The controls aren't really that hard to master (unless 
 you're using the stylus) . Therefore, they're ideal for one who has not experienced an RPG before.
 
  
  Sound and Music
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Generic Final Fantasy sound effects. The sound effects actually fit in with the way the game looks. 
 I mean, that it contributes to the mood of the game. The effects aren't IN YOUR FACE'. They have 
 a humble' and subtle' quality to them. For example, when you're on the world map, with Eternal 
 Wind blaring in the background, and you switch to your menu, the sound effects are very small 
 and fitting with the music. The sound quality on the DS is as good as it could get. It's even better 
 if you listen with your headphones on rather than turning up the volume.
  
  Music: 10/10
  I like the music from this game. As we all know, the music is able to make or break a game. This 
 music fits in with the modest quality that this game exhibits. Listening to the OSV (for the NES 
 version) , the revamped music is a very welcome addition to the game. Although the OSV was very 
 good, tracks such as Elia, the Maiden of Water is enhanced and made even more beautiful if that 
 could be possible. Another example could be The Boundless Ocean, which - on the OSV - conveyed 
 a mood of loneliness. Now, on this revamped album, the same theme conveys the same mood, but adds 
 a note of sadness. To be honest with you, out of the first four, I believe that this game has the 
 best score, with FFIV coming in second. This was about the time when we began to notice the real 
 talent of Nobuo Uematsu. FFIII was like the seeds of his plant. FFIV was the sprout. FFV was like 
 the bud, and FFVI was the flower. At this time, I will add a Come back to us, Nobuo! Ahem.
  
  Yes, the music can be a bit repetitive, but since this was an NES game, I think that's normal. 
 Again, I'm glad that kept this game old school. Replay Value: 9/10
  I think this game is very replayable. If you need a game to play when waiting for class or waiting 
 for the bus, take this game with you. Time will pass quickly while fighting monsters, listening 
 to the soundtrack, and learning something new about your characters each time you play this. Overall 
 Score: 8.7/10 rounded up to 9/10
  
  Should I Buy or Should I Rent?
  If you're a Final Fantasy Fan or an RPG fan, I would recommend that you pick this up. If you're 
 trying to get into the genre, this would be an excellent game to start out on. Even though you 
 may not be able to unlock the extra content, it's still a nice game to play. I would say that anyone 
 with a DS should pick up this game, as its graphics will overwhelm you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syluvan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  As a longtime lover of fantasy RPG's, I daresay that I nearly died of heart failure when I learned 
 that this missing link was finally going to be published in English. This game, one of the most 
 innovative of the original Final Fantasy series, was the RPG fix that I had been searching for, 
 I knew.
  
  The game opens with a beautiful CGI movie of sorts accompanied by a soaring symphonic soundtrack. 
 I could only sit there and gaze in awe at just how exquisitely detailed and realistic the graphics 
 were. Although I realize that the graphics of the game itself aren't quite on par to this opening 
 sequence, I was nonetheless dazzled, and felt that such an introduction should be acknowledged.
 
  
  Final Fantasy III take the player through a sweeping storyline, leading through laughter, tears, 
 and shock the entire way through. Involving enough to keep the player immersed, and yet not melodramatic 
 or cheesy, this is the kind of storyline that gamers have come to love and adore about the Final 
 Fantasy series.
  
  Gameplay begins with a single character, and grows to a party of four (and occasionally five) throughout 
 the game. The characters in themselves are presented with each having a unique personality and 
 a rather adorable 3-D sprite which changes depending on what job they have taken up. However, whatever 
 occupation they may seek, they usually keep at least one distinguishing feature to their outfit -- Luneth's 
 triple belt-buckle vest, for example, or Ingus' green pendant. The interaction with NPC's and the 
 main party characters themselves add much to the experience, especially with the newest, most unusual 
 feature: the Mognet.
  
  The job system adds a wonderful amount of complexity to the game, giving it just the right touch 
 of customization and personal taste. The selection of jobs chosen for your party greatly affects 
 the gameplay -- for example, one may find that the far undervalued Scholar fits their needs better 
 than a typical Warrior. Also, the job changes are often necessary to progress through certain parts 
 of the game; no ordinary Freelancer can turn your party into a foursome of toads.
  
  The aforementioned Mognet is definitely one of the distinguishing and most unusual features of 
 the game. This new system allows the player to send mail to NPC's, and also to their friends via 
 LAN or the Nintendo WFC. In turn, new quests and weapons can be unlocked through the use of this.
 
  
  On the lesser side, the gameplay is rather repetetive, and the constant random enemy encounters 
 can be frustrating at times, especially when one is trying to travel quickly. Also, the player 
 can only save their progress when on the world map, occasionally meaning that a death will equal 
 hours of gameplay having to be repeated. Sometimes the graphics leave something to desire, with 
 the occasional unusual collision factor (i. e. enemy heads sticking out of the mountains raised 
 by Titan's high summon) and the occasional, extremely rare polygon seam. However, any fan of the 
 series -- and any hardcore gamer besides -- shouldn't find any of these to be too much of a problem. 
 The soundtrack continues to dazzle, even once into the game itself, and the graphics are still 
 spectacular and detailed.
  
  Overall, to say that I'm highly impressed by this masterpiece would be an overly huge understatement. 
 I recommend this game to any lover of fantasy, RPG's, or anyone simply looking for the next game 
 that will take their breath away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrettskye
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm a gamer on the go a lot these days, and I don't get to enjoy the deep storylines and complex 
 gameplay of too many console RPG's these days. Final Fantasy XII is a long-term goal for me. So 
 I was excited to hear that Final Fantasy was finally making it's debut on the Nintendo DS, with 
 updated graphics and storyline (and fancy cinematics thrown in as well) .
  
  The game beckons to a time when games didn't need 10 minutes of expostion and cutscene, followed 
 by a 10 minute cinematic. FF III keeps the story light, and brisk, while still keeping you entertained 
 and wanting more.
  
  The gameplay is total old school RPG, using a turn-based battle-system, and a job system that allows 
 your characters abilities to be switched as needed. The job system is good, but a few of the classes 
 seem a little underwhelming to me.
  
  The graphics are some of the best 3D I've seen on the DS yet, after Metroid Prime Hunters, but 
 the top screen isn't utilized as much as I'd hoped it would be.
  
  All in all, FF III is a great game for someone looking for some old-school RPG on the go, which 
 takes good advantage of the DS hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheska_Briune
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid 3D visuals, some of which show what the DS can do, an awesome remix of classic 
 tunes, nice job system, best RPG for DS.
  
  The Bad: Difficulty can be quite tedious on you, few saving spots, not updated to active time battle 
 system, a somewhat pixilated 3D mess at times, job system isn't fleshed out, Moogle Net is pointless 
 except to unlock extras, top screen is rarely used while the touch screen is nearly pointless.
 
  
  Final Fantasy 3 features graphics that have been reworked exclusively for the Nintendo DS, remodeled 
 in 3D, and Square Enix has done so while maintaining the mythical Final Fantasy feel and look. 
 Now, before I go any further, I'd like to explain that this is NOT the Final Fantasy 3 many Americans 
 know of, that was for the Super Nintendo, which was actually FF6, but this was the single ff never 
 to reach US shore in history, except maybe for some hackers out there who translated the nintendo 
 version to english, which techincally doesnt count. I'm afraid we have Square to thank for screwing 
 up the names and not releasing certain FF games at the time, thinking it wasn't worth it. Well, 
 after 16 years, we finally have a remastered version of the game, but was it really worth the wait???
 
  
  First off, FF3 is NOT your typ of the mill RPG, no sir e, but instead, retains much of what it 
 was back in the NES days, where there were few save points, monsters can kill you in a single turn 
 if you end up in the wrong area, and inns do not revive dead characters. Now, if you're new to 
 RPGs in general, and companies have rotted your brains in hack and slash or multi-cross-genreas, 
 like shooter-rpgs, COUGH *Dirge of Cerberus* and are not interested in the traditional ways of 
 mindless level-uping, just go away RIGHT NOW, and never return. But if you are truely that classic 
 gamer, for all the good or bad this game has, you're in for a real portable treat!
  
  Now, as the story went with the original FF3, lets just say it didnt win any emmys, using 4 personality-less 
 Onion Knights who had to save the world with the help of the crystals. Now, maybe when it came 
 out, Japanese audiences enjoyed it quite well, as for anyone else who was lucky enough to play 
 it, but now... its kinda... on the down side, and a bit bland. Sure, they Square tried to spice things 
 up a bit, by seperating the whole Onion Knight idea, and unitng 4 heroes with a, somewhat forced 
 backstory, which aren't even good to begin with. Sure, it adds some story and depth to a game that 
 was originally missing much of this, but still, at least it tries.
  
  Now, for the graphics, they are fantastic........... at least at a glance..... while in movement... things 
 can look a bit mushed and disorenienting. While traveling around towns, dungeons, or whatnot, things 
 can look very pixilated and distorted, especially when you have to zoom in, which is what you have 
 to do a lot of the game to find secret spots. As for during fighting sequences, things tend to 
 be even more of pixilated mess. Backgrounds look.... dotty, and the fighting motions basically stay 
 in the same spot, while they twirl around in a motion, which amazingly can hit them. Some of the 
 in game spells and all look nice, but that cant save it from its slight slowdowns at a few spots 
 during gameplay. Sometimes, out of no where, you'll get a quick freeze, like when damage points 
 rise. They look like some one went slow mo on those, and just sometimes other places for no reason. 
 Also, battle that should only take a quick moment of your time seem to take forever! Alas, DS owners 
 now have the psp curse for this title.
  
  Now for gameplay, it retains much of what FF3 had, adding very little, and even making the originally 
 hard game, harder. Since FF3 was at a time before the active time battle system was, it is completely 
 turned based. Actions will not come to until all of your members have chosen an move. Again, this 
 makes the game hard, as you may be fighting a boss, when you are about to cast heal on a near dead 
 person, when he clobbers him, and thus your cure is inofective. That being said, bosses usually 
 get many hits per turn, which means, again, even harder gameplay. Still, for those old school gamers 
 who are craving this, this was meant for you, and as for the rest of you.... you may just want to 
 destroy your DS.... but don't....
  
  As for the job system, it retains it to a near simularity as the original, picking out classes 
 of fighting, such as a white mage, or warrier. Each job does something specific, and have special 
 skills. It's fun to try out what kind of part suits you in battle best. Also, remember, for each 
 job there is, there are specific equip items for each of them. fot those who want a more fleshed 
 out version of this, I'd advise to get the much improved Final Fantasy 5 for GBA.
  
  Now, for one of my favorite reasons about, the sound. The music is redone right, bringing in the 
 ff feel into the game. It helps that the remixs take advantage of the DSs audio capability, and 
 brings it out, for the most part, strong. Although, I wish that the main, orchistrated theme could've 
 been in a higher quality during the beg intro, it was still nice. Also, the sound effects are done 
 the right was, again keeping that traditional ff theme into the mix. Some who are newer to FF will 
 prob think that they are remakes of other FF songs, but alas, these were what are based off to 
 todays ff games.
  
  My biggest complaint is that Square-Enix did little to use the touchscreen feature, other than 
 being able to control the whole game with it, which you can nearly do the whole time vise versa 
 with the regular controls. Now, that's very uncreative of square... shame on them. If that isn't 
 bad enough, the top screen is RARELY used what-so-ever. About 60-70% I should say, now that all 
 says something. Maybe Squre-Enix isn't ready for the real world of the new style of portable gaming, 
 and only time, and the new soon to be released Crytal Chronicles for DS.
  
  For the last portion of the game, the Moogle Net, it's very bland, and most will use it just to 
 get those secret areas that were made exclusively for the DS, only unlockable by using it.
  
  FF3 is a very old school, hard core game. For those that have been with the series since the 
 beg of time, you'll feel right at home here, but for those who are new to this world of classic 
 RPGs, I'd advise ff4 or 5 for gba, any of the ps1 titles, ff10, and even ff12, if you're new. Final 
 Fantasy 3 DS may not be the best FF around, but it sure is a great add to your DS collection, so 
 do yourself a favor and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanden_Killer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  well i just bought it and was turning it on and i watched the opening cut scene and then i decided 
 to turn it off and on again and watch it again...... and again.... and again..... and again...... ect. 
 now the in game graphics are not ground breaking but they are decent for the DS (even though there 
 have been better) and the cinematics truly are awesome! the sound quality is very good and the 
 many songs by Nobuo Uematsu are of course beautifully done and truly awesome!
  
  now the battle system was a bit odd as they only take a few steps slash and step back (unlike FF7 
 where they go right up the them and hit them) but all the cool jobs are there and you progressively 
 obtain new ones as you complete each objective. the online functions are some what of a disappointment 
 as all you do appears to be an e-mail service now had they put a Vs function in order to pit your 
 team against friends that would be good but maybe that could be a hopeful option in future games. 
 all in all i wold give it a 10/10 and just forgive the in game graphics but the GS rating system 
 doesn't work that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I felt absolutely let down by FF 12 for the PS2, but along came FF 3 for the DS and put things 
 back into prospective. Wit all the old school elements in place, the minor comedy, charm, and cutesy 
 graphics this one is a winner and shows the DS is king of the Hand held gaming hill.
  
  The Graphics is not something thr DS is renowned for, but guess what in this game you couldnt be 
 bother with that as it does a great job rendering this little charming and endering characters. 
 The colors are vibrant and the towns are varied. Although the pixels arent super detailed they 
 convey to you life in the little characters that are present. The Attacks leave a little lacking, 
 but are justifiable. The music is classic FF with the scores and undertones youll recognize especially 
 the after battle win theme (cant get enough of that) The sound effects are meager. Dont expect 
 any spoken dialouge here. Other than music there not too much to expect in this department.
  
  The controls are simple and very useful and conform to both left handed and right handed player 
 as a lot of DS games do. The stylus is brilliant as you point and tap what and where you want to 
 go. You can even control wether the characters run or walk depending on how you point. The regular 
 button respond in great fashion too and provide a great alternative to the stylus for when those 
 times you hands get a cramp lol. The Menus are standard fair as you navigate with ease to equip, 
 change jobs, and the rest of the norm.
  
  The Story is a remake, but is still great to see relieved on the DS. The four warriors of light 
 are selected to save a doomed world from the darkness that looms over the horizion. The story picks 
 up quickly and just snowballs from there. Its is quite fast paced as you move from one town to 
 the next tackling problems and finding gems. Its almost as if you are living from one task to the 
 next. Everything happens so fast. Job building and level upgrading are done effortlessly. The Job 
 classes are quite enjoyable, too. Thier not as uniquely done as in FFX-2 but they are classic and 
 true to form.
  
  The Replay on many RPG's are high so its no suprise with this one as you can focus on the different 
 jobs each time through. Id say my only beef is with the only four characters and only one of them 
 being female. I love Female game characters as they add spice and humor to a lot of situations. 
 All in all this is another great DS game and IMO is the second best handheld RPG behind Legend 
 of Zelda. I recommend to anyone who has a DS and wants an great RPG to get this game. It was way 
 better than FF 12 to me. PEACE and enjoy all!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinky_bomb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  even though this game isnt like the orginal finalfantisy 3 game ( final fantisy 6) its still a 
 great game it amusing to final fantisy players or people that dont fallow the final fantisy seires.
 
  GOOD
  - the grafics are great for a ds game
  - u can use eather the styles or the controle pad so u wont hate it cus u have to use the styles 
 ( like star fox -_-)
  - u can have different jobs so u can do different things better
  - some times u get in alot of battles so its good for leaveling up
  BAD
  - some of the jobs 
 suck cus u cant use some of the wepons or some of the majik
  - some thimes u get in a battle every 3 steps and it makes me mad when im trying to get somewhere.
 
  - when u go small (mini) ur attack gose down so your forced to use your majik and u haft to run 
 from enamies if u dont want to wast it if have to battle a boss
  
  so its a great game to buy it will kepp u busy for a long time (enless u spazz out all the time 
 and through ur game boy then u might not like it) iv played for about 4/h and iv only had it for 
 3 days (i go to school so i dont play it then -_-) you would proububle benift from buying it cus 
 u wont be bored...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JtDaGreat1989
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  Square Enix has outdone themselves this time. FFIII remake has everything the original game had 
 to offer and more.
  
  I hope they decide to make more Final fantasies in the future only for the DS.
  Final Fantasy 
 III is the best RPG for the D. S.
  
  This game is a good game for true RPG fans so if you hate it you do't know nothing about a true 
 Role Playing Game.
  
  This game is just right for anyone who knows how to read and its a game that have you playing for 
 hour and you won't be disapoited this game shows that Final Fantasy will never die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellkid56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  the new final fantasy is one for the books. the amazing graphics and game play make it one of the 
 best final fantasy's ever. the begin is perfect for gamers that haven't experienced the ff (final 
 fantasy obviously) series before, but for those who have lived for the ff series this is one you 
 can gladly play. the job system in this game is it's best feature with 23 jobs to choose from there 
 are endless posibilities! the fight scenes are even better than the original. the fact that they 
 have now made it better than the 2-bit fighting scenes is amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathaXx98
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Finally an amazing rpg for the DS. Also as a fan of Final Famtasy too, i am very glad to finally 
 play FF3 since it has never been released in North America or anywere else besides Japan. This 
 is surely the game with the best grapics on DS. Mainly in the opening seen where it looks like 
 FFXII Graphics. If purchased i would recomend a stratagy guide to help you decide what jobs and 
 stratagies work best against bosses and how to find good magic, etc. Overall this game is worth 
 your money. Though the stratagy guide just find a player guide online because as good as the real 
 one is its will an extra $16.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III was a fun game, mostly because I'm a huge fan of the early Final Fantasy games. 
 While some might think the game was outdated, it didn't feel like it to me. The story could of 
 been a little more drawn out, but that's the only problem I had with it.
  
  You can only save on the world map. This might sound dated, but once you realize how short the 
 dungeons are in the game you'll realize how easy the game would be if you could save before each 
 boss battle. The only time I ever died in the game was fighting Bahamut on the mountain, fighting 
 the dragon on the boat and the final boss before I figured out how to kill him. The game is not 
 as hard as people make it out to be. If you liked Final Fantasy V like I did, then you'll enjoy 
 this as much as me.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Final Fantasy III is a classic turn-based RPG. The turns go in rounds like the first Final Fantasy, 
 you have to set each characters moves and watch the round play out. The character or enemy with 
 the greatest speed usually (but not always) go first. Some enemies go more than once to even things 
 out though. The battles are all random, besides the boss fights. You can see all boss fights coming 
 a mile away so you'll have plenty of time to repair. The random encounter rates isn't bad at all, 
 there was a couple dungeons where I only had to fight twice before the boss. There's only 4 playable 
 characters in the game, but at certain points in the storyline some 5th non-playable character 
 will join you. One the map he or she will follow you, and if you go into a battle that 5th character 
 will randomly attack first giving your characters a head start in battle. No character has an advantage 
 over another. It doesn't matter which one you control on the map. No one learns any personalized 
 spells or attacks. There are about 20 jobs to learn for each character and there's no way to master 
 all the jobs before you finish the game. Each job however has advantages and disadvantages over 
 another. Some jobs can equip swords, while others you can only equip rods. Some jobs can use magic, 
 some can use other job-specific abilities. Each stat for a job can level up differently. Each job 
 level can max out at 99. The higher the level the better the stats and the better your attack combos 
 are. When you equip a new job your character starts off at level 1. Each time you equip a job your 
 stats are always weakened until you beat a random number of battles.
  
  While this game has alot of similarities to Final Fantasy 5, they differ with the magic. You have 
 to buy all summons, white and black magic from stores like in the original Final Fantasy. You don't 
 gain job experience, so you can only level up 1 job level per battle. I can't pin point exactly 
 how to level up a job, but I think it's determined by how often you attack, or even faster how 
 often you attack with your special abilities. The dungeons are fairly linear and easy to figure 
 out. Most dungeons have hidden areas that are impossible to see with the naked eye. You have to 
 walk across each wall to find them. This is a typical thing for Final Fantasy and its clones. On 
 main screen you can zoom in and out using your stylus or L button. The zoom feature lets you see 
 things better, or to find secrets. The secrets will show a glowing ring floating in the general 
 area, and you have to click a lever or wall to activate something. The only difficulty in dungeons 
 is to survive to the end of them and beat the boss. The only trick I had was to not use any magic 
 on the way. I still breezed by this game without much trouble. ----------Characters / Story ----------
 
  The story is lacking alot. They gave the game an entire make over, but pretty much didn't change 
 much about the story, while theres more dialog, there's still short on it. They give each character 
 a background, and a small amount of personality, but still not enough. The story is decent, and 
 they give you enough dialog to move you along to the next area though. Overall, don't expect an 
 epic Final Fantasy storyline along the lines of FF4 and FF6-12. Overall the game is very similar 
 to Final Fantasy 5. ----------Graphics ----------
  At the start of the game you'll be welcomed with a lengthy CGI cutscene that uses both screens 
 at some points. This is the only CGI cutscene in the game, so soak it up while it lasts. You can 
 view it anytime you start the game up though. The characters are bigheaded block 3D models. The 
 character models are slightly better looking than the ones from Final Fantasy 7. The backgounds 
 are in game 3D, not pre-rendered at all. The camera is fix on your character at all times, so you 
 can't move it at all. You can however zoom in and out to view secrets. When your characters have 
 important dialog scenes the camera zooms into the characters that are talking to give them more 
 expressions. When you change job classes your characters costumes change as well, but they all 
 have distinct characteristics to them. If you change everyone into a warrior there will be atleast 
 something different between each character. The only thing that changes about your character when 
 you equip stuff is the weapons, they're all visible in the battle scenes.
  
  The enemy models look great, and they're always in constant movement, unlike the the NES and SNES 
 Final Fantasys of the past. ----------Sound ----------
  The music is classic Final Fantasy stuff we've all heard a million times. There's no voice overs 
 or even voice effects. The sound effects are minimal. Overall the Final Fantasy score is fun stuff 
 to listen to while playing an RPG and it never gets old.
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The map is a tried and true Final Fantasy overview world map. 
 The top screen displays the world map with dots displaying each town and dungeon. The bottom screen 
 is where you physically walk across the map either by foot, boat or flying ship. The map starts 
 off small just displaying a small continent, then it eventually gets bigger as you unlock new areas 
 until it finall displays the entire map at once.
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game (first run through, last save before credits) ----------
  
  
 36:40:04
  
  After you beat the final boss you keep ALL experience, gil and items you found in the final castle 
 since your last save and they warp you out of the castle where you can save and play on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate64
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game starts off with an orphan named Luneth who very quickly meets up with three other characters, 
 Arc, Refia, and Ingus. Although if you dont like those names you get the opportunity to change 
 them. But lets get into the good stuff.
  The Graphics: the graphics in this game arent the best but they still look pretty good. At the 
 beginning before you start the game you see a video that looks amazing with very detailed characters 
 and when you actually get into it youll notice immediately that they do not look like that. The 
 characters are a lot smaller with short little stubby arms and legs and they just look cute is 
 the feel you get from them. But youll get into some battles against bosses and just regular enemies 
 that actually look really good for the most part. One other good thing about it is the fact that 
 any time you change jobs your entire outfit changes making the job system that much more entertaining.
 
  The Gameplay: towards the beginning you start with everybody having the job of freelancer which 
 is the basic all around good job. The job system is where you get to change the job of a character 
 to better suit what you are about to go up against or just what suits your style of play, you can 
 have them all be warriors or all be spell casters but youll probably want some diversity. Although 
 when you start off you will only have the ability to be freelancers but after a little bit you 
 unlock about five more. When its all said and done you end up with 23 different jobs to choose 
 from, and at the end some become obsolete, for example you get the black mage at the beginning 
 and then later on you get the magus which is basically the same thing just better, and other things 
 of that nature. But while you play you will be walking around a large over world with multiple 
 cities you can enter. As you continue through the story you unlock new areas of the over world 
 to enter. In the over world you have random encounters which you come to expect from a final fantasy 
 game. The battles are basic turn based battles which are really fun. It feels a lot like a final 
 fantasy game which I like. The Sound: this games sound is pretty good, but not the best like you 
 come to expect from final fantasy but Im not saying that it is bad. The music while you are in 
 a battle is really good and gets you into the action of the battles but they are still nothing 
 to get all excited about.
  I definitely loved this game it is an amazing final fantasy title along with it just being a great 
 rpg so if you like final fantasy at all or just plain rpgs in general then I highly recommend 
 picking up this game as quickly as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_t29
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Overall: A smart buy for RPG fans and FF fans. Even those with only a passing interest in RPGs would 
 love this game.
  Gun Sword: Graphics are beautiful, incredible sound, short learning curve, 3-D on DS.
  Tail: Outshadowed 
 by FFXII, issues with battle system. Some music not optimized for DS. $40??
  
  Review: This game is great. It is a must-buy for RPG fans. Right from the opening cinematic (don't 
 skip it) , you can tell that Square Enix took care of this game while making FFXII at the same time. 
 The FF Advanced games do bring older FF games to today's generation, but the change is not much. 
 The graphics only get a small facelift, and the sound is still the same. Square took care of this 
 game. They rendered every single part of this game into 3-D that are mind-blowing on the DS. Forget 
 the blah that the DS can't match PS1 -- it looks like a PS1 game. On the DS. Anyway, the opener shows 
 a beautiful opening, accompanied by an even better overture. This FMV looks like XII in motion: 
 incredible and mind-blowing. For the game all parts are newly rendered in 3-D, the characters are 
 now chibi-style polygons. See a gameplay video here. It is amazing. Unfortunately, however, the 
 game is outshadowed by FFXII -- this game could be horrible compared to it's counterpart. Also, not 
 all of the music was optimized for DS. Some tracks still sound somewhat synthetic. The price tag 
 of $40 will veer some people away. Nevertheless, this game is a must-have for ALL RPG and FF fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toros73
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  If you buy this game expecting it to be something like final Fantasy VII or VIII, then you will 
 be very disappointed. But if you love RPGs and older final fantasy games then you will love this 
 game. The graphics for this game has to be one of the best on the DS, the landscape is very detailed 
 and is well designed. The designs for the character are made to be short chibi characters, which 
 actually seem to be fitting for this game. This game can be very hard, often times having you leveling 
 up for a good hour or so, despite that FFIII can be very addictive. The story is nothing to write 
 home about, but seeing as it's a remake of an older game it makes sense that story would be kind 
 of unoriginal.
  
  This is the perfect game for RPG lovers, which is probably why I enjoyed it so much. This is a 
 great game with great with long lasting gameplay, plenty of replay value, and is a great addition 
 to the DS's very few RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playforpride372
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  at first, final fantasy went in strange orders like FF1, FF2, FFVII, and never let us play those 
 4 games in between. In time, Nintendo has released them on the gameboy advance, but FF3 was still 
 nowhere to be found.......... until now. Final Fantasy has always promised to provide good games, 
 and out of the 12 final fantasys out, they haven't lied yet. All the final fantasys are excellent 
 games, and this one is no exception. It provides lots of gameplay, great graphics, and a great 
 storyline. great job Square Enix and your success in the past 12 games!!! Final Fantasy Rules!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClownFaceKiller
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I found FF3 to be well rounded. The story feels a bit dated but works. Game play is good. I thought 
 the Job system was fun although some jobs are not all that use full later in the game. Magic system 
 is ok at first I didn't like how the spells had a certain level and then you can only cast a certain 
 amount of times for each level. I was use to the whole MP system but the leveling system works 
 after you get use to it I also found that it adds more strategy to the game and thats not bad. 
 I really like the attack or melee system. You can equip your characters with two weapons (one for 
 each hand) , or a shield and a weapon. This works really well seeing how as your characters level 
 up they hit more times in one attack. Just as a note if you use the bow you need to have arrows 
 in the other hand or your character will just hit the opponent doing little damage. As far as difficulty 
 level I thought it was just right, it could be a little frustrating at times but not so much that 
 I wanted to stop playing. The save system is works but I would love to do a regular save in towns 
 or in caves and so on, not just on the map. You can do a what I would call a quick save but then 
 the system turns off and when you turn it back on if you go to load instead of continue well your 
 out of luck and back where you last made a regular save. This isnt all that bad and I learned 
 it the first time. The graphics in this game are great, they did a good job in making a 2D world 
 3D, as far as the DS goes I havent seen to many games that can compare except say for Metriod 
 Prime Hunters. The sound is good as well form the classic FF music style to the spells.
  
  There is a small Nintendo Wi-Fi part to the game where if you know some one who also has FF3 and 
 you have his/her friend code you can send each other messages, keep doing this and you can unlock 
 new Items. I dont know anyone that dose so I cant comment on how well it works.
  
  Over I like this game a lot even though I havent played a FF game in quite sometime except for 
 tactics on the GBA. This game reminded me of all of the good points of a traditional RPG or FF, 
 while only reminding me a little about the bad ones. If you are a FF fan or just want to try a 
 visually updated traditional RPG from the days of the Super Nintendo (even though this game didnt 
 make it to the US till now) I would encourage you to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  So I have been playing through Magical Starsign, that other entry into the turn-based fantasy RPG 
 genre for the DS, when out pops FF-III, complete with a lot of hoopla and a higher pricetag. Dang. 
 Well, I contented myself for a few weeks by continuing to play the quirky Magical Starsign, but 
 found that, while it is an enjoyable game in its own right, it does become a bit of a slog after 
 a while. I put it, and Contact, on the shelf, ran out to GS, traded in Monkeyballs and Splinter 
 Cell to bring the pricetag within reach, and purchased FF-III.
  
  Oh my.
  
  Graphics are stunning. Stunning. The opening FMV sequence took my breath away. Rivals ANYTHING 
 you've seen on PSP or even PS-II or X-box. I kid you not, it is *that* good.
  
  Unfortunately, that is the only time we are treated to that quality, however the rest of the game, 
 fully rendered 3-D, is still head-and-shoulders better than anything else out there for the DS 
 right now. Some say it slows the gameplay down, and it does a wee bit, but that's the price you 
 pay.
  
  Gameplay is oldschool dungeon crawling. When I say oldschool, I mean several things:
  
  1) 
 no saving while in a dungeon. Saves can only occur on the world map when not in a dungeon or town. 
 There are plenty of times when this is the case, but if you plan on entering a dungeon/mountainside/haunted 
 town to fulfill whatever quest sent you there, you will have no opportunity to save while inside. 
 Some players complain endlessly about this, and if you are one of those people, I have one thing 
 to say:
  
  Stop being a pansy.
  
  They actually DID have the ability to program on-the-fly permanent saves back then. The reason 
 they didn't is exactly the same reason folks complain about it now: it makes it difficult and tense 
 for the player while you are in the dungeon.
  The newer RPGs that allow you to save anytime anywhere have sucked all the tension out of questing. 
 You died? No problem, you just saved 30 seconds ago. What fun is that?
  On the other hand, when you know you are on your own in the dungeon, with no save backing you up, 
 you play differently.... you play cautiously... you take it seriously. Suddenly, winning a tough 
 battle becomes a true reason to celebrate. You begin to really care for your little avatars. Suddenly, 
 the story doesn't matter as much as you making sure your little guys and gals get through it alive.
 
  
  2) Random Encounters. Lots of them, which in other FF incarnations, get VERY annoying when you 
 need to get from point A to point B quickly (like, before the bus comes to your stop) .
  Luckily, due to the fact that it is possible to die very easily in this game, the player will, 
 if they actually stop to think about it, come to appreciate the random encounters, to see them 
 as yet another opportunity to beef up the characters for that inevitable boss battle on the way, 
 where death means a re-start from outside the dungeon.
  
  3) Save the world story
  OK, with updated graphics, you might have been hoping for an updated story... but if they change 
 the story, it wouldn't have been FF-III, so what would be the point? As a result, we are getting 
 the original 7-year-old story, which was copied shamelessly by RPGs ever since (and was probably 
 stolen from some earlier game...) : the 'mana crystal' chooses you, an orphan, to save the world 
 from imminent destruction. Off you go now. Meh. A cliched, weak story, identical to nearly every 
 Japanese fantasy RPG released in the last 15 years. No excuse other than laziness on the part of 
 the writers, who were, at one time, the programmers themselves.
  What is it with orphaned main characters anyway? Do the games manufacturers know something about 
 the demogrphic of the game-player the rest of us don't? Anyway. Gameplay is solid if a bit slow. 
 Relax. It's a game. What's your hurry?
  
  Music is sweet; full orchestral scores, a few familiar themes found in all FF releases, nothing 
 bad to report here.
  
  So, for the best rpg offering on the Ds so far, you really need to check this one out. Fantastic 
 graphics, music, and presentation, ok battle-mechanics, outdated but serviceable story, the innovative 
 job system.... Magical Starsign will end up on the back shelf, perhaps indefinitely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KageNaruto
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game definitly lives up to the hype, and gives a rebirht to an original final fantasy game, 
 making us all remember the good times.
  
  Now like most all old RPGs, really no stroy, darkness overcomes the land, 4 warriors must stop 
 it. But this doesent lower the quality of the game.
  
  The graphics are great, a strange take with the 'mini' characters, but they look good. Music is 
 purely fantastic.
  
  This is that old turn taking RPG, something different about it: jobs. You get to choose the jobs (from 
 23) that youre characters have black mage to cast offensive magic, warriors for fighting, etc. 
 Many different jobs, really fun to customize youre own party. The game system is the standard RPG, 
 but still very fun, very oldschool. Difficulty for this game can be hard, but in my opinion, its 
 just right (games should be challenging) . Trust me, if you love RPGs, no reason not to pick this 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konamix05
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 1, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I got this game mainly because I like long games to play whenever I have nothing do do. This is 
 a pretty good game that will draw you in if you have the time to play it. I haven't finished it 
 because of school but what I've played so far I like it.
  
  Graphics:
  As you know FF3 was originally on the NEW with regular 2D sprites that were amazing (I guess) for 
 its time. Well, Square-Enix has completely revamped the graphics system to make the whole game 
 3D. They have implemented little programming tricks to make the effect of added scenery such as 
 the battle scenes. The battle scenes are rendered just like the old GBA fighting games where's 
 there's a 3D plane and there is kind of a globe background. Even though it sounds muggy looking 
 it really is a beautiful experience. All the characters are really define and have facial animations 
 and everYthing that express emotions.
  
  Sound:
  This game uses this same music except remade to sound a little bit modern. It is kinda old because 
 I've been playing FF1&amp;2 on the GBA and it uses the same sounds. Gameplay:
  It's the same FF3 gameplay you all know and love except now you have jobs. As I said I havent got 
 that far but I can tell you that there is about 6-8 jobs available after the first quest. As you 
 progress with each job they get stronger and they will evolve just as they did on FF1
  
  Value:
  If you're a person who likes to play through something just once then you'll do just 
 that. However you can just go all over the FF3 world just leveling up. I like to overlevel sometimes 
 and just blow through whatever boss I come up against.
  
  It's a good game great experience. I say buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Childeater10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  From the very beginning of the game i was hooked. The music is a classical masterpiece. I love 
 it, If your craving some old school RPG this is the perfect game to get. Classic FF battle system, 
 awesome job system. And a lengthy storyline with some great side quests. However it does get quite 
 hard real quick, so if your not a hardcore RPG player be prepared for one hard ride through the 
 Final Fantasy universe. Another problem it has is the save system. You can save anytime on the 
 world map... but there a dime a dozen inside dungeons. Boss battles can also be tricky, its good 
 to try out all job classes you have to get the hang of each of them and hopefully come up with 
 a kickass group.
  
  Anyone who owns a DS or DSlite should own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Despite the now legendary soundtrack and graphic makeover this game remains true to it's 1990 roots. 
 It is an RPG of the old school and make's no apologies about it. If you cant handle frequent random 
 battles, no saving in dungeons and a complete lack of hand-holding by the game then steer clear. 
 This game is not for you!
  
  With that out of the way we can talk about all the things this does well. Most highly regarded 
 of course is the new 3D graphic engine which does an excellent job of retaining the feel of the 
 original 2D sprites. The character's are expressive and animate wonderfully and are a joy to watch. 
 As a nice touch the move to 3D gave the developers a way to hide items and rooms throughout the 
 world that are found by using the zoom feature built in to the game. You zoom in and if you see 
 a sparkly, glowing area then click it with the action button and open a hidden wall or find some 
 new loot!
  
  Also excellent is the soundtrack. While the battle music does get repetitive due to the same song 
 always playing during battle all of the tracks are very good and good quality considering the limited 
 DS storage capacity.
  
  Gameplay is of the tried and true turn based kind and comes with all of the final fantasy bells 
 and whistles you would expect. Equip your characters well, que up the proper spells and items and 
 watch the battle unfold. Introduced by this Final Fantasy is the job system in which characters 
 can change their job (class) at the touch of a button. Doing so unequips all magic and items and 
 allows you to slot in new spells and equipment depending on the job you have chosen. This also 
 completely changes the appearance of your character during battle and on the overworld, and it's 
 one of the nicest graphic touches in the game. Jobs get more powerful the longer you use them so 
 its benefecial to level them up and not switch all the time. Even so, as you unlock more jobs and 
 find gear for jobs you arent using the temptation to switch to a new job and try it out for awhile 
 will be very strong. It's very easy to spend hours tweaking the right combination of jobs and gear 
 and then leveling them up to try them out, apart from the main quest. This is definately a game 
 you can spend awhile with!
  
  Final Fantasy III exudes all the of the Square polish and finesse' you would expect and does not 
 dissapoint as long as you know what you are getting. Long live old school RPG's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxapollo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  A great retreatment of a classic game, Final Fantasy III for the DS will be both a gem for hardcore 
 classic RPG fans and a nice, well executed game for newer players. This game is the originator 
 of the FF-style jobs system found in games like FFV and FF Tactics. Although the system isn't as 
 polished, and abilities cannot be swapped between classes after mastery, this 'limitation' actually 
 adds an element of challenge that gamers who have played the other jobs-based FF games are not 
 used to. The graphics are excellent, though it would have been nice if the top screen was used 
 more, or both screens in a more creative way. Overall, the game runs smoothly though some gamers 
 who are used to having more save points might find sections a little more challenging than they 
 are used to without resorting to power-levelling. For any RPG fan, this game will be a winner. 
 Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrChocobo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  When Square-Enix promised that Final Fantasy III would have a reworked script and be a completely 
 different game, some gamers (me) , were expecting an RPG that would truly hold up to today's standards. 
 Unfortunately, this is not the case, and while the game serves as a great meaty distraction for 
 the bus ride, it won't (shouldn't) hold your interest enough to cause you to want to spend lots 
 of your free time playing it. In fact, it seems as though this title might not have received nearly 
 as much critical praise as it has if it were not for its Final Fantasy title. Keep in mind, the 
 game is not bad by any means, but if you are expecting a game that several reviewers have described 
 as being amazing and the best DS game ever, you will be sorely disappointed.
  
  Sorely. Now I'm sure that countless Final Fantasy fans are already preparing to mash the disagree 
 button, but please, just hear me out. Yes, I know it's the lowest user review so far.
  
  Since the storyline is arguably the most important factor that makes up an RPG, I will start with 
 that. Despite the reworking of the dialog, the storyline could best be described as a series of 
 random, generic and unrelated RPG conventions loosely strung together with dental floss. You'll 
 have your full party in about 30 minutes, and begin your quest as warriors of the light who must 
 restore balance to the world, as assigned to you by a crystal. Why your party was chosen, you'll 
 never know, but in one scene in the game, the characters realize that they're all orphans. So that 
 must be the reason! But wait... Why does that matter? Throughout your quest, you'll find yourself 
 moving from point A to point B for no reason but to continue progressing. The main quest that you 
 get sent on at the beginning of the game is so vague that it makes me wonder why they bothered 
 mentioning it at all. As it is, you go to each location, find out the people are having problems, 
 and explore a dungeon area to solve their problems. It's very generic, it's very predictable, and 
 you'll find yourself asking, Why the hell am I doing this? after shrinking yourself so you can 
 enter into a hidden village of gnomes in an attempt to return to the town you were originally in, 
 where the townspeople talked about how there was a mountain where a dragon rested, and how some 
 guy decided to go up despite the dangers, and you stupidly follow after to save him, get caught 
 by the dragon and brought to an unknown place on the world map. It feels dumb, disturbingly old 
 school and like the writers were trying to throw as much crap into the game as possible, rather 
 than actually write a story that anyone would care about. One might try to justify the story by 
 stating the age of the original game, but that is nullified by how the story is not just old school, 
 but genuinely bad. The improvement in storyline from III to IV is testament to this, as the two 
 games were released in Japan only one year apart.
  
  So what about the rest of the gameplay? The battle system, the flow of the game, the use of the 
 touch screen? Well, the gameplay is a bit of a mixed bag itself. One flaw to the game is the way 
 high level areas sit beside low level ones. If you accidentally wonder into a high level area, 
 there's no way for you to know until you get attacked by a random encounter, and at that point, 
 you're essentially toast. In one turn, the enemy will most likely wipe out half of your party. 
 At that, you'll set all of your remaining characters' commands to Escape. When your turn comes 
 around, all of your characters will fail to escape against enemies such higher level than you, 
 and you'll be loading your last save. This could have been easily fixed by making the escape command 
 a bit more useful against tough opponents. There's no reason why Square-Enix couldn't have fixed 
 this. The rest of the gameplay is fairly bland RPG fare, spiced up a bit with a clever job system, 
 that falters a bit in comparison to Final Fantasy V's. Besides the job system, your battles will 
 be fought just the way you'd expect, with its standard turn based battle system. Unfortunately, 
 the graphical upgrade of the game has caused the battle speed to take a bit of a halt. The battle 
 animations may look nice the first couple of times, but I wish there was some sort of classic animation 
 speed mode that let me return the battles to their original speed. As it is, battles typically 
 take 4 to 6 times longer than they did originally. The touch screen is used very minimally, and 
 while it is possible to play the whole game using nothing but the touch screen, it is definitely 
 not the easiest choice. Movement is far easier with just the standard buttons, rather than holding 
 the stylus down on the ground in the direction you would like to move. In battles it is very difficult 
 to specify which enemy you would like to attack with the stylus, so it's really best to just stick 
 to the d-pad and face buttons.
  
  The graphics are all top notch for Nintendo DS, offering solid 3D treatment to all the characters 
 and locations, though due to the tile-based nature of the original game, the areas do not look 
 as artistically nice as they could. Either way, the game is definitely one of the best looking 
 Nintendo DS games available. Unfortunately, the use of the dual screens is minimal at best. Most 
 of the time throughout the game, you'll use the bottom screen, the top screen being completely 
 black. This is really pure laziness on the developer's part. When you press start, your current 
 moment in the game moves to the top screen and the menu appears on the bottom. Wouldn't it have 
 been a better idea to put the gameplay on the top screen, and the menu on the bottom at all times? 
 The only time when playing that the top screen is not blank is when you are in certain few cut 
 scenes, or on the overworld, where the world map is shown on the top screen. Hell, did they really 
 need to make the world map vanish when you enter a town? There are countless ways the two screens 
 could have been used at all times. It's really a shame they dropped the ball in that department.
 
  
  The sound is solid, featuring a hand-full of nice songs that play throughout the game. Some of 
 them get old after a while, but they're catchy enough to be fairly tolerable for an hour or so. 
 It would have been nice if there were more songs, rather than one song for each type of area/event. 
 (Town, dungeon, battle, boss battle, etc.)
  
  Overall, you're not getting the modern RPG that many gamers were expecting. However, you are getting 
 a solid handheld RPG that should last players many long hours. The graphics and gameplay working 
 against each other leads one to feel the game is a bit less than a sum of its parts, but if you 
 enter into this without high expectations, you are likely to get some enjoyment out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humanmango
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  To be honest with all you guys, this is the first FINAL FANTASY game that I've owned. Now, after 
 III, I ask myself Why did I not get the other games? 
  
  FINAL FANTASY III is one of the best RPGs I've played. The rich graphics, though not as superior 
 as those of the PSP's, are more than enough to turn some heads. And even more astounding is the 
 gameplay: From falling though that hole in the ground to the ending, which I know nothing of yet, 
 the gameplay is solid. The battle system is especially great. Though I prefer real-time battles 
 over turn-based battles, the monster encounters in FFIII provide you with a chance to work out 
 your brain: Is the monster weak against this spell? Should I keep my Black Mage in the back lines? 
 
  
  I got FFIII just under a week ago, which means that I haven't played it for too long yet. But it's 
 awesome. No joke. This is the DS RPG that we've all been waiting for, and it lives up to the FINAL 
 FANTASY name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace_V0rn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  After you power up the DS the game will got to an excellent cut scene that looks way cool on the 
 duel screens. The game starts out with your character falling in to a hole and fighting a big turtle 
 to get to a crystal that tells you to save the world, pretty straight forward. I am no where near 
 finishing the game but can tell you to buy it if your looking for a challenge, if not the get your 
 self a strategy guide first because this is a great game. &lt; thats the good stuff. The bad isnt 
 exactly bad its just hard or happens to much, like the boss battles and the random encounters other 
 than that the game could have looked a bit better but that might have made its story shorter, and 
 no one wants that. (I'm not entirely sure of my classification) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokoo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing remake considering its source material is a NES game. You can tell alot of time 
 and effort went into this game. The graphics and sound were completely re-done, which nearly justifies 
 its $40 price tag.
  
  The only part of this game that is mediocre is its storyline, but final fantasy games help write 
 the book of what a standard rpg story was. And seeing this is a remake of the original, I dont 
 think thats a strike against the game. Its great that we get the original story intact. It makes 
 it a solid piece of video game history.
  
  For the DS, this games graphics push its limit. The graphics are amazing, aside from a tad bit 
 of slow-down and jagged edges when you zoom in.
  
  This game is old-school in a great way. Its everything i loved about the american versions of final 
 fantasy II and III, along with a new job system which adds alot of replayability. It has a world 
 map that you can wander around at your own pace leveling up and playing with different job/equipment 
 configurations.
  
  I know that i am in the minority when i say this, but ever since final fantasy 7, i can't stand 
 all the cutscenes in final fantasy games. I just want to play the game! This game doesn't have 
 so many cutscenes that it takes away from the gameplay. The newer Final Fantasy games feel more 
 and more linear, and more like i am watching a movie than playing a game. FF III feels alot more 
 open ended than say Final fantasy X.
  
  As for people saying it doesn't use DS functionality. It does! You can use the touch screen for 
 the entire game if you want to. The game uses both screens in the overworld. One for the map and 
 one for the gameplay. In the dungeons it doesn't, unless you go to the item screen, then you can 
 see the item screen and your characters standing around in the dungeon. I'd rather have just one 
 screen for the dungeons anyway. Part of the fun of dungeons is getting lost and finding your way 
 out.
  
  The music and sound is great as in all final fantasy games.
  
  In an era where remakes usually make something worse because the producer wants to put his own 
 spin on the product, this game is amazing. So I wrote this review to give this game some credit 
 it deserves. The only thing this game would have to do for me to give it a 10 would be make the 
 price tag $35 and fix a few graphic glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Preety basic style of RPG fighting where you select your attacks or magic and nuke the 
 enemies on the opposite end. The game offers depth through different jobs which allow you to use 
 different weapons, magic, summon spirits, nature and special abilites! Your jobs give the depth 
 of this gameplay giving you the choice of which class to be and how you wish to play the game, 
 which makes up for there only being 4 characters.
  
  Graphics- The opening is pure amazing. Kinda makes up for the crappy in game graphics lol. Nah 
 there not that bad but they could of been better. Like how did Rufia get orange hair? I found the 
 graphics to be pretty awesome when it game to god view and spells and such but when you got some 
 close up shots the characters seemed a bit blurry in the sense and could of been a bit better. 
 Sound- Loved it the whole way through. Leave your sound on through the whole game as this game 
 offers decent to amazing music. The battles sounds are preety basic chop slash! Would of liked 
 some yelling if you did a critical and such but oh well lol. Story- You have 4 young teens I am 
 guessing who become the 4 hero's of light! Don't ask me how considering they don 't seem like hero 
 material. Running away from home.... Wandering into mischief... being shy.. those don't seem like 
 hero traits BUT what the hell lets do it anyway! lol. So you go across the world going after these 
 gems which give you power, basically jobs to choose from, to bring light back into balance with 
 the world. Pretty basic stuff, theres no real shocker to this story.
  
  Character Development- What development? Seriously? This game lacks all depth with the character 
 I have no idea who they are!??! I can just guess but the few points they give throughout the story. 
 If you could make a page of what the main characters say through the whole game there wouldn't 
 be much. Its kinda like Zelda games where Link says nothing but saves the world!?!??! What the 
 HELL!? LOL. Difficulty- It has its ups and downs. Manly ups if you don't train lol. The battles 
 have been boosted hard as there used to be more enemies but something to do with the graphics made 
 it smaller so you get 2 to 3 bad guys but there all stronger. Some bosses are ruthless are murder 
 you to the end of the planet. You need to train people! OR YOU DIE! I hate random battles to, but 
 they don't come every 2 seconds so its a nice balance with the random battles coming up. Some areas 
 will seem like a joke, but most of the time you will need to keep your guard up and always be ready 
 to heal after a battle. Wi-Fi- The Wi-Fi in this game is crap seriously. You can send mail to friends, 
 but its so annoying to use and takes for ever to write one up its a pain. Not to mention you can 
 only send 1 per hours. You can move your DS clock up 1 hour and it will let you send another, BUT 
 come that actual hour you can't. So your limited to 24 messages a day. Doing this however gives 
 you some bonus features just keep that in mind. Overall- Great game, Loved it. Best RPG on my DS 
 to date. Theres some minor flaws in this game and with the lack of character depth its not as amazing 
 as I first thought it would be, but its one of those games you are glad you got and played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merkidon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III on the DS is a complete remake of the 3rd game released in Japan only on the 
 Famicom, and it's filled with a surprising amount of charm.
  
  Graphics/Sound - Graphics and sound are top notch, some of the best we've seen on the DS to date.
 
  
  Gameplay - It feels a lot a cross between FFXI and the original FF, with classic and newer elements 
 combined. The job system is fun, combat is fun, and the extra difficulty is refreshing for fans 
 of the classic FF games. There are some balance issues with the jobs, where some are clearly superior 
 to others, but that detracts very little from the game as a whole.
  
  Overall - This is a great DS game and a must-have for any fan of the original 6 Final Fantasy games. 
 If you are new to the RPG experience, this game is a well constructed representation of the classics 
 that made the series what it is today, so give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkone2u
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, so far, I am glued and addicted to this game. But there are a couple of flaws. For 
 one, I dont know if its just me or what, but when i encounter some bosses, (e. i. Garuda, Odin, 
 and some others) it seems that the level that you encounter them is just too far under-level sometimes. 
 For instance, the monsters right before the Garuda fight was easy, I couldnt simply melee my way 
 through them. But once I gotten to Garuda, there was no way for me to take a direct Lightning, 
 or what ever his special move is called. So I had to run around for a good hour or so, to get to 
 a level where my health is on par with his attack. There is another issue of the saving style. 
 Dont you hate it how you can venture far into a dungon, with ease, and then die on a boss or sometimes 
 on some trash? It would had been nice if they have placed Save Circles within some dungons. And 
 the last thing, a little thing my brother has kindly to show me, that the Viking class is a little 
 bit too overpowered? To be honost, I agree, but its how you use the class system, and master the 
 diversity of each class to your party. Vikings are imba he says, well my response to that is, Cry 
 more noob, exploit what you can to beat the game, and try the other classes later on another file. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onejv
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting to get my hands on this game since it was first announced last year. It was 
 definatly worth it this game is amazing from the opening which is hard to believe that its a DS 
 screen I'm looking at. To the gameplay, the grafix are amazing and the battles being turn based 
 is something that I have been looking for in a decent RPG. The music is nostalgic reminding me 
 of those days long ago when me and my cousin would sit around the TV and play Final Fantasy VII 
 and day and night. The difficulty is not to hard and if you find yourself getting beat by so pain 
 in the but boss all you have to do is run around and level up. I would highly reccomend buying 
 this game, it is worth every penny. A must have for any gamer whether you love the world of Final 
 Fantasy or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokerStar2011
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for a long time and it is finally here. Its a great game and 
 the best rpg for the DS hands down but there are a few minor issues i have with this game. They 
 hardly ever use the top screen. Almost all of the game is on the bottom screen. I mean this is 
 a DS, not a PSP. The save system is bad. You can save on the world map and thats it. Or you can 
 save in a temple, but you have to shut down the DS and you can only use that save once. In the 
 begining the save system is ok, but later when the game gets hard (and trust me, this is a hard 
 game) it is very annoying. Especially the last temple. You really need to prepare yourself for 
 that one. Because its insanely long and its very frustrating to die at the main boss and have to 
 do it all over again. Other then those few issues its a great game. The graphics are amazing for 
 DS standards. And of course the sound is good because it has classic final fantasy music. The value 
 is good because its a long game for a handheld. This game is by far the best RPG for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFresh4
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I really do love this game. I feel that the guys over at Square did a great job of taking one of 
 their first titles and placing enough polish and style as well as some good additions to make the 
 game worth playing at every level.
  
  In terms of graphics, this is top notch for the DS. Minus the fact that I feel the male cast is 
 slightly too effeminate, which is commonplace when looking at games from the Japanese market, everything 
 is quite impressive. I especially like the addition of the zoom-in camera mode when looking for 
 secrets, which I highly recommend because the majority of the game can be played much easier of 
 one is to find these. Most of the strongest weapons and armor one can use along the way are found 
 in secret rooms or pots shown to have an item when looking through the zoom mode. When looking 
 at the game play I enjoyed a game that was not quite as forgiving as the latest installments of 
 the FF series, but I do not feel that the game really plays as hard as the games of its era, as 
 I expected to be annihilated more often; My party has never been killed and I can count on one 
 hand the amount of times that I have lost a character until resurrecting them moments later. I 
 loved the throwback to the class system, especially the limited stat decrease for a short while 
 when you change classes so that you need to really think about the positives and negatives of each 
 class you will be using, considering one will not want to change often. The sound is very strong 
 for the DS. It also has a dated feel, but it does not hurt the source material. Actually, it enhances 
 the feel of the older game, making it much more nostalgic for those who have played the titles 
 from this era. I felt that the sound effects could have been much better when fighting, but now 
 I could be getting to picky (it is hard to listen to the sounds of FFIII against FF XII when you 
 are playing them at the same time and not notice) .
  
  When push comes to shove this title is definitely worth the play through. One will just need to 
 remember that some of this title, though it looks like a new game, is not. This has mostly to deal 
 with the lack of story and open exploration of the environment in certain portions. One will sometimes 
 explore areas they should not and possibly die quite easily for their curiosity when they have 
 not been told of a definite destination to move toward. But this can add to the fun, minus when 
 you need to speak with an individual character to move your progression along, which happened when 
 I missed speaking with Cid in the first hours and got pissed because I was stuck in a boring leveling 
 limbo; damn ghost profiles that are not easily seen when poking into the inn and seeing nothing 
 of interest at first glance. If you like FF, or RPGs this is a must have for the DS. If you are 
 new to the genre you may want to go in another direction before trying you hand with this title 
 only because it may turn you off entirely because of its dated feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmosdomini
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  of all the RPG s ive played this one is a standout for sure. from the first seconds of the game 
 you are immediatly thrust into the game. no flashy cutscene, no sappy love story, pure, straight 
 forward, final fantasy goodness. the job system is an inivative look at character development and 
 progression (although lacking compared to final fantasy V and tactics andvance, but that can be 
 easily overlooked due to the age of the game) . Altogether its a game for the fans of final fantasy, 
 RPGs, and video games in general. awesome in every way. in this age of mediocrity on handhelds this 
 game delivers a much need boot to the ass of those who thought the final fantasy franchise was 
 played out and cliche'. good to the last drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tromaj
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  For classic FF fans only, this game is as good as promised. All the elements of the classic series 
 with beautiful pre-rendered sequences &amp; an excellent 3-D remake of gameplay. Only problem is 
 it's too expensive, but they knew us die-hards would pay for it. Paying $5 more might turn off 
 a casual RPG player, but that may not be a bad thing in this case. The casual gamer may find it 
 a little boring or slow, as the interface &amp; play is basically the same as it was 10 years ago. 
 Otherwise, I heavily recommend it to anybody who loves the FF series or old-school RPGs in general. 
 Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GS16
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  WOW! I consider myself a huge RPG fan, and Final Fantasy has always been my favorite series. Ive 
 played the older games such as FF 1 and 2. Ive played VII. You can imagine how excited I was when 
 I heard FFIII was coming to US shores. I bought it, and believe me; its worth the wait. The graphics 
 have been totally overhauled in beautiful 3-D, and all of the textures look amazing. The combat 
 sequences are both fun and challenging, much like the rest of the game. The music, while sometimes 
 repetitive, is wonderfully composed. The game is chocked full of replay value, with tons of side 
 quests and extra areas to explore. The games only problem might be that it can be frustrating at 
 times. Such as when you get through a really tough dungeon, and when you get tot the boss you realize 
 youre out of MP and have no elixirs to refill it. You then lose and have to start the entire dungeon 
 or more all over again. But this is hardly a complaint considering how good the rest of the game 
 is. So if you have a DS, go out and buy Final Fantasy III now. It is easily the best Ds game to 
 date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enjoisk8er9986
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  This game provides anything that a classic rpg player would like plus a new facelift. The game 
 is a remake of a NES title that never hit america shelves. If you played any final fantasy from 
 the early ages then you know what to expect. simple story, lots of random battles, kind of slow 
 progression. The jobs add a nice part to the game being that you can level up your characters to 
 be just about anything being that there is 30 types to choose from and they all do different things. 
 For example the knight is awesome at using swords but can't really take part in using magic and 
 the sage is exact opposite. It widens the game play out and is a clever idea. Overall if you like 
 final fantasy of the yester-year and most rpg of that era then you should pick this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenerhai
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The previously un-released in North America Final Fantasy with updated graphics and story, along 
 with DS enhanced gameplay? Sounds like a sure fire bet, right? Well, not really. SquareEnix did 
 an excellent job of bringing us the one that got away with beautiful graphics, a fresh yet old 
 school story, incredible music, but somewhat broken gameplay mechanics.
  
  The game brings the flat lifeless tale of the original into the next generation for on the go classic 
 RPG fun. Life has been breathed into the faceless characters who now have names, faces and backgrounds. 
 Once again the four warriors of light must set out to save the crystals and the world.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. At it's worst, even on the first DS with the worst lighting conditions FF 
 3 looks incredible. It's amazing what the DS is capable of and SquareEnix has a bad habit of making 
 every game it touches look too good to be true on any system. The art is reminiscent of Gamecubes 
 Crystal Chronicles and looks a little to cute for my tastes, but then again the same can be said 
 of Kingdom Hearts, but both are masterpeices none the less.
  The CG movies also look absolutely amazing even on the DS.
  
  Sound: As amazing as any Final 
 Fantasy before it. Battle tunes get your toes tapping and town tunes will have you humming along. 
 The classic victory fanfare still brings a smile to my face.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game falls flat on its face. After playing the Final Fantasy series 
 and its constantely evolving mechanics iteration after another, usually stepping back into an old 
 school remake is still fun and easy. And such is the case with 3, save for a few minor yet, extremely 
 irritating problems.
  Lets start with the dual screen, stylus and touch screen mechanics. It's all very basic and simple, 
 nothing extravagent, but broken none the less.
  Youll use the stylus to move, make selections and navigate menus. One feature in particular involves 
 either using the left shoulder button or a using the touch screen to zoom the camera in and out 
 to see certain glowing objects like pots that hold items or hidden switches. But it seems to have 
 mind of its own and only works when it wants to. Also, when in battle using the stylus you can 
 pick your action and your enemy of choice. Simple, but the stylus seems to be either to bulky or 
 the screen itself just isnt very accurate. Perhaps with better spacing of ones option it wouldn't 
 have been a problem.
  When using the stylus to move around on the world map, right handers will have trouble moving to 
 the left as your hand can get in the way without angling your hand in an awkward postion. Same 
 thing for lefties going right. Less minor, and personally I prefer the D-pad.
  Finaly, the gameplay itself suffers from several problems, but being as I've never played the original, 
 I can't make comparisons. First lies in the magic system. Apparently, every spell has its own level 
 and each character can only equip 4 spells per level, which can be replaced with new ones as you 
 get them. All the characters can learn anything, but can only use certain spells depending on the 
 job. As well, each level of magic has its own mp that you must keep track of. Very awkward.
  Each particular job has its own restrictions that can make building the right team rather challenging, 
 but not impossible. The problem there lies in that as your job level increases so do your skills, 
 but nothing seems to pay off in battle. For example, increasing a thiefs job level will supposedly 
 increase his/her chances of stealin items or items of better value. But fighting even the weakest 
 pushover monsters often times yeild absolutely nothing despite having a decent level and job level. 
 For example, my Lv. 43 Refia (the girl) is a Lv. 99 thief but still steals one thing, and one thing 
 only -hi potions. Occasionaly, I get lucky and get a gold needle, if I'm actually successfull at 
 all. And adding a bit of old school difficulty, there are no buyable Pheonix downs. As far as I 
 can tell, enemies never drop them and can only be found in a few treasure chests in dungeons. I've 
 come across 4 total and have invested at least 40+ hours. And I don't have a single mage in my 
 party. Ouch.
  
  All this can add up to a rather frustrating experience, but not so much that I wont enjoy the game. 
 And despite its shortcomings, everything else more than makes up for it. This is classic Final 
 Fantasy gaming at its best, and the fact that this is the only one I never played (well, not actually 
 because I've put at least an hour on an emulated japanese version of the original) .
  If anything, these minor annoyances just pull you out of a engrossing experience and remind you 
 that your playing a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgrawgamer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Being the only Final Fantasy game never to reach western shores; to say this game was not highly 
 anticipated would be an understatement. Final Fantasy 3 was originally a Famicom game. Naturally 
 one would think square would simply port the game to it's new home the DS. Contrary to popular 
 belief the game was re-made and quite nicely at that. Updated graphics, new job classes. Square 
 managed to give ff3 a updated look at the same time staying true to the original game. The gameplay 
 does get a little frustrating at times but if it didn't it wouldn't be able to be called final 
 fantasy. Overall this is a great game. If your a final fantasy type gamer pick it up. If your a 
 rpg fan looking for something to rock on your ds for a few hours pick it up. Good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suddke
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I will not deny Final Fantasy III on Nintendo DS the credit it deserves. It is a well-made game, 
 no doubt. However, it has some flaws.
  
  The job system has it's ups and downs, a positive being the sheer amount of possibilities of your 
 team. However, changing jobs can be disastrous in a tight spot, like an unexpected boss battle, 
 since stats are brand new when you change jobs. The game's shining point is clearly it's graphics. 
 Reflective of Final Fantasy VII, the game sports polygonal cutesy characters and fairly well done 
 backdrops. Enemy models look fantastic, especially some of the bosses. Magic spells, on the whole, 
 look great and make you want to sit through the process.
  
  One part of the game's downfalls, however, is it's difficulty. It's not necessarily a HARD game, 
 but you'll be frequenting GameFAQs for this one. There are certain parts of the game where in order 
 to advance, you must go talk to someone in a completely different area, but the game won't let 
 you know that. The gameplay itself is fairly easy to figure out, move with the diagonals or stylus, 
 A is select, B is back, the usuals. Battle's pretty simple, but still fun. The game pushes out 
 some classic Final Fantasy tunes out of the DS speakers and they sound great. Battle sounds are 
 clearly cut, and to the point. However, the blips can get repetitive. Still great in the sound 
 department.
  
  The game is definitely worth the $40 USD, since it provides a good 50 hours of gameplay and more 
 if you take time for side-quests and leveling up in your jobs. Pick up Final Fantasy III if you 
 want a good RPG, or really a good game on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisisMurderous
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Don't get into FFIII expecting a full remake. The graphics are greatly improved (looks better than 
 FFVII) but this is still a classic Final Fantasy at heart. The story is quite straight-forward. 
 Pretty much your four party members are out to save the world. If you're expecting a story on the 
 scope of recent FF games then prepare to be disappointed. The graphics look great and it has a 
 great soundtrack. The gameplay is standard for classic rpgs, you'll spend a lot of time walking 
 around to level up. There are random battles galore, and some battles can be really tough if you 
 don't powerlevel your characters. It is similar to FFV as you many jobs to choose from. There are 
 some problems with the jobs though. You only start with a few and it takes to long to get new ones, 
 and some end up becoming pretty useless. Final Fantasy can be a great game if you like the classics 
 but otherwise this game isn't for you. I myself am glad that they kept the old school feel to this 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outlawz247
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Oh man.. Where to start. I've played so many DS games and I have to say, this game has 
 the best 3D graphics so far for the DS. From characters to towns they are all extremely detailed 
 for a handheld. I was very optimistic about DS's power, when I played games like fifa 07 and tomb 
 raider for the DS, but square enix definately knows how to pull out great graphics for the DS.
 
  
  Sound: It is not the best quality, especially when you hear the opening clip's sound but the music 
 overall are great. There are great soundtracks for this game for you to enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: This is where its a little bit dissapointing. Let me say: this game is exactly the same 
 to the old FF3 for the NES except for the graphics and sound. So the gameplay is very old school. 
 The biggest flaw I have found was the job system. As you raise your job levels you are supposed 
 to aquire new abilities but instead, only your stats goes up. The dungeons don't have a save point 
 so it gives you no warning that boss is upahead. If you go through the tough dungeon all the way 
 just to get killed by a boss monster you have to start over again and go back to the dungeon where 
 you started. So I just had to take some points of from the gameplay because it is perhaps to old 
 school. I personally think it should've tweaked the gameplay a little bit more for casual gamers 
 to enjoy.
  
  Value: This is the best RPG for the DS so far, even though the gameplay is a little bit lacking, 
 this game is still a must buy for you collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinnap
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the ff series since ff4 came out for the SNES as ff2. I realize this game was 
 originally made in the late 80s so its definitely aged but even with that in mind its not as good 
 as I'd hope it would be.
  For starters the characters are too basic, theres the hero, the wuss, the rebellious one and um, 
 another hero one. Then theres the job system that's so basic you'll probably just want to level 
 on those and only switch jobs for bosses.
  Theres also the chibi character design. I don't have a problem with other SNES FF games but I just 
 can't get around how silly they look. I guess they're just a little too Precious Moments for my 
 taste.
  If your interested in playing some of the older FF games I would suggest 4, 5 and 6. Final Fantasy 
 III isn't absolutely horrible but its definitely not worth a 9.4 and unless your a big fan of the 
 series (and I know many people are) its not really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is definately one of the best RPG's you could possibly buy for the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY - Final Fantasy III plays like most turn-based RPG's, except for a few twists like different 
 jobs that allow your characters to use specific abilities. The story is very long, and will take 
 any casual gamer a lifetime to fully complete. The WiFi abilities in Final Fantasy III are different 
 than most games so far, instead of online battles, the WiFi connection will allow you to send messages 
 to other players using friend codes. The bonus to this is that by sending messages you will be 
 able to unlock special side quests and even a completely different job. With a total of twenty-four 
 different jobs (including the bonus job) Final Fantasy III is the most customizable RPG I have 
 ever played, and I guarantee you that very few people will have the same job combinations as one 
 another. Most people may gripe about the fact that there are no save points in dungeons, and I 
 think I will too, because it is ver annoying to die in a boss battle and have to start from the 
 beginning of the dungeon again.
  
  GRAPHICS - Final Fantasy takes full advantage of the DS's graphical power. The normal gameplay 
 graphics can be compared to games like Animal Crossing, while the opening scene, along with a few 
 cut-scenes, is more like an improved version of Metroid Prime Hunters graphics. Probably the most 
 amazing game graphics wise for the DS.
  
  SOUND - The sound is pretty good, and blends nicely with the game. There is a little room for improvement 
 in this department, but overall its very well done.
  
  Final Fantasy III for the DS is a game that many have been waiting for since it was originally 
 released in Japan, and now that it has been fully remade for the DS, people will be able to enjoy 
 this amazing game in their own language. Final Fantasy III is a must have for any RPG fan that 
 owns a DS and well worth the forty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonknight666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  at first i thought it was just gonna be another simple final fantasy that was easy and long. boy 
 was i wrong. first couple minutes of playing, DEAD!!! this is one of the ff's that fits in with 
 the originals. thats how hard it is.
  this game has incredible video graphics, and even gameplay graphics. sound gets repetative, but 
 still is pretty good. i thought the world map was small, until they sent me to a BIGGER area. i 
 recommend this game to anyone wanting a good time, cause this is the game thats perfect. 9.8, because 
 the sound could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Finally that gap we all had in our collection is filled, weve waited a long time for this game, 
 and even better is that its been remade into an up-to-date 3D version for the DS. The games opening 
 sequence is majestically displayed, stunning CGI that really shows off the DS potential in graphics. 
 FFIII draws out every amazing detail that the DS is capable of and provides some excitement even 
 before selecting New Game
  Although the story immediately throws you into the game with no more flashy sequences, the first 
 thing youll see is that Luneth, a youth from the village of Ur has fallen down a fall in the ground 
 into an underground cave, followed by the option to rename him to your desire if you so choose. 
 In this initial start, youll navigate yourself round the cave, battling really weak enemies, collecting 
 treasure and reaching the boss towards the back of the cave. This section eases you into gameplay 
 without a lot of boring story to read through. It turns out Luneth is one of the four chosen ones 
 as told by a magical crystal. He has the task of finding the other 3 characters and journey to 
 save the world from darkness. Youll recognise the story from the other early Final Fantasies that 
 shared similar themes of Light Warriors and Magic Crystals so dont expect an epic story twisting 
 plot like FFVII, but none the less its fun and creative without being dull. Unlike FFI the characters 
 do display some personality even though it is minimal.
  
  As you explore the game more, youll enter various towns each with its own dilemma or story to 
 it, for example the town Kazuss inhabitants are cursed by an evil entity, some other towns are 
 really cool such as the Mini Village which can only be entered by casting Mini on the whole party. 
 You can see where Zelda: Minish Cap took inspiration from this game. A lot of the towns do have 
 a lot of character, each with secret passageways and shops, inns and so on. The world map is similarly 
 structured as in other FF games. With mountains, rivers, forests to traverse, youll find modes 
 of transports from Chocobos to Airships and Canoes. The battle system is familiar too; taking 
 turns in battle to defeat the enemy or enemies, and once youve unlocked the job feature about 
 an hour in the game you can assign specific jobs to deploy different skills in battle. The expected 
 jobs are all here to anyone familiar with the series, from Warriors to Black Mages and Thieves, 
 however each job has a job level separate from your own characters level that makes the job better 
 in time and improve battle stats like Strength and Agility. Different jobs enable you to equip 
 certain equipment; Knights can equip excellent armour whereas Mages can only equip staffs and things, 
 but the effects of magic are better. Magic itself consists of Black (Attacking Magic) and White 
 (Healing Magic) and the limits of this is used through MP which the maximum is increased by levelling 
 up, A really annoying problem is when you switch jobs from say a warrior to a black mage, your 
 MP is 0 and your stats are lowered for a set battle number for some stupid reason. And with no 
 Ethers in the game, restoring MP is a rare opportunity halfway in a dungeon, which also has no 
 save points before crucial boss battles. Just these little details let the game down in terms of 
 frustration especially with venturing in a cave that took a good 20 minutes and to lose to the 
 boss only to have to go through the area again. Healing is also annoying, Phoenix Downs cant be 
 bought in shops and you have to find them in treasure chests, The only real way of healing is potions, 
 Inns, white magic and the off the chance heal spring located around. The games difficulty starts 
 off nice and easy but gradually the monsters and boss get tougher in the 10th hour. Another factor 
 in battle is generally luck as seeing as agility doesnt really count for nothing as your team 
 randomly operates in a random order, which has the major drawback of one character wasting the 
 Hi-potion you were going to use before the other character was to use a Phoenix Down on the Fallen 
 character. Even with these drawbacks, battling is as fun as the other Final Fantasies are, and 
 without being too complicated to operate: its fairly simple to first time FF players.
  
  The DS nicely covers the game with two screens, although youll be watching the game mostly on 
 the bottom screen, the touch system can move you around but its more convenient to use the Dpad, 
 and gone is the ancient programming of walking along squares, the game really is 3D which lets 
 you go in any direction you choose. Also a new option that allows you to zoom into the area and 
 detect any sparkling items that contain potions and the like to triggering secret passageways lets 
 you also focus on the detail in characters more, although this neglects your view on the area so 
 youll be zooming in and out a lot, but there arent any real camera problems at all. Even with 
 one or two minor problems, this is without doubt the best RPG for the DS, graphically and gameplay 
 wise. The only real flaw to be had with this game is really the difficultly due to stupid lack 
 of healing points in dungeons. Brilliant for FF fans to complete the series and amazing for DS 
 owners wanting a decent RPG to play on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  I have sat here for years watching my husband play the FF series... So when I saw FF3 for the DS 
 I knew I had to run right out and buy it and give it a try.. and I don't regret spending the $40 
 on it one bit..
  I wish I would have listened to my husband and played all the other FF games as well (which I am 
 now so going to do as soon as I beat FF3 for DS ) .... I love everything about this game.... The 
 graphics are good.. the gameplay is long (many many hours) ... the sound doesnt bore me after 5 
 minutes... I find it very addicting, the night I bought it I sat there and played it for 10 hours 
 straight and didn't get bored once.. I was like yay I got this far and beat the boss now I need 
 to advance farther... (it was like when you read a good book and you can't put it down you just 
 have to find out what happens next) ... People keep saying the FF3 for DS was edited when it comes 
 to the story line etc. from the original version, but if you have never played the original vers 
 then you'd never know the difference... My point is I don't care if it was edited or not it is still 
 a truely great game and worth every penny.. Lets put it this way I have been waiting for a decent 
 fun rpg for the DS forever and this game is it... So go buy it and play it , you will be happy 
 you did.
  
  P. S. Sorry about my spelling and whatever typos you may find... As I am the worlds worst speller 
 (as the spell check option doesn't seem to be working right now) and also typo demons like to live 
 in my pockets and cause me to have alot of typos... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deoxy360
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  There are many reasons to get FF3 (FINAL FANTAST 3) , well just like my opeing tpic the game never 
 hit our shores. but that was ff3 on nintendo, on ds this is going to be wicked ff3 material. The 
 dugens are like legend of zelda 3D, the game is 3D, and it shall be mad core. I heard the graphics 
 are going sweet. Theres also jobs you can get 24 different jobs on there. I just cant wait to play 
 this game when comes out on aussie shores. So i'd get about 80 bucks and go out and buy this game 
 cause its worth getting and if you miss out, you'd better kill your self, just steal if you cant 
 be stuffed killing your self then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbhp17
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for only a few days I know that this game is the BEST DS game right now. 
 Every since the DS came out, I've been waiting for a quality RPG, and this is it! I think I like 
 this game so much because it's a lot like Golden Sun, which was the best GBA game and my favorite 
 RPG. Sure this game has some things we've seen before, but it's like seeing it for the first time 
 on our two little screens.
  
  What other people gripe about:
  
  They only use one screen for 75% of the time. When your playing this, you don't really notice, 
 and it's acually not that akward to use the touch screen.
  
  We've already seen jobs, dat's old skool man!
  
  Yes, we've seen jobs, but they are still AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Conclusions: Buy this game!!!!! I promise you won't regret it, or you can take it out on me!!
 
  
  Also what ign was sayin' Only 'hardcore' RPG fans should play this, cause there are monster battles 
 every five steps, and noobs just can't handle it 
  
  No, there are very rarely that many battles and this is for ALL RPG fans!! FF3 is easy to understand 
 and advance through (Unlike TOS for me. I will always H8 that game!!!) and the battles are fun 
 even thou they take 'a min. or two'. And the after battle animations of the dudes jumpin' 4 joy 
 after they level up is quite entertaining, and I'm surprised they put that on a DS.
  
  So, if your not quite sure if you want to get this game, trust all the reviews here, it is the 
 best game you can buy, even better than Gears of War!!!!! What Now!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillhonger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  FF3 looks terrfic and modern while still retaining the same addictive gameplay of old.
  
  The environment, characters, and monsters are perfectly rendered and I love the visual facelift 
 that has been given to such an old (but fun) game. I wish they did this with all the Final Fantasy 
 classics. As for gameplay, you can't really mess with what's worked in the past, and Square Enix 
 retained the same charm that captivated me from the original Final Fantasy series.
  
  The music was alright... probably the weakest point in the game for me.
  
  Overall, an excellent 
 game that I've played almost nonstop the last few days. This is a must-have in any DS player's 
 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstoffer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  The beautifully updated graphics stand in stark contrast to the old-school gameplay. With a high 
 degree of difficulty, and relatively untouched Japanese console RPG-style gameplay, this RPG is 
 not for the faint of heart. Packed with random battles (as often as every 4-5 steps) , the gameplay 
 is highly repetitive. Certain areas require a significant amount of leveling up outside of events 
 in the thinly developed story arc. This will lead casual gamers to tear their hair out. Even some 
 aged RPG sages will be reminded of how far RPGs have come.
  
  All is not lost, however. For those who were groomed on such games, and for the younger set looking 
 for a unique challenge in a piece of history, this can be a fantastic ride through an old familiar 
 world. The diamond here comes in the form of the job system -- a flexible multi-classing tool that 
 allows your characters to switch roles at any time during gameplay. As you invest more time in 
 the various roles, characters advance in each one individually. Over time this provides a unique 
 level of flexibility with echos of modern RPG mechanics. This is where the job system developed 
 however, and it is definitely in it's infancy here. The recently released (for GBA) Final Fantasy 
 V has a much evolved version, with greater flexibility, and a complex intermixing of class attributes 
 that provides a much deeper experience than the one found in Final Fantasy III (DS) .
  
  That said, the job system, even in this rudimentary form, is still entertaining and interesting. 
 For those players who are okay with lots of leveling up, this can lead to experimentation to find 
 the best combination of magic and melee classes. The classes themselves range from the relatively 
 mundane, like the warrior, to the unusual, like the geomancer. Each class brings a special ability 
 (or two) , and the whole system provides enough variation to remain interesting throughout the entire 
 (70+ hours) of gameplay.
  
  The stunning graphical treatment might lead some to think that the game is not the curmudgeonly 
 old man that it is. The graphical upgrade is fantastic, and tops all other DS games in quality 
 visuals. From the fantastic opening movie to the many dozens of in-engine cutscenes, the game renders 
 the world beautifully. The audio is typical Final Fantasy (of old) , and many songs will be familiar 
 to FF fans. Aside from the sweeping opening number, the music is of the classic midi style. Sound 
 effects are minimal, but perfectly fitting for such a game. Overall, the presentation is fantastic, 
 as one would expect from a Square (Enix) title. My only complaint about the upgrade is the limited 
 use of the second display. It is black for the majority of the game, which is unfortunate. Given 
 the lengths to which they produced such a stunning visual upgrade one has to wonder why they didn't 
 include statistical data about the characters, or a simple dungeon mapping system, or even concept 
 art, to fill the black void in the top screen. It has been suggested that this was by design, as 
 those elements might have taken something away from the spirit of the original. I can certainly 
 sympathize when it comes to things like maps, but character stats? The missing data would have 
 reduced the amount of menu diving a player would endure, in an already menu-intensive game. This 
 is clearly a nit-pick, though. The game plays perfectly well with the minimal top-screen usage 
 we get. And when it is used in shops and for the overland map, we are glad to have it.
  
  It is important to be clear that despite the updated graphics the gameplay is pure Final Fantasy 
 III. Ultimately the game plays like Final Fantasy III, not like the modern RPG it appears to be. 
 In fact, the graphical upgrade can make some of the rough edges in the gameplay stand out even 
 more. For example, battles take substantially longer with the new 3D engine. They've added the 
 requisite camera pans and zooms, which serve to prolong the battle experience. It looks great, 
 but after 1,000 battles you really wish they had put in an option to do away with some of the graphical 
 flair in the interest of expeditious leveling.
  
  In the end, this game will appeal to a specific segment of the current gaming public. It goes without 
 saying that if you are expecting a Final Fantasy experience akin to the modern console generation 
 you will likely find nothing but frustration here. For those of you who seek a challenging RPG, 
 one with excellent lineage, then it just might hit the sweet spot for you.
  
  About my personal experience: I am an old-school gamer fan in my 30s. I grew up on old console 
 RPGs, and I fell right into old patterns when I started playing FFIII. The job system was innovative 
 at the time, and remains interesting compared to the relatively ridged systems we find in modern 
 games, though class-depth has been tackled in other ways in modern RPGs (skill trees and the like) . 
 I thoroughly enjoyed the game from start to finish, though there were some particularly frustrating 
 moments. With no in-dungeon saves, some of the later dungeons become nail-biting hit-or-miss events. 
 Since the random battles are ... well, random ... you never know how many fights you will have 
 to endure before the big bad guy at the end. It is not uncommon to get wiped out before you even 
 meet the boss, losing as much as an hour of real-time. The difficulty of some dungeons and bosses 
 are only revealed once you've played through them. So you might spend 40 minutes in a dungeon only 
 to get wiped out by the boss. Only then do you realize that your party is underpowered and you 
 have not only lost 40 minutes of progress, but now you will spend another 30 minutes building up 
 your characters to try it again. Lots of trial and error like this.
  
  But in the end, this game delivered for me. I was deeply concerned about the difficulty, about 
 the random battles and the rusty gameplay mechanics. I questioned whether it would feel like a 
 waste of time, or be so frustrating that I would regret having spent $40 on it. But neither happened. 
 I was pleasantly surprised that it felt so familiar. My only hope is that SquareEnix performs the 
 same upgrade to some of it's other classic RPG titles. How about it, guys? Chrono Trigger (DS) 
 anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriforcePieces
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Wow, this game is amazing. Most games nowadays (well in my opinion anyway) are insanenly easy. 
 I beat them the day I get them, no fun in that. This one however, has proved that statement wrong. 
 FFIII is an awesome, challenging, and portable game! Which I must say, I love being able to play 
 this game wherever I go. The graphics are AMAZING like no other DS game I've seen before, especially 
 in the opening movie. Sound is very good, and there is an awesome storyline. This is the first 
 Final Fantasy game I've played, but after playing this I love the series. Now I have beaten this 
 game twice and going on athird time. It doesnt get old! I cant put this game down! If you love 
 the FF series, or are looking for a challenging game, or just looking for a good DS game, you have 
 to buy this!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy III is one of the best games on DS and is probably the only RPGs on DS worth owning 
 at the moment. Although there are no minigames which seem to be a nice add on for almost every 
 DS game this game has more than enough to keep you busy.
  
  It is classic Final Fantasy gameplay but the various jobs in the game make for a unique experience 
 especially for those of us who have never played games with a job system before. Also, moving around 
 and selecting items is usually much easier with the stylus and touch screen but it has its frustrating 
 moments especially when you're trying to activate something small like the trigger to secret doorways 
 but this problem is easily solved by pressing the A button.
  
  The graphics are on par or a little below par with Final Fantasy VII as far as actual gameplay 
 goes but the cinematics far surpass anything we've seen on PS1 and are more on par with the modern 
 Final Fantasy games for PS2.
  
  And incase you were wondering, yes, the sound and music is pretty much the same as every classic 
 Final Fantasy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Square_ruler
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely the best game on the ds! It is probably one of the best games this year 
 too, you wont regret it! This game is awesome everything is just perfect the graphics are soooo 
 revolutionary and the videos are awesome. The sounds are really good for a ds and for a final fantasy. 
 The gameplay is very good old school!!! The story is kind of confusing at the beggining but as 
 you go on it becomes one awesome story. I recommend this game to any final fantasy fan, or rpg 
 fan, or just people that like having a good DS game. Buy it you wont regret it!!!!!
  
  Everything is perfect 10/10 or like i say this game is a masterpiece but it is more revolutionary!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  FF3 game is truly amazing for the Nintendo DS console. Everything in the game is great but the 
 world map music is sound more like another RPG games overall the game is great, the battle system 
 is great the job system is great, it alot more to use able to use different jobs you like. The 
 mail system is okay able to send messages to your friends to unlock certain areas that never get 
 able to get in sinlge player mode. Everything has update and great graphics for the DS. I enjoy 
 playing this game alot, and can not put this game down. This game is addictive as well and sometimes 
 the phoniex down is hard to come by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loc13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Pre-ordered a month ago and had been looking forward to it. Finally picked it up last Wednesday 
 and man, what a great game! Let's get the bad stuff out of the way first. Yes, this is an old school 
 RPG from last decade, so random encounters every 3-5 seconds are expected. Although later in the 
 game I feel they don't happen as often as early on in the game, so patience is the key. You cannot 
 save at any point you wish, nor are there save points for you before a boss battle. You can only 
 save in the world map, and otherwise you can do a quicksave inside a dungeon or town. The quicksave 
 will be gone after you load it, so it doesn't help much other than if you need to get off the game 
 to do something urgent. It takes one second or two to load different screen, be it entering battle, 
 bringing up inventory, etc. not a big deal though. I wish the upper screen gets used more, such 
 as showing the dungeon map...
  
  Now the good part. Characters design are excellent, and very cute! Each character actually has 
 facial expression during cut-scenes, and they're very cute and funny to watch. The graphics are 
 gorgeous for a DS game, The music, as expected for a FF game, is perfectly suitable. Now the gameplay, 
 some people might like the recent FFXII gameplay system, or the earlier real-time battle systems. 
 This game is strictly turn-based, but it works very well. The job system has been great so far 
 (i'm not too far into the game yet, as my gf takes my ds to play rocket slime :/ ) , and makes you 
 think about the game and strategy to go with different situations. Plus each character changes 
 outfit when they change job, and the're very cute to look at! It might requires a little bit of 
 level grinding early on, but I don't find myself spending a lot of time on it. Overall, this is 
 the best ds game I've purchased, and can't wait to get the ds back from my gf and start playing 
 again! 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitch-x911
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is great and has many things you can do.
  
  Gameplay: This is just like most Final Fantasy games turn based. It does have jobs which make it 
 very fun to play. You can have different attacks for each job which makes it fun. You still have 
 magic and those things I give gameplay 9/10.
  
  Graphics: Good 3D graphics but the backrounds and stuff are fuzzy. The characters are good. The 
 opening movie is amazing. It is 3D and it looks just great you have to see it for yourrself. I 
 will give graphics a 8/10
  
  Sound: It is the same great music Final Fantasy always has. It has good sounds and the music goes 
 well with the game. So I will give the sound 10/10.
  
  Closing Comments: The saving gets frustrating because you have to go to the world map and save. 
 Besides that if you like RPG's or Final Fantasy your going to want to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  I really dont know where to begin. Like many of you, I had been in anticipation for Final Fantasy 
 III (FFIII) for a long time. As it grew closer to its release date, the last bits of waiting became 
 almost unbearable. I wound up buying two other DS titles within the last two weeks of FFIIIs scheduled 
 release just to take my mind off of it. And when it finally arrived
  
  The Magic of Square-Enix
  
  Magical, wondrous, inspiring  these are all words that come to 
 mind after having experienced what is, without a doubt, the finest RPG (role-playing game) weve 
 yet seen, and will perhaps ever see, on the Nintendo DS system. The story and characters tickle 
 the imagination, and carry the player along on an adventure that weaves through all the colors 
 of the rainbow.
  
  Four orphans are  not by chance  chosen to become the Warriors of Light, and it is their quest 
 to bring balance back to a world left shaken by darkness. Heavy!
  
  Final Fantasy III does consist of some of those deeply-human themes weve come to expect in most 
 RPGs today, but it is also a light and lilting journey through a magical world. Along your travels 
 youll encounter cute dancing maidens, fat, cuddly birds called chocobos, as well as scores of 
 evil creatures let loose by a dark force that must be overcome.
  
  But what makes this game so special, and why do you refer to it as the finest RPG? Is it the 
 battles? Great graphics, right? You love the graphics! Or is it that you just like a good story?
 
  
  It is the presentation.
  
  As the game begins, your DS screen lights up with the setting of seabirds soaring through a burnt-orange 
 sky. The bottom screen reads, Square-Enix Presents And from that moment on you become part of 
 another world. Battles are fun, but require skill; characters are often comical, but also complex. 
 You will need to investigate each town and area along your travels in order to know how to best 
 proceed with your journey. Battles: When venturing inside caves or in the field, outside towns 
 &amp; villages, you will randomly encounter creatures of the FFIII world. If you cross paths with 
 monsters, you will be taken into a battle screen, and the fight will begin. Occasionally, monsters 
 will get the jump on you, and will be afforded an opportunity to attack your party before you have 
 a chance to prepare. Likewise, you will oftentimes get the jump on them. However, most battles 
 begin with you choosing the actions for your characters to perform during the melee round, and 
 depending on the speed of your characters (which is based on agility) and the creatures they encounter 
 each party member and monster executes their selected action in order. The battle continues in 
 this fashion until either the monsters are destroyed, or your party is defeated. Of course, you 
 can always attempt to flee from battle
  
  Some of the actions that can be engaged  depending on the job classes of your characters  during 
 battle include: Attack, Magic, Guard and Item  other actions are available as well. Jobs are the 
 focus of discipline that your characters take on. By the latter part of the adventure there will 
 be 23 different job classes to choose from, and making sure you round out your party in a way that 
 offers balance is integral to your success.
  
  Just to get an idea of what you can expect, there is, for instance, the white mage (job class) , 
 who specializes in healing arts. He / she can heal a single party member or all party members at 
 once. They can also lend defensive or offensive status effects to your characters. Black mages, 
 on the other hand, specialize in combat magic, and can call upon the earthly elements in order 
 to cast spells that inflict a nasty sting. Lightning, fire and ice are all powerful tools that 
 can be harnessed by these students of the dark arts. Later in the game more powerful forms of these 
 job classes become available, and there are, of course, a list of jobs that cover many other specialties, 
 such as physical combat (of whom the warrior, knight, dragoon and ninja are masters) , the power 
 of song (belonging to the bard) , and control over the surrounding environment (geomancer) , as well 
 as other disciplines. Theres no right or wrong way to build your party however, so theres plenty 
 of room in FFIII for each player to have a fighting force that they will enjoy.
  
  Youll make your way through the world of Final Fantasy III not only on foot, but also by way of 
 various vessels, including airships and a submarine of sorts. And through twists &amp; turns in 
 the story, you will find yourself in some of the most exotic and beautiful environments ever to 
 be presented on the DS.
  
  The visuals of the game are everything they were hyped up to be, but not necessarily because of 
 high polygon count. But rather because of the incredibly delicious art design. The variety and 
 depth of landscapes in FFIII are unrivaled, and they lend perfectly to the story that you will 
 experience. Nothing seems wasted for sheer voyeurism, and the meticulous graphic detail helps only 
 to allow the player to become completely immersed in the fantasy.
  
  Also adding to an already-enormous presentation are the musical themes. In every other way Final 
 Fantasy III shines among games, and so it is fitting that its music is equally exquisite. Like 
 the fine details of the games graphics, the music is as lovingly strewn throughout. Each area 
 has a different theme, and each matches its environment perfectly. From the somber yet eerie movements 
 that accompany you while traversing caverns, to the softly-comical lilt played for the dancing 
 gals, you will enjoy yourself fully within the colorful array of musical expressions. Even the 
 battle music will likely become a tune youll be humming to yourself when not playing the game.
 
  
  This adventure is, my friends, a work of art. It was obviously put together with a lot of care 
 and a lot of love and attention. It is the role-playing experience many have been waiting for on 
 the platform (DS) , and should be a model for other games  in the genre  to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjitninja13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  This is like a great RPG! The Graphics are great with the SD characters (at least great graphics 
 for the DS) and it works really well. You wouldn't expect a RPG using the touch screen, but it 
 actually feels pretty good using it. Ok, FF3 is food for real harcore gamers, cuz this game can 
 be pretty harsh at a lot of points. You might be walking through a dungeon for a while and lvling 
 and and at the end getting your ass spanked by a extremely powerful boss. NO SAVE POINT in the 
 dungeon, so you just lost ur lvl's. But beside this it is a really great game, 24 jobs, nice graphics, 
 restyled music..... what do you wish more? And the length of this game is really long. Like 70 hours!!!! ( 
 including the fact that you will be killed tons of times.)
  My advice: BUY IT. It will keep you playing till i dunno how long!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McBorisJr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is just incredibly fun. When i bought the game (from gamestop) the worker there said 
 it only got n 8/10, but i didnt really care for what he said, i just had to play this game. I opened 
 it up, popped it into my ds n started it up. Now to be honost, when i was still in say my first 
 10-15 minutes of playing, i was thinking, was this game really worth the $40? 1) because i didnt 
 read the manual and had no idea how to save.
  2) Tried equipping a weapon while in battle and it didnt work so i didn't think that weapon was 
 usable.
  3) was dieing because wasnt exactly sure how to heal besides potion BUT after i got used to the 
 game's configuration and figured out how to use abilities more efficiently, this game became VERY 
 addictive. I've never played ANY FF game before so this was something new for me and it was fun. 
 So i finsh by saying that i recommend that you should all get this game because FF fan or not, 
 i assure you'll love this game in due time. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cocololap
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game since i saw the first three screens.... and it wasn't even annouced 
 yet. I've played both the original and the remake. They both have there disadvantages, and there 
 advantages. Since NA never got to play the original, we dont no much about it. The graphics were 
 rather similar to the NES FF1, but I found that the graphics were actually a bit better. The remake 
 suprised me alot, the intro was absolutely AMAZING, but I found that they lowered the quality when 
 they brought it over to NA, o well better than nothing. The grapihics for the remake reminded me 
 of Final Fantasy 7 a bit not much, but in FF7, they had no mouths and you couldn't really see there 
 noses ( yes i no that Final Fantasy 3 DS has mouths, but not very visible) . The most disappointing 
 thing I could possibly think of about the graphics, is that they couldn't make the quality a bit 
 better.
  
  The BEST music i have ever heard. If there was a soundtrack for this game, I would most definitly 
 buy it. Back again to the original,. The original had the best music for the NES, most people think 
 the Zelda had it, but thats because they never got to hear Final Fantasy 3. The Eternal Wind theme 
 on the NES was a GBA quality music. It was excellent. When I played the remake, I fell in love 
 with this theme even more, nothing could possibly beat it.... until I heard the There Is Still 
 Time theme, that is definitly the winner for me. The only problem with the remake music was that 
 is lagged for me every now and then, and sometimes is would only come out of one speaker, im not 
 sure if it was just the DS Lite couldn't handle it, but it really bothered me at some points that 
 i couldn't listen to the lovely music. Story was something I really could tell the difference between. 
 The biggest difference between the two, was the beginning, were you only start of with Luneth, 
 in the original, you started with all 4 of them, and they weren't orphans, but bros or sis's (dont 
 no if they are guys or girls in the orginal) . I kind of got confused when you first meet Ingus 
 and Princess Sara (I think that here name... well it is for the original) . In the original , the 
 main character (The one you run around alone with every now and then) is the one that ends up with 
 Princess Sara, but in this one its Ingus the firth character its nothing big, but ya its just different. 
 Giving each character there own personality was a great idea, they each have there likes and dislikes 
 and their personal comments. My favourite is the one Luneth says when still the Desch ..... I don't 
 have very fond memories of our last airship ride lol still love that..
  
  I found this game rather addictive, but I found at the end, it really had no replay value to it. 
 There were no bonuses extra, I wouldn't have minded the music player or the bestinary thing. After 
 beating the game, I found nothing changed from the original ending, text nothing, all the same. 
 The way it ended is still pretty stupid, they should have changed it.
  
  This is the best DS game out there, and will b for a while, the only thing that could possibly 
 beat it so far, is either: Final Fantasy Crystal Cronicles Ring Of Fates, or, Final Fantasy XII 
 Revenant Wings. Well those are the only ones that have been annouced to far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tux_do
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Ok, so this game is probably one of the best DS games out there right now. It has hours of gameplay, 
 and it isn't very easy to get bored playing it. It's true like reviews say that it's hard, but 
 it is fun to just keep leveling up in easy areas before you go into a hard place.
  
  Gameplay: You have a large range of things to do. Tons of weapons, spells, and armor are available.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are one of the best for DS. The only thing is, when you view in close to 
 your character, the backround around him or her gets a little pixely.
  
  Difficulty: This game requires alot of leveling up if you don't want to die. If you do die, you 
 are sent back to your last save, so save alot.
  
  Sound: The sound suits the game really well, and is actually tolerable to listen to unlike some 
 games.
  
  Replay: This game has so much you can do to, making it different every time you play. There are 
 also three save slots, so if you like to share with friends, or even create another file for you, 
 you can.
  
  This is a great game, and any turn based battle lover will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Child
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  Since this review is written by a fan of the Final Fantasy series, I have to claim that is completely 
 bias. Everything in this game is perfectly reminiscent of the old Final Fantasy's 1, 2, and of 
 course 3. From the moment you enter a boss battle, to when you enter a town, the screen effects 
 and sounds are completely similar to the original Final Fantasy 3. Every monster is remastered 
 in 64-equivalent graphics. The game is packed with nostalgia. The controls are pretty impressive. 
 You can play the game completely with the stylus if you choose to, with capability of pressing 
 a camera icon on the top left corner in order to zoom in on your character. This function allows 
 you to see certain items/rocks/candles sparkle, if you then press the sparkling object a secret 
 passage will open. This zoom function can also be controlled with the L key. Pressing on the screen 
 with the stylus will cause your character to run to that point. Pressing on a character, bed, or 
 door, will cause that object to react if your next to it. For example, if your near a character 
 and you press on him, he'll talk to you. The only draw back to the game, is that its way too Final 
 Fantasy. While this is amazing to me and others, Fan's that started liking RPG's by playing the 
 current Final Fantasy XII and modern RPG's will feel that the gameplay is dated and old. The only 
 thing that prevents me from giving this game a 10 out of 10 is that it wouldn't be a good game 
 to just anyone. Therefore, I feel it is necessary to state certain criteria for this game that 
 will make you KNOW if you will love FF3 on the DS. 1. If you have ever emulated Final Fantasy 3, 
 Final Fantasy 2 or Final Fantasy 5 (before it came to the US) 2. If you've ever felt the need to 
 replay Final Fantasy 1 (lord knows I have) 3. If you enjoyed the Job system from Final Fantasy 
 X-2 or Final Fantasy 5. 4. If while playing any RPG you've ever felt extreme satisfaction through 
 ferociously leveling up by killing weak bad guys in order to destroy a powerful bad guy that wooped 
 you. 5. If you initially felt personally offended by the fact that Final Fantasy XII was changing 
 the original turn based battle system. 6. If you've ever found yourself having way too many arguments 
 about how Final Fantasy 4,5, or 6 is better than 7. 7. If you try to find inconsistencies between 
 Final Fantasy 1 and the 8-bit theater comics. 8. If you've ever imagined what Final Fantasy series 
 would've been like if they'd stuck with Nintendo. I'll be working on fixing up this review as day's 
 go by, keep in mind that I wrote this on 4 AM on a Friday in a semi-drunkun stupor. Long live old-school 
 Final Fantasy fans, I wish you luck in beating this game with as much resolve and creativity as 
 you've beaten your previous Final Fantasy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0rdrexion
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  After 16 long years, and about 3 cancelled remakes, Final Fantasy III has come to America in a 
 legal, authorized form. When this was first announced back when the DS was released, I was ecstatic, 
 but that was when I thought that Final Fantasy VI was FFIII. A quick Internet search told me that 
 it was the Japanese version that was never brought to the U. S., despite the fact it is widely regarded 
 as one of the best games ever made. The original story kicks off with 4 orphans dressed like Onion 
 Knights falling down a hole to find a crystal (Because what Final Fantasy game is complete without 
 some form of a crystal) which begs them to restore balance to the world. Square-Enix keeps that 
 basic plotline, but you actually don't start the game with four party members. Instead, a boy named 
 Luneth falls down the hole and after going through a small dungeon finds the crystal and embarks 
 on his quest to restore balance to the world. Even though you don't start out with all four party 
 members, you quickly join forces with Arc, Refia, and Ingus within the first hour or so of gameplay. 
 Also, instead of the legendary Onion Knight, all party members start out as Freelancers, which 
 is a bit of a bummer, because I wanted to see the 3-D Onion Knight. This brings me to the graphics 
 level, which is incredible. As a long time RPG-gamer, I've come to expect the graphics in a Final 
 Fantasy are slightly below standard at the expense of story, but all those beliefs were blown away 
 the first time I saw the opening cinema. The look of it is almost on par with the recently released 
 Final Fantasy XII, a feat when the DS was originally launched was impossible. The in-game graphics 
 are beautiful as well, with a FFIX style of art to it. As far as music goes, this game has got 
 some of the highest quality orchestra music I have ever heard. One of the things FFIII is famous 
 for is introducing the job system, which allows characters to change into any job from standby 
 jobs like White Mage and Black Mage, to less conventional ones like the Scholar or the Viking. 
 With 4 characters and around 25 jobs, the possibilities are in the hundred-thousands, giving this 
 game incredible replay value. To be honest, the one thing I have to say about this game is that 
 you can only save on the world map, and you can quicksave anywhere, but if there was at least one 
 save point a dungeon it would be phenomenal, but if you have played the original Final Fantasy 
 for the NES, you wouldn't actually mind as much. Overall, this is easily the best game on the DS 
 so far, and if you own a DS, and have played any Final Fantasy, Dragon Quest, or even Pokemon game, 
 you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazzle999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  after all the **** games ive played in the last months this is one of the games that is a must 
 buy
  those guys at square enix know how to create a propper ds game after pocket slime and some others 
 again a good release by them
  
  about the game:
  the game is like how these kind of games need to be with good grapics and a good soundtrack/startup 
 movie witch you can expect with ff series
  a verry well done remake of the original
  
  so its in my opinion a must buy and a real classic of finally some good quality 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomayo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 17, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Gamers around the world wait in anticipation and excitement for the release of this game. Beads 
 of sweat form on foreheads, damp palms slowly grip tighter and tighter as all the final fantasy 
 fanatics and rpg beginners all congeal into one mass of eager fans. Lines upon lines, rows upon 
 rows, clique between cliques all wait for the moment their local gamestore opens to pick up a copy 
 of the most amazing handheld rpg to ever see the day of light.
  
  
  As the majority of the population 
 know that this game is a breakthrough in terms of graphics for the DS. The Detail spent on characters, 
 monsters, bosses, attack sequences, etc, etc. Is absolutley mind blowing, not to mention the stunning 
 intro to the game. On top of all the the music has been crafted to make the gameplay experience 
 that much more, allowing the player to be immersed to a world of randomized turn based battles, 
 and diverse job classes to fit everyones need and/or style of gameplay. Let alone the gameplay 
 itself deserves the highest regard possible for there are so many diffrent strategies and styles 
 of game play and that you can hardly not smile at the sight of a FAT chocobo. This game will remain 
 in the collections of games that many DS owners find hard to accumulate (there are MANY good games 
 out there) and will Brought out to be played again and again and again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madltu2005
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I love the in game cut scenes. It's feel like any Final Fantasy game I have 
 played. To bring it anywhere you please and send message with the wifi is quite amazing. It's also 
 amazing that you can share information and so on about the game. This is quite remarkable for such 
 a small system that really take you further from any other RPG games handheld. I believe that this 
 game is quite fun and enjoyable. Taking your time and not rushing through it lets you fully immerse 
 in the world. By taking your time out you can level up and focus on your goal. I'm currently playing 
 Final Fantasy XII and it's fun. However, for this one I can take it where ever I go. This is a 
 must have RPG game for anyone who love traditional RPG style games. It's very fun and another yet 
 great title by Square Enix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eredgar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  PS/N64 graphics, reminds me off my favorite FFIX, Actual challenge, can't breeze through, must 
 use stratgey and items! I hope to see alot more of this for the DS. Only complaints i heard was 
 too hard. Its not, its fun, Job system is great too. Using the stylus is a true FF players dream. 
 If you've never played before, this is a great time to start. If you have, and even played this 
 before its a dream come true. All new graphics, inhanced story, Stylus controll. all on the go. 
 Im getting the wii in a few days but i couldn't pass this up, i can still play when im away from 
 home.
  I honestly dont think i'll have trouble stepping away from the wii to play this more.
  this is 
 fixing the crave i have had since PS1 FFs
  Bring more!, do sequals or remake FFIX! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F4LL3NANG3L
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Having never played the original version of Final Fantasy III for the nes, I jumped face-first 
 into the NDS version hoping to have a fun time. After viewing an impressive introduction movie, 
 and fighting my very first battle, I got hooked immediately. After surviving a very simple introduction 
 level, I finally started the game proper.
  
  My first impressions of the game were good ones, seeing how the game had impressive (By DS standards) 
 graphics and wonderful audio playback. The music and the graphics seemed to give the game an ambiance 
 and setting a mood, from creepy underground dungeons to sunny cheerful towns. Seeing how this is 
 one of the few 3D RPGs (and RPGs for the matter) for the DS, I must say, the people at Matrix Software 
 have done a really good job.
  
  The plot is fairly understandable, although unclear at times, most likely due to the fact that 
 the game is more player-driven with little npc support. For instance, the game requires you to 
 travel looking for the next destination, at times, without any hints or general direction (The developers 
 may have assumed that their player base would be made completely of players who've played the original 
 perhaps?) .
  
  The battle system is, in my opinion, this game's jewel. Featuring a turn-based system, with impressive 
 effects and unique abilities and monsters, the battle system definitely sets the standard in hand 
 held rpg games. Battles are not very easy, but at the same time, not overly challenging. Strategy 
 is definitely required in most of the boss battles, and the system is not entirely based on luck, 
 but more of a combination of skill and strategy.
  
  One of the biggest flaws I find with the game play, is that the game expects you to know what to 
 do next. Often giving little information on the sequence of events or controls and functionalities 
 of the many interfaces. Thankfully, my knowledge gathered from playing similar titles in the series 
 saved me. I found npc help/intervention at the minimal and I often found myself proceeding deeper 
 into the game without a complete understanding of the story/events.
  
  Ironically, the game's selling point, its extensive job system, is also flawed. Offering many classes 
 at once with little help on the specialties and abilities of each, I find the job system sub-par 
 to the other versions that exist in the series. (FFV /FFT/FFTA) Again, I feel that this is because 
 of the developer's decision to make the game's systems as similar to the original as possible.
 
  
  All in all, I would definitely recommend this game to anyone whose played the original, or other 
 games in the Final Fantasy series. I would also recommend players (new to Final Fantasy) deciding 
 to buy this game to purchase a guide or consult a walkthrough online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildboy101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  FINALLY a FF game that i can carry around!
  great game! the game is like FF8 but without the junctioning.
  im just having truble with the 
 jobs part. im not so sure whats that used for but im sure when i figure out it will just make the 
 game better.
  anyway the overall for me is a 9.0 superb. one for the interesting storyline and the stratergy 
 and effort you have to put in. two thumbs up!!
  if anyone doesnt mind giving me a boost on this game MSG me on GS please. another thing that makes 
 it hard for the gamer is the way you cant die in the game. i have 2 peole dead right mow and i 
 cant seem to be progressing in the game. there is only one pheonix down in the beggining so use 
 it wisely not like me, i have no idea how im gonna revive these 2 guys man!! so once again if there 
 is no trouble can someone give me some help! thanks!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Yes, big time reviewers like IGN are giving the game average reviews. Not great, considering this 
 IS a Final Fantasy game. But, let me tell you, this is a treat.
  
  The game is very old school. For some, that's a good thing. For others, it's bad. For me, it's 
 neither. I realize the game is something like 14 years old. The old turn based combat holds up 
 great. Granted, I love the ATB that has been in FF since FFIV, but old-school is still fun.
  
  Besides the old school combat, the character customization is nice. This was the first FF to 
 introduce changeable jobs, like Black Mage, White Mage, Warrior, Ninja, Red Mage, etc. You can 
 customize your party to your playstyle this way, and is a really good system. Other game do a better 
 job, but FFIII came first.
  
  I never played the original FFIII, but people were saying that the four character in the NES version 
 were generic; no backstory, no personality. This time, they are given a little back story and some 
 personality. Not great, but it's at least there. The story is lackluster compared to todays games, 
 but it's not bad. It's not as creative.
  
  The graphics are the best on the DS by far, and the music is absolutely wonderful. As some have 
 said, the 3d transition makes battles slower because of the increased animation and effects, but 
 that's not a huge deal. It looks amazing.
  
  Anyway, the game is great so far. Most will say the game is 30 hours long, which isn't long for 
 an RPG, but it's a good passtime. Also there is some WiFi features, but it's not a big deal, but 
 is still nice to have. Gives me something to do while I'm away from my PS2 from playing FFXII. 
 And it's also good to finally have a good RPG for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallsmartman
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is as good in every aspect as is said in the other reviews. Incredible Graphics, Great 
 story, Good Class System, but I think this game is not going to keep the modern gamer engaged very 
 long.
  
  I donno if you can see it somewhere, but I am editing my former review. I made a mistake and reviewed 
 it after only 2-3 hours of playing it. At the time I gave it a 9.3 overall and wrote a praising 
 review. I see now that the game is not worth the $40 retail price (which I paid) . The big (and 
 only) problem with the game, is the old style, turn based, combat system. This is obviously the 
 biggest element of the game, and I find it quite boring. Once a person plays KOTOR (knights of 
 the old republic) you could probably never play an RPG like this again. If you can, I don't get 
 it. I know I sure can't.
  
  The only other problem with the game (now that I think of it) , is the music. Yes the great music 
 from the Final Fantasy series is classic and untouchable; and as a musical composer, I have a special 
 appreciation for it. But either to save space, or to stay true to the original FFIII, somebody 
 decided to play the same music over and over and over and over and over. This will irritate most 
 people. I am one of those people that like to listen to the music in the game instead of turning 
 it down and playing my own stereo. But I had to turn it down, ick!
  
  Sorry Final Fantasy for having to give this review, but this game is not evolved like the modern 
 FF games are.
  
  -MW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Yes. the game has a good story but to top it off the Graphics are amazing. this really makes me 
 wonder how many RPG's Squarenix has planned to port over. i would love to see Xenogears, Chrono 
 Cross, FF7 (Yes FF7) .
  
  But now on to the game. This game is the best FF remake Square has made to date. I love the Quality 
 and time they put in to it. It really plays like the old one. The Graphics i must say are so good 
 for this little thing smooth framerate, terrible distance. but it is a looker. it's not PS3 Good 
 Looking but when you compare it to the other remakes , it blows it out the water. The Job system 
 is very fun and it's cool that you have almost any setup and kick ass lets you play how you wanna. 
 it's also cool just learning everything and filling up your spell book. It's got a Decent story 
 thats pretty much 80's vintage Square. But all in all it's really worth playing. If your lil brother 
 has a DS buy this game for him on Xmas and make sure you find time to use his DS and beat the game. 
 You can kill 2 birds with one stone with this game. The Music is also very well put together. yes 
 they can be hummed to :)
  Soundeffects are good. there is no voice however. Wich isn't that bad i love no Voices so i can 
 read and imagine the story.
  
  It is a great RPG better than All the other RPGs on the DS and Graphically is one of the best 3D 
 Rendered game on the DS. This on top of great Square gameplay is WORTHY of the 39.99 price.
  
  If you like FF your gonna love this game. If your new to rpg's Then this may be alittle step 
 back and may have a mixed reaction, but If you like RPG's this ones hard to pass up. so Final Fantasy 
 3 didn't see you last time you passed but thanks for coming back. and i like what your wearing. 
 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacif
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I have been excited about this game since I first heard that it was finally being published in 
 my native tongue. I did get the chance to play the original a long long time ago on the famicom, 
 but being able to understand everything is a dream come true. The difficulty of this game is well 
 known and I am excited to get through more of the gameplay, but what I have had my hands on for 
 about 5 hours is a sold and beautiful rendition of what was once a lost version of the series. 
 Well done Square for making me think of the days of old and where video games were more than about 
 money. Now lets see a FF7 remake on the DS. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpicle
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is an old school RPG gamer has been waiting for! All the best qualities of other final 
 fantasies were created in this game, the major two being the job system and the summon monsters! 
 This game was never previously released into the States, but I am glad to say it has not lost its 
 flavor. The game machanics are older and the battles are not as vibrant as other final fantasies 
 that have been released but it is great in its own right. For being a classic, it is everything 
 I hoped for and more. For those who think this game is outdated, heres a reality check, it was 
 made for the NES. The NES not the Playstation or even the Super Nintendo. For the graphics to be 
 tweaked as they have and allowing to keep its own machanics is simply fantastic. One of the disadvantages 
 of this game is the difficulty. If you thought this would be easy, think again! The first dungeon 
 after the tutorial dungeon is so hard I haven't even past the door without getting my butt kicked 
 after one battle. The other disadvantage or difference is it only uses the bottom screen and the 
 top screen is usually left blank (except for a world map or when your looking in your inventory) 
 so the battles only take up one screen, but it doesn't bother me much at all so it is bearable. 
 For a game that hadn't reached the states before now, it is great installment to a great franchise. 
 Thanks, Square Enix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hobo-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to lie; while waiting for FFIII to launch I had my doubts about it. Whether it would 
 turn out to be superb, or a joke, I had absolutely no idea. Turns out this game is far better than 
 I thought possible. The graphics are lush and beautiful; the best I've seen for DS. The class system, 
 and just about everything else in the game, is near-perfect, if not flawless. If you are a DS owner, 
 whether you enjoy RPGs or not is irrelevant, I implore you to go and buy this game immediately. 
 I need four more words. Win~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlowe_2004
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 3 is just what you would think it is, its a remake of the old game. That may sound 
 crappy, but honestly if all remakes were done as well as this one the world of retro gaming would 
 be a much better place. This game tends to take the old combat system and give it new life through 
 graphical upgrades while keeping the gameplay almost identical to the old style. To those of us 
 who grew up on this style of play its like meeting an old friend, but to some of the newer gamers 
 it might seem somewhat stale. The battles in this game are hard, which is something that isnt seen 
 much these days. This game doesnt pull any punches when it comes to making you totally prepare 
 before going into a dungeon, there are NO saves in the dungeons, so dont waste all you mana before 
 the last boss or you are screwed. The story isnt too bad, but honestly doesnt compare with current 
 FF stories. The game does feel dated a bit, but the over-all presentation is great! This is a must 
 have for FF fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laki2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game at EBGames, and just picked it up today. For the last few weeks I've been 
 watching trailers, reading previews, and checking out screenshots. With all the hype surrounding 
 the game I couldn't help but anticipate it's release. So, to make a long story short... I now own 
 the game, and have it in my posession. Thus far, I am probably about an hour into the game. I watched 
 the video in the beginning, which was pretty much what you saw if you watched any of the game trailers 
 but with some extra scenes that weren't shown. As for the game though, it's really nice. The gameplay 
 starts you off right in the middle of a dungeon, which I thought was a good touch. Basically by 
 the time you finish navigating this first dungeon you have a pretty good idea of the gameplay and 
 control elements. You need not worry though because dungeon is fairly easy. If you're wondering 
 about controls you might be interested to know that you have a choice to either play traditionally 
 using the D-pad or in true DS style with the stylus. I have been using the stylus myself and have 
 found it for the most part to be quite intuitive, but that's a personal choice. If you're buying 
 this game because you think it has great graphics you might be slightly underwhelmed. I'm not by 
 any means saying that the graphics are bad but they could have been a tiny bit better. Nevertheless, 
 it shouldn't be about the graphics. Final Fantasy is to me, about the story, the adventure, and 
 the fun. The short time that I have played this game, I know I can expect all of those elements 
 to be more than above standard. As far as the graphics go, I think they could use a bit of refining 
 but overall I am very pleased with the look of the game, especially for the DS. Most people should 
 find this game to be quite a rewarding experience, I know I am looking forward to spending the 
 next few days adventuring, spellcasting, and defeating monsters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macfastnin1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  FF 3 Is a good game for sure. Music, the gameplay, but graphics suck. period. Also, the wifi connections 
 are useless. Really, it doesnt need to be there. Buti have to say, the graphics on the beggining 
 on final Fantasy 3 is reeely good. But after you see the movie, then you satrt to play the game, 
 yoou feel that the graphics on ff 3 is horrible. Also, I think it has a little replayability because 
 its really adicting on the first time, but if you want to play it over again, it is boring.
  
  I think that the cost of ff 3 should be a little less to keep up its value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MHF_TECH
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This game looks crazy and I'm glad they made a remake of it on the DS. The fact that you can use 
 the stylus on the touch screen for the whole game just blows me away. The job system is looking 
 real good with the variety of jobs you can pick and the number of abilitys they can do. I was hoping 
 that this game wasn't just a walk around fighting random battles game but more of a game towards 
 Golden Sun like finding items by pulling certain levers and doing puzzles to unlock more goodies 
 and it is, by using the camera you can zoom in and find little secrets to unlock more equipment 
 and other great items which im looking forward to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VangrantJ
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  if any of you remembered playing the original Final Fantasy III (not Final Fantasy III which is 
 supposed to be VI for SNES) for the NES, then this is the remake of that game. The game was redisigned 
 with DS graphics, and the story line made the characters have more character rather than just being 
 a group of four generic characters. Aside from just the graphics and characters, there were a few 
 things changed this time around; things such as jobs (theres a job system in this game much like 
 final fantasy V or tactics) , a different starting job, a new control method (you can use the stylus 
 to move around and use it to pick out actions during battles) and other minor changes. The full 
 list of changes can be found on http://ff3trans. pbwiki. com/NES%20to%20DS%20Changes . But aside 
 from these changes, the game is basically the same with the same traditional battle system (turn 
 based rather than active time) . All in all, this game is worth it if you like the Final Fantasy 
 series, or if you are looking for a really good RPG to pick up for your DS. Plus the sound track 
 is made by Nobuo Uematsu, which you can expect is topnotch. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
