-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/finalfantasyxiirevenantwings/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible graphics and visuals.
 Touch-screen controls make managing your army a snap.
 Riveting story with plenty of twists and turns.
 Large variation of mission types and side quests.
 Balthier.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some large-scale battles suffer minor graphical slowdown.
 Terrain objects will occasionally obscure enemies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,813 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Just as Final Fantasy Tactics did nearly 10 years ago, Revenant Wings successfully takes the series 
 into uncharted waters in an unforgettable way. 

  The Final Fantasy franchise had never been one to hold continuity close to heart. Until recently, 
 it used to forsake the idea of direct sequels and instead focus on creating entirely new universes 
 that share similar themes, names, and icons. However, the world of Ivalice has been one visited 
 several times, and with Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings, we return once again to follow the adventures 
 of Vaan and his friends in the skies above. Their latest adventure is -- in a drastic departure from 
 the norm -- an RTS game that manages to successfully blend the potent storytelling and signature 
 style of Final Fantasy with the lightning-quick action of Command &amp; Conquer, and the result 
 is one of the more unique and memorable outings in the series' history.  

  One year after the war with the Archadian Empire, Vaan has fulfilled his dream of becoming a sky 
 pirate and flies through the heavens in a ship of his own with Penelo as his trusted navigator. 
 When he and his friends Fran and Balthier uncover a treasure known as the Cache of Glabados, the 
 legendary sky continent of Lemurs is unveiled, and it's up to them to protect the winged inhabitants 
 of that floating world from the sinister Judge of Wings and her illusionary armies. Along your 
 journey you will encounter friends and enemies both old and new, and experience an adventure that 
 becomes surprisingly introspective and questions what it means to truly be alive.  

           The leading man Balthier and his lady-friend Fran make their return, along with other 
 companions from Final Fantasy XII.      

  Revenant Wings is divided up into 10 chapters, each of which consists of roughly five missions. 
 Each mission will provide more detail on the deep and engrossing story with both in-game and prerendered 
 cutscenes, and between them you'll be free to travel across Lemurs and beyond in an airship of 
 your own christening that serves as your base of operations. You'll be able to take side quests 
 from Tomaj and his notice board, engage in skirmishes with local fauna or other sky pirates, craft 
 new weapons from materials gathered in your journeys, and look at trophies earned through battle. 
 You will also be able to spend crystals called auricite that you earn through missions to forge 
 pacts with summoned monsters known as espers. Though your main characters will take to the battlefield 
 themselves, your espers will make up the bulk of your combat forces, so it's important to forge 
 as many pacts with as many types of espers as you can to bolster your army.  

  At the beginning of a battle you are given your mission goals, which can vary from defeating all 
 enemies, to sneaking to a specific spot, and more. At that point you're presented with the chance 
 to analyze your enemy's strengths and weaknesses and tailor your army accordingly. Characters and 
 espers are classified as ranged, melee, and flying units, each of which is part of a rock-paper-scissors 
 relationship. These relationships, along with elemental resistances and weaknesses, are vitally 
 important to pay attention to when selecting which party members and espers you will use, given 
 that you can only field up to five characters and summon from a troupe of up to five types of espers. 

  When combat begins, your selected characters will each become the leader of a group of espers. 
 Though Revenant Wings is an RTS, there is no resource gathering or management to speak of, and 
 as long as you have control of a summoning gate, you can call forth new espers which are added 
 to existing groups and makes unit organization a snap. However, enemy leaders can also summon espers 
 in this way, and you'll have to work diligently to capture their summoning gates to help you control 
 the flow of battle. Combat is extremely fast-paced, and as such it's important to make sure that 
 your ranks are constantly refilled if the need to do so arises.  

  Beyond their normal attacks, espers have special abilities that are automatically used whenever 
 they come available. Your characters themselves will learn a slew of their own as they gain levels, 
 one of which can be assigned at any time to be their gambit, which shifts it into automatic use 
 in the same manner as the espers. Each character will also learn a super ability called a quickening 
 that can be used to turn the tide of a battle. Micromanaging in Revenant Wings is essentially reduced 
 to keeping track of which character abilities and quickenings are ready and making sure that they're 
 effectively used. This streamlines combat and makes it much more action-oriented, while keeping 
 it easily accessible to those not well-versed in the RTS genre.  

  Control during battle is handled using a simple and intuitive combination of touch-screen use and 
 button presses. The top screen displays a map of the entire area for quick reference of the positions 
 of both your units and your enemy's, and the bottom screen is a close-up view of the action shown 
 from an overhead isometric view. Leader portraits, which indicate the status of a particular character 
 and his or her grouped espers, can be tapped to select the entire group. Individual units can be 
 selected by tapping them, and you can also tap the screen and drag across to select a large group 
 of units. You can then use a single tap to order those selected units to move to a specific location 
 or to attack an enemy unit. Tapping and holding down the stylus will let you move the screen around, 
 or you can use the directional pad to do the same thing.  

  Graphically speaking, Revenant Wings is one of the most impressive-looking games on the DS, and 
 the prerendered cutscenes that play at times are of the same level of quality that one has come 
 to expect from Square Enix. The assorted locales you will travel to are vivid and lively, and the 
 unit sprites, however small, are highly detailed and expressively animated. For the most part, 
 battlefields are designed to complement the fixed isometric camera, but there are times, however 
 rare, that units or monsters may be concealed behind tall environmental objects, though this is 
 a minor complaint. Likewise, there is some graphical slowdown when massive groups of units gather 
 onscreen and enter combat, but not so much that it becomes even remotely unplayable.  

           There's never a shortage of frantic action.      

  Fans of the music of Final Fantasy 
 XII will feel immediately at home with the soundtrack of Revenant Wings because the style is completely 
 identical. In fact, many of the songs, such as the theme of the Rabanastre Lowtown, are straight-up 
 ported across. This sense of familiarity that fans of other Final Fantasy games will feel is not 
 limited to the music, either. There are many other throwbacks to older games in the series, such 
 as the return of Namingway, and all in all, fans will be pleased with the game's self-referential 
 nature.  

  Ultimately, Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings successfully takes the role-playing game flair and 
 style that the franchise is known for into the RTS realm. With an excellent combination of game 
 design and control-scheme implementation, the fast-paced battle system is easy to keep up with 
 and difficult enough to challenge you for roughly 25 hours, not including all the extra time you 
 could put into completing side quests, forging pacts with espers, and earning all of the trophies. 
 Revenant Wings is easily one of the better games on the Nintendo DS, and whether or not you're 
 a fan of Final Fantasy games or the RTS genre in general, it's a worthy purchase if you're looking 
 for a fun and entertaining experience.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (94 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic graphics and cutscenes; a deep, memorable story and cast of characters; fast, 
 fun gameplay; plenty of customization options; beautiful music; Balthier.
  
  The Bad: Selecting just one character of a particular set can be difficult; so-so AI; it's kind 
 of short for a Final Fantasy game.
  
  Square Enix is known for producing the best RPGs on the market. Even though there are thirty or 
 more Final Fantasies and other RPGs that have been churned out over the years by these guys, they 
 continue to innovate with every title released.
  
  That's pretty impressive, and Final Fantasy still hasn't gotten old. The name is a bit of a misnomer 
 nowadays, since there are a lot of games in the series. But Square's first Final Fantasy was going 
 to be there last game, as they were going bankrupt. That is, until it buoyed the entire company 
 on its own.
  
  Since then, Square has put great effort into every title they make (except, sadly, the Crystal 
 Chronicles games) . The turn-based system, time-based system, almost-but-not-quite real time system 
 in FFXII, summoning, class system, tactical combat, more character maneuverability, fantastic production 
 values, even addictive multiplayer in some cases, have all been in Square's games in the past.
 
  
  Now the real-time strategy genre is getting the Final Fantasy treatment, and proven to be awesome 
 on a system other than the computer, with Revenant Wings for DS.
  
  You'll be controlling what is basically a small army by the conclusion of the game, and most of 
 the way through, but the game lets you in easy. You'll learn that each character and Esper (spirits 
 they summon to help you in battle) has one of three fighting styles: melee, ranged, and flying. 
 Melee beats ranged beats flying beats melee, which is important to take into account in all battles, 
 as a rock-paper-scissors element to study before the fight.
  
  Most Espers also have a type assigned to them: fire, lightning, water, etc. These are strong against 
 certain enemies and weak against others, leading to more strategy to incorporate in your selection 
 of your team.
  
  It's also important to remember that you don't have access to all the Espers at first. Instead, 
 you find Auracite in certain levels that you can use in your "Ring of Pacts" so Espers are willing 
 to fight for you from then on. You can then summon whichever types you bring in that you want, 
 in any combination, during battle, fortify them (or level them up) , and assign them to certain 
 people while you fight.
  
  Plus, you'll be selecting main characters to bring in with you. Vaan, Penelo, Basch, Ashe, Balthier 
 and Fran were all playable in Final Fantasy XII, but now you can also play as old faces Kytes, 
 Filo and Ba'Gamnan. And with the new race, the aegyl, comes a new character named Llyud, whose 
 history is what the story revolves around.
  
  You can equip clothing and weaponry to these characters, and select either them alone or the group 
 of Espers along with them for the fight to go certain places. Or, alternately, you can just have 
 them all go as a pack. You'll be fighting masses of enemies (you could be controlling thirty or 
 more at once) , and taking over summon gates, to be allowed to bring more Espers into the fray, 
 as you go.
  
  Your characters, as you'd guess, also level up as they go through fights. As they do, they'll be 
 able to learn new techniques. You can manually choose what they attack with in the battle, but 
 you can also give them a "gambit" move that they'll use on their own while you're busy.
  
  This all sounds like it'd be impossible to manage at one time, but it turns out easy once you get 
 it, and a whole lot of fun. Controlling an army is an awesome, fresh new take on the franchise 
 that hasn't really been tried before.
  
  It is difficult to select certain Espers on their own, or a group that you want to go somewhere 
 else, unless they're all under the control of the same leader. That's a bit annoying because it 
 gives you less options in battle, even though Square's idea of characters leading groups lessens 
 the issue.
  
  The AI generally moves to where you tell them to go, but they can run into obstacles, run into 
 each other, and go different directions when a path branches. It's not a big issue, but it needs 
 to be mentioned. The point is, there are just minor quibbles with this fantastic, unique gameplay 
 experience.
  
  The story, meanwhile, is outstanding. Each character is unique and interesting to follow, and many 
 different real-life issues arise. Fighting between friends, love, betrayal, morals, and your choices 
 all come into play. It'll surely be enjoyable for FFXII fans to see what happened next to these 
 characters, but it never once leaves out those who are unfamiliar with them (though it makes allusions 
 to FFXII's plot sometimes) .
  
  To enhance the enjoyment of watching the tale unfold, the in-game and pre-rendered cutscenes are 
 fantastic. During play, the graphics rival what Nintendo themselves do on their system, which is 
 well-known for being the best most of the time. The cutscenes, meanwhile, look like they're from 
 a console.
  
  The music has some familiar tunes to it, but these have been in the franchise for years. Just as 
 in Mario, Zelda, or hell, Halo do, certain music pieces keep reappearing. But that's certainly 
 not a bad thing, since these are some of the best songs in any game franchise ever. Plus, there's 
 plenty new work, and work from Final Fantasy XII before it, to hear.
  
  The game's length is pretty solid, if a tad short. You can always go to random battles to level 
 up, blast through the main missions (for the most part) , or play Tomaj missions, which are more 
 difficult but more rewarding. By the end, for example, the hardest main game battles require you 
 to be at level 50 or so. To beat the hardest Tomaj missions, you'll be fighting level 80 enemies.
 
  
  So there's more to do if you keep working at the game outside of the main plot, but even with that 
 this game doesn't come close to rivaling the length of most Final Fantasy games. Final Fantasy 
 VII famously took up three PS1 discs, and Final Fantasy XII has about 100 hours worth of play. 
 You'll play closer to 30 if you beat absolutely everything in this one. That's not bad for a handheld 
 game, but a bit short on Square's part.
  
  There are plenty of different areas to go do battle at, there are plenty of characters and Espsers 
 to handle, and there is a rich, powerful story to work your way through here, though. The only 
 complaints to be had really aren't that bad, and as of 2007, this was the greatest third party 
 effort on DS, hands down. Additionally, this is one of the best titles on DS, and is absolutely 
 worth picking up, regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wogboypaul
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Revenant wings attempts to story-tell although fails. 
  
  The story of this game is one of the poorest stories I've come across to date. It conveys no symbolism, 
 no attempts to structure a story and no efforts to make this story unforgettable [IMO] . I totally 
 disagree with a newly introduced species which comes in totally 'out of the blue'. 
  
  The characters are similar to those of the original FFXII which is consoled on Playstation 2. I 
 am somewhat confused as to how these characters suddenly lack in character compared to their last 
 game. Although the characters are still here I guess. Vaan, Penelo, Baltheir, Fran, Ashe, and Basch 
 are still in the gang. Although I also disagree with the random characters who all of a sudden 
 are capable of fighting these characters Kytes and Filo. Kytes was featured at the very beginning 
 of FFXII Ps2. He was introduced after the prologue with Recks. And who the hell is Filo in the 
 first place anyways?
  
  Gameplay is worthy of trying, it was a simply strategy game just like your usual old school War 
 Craft I, II and III only using excessive use of the NDS touchpad. It is fun and time consuming for 
 children who do not have homework. Various fiends and espers are available only in battle. To unlock 
 these fiends and espers, you must first advance them on your look-a-like License Grid. As you master 
 every fiend/esper they are able to be used in battle.
  
  Overall this game was not worth buying. With that money I wish i had purchased my PSP instead. 
 Thanks for reading my review and please rate this helpful or not helpful.
  
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgranli
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings is a follow up to the PS2 RPG, Final Fantasy XII and is an addictive 
 and charming game that will keep you occupied for many hours.
  
  The Good:
  -Fantastic graphics and visuals
  -Stellar soundtrack
  -Charming characters
  -Great story
 
  -Touch screen functions works really well
  -Good variation in missions and side quests
  
  The Bad:
  -Terrain objects and characters can hinder touch screen selections
  
  You follow 
 Vahn and his friends in a charming quest that will take you to the heavens as well as familiar 
 locations in the world of Ivalice. The story in FFXII: RW is very nice, and the characters are charming. 
 You don't need to play FFXII on the PS2 to enjoy this game, but people who played the predecessor 
 might get a little more out of the story (especially character relationships) than others. I personally 
 haven't played FFXII that much, but I really enjoyed Revenant Wings regardless.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  The gameplay is a mix between RTS and RPG. I found the difficulty to be generally 
 well balanced, but some of the side quests are really challenging. I wont go into detail about 
 the gameplay, as you can read about it in other reviews, but the bottom line is that I really liked 
 it. It's a refreshing addition to the franchise. 
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  The graphics are a mix between 3D backgrounds and 2D character sprites. They look great, and the 
 amount of content pushes the DS to its limits. There are also a handful of beautiful FMV cut scenes. 
 The general menus and interface is very nice. 
  
  Sound: 9.0/10
  Hitsoshi Sakimoto composed the soundtrack and there will be lots of familiar music for those who 
 played the original FFXII on PS2. The music is top notch and there's a lot of variation in the 
 music. There are no voices, but the general sound effects are nice.
  
  Value: 8.5/10
  This is a big game with a long and enjoyable main quest. There are also a lot of side quests and 
 other stuff to do, so this game can last you a long time. 
  
  Tilt: 9.0/10
  
  Final Score: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  I've tried to get into this game twice now. The first time I tried, i got to 27% and just couldn't 
 carry on. I can't really remember why, i think it was due to the fact that it was a lot deeper 
 than the previous games I have enjoyed. However, second time round, I got well into it. And overall, 
 it was an excellent game...
  
  This game has an excellent real time strategy like combat system. In fact, the whole game is almost 
 like a cross between an RTS and an RPG. You start off with 4 characters in your control - Vaan, 
 Filo, Penelo and Kytes. You steal a skyship and go on adventures through sky continents and islands, 
 containing Aegle and loads of treasure to collect.
  
  The overall story is very deep. But I won't go too into it, as I don't want to ruin it for you. 
 The battle system is great, however I found I only used one or two, maximum 3 moves per character, 
 despite the 8 or so each character has towards the end. I could get through the game easily using 
 only the main combat moves, which is a shame as this made the game a bit too easy. Also, the game 
 can also be easily completed by simply out-numbering all of your enemies with your characters and 
 their Yarhi. Despite each type of characters having weaknesses and strengths, these are hardly 
 needed.
  
  However, that didn't really matter to me. I still thoroughly enjoyed getting through the game. 
 It lasted me a long time, even if I still have one more chapter to go. The graphics style is awesome, 
 using sprites mainly, as well as awesome detailed cut-scenes at main parts of the game. One more 
 moan I have about the game is all the confusing Japanese names for mythical characters, places, 
 and all sorts of other stuff. It's all a big handful, but once you've got them memorized, it's 
 all good.
  
  Overall, this is a great RTS/RPG, and as long as you don't mind not having much of a challenge, 
 you should love this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nirvanaphoenix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  There comes a time every so often (moreso now Enix have moved in) when the Final Fantasy series, 
 which is lauded for innovate formulas with each new game decides it was to try something a bit 
 more.. far out. Sometimes this works, in the case of the Tactics games and Crisis Core but then 
 there's Dirge of Cerberus and the Gamecube's Crystal Chronicles and the less said about those two, 
 the better. Since this is from the makers of, and in the same Ivalice Alliance as the Tactics games, 
 then you'll notice a lot of similarities, strengths and weaknesses.
  
  For a Final Fantasy first, it's a great example of RTS done well. While it doesn't have the depth 
 of Tactics or other games in this genre such as building huge castles and farms and warships, it 
 doesn't need it. Revenant Wings does a great job of crafting a perfect sized and deep RTS game 
 for the Nintendo DS. 
  
  Story wise Revenant Wings takes place not long after Final Fantasy XII and if you've played and 
 finished that, you'll see the game's lighter tone is a refreshing change. The Galbana Group have 
 a great feeling of close-knit team spirit and friendship in their early quests before what is IMO 
 one of the most confusing end of the world plots takes over. Anima of the what? I'm usually good 
 as grasping FF plots but this one lost me.
  
  Since its set in the same world as XII (albeit on the newly discovered Sky Continent) all your 
 favourite characters return and Vaan truly finds his feet as a Sky Pirate but he also now has a 
 game where his personality is a positive. Also the mighty Espers of XII return to kick more ass, 
 and all your favourite Summons of old get brand new makeovers and some new ones (called Yahri) 
 join the crew to bring the total number of summonable monsters up to 50+
  
  This is because in RTS games, you need an army. And the 6 FFXII characters plus LLyud and Kytes 
 and the other one don't make up an army. You can have up to eight Espers under one commander in 
 battle and these are divided in to ranksand you can only summon so many of each rank. They also 
 have elemental types as well as an orientation (no, not sexual.) of either flying, ranged or melee 
 and these work in a rock, paper scissors fashion. So you've got lots of depth presented in an easy 
 pick and and play DS friendly style. You've got a great soundtrack remixed from XII, graphics that 
 push the power of the DS and nifty touch controls. What could possibly be wrong?
  
  Square Enix have had a go at making the missions pretty varied with some item collection and some 
 involving capturing and crystals. Thing is, for an annoying majority of the time, it is eliminate 
 everyone, or one person but if you don't stick to the cpature everything, kill everyone, chances 
 are you'll fail. The repetition of repeated enemy character sprites (some reused from Tactics Advance) 
 it feels like your playing the same battle over and over again.
  
  It also doesn't help that the side missions which provide you with the best rewards, have such 
 a high level demand that you're forced to do generic battles to level up, with battles are long 
 as these, they feel as if the already evil process of grinding is stretched.
  
  Of course there are those who will lap it up, but the long battles don't lend themselves to grinding 
 or high levelling, the same problem is true with Tactics. But as you play through the story, you'll 
 probably find yourself attempting some of the sidequests anwyay and they do serve as good boredom 
 killers on journeys. There is a lot in Revenant Wings to like, and its a great first for Final 
 Fantasy as well as a stellar DS built from the ground game and worth to be in the Ivalice Alliance 
 and the Final Fantasy series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyndasprites
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:13 am PT
Review:  FFIII's DS remake may have been better, but this is the FF remake worth playing. FFXII: Revenant 
 Wings. Although it's not in 3D that much, the game gives new FF players the chance to see what 
 a Final Fantasy game is all about. With a tutorial level, players get the chance to get the basics 
 on this game. Brilliant use of touch screen features, brilliant sprites, brilliant storyline...... 
 you have to own it. Missions are challenging like all other RPG's but still..... you have to go 
 through hard times. Espers are fantastic as they give you a better battle style - FFXII: RW is 
 for any DS gamer!
  
  The ups: Espers, great sprites, amazing story, sidequests and stuff......
  The downs: After you 
 complete the game, you can't even continue it! you have to battle Feolthanos over and over again!
 
  
  Overall rating: 9.0 - buy this game, it's awesome and a solid RPG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuaiq
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 2:42 am PT
Review:  great storylines and the game is very meaningful my friends also agreed so i liked it to great 
 twist but the ending is quite unliking but its overall is fine the ending was a sure ending every 
 part ways (again) but i hope their are more continuations though iam really spending time in this 
 game many characters and wide variety of missions the ending Llyud aegle and Lemures will fall 
 due to the destruction of the auraliths and they'll wave bye bye to Llyud and the airship will 
 go back to Lemures. Vaan and company goes back to Ivalice quite sad isnt it thats why i want a 
 continuation its kinda short soooooooooooooooo ........ i hope this review was helpful ihope the 
 final fantasy fans are up to continuations like these but i am thankful for this continuation keep 
 making games like this square enix!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeglove
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  There are two types of spin-offs in the world: one is where the videogame builds on its predecessor's 
 material and tries to take the experience one step further. The other is a cheap and shameless 
 cash-in. Revenant Wings is hands down one of the worst games available on the DS. Forget those 
 rubbishy film-to-game adaptations like Ironman or Pirates of The Caribbean - Revenant Wings tops 
 all of them. And it would seem that the only reason why Revenant Wings materialized on the DS is 
 by virtue of the fact that it's a spin off from Final Fantasy XII on the PS2. Stripped of its origins, 
 Revenant Wings would likely end up in the nearest bargain bin of your local video rental store.
 
  
  What RW tries to be is like a real time strategy game like Command & Conquer or Starcraft. Anyone 
 who has played either of those will be familiar with the old-but-effective click n' drag system, 
 which is what RW tries to replicate with the stylus and the touch screen. A noble feat, even more 
 so for a portable device, but for all its good intentions, RW is loaded with glitches, has an extremely 
 fidgety interface, boasts the difficulty curve of a brick wall, and to top it off rehashes old 
 sprites from Final Fantasy Tactics: Advance, which was a Game Boy Advance title released more than 
 three years ago.
  
  Picking up a year after where Final Fantasy XII left off, Vaan - a self-styled sky pirate - and 
 Penelo, his faux love-interest, fly about in their airship in search of treasure and adventure. 
 To begin with all you control are the main characters. Vaan whacks things with his sword. Penelo 
 is support, healing Vaan when he gets whacked with someone else's sword. Along the way you pick 
 up a few more non-descript team members each with different skills. Ground units, like Vaan, have 
 the edge on magic users, while magic users are far more effective at zapping aerial units, and 
 aerial units do more damage against ground units, and so on. This is all fine and dandy for the 
 first couple of levels, but the major problem with the gameplay soon rears its ugly head. Vaan 
 and friends soon obtain the ability to have their own personal set of monsters to ward off the 
 other monsters that are exactly the same as the monsters that you are fighting against. So much 
 for being creative. Initially, to each main character, you get paired with, depending on how powerful 
 your monsters are, about three in his or her respective party. If your monsters fall in battle, 
 you can re-spawn them from particular nodes on the battle maps. Fair enough, but if your team leader 
 dies, your monster quota is lost for that leader, as well as any skills that particular character 
 has. Of course, that outcome is to be expected in any strategy game, play effectively and don't 
 screw up, but given the fact that the ability to revive any fallen team leader is extremely limited 
 at the beginning of the game, it forces you to play very conservatively with your choice of available 
 units.
  
  The worst part, however, is actually getting any of your characters to do anything in any sensible 
 order. Along the top of the onscreen interface are the faces of your team leaders. Tap one and 
 it selects both the leader and his or her team of units, allowing you to move them as one. Yet, 
 ninety percent of the time, you only want that one character in order to use their respective skill 
 (like blast a group of unsuspecting enemies with a fire spell) . What you don't want is an entire 
 legion of your crappy AI minions walking straight first into a skirmish they have no chance of 
 winning. Thus begins an uncomfortable series of taps (on one very small screen, no less) just to 
 select one measly unit. And if that weren't enough, as the missions progress, you end up fighting 
 more and more enemies that will overpower your own units with the aforementioned advantages simply 
 by sheer force of numbers. It is at this point that the only reasonable thing to do is send every 
 single unit you have as one mangled crowd into battle and hope for the best. None of this is in 
 keeping with a strategy game - it's just a roulette of dumb luck.
  
  There's really no point in detailing anything else about this game's foibles. It's just bad. Really 
 bad. And shockingly, on nearly every other website or magazine, this game is lauded as a must-have 
 DS game. The mind boggles as to why this is the case, but depressingly, it shows that every man 
 has a price, be it promoting rubbishy games or invading foreign countries, all for a quick buck. 
 Yet the real criminals here are Square Enix - the creators. They should be ashamed, given their 
 reputation and back catalogue, for allowing such a poor title to get the green light.
  
  Fret not - there is light at the end of the tunnel. A far more worthy title on the DS, ironically 
 also produced by Square Enix , is Final Fantasy Tactics Advance: Grimoire of the Rift. A mouthful 
 to say, but in terms of gameplay and longevity, you're far better off choosing it over Revenant 
 Wings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaon
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I have Final Fantasy III, IV and used to have Ring of Fates, and also used to have Revenant Wings 
 but flogged it at my nearest EB Games mainly because of the pure suckage it produced, people who 
 think this game is good obviously have never played a real Final Fantasy before because this game 
 is an embarrassment to the Final Fantasy series, I knew Square Enix screwed up with XII cuz that 
 also reeks of last weeks dog turd, I mean 1 through to 10 were awesome ( ive never played 11 so 
 I wouldn't know) 7 being most peoples fav but not mine, i fell in love with FF IX mainly cuz of 
 the awesome characters and story, anyway thats besides the point, out of all the Final Fantasy 
 spin offs this one is crap compared to Dirge of Cerberus, Tactics Series, FFX-2 which are all great 
 games and acted as extra wood on the fire of their particular predecessors as opposed to XII's 
 spin off which was just a giant load of **** that was dumped on the previous pile of **** that 
 is the FF XII series.
  
  anyway now you know my disgust about this horrible excuse for a game that bears the Final Fantasy 
 name.
  
  and for those who actually like this game, go and play ac actual Final Fantasy game and only then 
 you will realise the error of your ways you sad sad people. Cya peeps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  When you think about it, rts games are perfect for the nintendo ds. The stylus is wonderfully suited 
 to replace a computer mouse, and pretty much the only problem is controlling all the action on 
 the small screen. Revenant Wings succeeds at making a compelling, amusing game. 
  
  The way the battle system works is the melee, ranged and flying work in a rock-paper-scissors way. 
 Melee is strong against ranged, ranged is strong against flying, and flying is strong against melee, 
 and vice-versa for the weaknesses. There are also elemental strengths/weaknesses, so there is plenty 
 of strategy involved. 
  
  All the action is on the bottom screen, the d-pad is used to view around the area and the stylus 
 is used to select units and order them to attack or collect treasure. The handy 'x' button is used 
 to select all units, if you need all of them to attack. The small screen can be a hindrance, because 
 of the fairly big areas, and for left-handed people trying to control all the action can be annoying (using 
 both the d-pad and stylus at the same time) . 
  
  The graphics are absolutely beautiful, with all the greens and blues and beautiful areas to explore. 
 The sprites aren't nearly as impressive, but they get the job done. There are also nice cut-scenes.
 
  
  The game isn't completely perfect though. As I mentioned before, controlling the game can become 
 irritating for left-handed people when things get hectic, and the game can get repetitive. But 
 if you need an rts fix on the ds, this is your game. Helps too that the story isn't half bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunderhorse55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so when I first got this game, I was kind of disappointed, but as I played it more, it got 
 so addictive. The story is always leaving me begging for more, the graphics during the cut-scenes 
 is phenomenal, this game is just amazing. It is basically a game where you control an army of monsters, 
 and each leader has unique special moves. The battle is simple, but so much action is thrown into 
 it that combat never gets old. There are 3 types of monsters and leaders. Melee, flying, and ranged. 
 melee characters are good against ranged characters, flying characters are good against melee characters, 
 and ranged characters are good against flying characters. So in a nutshell, combat is rock-paper-scissors, 
 Only about 10 or 20 times more complex. I would highly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys 
 dictatorship, in-depth storylines, and a great battle concept. It is also a pretty long game. i 
 have like 34 hours of gameplay so far, and I'm 75% through the game. Of course, you will get stuck 
 on a couple above-your-level missions, but you should definitely get this totally amazing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxim565
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII Revenant Wings is an RTS type, which means we can't just normally choose the 
 character and command to do that and each character take turns to attack. Because the battle happens 
 in a real life. Some kind of games like Age of Empire, World of Warcraft, or... yeah, something 
 like that. But its not too complicated. Each character skills is so simple. There's nothing to 
 worry about because its not too hard as those PC Strategy game, at least it fulfilled DS' facility
 
  
  Positive side : Entertaining game play, with many variation of unique Espers. The story is fantastic, 
 and somehow, addictive
  
  Negative side : The story is too short. Some mission are too hard, and not intresting anymore if 
 we already finished the game.
  
  But overall, I like this game. Its kind of a new game play of Final Fantasy. Im not a Final Fantasy 
 Fans, but I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoklitty
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  this game is 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII was a great surprise to me, I had gone into the game with such great skepticism 
 in regards to the battle system i was really shocked when it blew me away in the amount of customization 
 options that i couldn't stop playing it. When FFXII: Revenant Wings was announced there was no 
 doubt in my mind, I was sure it was going to be a great game expanding upon the PS2 title, and 
 i was right.
  
  FFXII: RW is a direct sequel to FFXII although the adventure is all new, the characters return 
 to the world of Ivalice, or more specifically the sky. Vaan returns in the lead role by taking 
 control of an ancient airship that crash lands in Ivalice leading him on a surprising trip to the 
 legendary sky continent of Lemurs and a quest to stop the mysterious Judge of Wings from harming 
 the bird people that live there.
  
  Pretty much all the cast from FFXII return at some point, both friend and foe, along with a cast 
 of new characters to contend with on the way, this time however the game plays very differently. 
 FFXII: RW is a srpg, rather then turn based. Your characters lead groups of espers ( summoned monsters) 
 to fight with, each has a rock, paper, scissors class of strength though in flying, ranged and 
 melee having strengths and weaknesses depending on who they face, meaning you have to think carefully 
 before engaging enemy characters or Espers. The amount of espers you can have at any point is limited 
 depending on their class, but you can continue to summon as many as possible even if they die up 
 to that limit and replenish the ranks. This is done from summoning gates located on the battlefield 
 though some maps you will have to do without and enemy characters can also use them to summon more 
 espers so controlling the gates is crucial.
  
  Each esper is assigned a class of 1-3 depending on it's strength. For example Bahamut is a class 
 3 that while hugely powerful, there can only be one class 3 on the map at any point where as a 
 class 1 chocobo while weak, cost almost nothing and have no limit so can be used to swarm enemies. 
 Which strategy to use will depend on the battlefield and enemy types as there are a good 30 esper 
 variations of different type and elemental weakness so all are useful at some point.
  
  Espers and characters are not the only way to attack however as each character like in FFXII has 
 access to their own quickenings which will often turn the tide of battle, this could be something 
 simple like a heal spell or black magic to a special attack. One quickening can be set to be used 
 automatically but they take time to recover so timing is vital when you choose to use them.
  
  Each mission / battle is started once you arrive there on the world map either with your airship, 
 on foot when you land or even briefly by canoe. There are quite a few victory conditions to contend 
 with, sometimes you have to wipe everyone out, either through summon gate battles, using and protecting 
 a crystal that revives your characters should they die and destroying the enemies to defeating 
 a level 3 summon, protecting someone and even one time sneaking Vaan on his own past a horde of 
 enemies. I found the variation never left me wanting for something else.
  
  The battles are largely controlled using the stylus to round up groups though you can easily select 
 one character, a character and his espers or everybody at a touch of a button. Occasionally when 
 the screen gets really clogged up with espers in a huge battle it's hard to select the unit you 
 want with the stylus but i found this a rare occurrence due to being able to use the character 
 tabs to the same effect.
  
  After each battle is finished your characters gain experience which seemed to vary depending on 
 their actions in battle, the espers also have their own levels and abilities though they go up 
 with your characters.
  
  Between battles you can take control of Vaan and explore around the airship in which there is a 
 surprising amount to do from talking to your allies, reading the ship log book, buying items and 
 making weapons in the bazaar not to mention taking on many side quests for extra items, additional 
 character development or simply leveling up.
  
  Graphically this game is one of the best looking games i have seen on the DS so far. Each battle 
 field is rendered in 3D and looks fantastic choked with detail and colour bringing the world alive. 
 Pretty much everything you expect from SE now days.
  
  Music wise the game once again fares just as well and may sound familiar to you as most of the 
 soundtrack is taken straight from FFXII and used again though this to me certainly wasn't a complaint 
 as i loved the music.
  
  FFXII: RW took me about 65 hours o finish, however i did every quest including the side quests 
 in which there are about 80, as well as leveled everyone up to max level and item hunted for weapons 
 so if you are only playing through the key missions i guess it would last 25-30 hours.
  
  To finsh, this game is very simple, do you like FFXII? Do you like SRPGS? If there is a yes in 
 response to either or both of those questions then you should give this game a try. I don't think 
 you will regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  It is hard to say bad things about this game because it was actually very good. but I few things 
 you need to be warned about is the game is very hard and very challenging your enemies level up 
 with you so if you are in a hard boss fight there is no reason to level up because they will kick 
 your butt anyway. This game requies alot of stratagey. Now the game is set up much like a warcraft 
 game but easier the only difference is that you don't build a town and everything you summon comes 
 from a summoning gate. The storline continues from XII and you will also by the end of the game 
 get the 6 characters from twelve back into the party. I recommend it to Final Fantasy fantasy fans 
 you will enjoy the story and the gameplay is fun and amazing but you have been warned it is a hard 
 game to beat but worthi it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanye04
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Honestly there is not much to say about this game that has not already been addressed but for the 
 most part most of the flaws and pros about this game have not been put into one review. I also 
 want to say that the credibility of gamespot and their rating system really makes me wonder. The 
 game is suppose to be rated without biased and just in the statement of their pros and cons they 
 show it ( i. e the part with a pro being Balthier) .
  
  The gamespot review mentions that the only things wrong with this game are the camera and the minor 
 slowdown. I have not noticed much of either in my playthrough. Let me start of with the story: 
 it is not as riveting as gamespot says and the twists and turns are expected and bland. In a small 
 reference the game tries to give each character a background but ends up focusing on Vaan the hero 
 of the story. Many of the pieces of the story are so broken that by time everything reveals itself 
 in its entirety you probably do not care ( at least i did not) . This said the story parts that 
 are full anime cutscenes are great to watch but this kind of quality is expected from square enix.
 
  
  The gameplay is great for the first half of the game but the other half, well... it falls completely. 
 The games difficulty is even throughout the first half but then all of a sudden your characters 
 are fighting espers and other leaders that are twenty levels ahead of them. Your characters move 
 so slow you can get bored just watching them get from point A to point B and when they do get there 
 and kill of whatever there is at the part of the map you rinse, wash and repeat there is very little 
 variety. Most of it boils down to gathering your group into a big pile and sending them after one 
 enemy after another.
  
  There is a rock-paper-scissors relationship that has been many times over by previous games which 
 helps to add a bit strategy not to mention weakness. For instance a earth/ flying esper is weak 
 to a fire/magic using esper and so forth and so on. It does not get too complex besides that in 
 battling or any other part of the game. The variety of espers is great but when you realize that 
 the only things that separates them is really just their looks it does not do that much to improve 
 the overall game.
  
  The sprites do not seem to be as amazing as been said and neither do the attacks of the sprites 
 themselves except for the quickenings which are definitely needed as many times they will save 
 you from certain death. The backgrounds are varied and definitely deserve mentioning because they 
 are probably the graphically best part of the game. There is no replay value in this game to speak 
 of which is actually good because after going through a good 25 hours of monotony you will be thanking 
 the game for that. 
  
  Last but not least is the value: $35. Wait till it is twenty before you buy this trivial addition 
 to the FF collection. If you wonder why gamespot is the only critic to review this game well do 
 not wonder because it is obvious that the original reviewer was the only one interested in this 
 game. A interesting fact to mention is that this game is not a bestseller of any sort when I asked 
 my local retailer, in fact I was the only to pick up the game which I only bought because of the 
 original review which believe me from now on i will never go on again.
  
  Besides the ridiculous difficulty and boring story the hardcore will probably be the only ones 
 to care about this game. Everyone else buy at your own risk, I did and look what happened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic graphics and cutscenes; a deep, memorable story and cast of characters; fast, 
 fun gameplay; plenty of customization options; beautiful music; Balthier.
  
  The Bad: Selecting just one character of a particular set can be difficult; so-so AI; it's kind 
 of short for a Final Fantasy game.
  
  Square Enix is known for producing the best RPGs on the market. Even though there are thirty or 
 more Final Fantasies and other RPGs that have been churned out over the years by these guys, they 
 continue to innovate with every title released.
  
  That's pretty impressive, and Final Fantasy still hasn't gotten old. The name is a bit of a misnomer 
 nowadays, since there are a lot of games in the series. But Square's first Final Fantasy was going 
 to be there last game, as they were going bankrupt. That is, until it buoyed the entire company 
 on its own.
  
  Since then, Square has put great effort into every title they make. The turn-based system, time-based 
 system, summoning, class system, tactical combat, more character maneuverability, fantastic production 
 values, even addictive multiplayer in some cases, have all been in Square's games in the past. 
 Even a mass-multiplayer online game, Final Fantasy XI, proved innovative in its genre, even though 
 World of Warcraft stole its thunder.
  
  Now the real-time strategy genre is getting the Final Fantasy treatment, and proven to be awesome 
 on other systems than the computer, with Revenant Wings for DS.
  
  You'll be controlling what is basically a small army by the conclusion of the game, and most of 
 the way through, but the game lets you in easy. You'll learn that each character and Esper (spirits 
 they summon to help you in battle) has one of three fighting styles: melee, ranged, and flying. 
 Melee beats ranged beats flying beats melee, which is important to take into account in all battles, 
 as a rock-paper-scissors element to study before the fight.
  
  Most Espers also have a type assigned to them: fire, lightning, water, etc. These are strong against 
 certain enemies and weak against others, leading to more strategy to incorporate in your selection 
 of your team.
  
  It's also important to remember that you don't have access to all the Espers at first. Instead, 
 you find Auracite in certain levels that you can use in your "Ring of Pacts" so Espers are willing 
 to fight for you from then on. You can then summon whichever types you bring in that you want, 
 in any combination, during battle, fortify them (or level them up) , and assign them to certain 
 people while you fight.
  
  Plus, you'll be selecting main characters to bring in with you. Vaan, Penelo, Basch, Ashe, Balthier 
 and Fran were all playable in Final Fantasy XII, but now you can also play as old faces Kytes, 
 Filo and Ba'Gamnan. And with the new race, the aegyl, comes a new character named Llyud, whose 
 history is what the story revolves around.
  
  You can equip clothing and weaponry to these characters, and select either them alone or the group 
 of Espers along with them for the fight to go certain places. Or, alternately, you can just have 
 them all go as a pack. You'll be fighting masses of enemies (you could be controlling thirty or 
 more at once) , and taking over summon gates, to be allowed to bring more Espers into the fray, 
 as you go.
  
  Your characters, as you'd guess, also level up as they go through fights. As they do, they'll be 
 able to learn new techniques. You can manually choose what they attack with in the battle, but 
 you can also give them a "gambit" move that they'll use on their own while you're busy.
  
  This all sounds like it'd be impossible to manage at one time, but it turns out easy once you get 
 it, and a whole lot of fun. Controlling an army is an awesome, fresh new take on the franchise 
 that hasn't really been tried before.
  
  It is difficult to select certain Espers on their own, or a group that you want to go somewhere 
 else, unless they're all under the control of the same leader. That's a bit annoying because it 
 gives you less options in battle, even though Square's idea of characters leading groups lessens 
 the issue.
  
  The AI generally moves to where you tell them to go, but they can run into obstacles, run into 
 each other, and go different directions when a path branches. It's not a big issue, but it needs 
 to be mentioned. The point is, there are just minor quibbles with this fantastic, unique gameplay 
 experience.
  
  The story, meanwhile, is fantastic. Each character is unique and interesting to follow, and many 
 different real-life issues arise. Fighting between friends, love, betrayal, morals, and your choices 
 all come into play. It'll surely be enjoyable for FFXII fans to see what happened next to these 
 characters, but it never once leaves out those who are unfamiliar with them (though it makes allusions 
 to FFXII's plot sometimes) .
  
  To enhance the enjoyment of watching the tale unfold, the in-game and pre-rendered cutscenes are 
 fantastic. During play, the graphics rival what Nintendo themselves do on their system, which is 
 well-known for being the best most of the time. The cutscenes, meanwhile, look closer to a PS2 
 game than what you'd expect from a DS.
  
  The music has some familiar tunes to it, but these have been in the franchise for years. Just as 
 in Mario, Zelda, or hell, Halo do, certain music pieces keep reappearing. But that's certainly 
 not a bad thing, since these are some of the best songs in any game franchise ever. Plus, there's 
 plenty new work, and work from Final Fantasy XII before it, to hear.
  
  The game's length is pretty solid, if a tad short. You can always go to random battles to level 
 up, blast through the main missions (for the most part) , or play Tomaj missions, which are more 
 difficult but more rewarding. By the end, for example, the hardest main game battles require you 
 to be at level 50 or so. To beat the hardest Tomaj missions, you'll be fighting level 80 enemies.
 
  
  So there's more to do if you keep working at the game outside of the main plot, but even with that 
 this game doesn't come close to rivaling the length of most Final Fantasy games. Final Fantasy 
 VII famously took up four PS1 discs, and Final Fantasy XII has about 100 hours worth of play. You'll 
 play closer to thirty if you beat absolutely everything in this one. That's not bad for a handheld 
 game, but a bit short on Square's part.
  
  There are plenty of different areas to go do battle at, there are plenty of characters and Espsers 
 to handle, and there is a rich, powerful story to work your way through here, though. The only 
 complaints to be had really aren't that bad, and as of 2007, this was the greatest third party 
 effort on DS, hands down. Additionally, this is one of the best titles on DS, and is absolutely 
 worth picking up, regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyjh213
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is kind of like an expansion to the game Final Fantasy 12. You get to control several 
 characters some are new and some are from Final Fantasy 12. There are many different espers (monsters) 
 you also get to control. The combat system is like an RTS except you don't build any buildings 
 or have to position your units. The story starts out when Vaan (a new sky pirate) is in these ruins 
 looking for treasure when monsters show up. But don't worry Vaan lives. The graphics however are 
 not the best but there are several points where the graphics stand out. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone who likes RTS games or the Final Fantasy series. It is not required though that 
 you play Final Fantasy 12 before you play this to be able to understand the story. Also if you 
 finish the game with 100% on the last level all the espers on the enemy's side are made level 99 
 so that would make the last level a lot harder, but you also get an extended ending if you get 
 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincesTwilight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game is simple, that's what you need in a game, fun and simple!
  
  This is mainly about Vaan wanting to go on more adventurous missions and finds bad sky pirates 
 trying to steal aucrites and harming aeygels so Vaan and the party like Penelo, Kytes, Filo and 
 more defeat these bad sky pirates with espers to help and Tomaj to keep them aware if anything 
 else is happeneing around them.
  
  It's a bit of an addictive game, once you've started you won't probablly get off it until 10 to 
 20 hours, which is mostly when you reach a difficult mission making you want to rest your fingers 
 or so.
  
  The graphics for the game is brilliant, it's just right and suitable enough for a small console 
 like the DS Lite.
  
  There are many missions to complete and chapters to complete aswel.
  
  This game is something that'll be really good to play and wouldn't waste your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edmond1997
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Role playing games are like action and defeating all enemies. You level up, get money and the so 
 on. Final Fantasy Xll is the same with added features. The game is tough. During the fights, some missions 
 counts on killing all enemies. But to a shock, you have to sometimes kill group leaders. (More on 
 that later) If you like a challenge, the last place has level 99 enemies and you are suppose to get 
 all the treasure. The story is about this young sky pirate named Vann who wants to go up to the 
 world of Ivalice. Vann has a partner named Penelo. During the prolodge and the first chapter, they 
 take step at a time. You use groups of espers to fight other monsters. Espers are monsters that help 
 you. Group leaders are living things (can't say humans, some aren't HUMAN!) that control espers. The 
 story was great. This game is only a game that you would play once. The story was snappy but needs 
 a little work. The conversations are sometimes annoying. This game is great. Please encourage Square 
 Enix, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craze96
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  At first I think that this game is totally boring in the first time because of the slow movement, 
 lame lousy attack. I was totally bored at that time and after about 2 minutes playing that game 
 my hand reject the game, turn off the DS, close my eyes and.... sleep...... But after a week I 
 give the game a chance so I played it again until the 2nd chapter I realized that the game was 
 totally FUN!!! Because you could summon many espers in the game that will help you SMACK the enemy 
 and thats the greatest part! All i can say is GREAT GAME!!!
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
 a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevey13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings is one of the best games I have played. Ever. The game balances 
 the rock-paper-scissors battle style common among strategy games with Role Playing elements that 
 add more layers to the game. 
  
  FFXII: RW takes place in Ivalice, a world that is unique in that it is one of the only locations 
 used multiple times as a setting (most Final Fantasy games are set in different universes. Ivalice 
 seems to crop up over and over, especially more recently) . Without revealing too much story, suffice 
 it to say that Vaan and a group of characters from Final Fantasy XII return and pick up where FFXII 
 left off: they begin to pursue their dreams of becoming sky pirates. But when their ship gets destroyed, 
 they are forced to find a new craft. The craft that they find (or does it find them?) leads them 
 off to a lost continent in the sky and a whole new set of adventures
  
  Even though I haven't played FFXII (I refuse to buy a Sony system) , I found the story easy to follow 
 from the start. I would recommend that, if you do want to play the original Final Fantasy XII, 
 that you play it first as this game is a sequel and will reveal certain details you may want to 
 discover yourself.
  
  The actual playing of the game takes a little getting used to; I found that I had to combine the 
 touch screen controls with the pad controls to really get the most out of my game. The game starts 
 out with a lengthy set of tutorials which tell you most of what you need to know, but some of the 
 controls aren't explained fully either there or in the instruction booklet. Once you figure out 
 how to manipulate both the touch screen and the controls in a smooth manner (being gamers, it shouldn't 
 be a problem) , you can enjoy the game.
  
  Combat relies on the standard rock-paper-scissors style that every strategy game has come to use. 
 Flying units work well against melee, which work well against ranged, which work well against flying. 
 The requisite white mage helps out and is sort of separate (as always) from the other classes. 
 Adding a further set of twists, elemental damage also factors into the battle (ie. Water is effective 
 against flame) . Initially, when you are fighting unspecialized and, frankly boring, units, you 
 may find yourself wanting more unit types to add more strategy to the game, however the elemental 
 damage which gets quickly added to the game eliminates this need. Since this is an RPG, you are 
 able to level up your main characters through battle experience, and you can equip armor, weapons 
 etc. that you steal from the battlefield to make your heroes more potent.
  
  Since it is an RTS, you do have the ability to call up minions. Through the power of summoning 
 gates, you are able to call upon a host of fighting units to aid you in the fight. When a level 
 doesn't have a summoning gate, you start off with a set of player-selected helpers that stay with 
 you until they die (so don't let it happen or you are screwed) . Your beasts are leveled up separately 
 (in a system much akin to the orbs of Final Fantasy X or the board of FFXII, if you have played 
 those games) mainly by purchasing better units. You can then set up teams of summons for use in 
 battle (you can only bring in five different types of minion into each battle, but your supply 
 of them in battle can be virtually endless) . If you are worried whether you will keep up with the 
 action, fret not. The characters move slowly enough (too slow, in my opinion. One of the reasons 
 that game didn't get a higher score) that you will be able to orchestrate your attacks before engaging.
 
  
  Two excellent aspects of the game are the graphics and the sound. The soundtrack is fully orchestrated 
 and it sounds good (none of that tin nonsense) . The graphics are stunning. The locations are detailed 
 and intricate. The effects of Blizzaga and other magick look great and, the accompanying sound 
 keep the high quality. Most games I will play while watching TV or listening to music. With this 
 game, I turn everything else off so I can hear. These round out an already spectacular game.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: A great, great game. The story is Final Fantasy par, and the gameplay leaves you 
 begging for a sequel. Luckily, you will spend plenty of time returning to locations to do more 
 missions. On the downside, the characters move physicaly slowly, and large battles slow down the 
 frame rate. If you are a fan of video gaming, GET THIS GAME. You won't be sorry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  RTS and handheld console, the 2 concepts used to be unable to reconcile, until the appearance of 
 NDS on the market. Hardware of this console, including sensor pen, has made it possible by providing 
 a flexible control system. Since then Revenant Wings (RW) is not the first experiment on this new 
 field (at least we have Hero of Mana) , but it's obvious the biggest title which can draw enough 
 attention from the community. Let's see what Square-Enix can invest in such an interesting project.
 
  
  Mr. Motomu Toriyama, the leader of this project, announced that complicated details of the combat 
 system will be bypassed to make it more open to new players of FF series. Also the experience from 
 Hero of Mana (HOM) proves useful to improve gameplay of RW. Hence, every play scene is marked on 
 the world map and players have option to take a new quest or redo the previous ones to gain more 
 experience. Two screens are assigned different tasks: the upper displays the quest map which contains 
 exact locations of each faction, and the lower are the control system using which players can give 
 all kinds of command with the stylus. Besides main characters (heroes) , all combat units are called 
 esper which can be spawned through summon gates. Espers belong to one of three types: melee, range 
 or aviation and possess one of elemental attributes: water, fire, air, earth, lightning ... So 
 easy to guess, each attribute is either effective or weak against two of the rest. At the beginning, 
 game only provides some simple espers, but you can unlock more advanced types on the "Ring of Pacts" 
 board with auracite (a type of score) obtained after each battle. RW supports 51 types of espers, 
 most of which are familiar to FF fans: Odin, Ifrit, Shiva or Leviathan Starting a quest, players 
 are allowed to choose 5 of the unlocked espers to create a force. Although the number of arms are 
 big enough, we stil can say RTS has be greatly simplified in RW. To summon espers, you only need 
 to occupy the gates. The maximum troops in your army is decided by "affinity" which can be improved 
 by seizing more gates. Besides, RPG factors are also important. Experience gained after a battle 
 will help characters to unlock skills and gain levels, which in turn affects power of espers in 
 direct proportion. Once again "Gambit" feature helps you set up default abilities.
  
  Commonly speaking, quests in RW are all well and diversely designed. You will not fall asleep because 
 in addition to building army and conquest, there are also other mission types: steal to enemy base 
 or protect VIP to strategic locations... However, the further you play, the more difficult quests 
 become, so at certain point you will find yourself being outleveled and outnumbered by the machine. 
 Sometimes it feels so unfair! The only solution is to redo finished quest to gain more experience 
 before trying again. AI of units is much better than that in HOM, they all can find their way to 
 certain points without running on zigzag path. With more than 80 scenes, this one really takes 
 a long time to beat.
  
  Graphics, sound and storyline are all good but a little out of scope of my discussion, since the 
 most important factor in a RTS is game play. Anyway, I feel it somehow disappointing when the composer 
 Hitoshi Sakimoto only reuses the successful pieces in previous Final Fantasy and dare not introduce 
 new works.
  
  So after few first steps in HOM, RW is truly a long leap forward in this new field. Hopefully in 
 near future, handheld console owners will no longer feel envious of PC gamer's RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Good: This game has all the great characters that were introduced in Final Fantasy XII. They put 
 a twist on this game. This game plays similar to advance wars, but it actually works. Using the 
 touch screen you can easily move your team to attack, grab treasure, and heal one another. There 
 are 45 missions in this game. The game alone takes about 15-20 hours. Which is perfect length for 
 a handheld game. There are also 40 extra side missions that range from easy to difficult. The graphics 
 are very nice. There are plenty of beautiful CG cutscenes. The music is exactly the same from FInal 
 Fantasy XII. Which was great, I though the game had good music. Unlike most people I thought Final 
 Fantasy XII was an amazing entry in the series. It is definitely underrated. 
  
  Bad: When there was a lot of commotion on the screen, it would slow down a lot. Which affected 
 some major battles. Some of the side missions were extremely difficult, taking hours to beat. 
 
  
  Overall this game blew me away. I was very satisfied with the game. If you enjoyed Final Fantasy 
 XII, you must play this game. Square Enix has yet to make a bad Final Fantasy game. If Final Fantasy 
 is in the title of the game you know it has to be good. Each game has memorable characters, beautiful 
 music, great story, and new and interesting gameplay. And this game is no exception to the the 
 universe of great Final Fantasy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deckiesrule
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly detailed and brings a new gaming style to the series and the DS. I have 
 played this game all the way through and my only complaint is that some of the battles are repetitive, 
 but there is a lot to explore and do. The game allows you to replay areas to gain experience, which 
 is necessary in a few cases during the game. 
  
  The storyline is solid and immersive and the gameplay is a unique warcraft like style. It can be 
 a bit tough at times trying to select all the tiny characters on the small screen, but the mass-attack 
 approach can work well when you get frustrated. Throwing a mob of characters on the enemy can sometimes 
 be very effective. The difference between melee, ranged, and flying units is huge and makes a big 
 difference during combat. Once you figure out how to best control and organize them- you will not 
 have too much trouble getting through this game.
  
  The familiar characters were a nice touch- and the creative use of the floating world allowed the 
 game to move into a new realm beyond the 
  FFXII world.
  
  I would certainly recommend this game to anyone that is a Final Fantasy fan and would like a new 
 adventure on their DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jukeyjuke
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 12, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, simply because I want a good Final Fantasy game on my DS. I enjoyed Final Fantasy 
 3, but wanted something a bit more challenging and fun, this looked like the game. I was wrong, 
 horribly wrong.
  
  Graphics - 
  As far as DS graphics go, RW does a fairly good job. While the in-game sprites could have been 
 better, the game has stellar FMV sequences. Very impressive for the DS.
  
  Gameplay -
  Now don't get me wrong, I'm a fan of RTS's. I played the crap out of The Middle Ages. RW takes 
 RTS and does it all wrong. While it is easy to select a one group with a simple touch, selecting 
 two and seperate from the rest of your team is impossible. This leads to trouble in combat when 
 you want to separate your team to take on different enemies.
  Your units are incredible slow. It takes you a minute just to get to the foe that is the next room, 
 it's that slow. Sure, they give you boots that can speed up your character, but those boots end 
 up making that one character shoot out in front of your team and get killed.
  Summoning "espers" the pawn type units takes way too long, and by the time they get out and are 
 ready for battle, some enemy kills them. 
  It just seems that there could have been a little more effort put into the gameplay.
  
  Story 
 -
  That story isn't bad, but it isn't good either. It doesn't really give much of a contribution to 
 FF12. You finish some mission, not knowing what you just did only to be sent to some place that 
 you have no clue where it is to do something you have no clue what you're going to do. That's pretty 
 much the flow of the game, with a few of the brief but beautiful FMV sequences.
  
  Re-play Value -
  Hardly any, like most Final Fantasy games. If you really wanted to I guess you 
 could go through and get and craft all the items, but there is no real point to it.
  
  So, all in all, I would not recommend this game. It does a few things right, but most things wrong, 
 something I didn't expect from a Final Fantasy game.
  
  Final Verdict -
  
  
  
 
  Re-play Value...................... C
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddarth0605
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Revenant Wings is the portable sequel to Final Fantasy XII on the Playstation 2. 
 However, rather than follow the traditional turn based system, Square Enix decided to employ a 
 rather unique unit based battle system. This is a risky move but one that is not new for the company. 
 They have created various types of games from the strategy genre in Tactics to the shooter genre 
 in Dirge of Cerberus. Some have been hit titles while others dissapointing releases. Fortunately 
 Revenant Wings falls into the former as an excellent game with a gripping story, solid gameplay, 
 and gorgeous visuals.
  
  The Good:
  The visuals are some of the best on the DS. Characters are animated very well and CGI cutscenes 
 are also employed that provide a nice visual treat. This is backed by solid gameplay that employs 
 a rock, paper, scissors technique. The summons are very well balanced and have their own tactical 
 uses forcing players to strategize before and during every battle. The music is also solid as it 
 is a direct port of the music from XII. All this is backed by a very strong story that continues 
 to increase the depth of Ivalice.
  
  The Bad:
  Probably the biggest problem with the game is the character AI. The summons often times will be 
 running off chasing an enemy rather than following your orders. Also in the bigger battles the 
 game will occasionally begin to lag.
  
  For those craving a strong Square Enix title look no further. Revenant Wings is a great game and 
 another gem in the Square's resume. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutopebl
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Game play -_- this was the best part of the game. The movement is so smooth with the touch screen 
 and if you learn how to play the game is just right difficulty, you can't beat it the first time, 
 but it does get a little harder.
  
  Story :) this part of the game is like a black hole it immediately just suck you in. As you start 
 the game you want ti figure out what happens next. This game is just too good. you will probably 
 have to charge your DS daily after you get this game and with this game there is always another 
 mission for you to do. Afterwards this game is just awesome it is almost indescribable. It is one 
 of the 7 wonders of the ds another one on this list includes Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword. I am looking 
 for more games to add to that list but another great game is lost magic.
  
  INDESCRIBABLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Your_welcome-
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Every thing in this game sucks, the graphics when your fighting, the difficulty is was to hard, 
 or maybe it's too repetitive that it gets so boring to fight. All you do is press Y and click on 
 the touch screen. They reach their and then you do it again. Only interesting things happen is 
 that you find useless ores and weapons, Capture those stupid summoning portals and defeat enemies. 
 
  
  
  Nothing interesting happens in this game, the weapons that you equip make no difference in attack 
 or anything. The ores you find are useless, they just take up extra space in your inventory, and 
 when ever you get a weapon made the blacksmith just can't shutup. 
  
  
  Over all this game was a total letdown. An incredile waste of $50. I haven't played any other FF 
 game but i bet they are way better then this useless game.
  
  
  I really don't know what gamespot saw in this game that made it good, yes, the message is pretty 
 good but it didn't deserve the medals it got or the score. (no offence gamespot) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilledcactus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game started out really well. The controls really well based on the amount of units you must 
 control in a battle. The graphics were really good (for a ds) just like you would expect from a 
 Final Fantasy game. The story was really good also. The shirt from an RPG to RTS worked really 
 well because of the DSs' touch screen (which was probably the reason for the switch to begin with) . 
 The game played well and was at the right level of difficulty. It offered a good variety of levels 
 and types of battle. Overall this game did not dissapoint (until the end) . 
  With all these great things about the game in the open, this game would get a 9.5 or 10 like most 
 of the player reviews seem to think. However, they only judge based on the good. You also need 
 to take into account the bad part of this game (like the end) . 
  For the most part, the graphics and terrain were pretty cool. Occasionally, however, the terrain 
 blocks your view of the characters, making it harder to select a single unit or seeing where a 
 specific enemy leader is. That problem has multiple simple solutions that should have been done 
 as part of the game. Being able to change the camera angle to see from a different side would have 
 been nice in many situations, offering a better view in many situations. Another option could have 
 been to temporarily remove and part of the terrain obscuring sight of characters until the battle 
 and characters had moved elsewhere. At a minimum, they should have made it easier for a battle 
 to move to a little instead of needing to be in one location. However, my main problem with the 
 terrain blocking issue was that the opponents don't suffer the same disadvantages while fighting 
 with blocking terrain.
  There are 2 more little problems to address before I get to the one main problem. A class or job 
 system was completely left out in the player controlling sense. Each character gets a class and 
 thats eat. If you don't like it, then you have lost 1/9 of the characters. I didn't like 3 of the 
 characters, thats 1/3 of the game being unenjoyable at least compared to the rest of the game. 
 Most people would say "don't use the characters then," except that you are forced to (more on that 
 later) . The other is a lot more minor then the last 2, but You should be able to pick which espers 
 get assigned to which character at the beginning of a battle.
  Now for the real problem with this game. It's like a half-pipe with the finishing end about 100 
 feet higher then the start end, but the curve ending at the same level. At the beginning of the 
 game, you start out and roll along. Your momentum then carries you for a while, but you do need 
 to start working eventually to keep going. As you near the end, after having completed all the 
 missions that can be completed by level 55-60, you find the last few side missions and make it 
 to the last boss. For the most part, the game has increased 1 or 2 levels at a time. Once you reach 
 the end levels, the enemies are at level 99. 50 levels higher then the rest of the enemies you 
 have been fighting. It took long enough to get to level 60, but since the final boss is at a level 
 equal to your game completion or something like that, you really need to be level 99 to beat this 
 game at 100%. What a load of bull. thats a waste of 20 hours growing those final 40 levels. Also, 
 the enemies tend to stay around the level of your strongest character (until the end) , but your 
 espers stay at the average level of all your characters. If you decide you hate a character or 
 2, your average level will drop but the enemies will keep getting higher leveled by the time you 
 realize what a problem that is, its to late to retrain those weaker characters meaning that whole 
 file has just been wasted. That means in order to beat this game at 100% game completion, you need 
 to train 9 characters (even if you hate a few of them) to level 99.
  
  
  I did not talk much about this games strong points. I know that. I will take them into consideration 
 for the final score. However, many other reviews only talk about the good points so read them to 
 learn about the good points in greater detail.
  
  Overall a really good game. It is really solid and the characters are all pretty good. The graphics 
 are nice and the battle system was developed really nicely and works quite well. The story is outstanding 
 and deserves a bunch of credit.
  Those points are why the ending of the game being total bullcrap, this game isn't given a score 
 as bad as the ending. However, all these good things don't make the crappy end to the long game 
 forgivable.
  
  Score before the last chapter: 8.5 (there is still the level growing issue)
  
  score for last 
 chapter: 2.5 (still has graphics and story going for it)
  
  Overall: average would be 5.5 "but the ending is only 1 chapter!!!" you're probly thinking. However, 
 the ending is also supposed to be your reward for playing through the whole game until the end. 
 With the ending being a total slap in the face to the people who played through the game with 90ish 
 mission completion having to face a level 90+ boss doesn't seem to fit. We already spent 20 hours 
 getting to the boss, then you tell ius we have to spend another 20 hours of just training to beat 
 him? 
  
  The game gets a 5.5. Don't complain about that. Until the end, its a great game. The end just kills 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fps_Chewey
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 25, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  45 euro.... 45 GODDAM EURO ILL NEVER GET BACK BECAUSE I SPENT IT ON THIS MUCK!!! I seriously think 
 this game is one of the biggest let downs ever. The worst thing is its supposed to be an rpg when 
 its actually 99.99% stupidly easy rts. The other 00.01% is the ability to change armor and weapons 
 which makes no noticable difference in the game and the ability to level up which pretty much does 
 nothing because it dosnt matter if your group is level 10 you can still take down about 12 level 
 20 enemies for some reason (trust me i actually did that) . It says nowhere on the games case that 
 its an rts, or even mention the word strategy. It also has an amazing sneaking mission which was 
 a brilliant idea because this game has no ways of sneaking at all and you die within 20 seconds 
 without backup. Basically all you'll have to do in this game is press Y and tap something with 
 your stylus, wait 10 seconds and wow another repetative lame mission complete. Im totally pissed 
 off now because for nearly the same price i could've bought final fantasy 1 and 2 for the PSP because 
 im pretty sure those are actual RPG's. For Christ's sake dont buy this game if your expecting anything 
 close to fun. Sorry for the negative review but this game is BAD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffinthraka
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  It would be very easy to compare this game to Lostmagic because Revenant Wings seems closer to 
 this than a normal FF game. However, to do so is a mistake, this game is FF at heart, character 
 driven, beautiful FMVs, huge worlds to explore and a map you actually walk around rather than skipping 
 from point to point.
  Revenant Wings takes FF Tactics and makes it real time, it bears a number of similarities to a 
 few recent games (Pokemon, Lostmagic, Spectrobes) but remains a FF game.
  Whilst the graphics are slightly simplistic the awesome FMVs will make you fall in love with the 
 characters and the sound and music is excellent.
  There are a few gameplay issues, 1) The touch screen controls are slightly akward, many times I've 
 tried to select a unit or attack another unit and instead they either haven't been selected or 
 have walked over instead of attacked. 2) It is not always clear what terrain can be past through, 
 and 3) the instructions are rather limited and don't explain everything, such as you can't buy 
 items at first or how espers are selected at the beginning or battle.
  Altogther it's a good game and new fans, old fans and non fans will all find something to like. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wongsta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Whatever your views on Final Fantasy are, Final Fantasy 12 Revenant Wings will dazzle you with 
 its innovative style. The gameplay is one that is simplistic yet addictive. The expected learning 
 curve for this game is around half an hour with in game tutorials to make sure you understand everything 
 mechanic of the game. Rather than following the traditional turn based system, Final Fantasy 12 
 Revenant Wings is a Real Time Strategy which doesn't have turns so you have to act fast while planning 
 your moves. While the gameplay is amazing, the graphics could use a bit of a boost. For example, 
 the game's 3D environment doesn't fully stretch the DS's capabilities. The controls can be a frustration 
 sometimes when units are crowded and it becomes difficult to select the right units. The difficulty 
 won't appeal to hardcore gamers but is just right for a beginner. Other than that, I absolutely 
 recommend it no matter what your views of gaming are or your experience of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotsOfGrenades
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  FFXII: RW
  
  This game is an essential to not only active DS players, but FF fans. This game uses semi-revolutionary 
 controls on this simple hand held to make a simplistic, but still tactic biased game.
  
  Game-Play: 9.5
  Sound: 7
  Graphics: 9.5
  Replay: 9.5
  
  Synopsis: This is shortly after 
 the FFXII game where Vaan and Penelo seek out to be pirates on their own. The story opens up with 
 Balthazier appointing you as a pirate after a short verbal trial. You then take flight and land 
 on a floating isle where your story quickly unfolds and though the story isn't very magnified as 
 it usually is in the FF series, it still takes hold of you if you pay attention. Otherwise you 
 can still be addicted almost instantly to the very unique system.
  
  Game-Play: The game-play is exponential when you look at it from all angles. The DS to me has taken 
 games to another level. Where PSP is a simple carbon copy of handhelds with the additive basic 
 technology, DS has let us use more than we thought we could and this game truly shows its colors.
 
  
  Your stylus becomes your omnipotent hand of command over your [Leaders] and [Espers] . Before every 
 battle [Which there're plenty of] you choose which leaders you desire to command for a maximum 
 of five. Then you may choose up to five different classes of Espers. You gain certain upgrades 
 to these espers which I will come to shortly. For now I will focus on the Stylus.
  
  With the Stylus you drag and tap commands along varied battlefields which are littered with different 
 enemies and at times NPC allies. The game teaches you at a paced learning curve that anyone can 
 catch up to. Where in the beginning you only command four leaders and no espers to gain the basic 
 controls of commanding movement and attacking, and then the use of special moves and gambits.
 
  
  Unlike many tactical dungeon crawlers this game is very involved where your Leaders are controlled 
 by you, but also act defensively. There is a very short stick Aggro system also where you can actually 
 use your ranged attackers to 'pull' certain 'mobs' to enter your army's kill zone.
  
  About 25% into the game you will have access to multiple leveled espers and have an assortment 
 of predetermined tactics. It was at this point I was getting either bored or angry. Bored at the 
 same espers and tactics and the fact the story didn't really unfold much, and angry because the 
 stylus' drag and drop methods were becoming haphazard on my part, but I am sure you will sequence 
 curses when you are attempting to esuna a group, but you can't find the right person in the mobs 
 to do it to, or if you begin fumbling and send your ranged fighters into close combat.
  
  All is not lost, not for me anyways, as I quickly rebounded and new abilities, items, and craftings 
 were added to the game and I was quickly re-immersed with new tactics and attitude towards the 
 game. So on that, new buffs, weapons, and espers will drag you back into the game and let you test 
 some new tactics out.
  
  Now on the Espers. Unlike our beloved Espers in XII and III, the common esper is a drone for catching 
 your bullets and dealing basic DPS while your Leaders extract the most damage with heavy hitting 
 attacks. However, for every element [5 total] there're at least two 'Real Espers' for them. For 
 example. Water/Ice elements have Shiva and Leviathan. You get these guys depending on how well 
 you spend your crystals on the Ring of Pacts. These big boss espers are as good as you, sometimes 
 better. I have used them to take on entire mobs by themselves.
  
  Espers are unlocked through the ring of pacts which will remind you of the Ring leveling in FFX. 
 You spend the crystals on new branches of the ring and they unlock other spots on the ring. Usually 
 they follow stance to the branch of the element you are spending on. So spending a lot of points 
 on Fire espers will get you to Ifrit and Belios quick, but most people spread their points amongst 
 more than one element.
  
  There're three levels to every esper element, number three being the big boss espers like Titan 
 or Bahamut. The level two espers often have gambits themselves where they will expend super moves 
 whenever they're cooled down. And your level ones merely clutter up the field to catch hits.
  
  Needless to say the espers are in their own right a large bit of the game. On top of picking 
 out espers you can also create your own weapons by collecting materials that you can harvest on 
 the field and turn them into Cu Sith who will then ask you questions based on the weapon and he 
 will make it and every time the weapon will come out different.
  
  Ok, now finally. The game is an RTS so many ask, how do you get resources to build? Well you have 
 things called summoning gates. Depending on your level and how many gates you have captured is 
 how many 'points' you have to spend. The points don't shift high or low otherwise. You then summon 
 espers who cost a certain amount of points and in a few seconds they will appear and enter whatever 
 leader squad you assigned them. If you dislike your units, you can dismiss them to gain back your 
 points and then purchase another assortment of warriors.
  
  This game is fun. Period. The story is pretty decent, the battle field is like Tactics, but RTS, 
 and the side quests are prominent and most are not hidden so you can actually just go directly 
 to it. You can go to any place you already have completed and do repeatable quests like 'Monster 
 Hunt' or 'Pirate Battle' which are common ones and each have different monsters and circumstances.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is such a low score because I didn't like the fact their was now voice what so 
 ever. The music is low tone, but any avid FF midi fan will notice and enjoy it. The combat effects 
 are repetitive and seem to never stop. The sound is nothing to note or even say much about. If 
 they at least put voices in the cut scenes I would have been satisfied.
  
  Visuals: The visuals are amazing for the DS. The cutscenes although far between one another, look 
 amazing. They cross in to both screens and have a pixilated CG coat to them. In game graphics are 
 great and look exactly like Tactics, the camera views and effects are great for explaining the 
 simple emotions the sprites are exuming.
  
  Replay: I cannot stop playing this game. It gets boring after a few hours straight, but what doesn't? 
 I packed four hours in one sitting without noticing. You will play this after you beat it just 
 to see how you can run it differently and or jump back into the fray using Titan or Belios.
  
  Conclusion: This game is a must have for FF fans, RTS fans, and Tactics fans. If you're not 
 big on those then you can probably pass this game up, but the experience of this rumored use of 
 touch screen RTS is very relieving to the technological soul. The game play always keeps you on 
 your toes and the graphics are just so appealing. Get this game, it's cheaper than what its worth!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldfishd
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  This is yet another great example of what can be done with a well established franchise and some 
 decent thought process. After playing Final Fantasy III, i was happy enough but felt that there 
 was something missing, not that thats an insult but nothing seemed gripping enough that the likes 
 of VII and X had on me, all others in between have been great but these 2 really stood out for 
 me personally.
  
  I had originally been playing Heroes of Mana, which was a bit of a disappointment. I had also tunred 
 my hand to Advance Wars: Dual Strike, which was ok but seemed to be lacking any option to open 
 up (it may do after the fourth campaign, but by this point i was getting bored) and with the turn 
 based fighting which, lets face it, when you plan to spend several hours playing a game you at 
 least need some kind of fun and ability to roam. So like the FF drone that i am i went and got 
 the FFXII: RW and was not disappointed, this game was very simple and easy to pick up after 30mins 
 or so, just have to remember what can defeat what (which is alot clearer than Advance Wars, i thought) , 
 and go through the usually this is who you are, this is what you do, kill this, summon that, etc, 
 etc.
  
  There is the usual host of side quests which are a really good edition and also help along the 
 story as usual.
  
  This is the best Role Playing Action thingy on the DS, and reminds me of the fun i used to have 
 playing C&C: Red Alert on the PS1 (the DS has better graphics though?!?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddington17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The first few levels of Reverent Wings are fun and interesting, until you realize that 
 the RTS portion of the game boils down to nothing more than keeping your entire army together and 
 just rolling over the enemies. There is a rock-paper scissors element in the game where Melee beats 
 Ranged, Ranged beats Flying, and Flying beats Melee, but that never really comes into play because 
 you're never given a reason to split your army into more than one group. Each mission involves 
 killing all the enemies on the map, or killing a specific enemy, capturing all the summoning gates 
 on a level or destroying a crystal which allows the enemies to revive themselves. Each type of 
 mission plays out the same way. Over time your main characters will get new abilities/spells but 
 in the middle of a large battle it can be difficult, if not impossible to target the character 
 you want to attack/heal. The only real thing you can do is move your characters toward the enemies 
 and wait while the battle occurs. If you win the battle you just move forward and do it again. 
 
  
  Story: The story is set slightly after FF XII with some of the main characters from the last game. 
 Sadly, the story seems much simpler and is not fleshed out nearly as well as in other FF games. 
 You start off controlling Vaan and Penelo and you gather a small following of characters who behave 
 like small children and it is for this reason that the dialogue suffers.
  
  Graphics: The levels look very good, and the 3D effects are very well done. The characters on the 
 other hand look like sprites from the NES. They're quite pixelated and their movements are not 
 very fluid.
  
  Sounds: The music is nice and the in-game SFX are ok for the DS. Not amazing but the music is up 
 to par with the FF series.
  
  Tilt: The difficulty is very, very easy in the beginning but some missions will become impossible 
 unless you go and grind to level up your characters. Three or four mission will be boringly easy 
 and suddenly your enemies will be 10 levels higher than the enemies on the last mission. I've tried 
 to enjoy this game because I love FF but it rewards how much time you've spent leveling your characters 
 as opposed to player skill. 
  
  Grinding is a mandatory activity in this game, even though after you spend a few hours grinding 
 the next five missions will be very easy again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings is the first of the esteemed Final Fantasy series to become a 
 real-time strategy game and, for the most part, they succeed.
  
  The story picks up after Final Fantasy XII for the PS2, with Vaan and Penelo in an ancient ruin, 
 accompanied by Balthier and Fran. I won't spoil anything but soon the duo soon find the sky continent 
 of Lumeres. The plot takes many twists and turns after that.
  
  The gameplay in FF: RW is solid, but has its flaws. You control your characters by touching them 
 and then an area on the map for them to move to, an enemy to attack, materials to mine among other 
 things. Each character has a set of skills. Vaan can steal characters different abilities, Penelo 
 can heal and support, and Kytes, an orphan from Rabanastre, can use magik. After defeating certain 
 bosses, characters can use quickening, special moves that range from dealing huge damage, to healing 
 all friends.
  
  A highlight of FF: RW is the summoning system. Into the first chapter, you learn how to summon creatures 
 called Espers to aid you in battle by using a summoning gate. Each esper has a cost, so you can 
 only use a certain amount of Espers in a battle, but if one is destroyed, you can summon another. 
 It's a unique system.
  
  You can summon different Espers by using the Ring of Pacts. You form Pacts with different Espers 
 by using something called auracite. Each esper (with the exception of a few) have an elemental affinity 
 and a weakness. Before each battle, you look at any Espers the enemy has and you can strategize 
 accordingly.
  
  The combat is simple. You touch the character you want to attack and tap a monster. FF: RW uses 
 a triangle system (physical attacks over range attacks, range attacks over flying attacks, and 
 flying attacks over physical attacks) . It also helps to strategize using that.
  
  The battles are usually large scaled. There are chests to open, summoning gates to capture, and 
 materials to mine. Objectives range from defeating all monsters, to mining a certain material, 
 or destroying the enemy soul crystal (a magical crystal that revives any enemy that is K. O.) .
  
  There are the basic shops, a forge and material shop that are in most Final Fantasy, with wide 
 ranges of armor, accessories and weapons. There are many side quests in the game, that range from 
 defeating a powerful esper, to finding foodstuffs. It's a unique distraction from the story missions.
 
  
  Overall, Final Fantasy is a great RTS. I recomend it to anyone who loves Final Fantasy, or RTS 
 games. It definitely deserves top honors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I did this game just after I beaten Final Fantasy 12 on PS2 which took me a year too beat, week 
 later I brought Revenant Wings which is the sequel and I really enjoyed playing FF12 alot. FF12 
 was more exciting since I played through FF10 and X-2 a few years ago.
  
  Story takes place year after the events of the War of the Arcadian Empire, Vaan is now a fully-fledged 
 sky pirate and Penelo his trusted navigator. When you first start playing the game it does feel 
 like an Anime show that you would watch on TV becuase there are some new charcters in the game 
 and they help Vaan and Penelo out such Kytes and Filo who were Vaan's friends a few years ago, 
 they also help out LLyud who is a warrior from the sky continent of Lemures. You all the other 
 charcters that were in FF12 including Balthier which is I'm guess is everyones favourite charcter 
 in the series. Vaan and his friends stumble upon the legendary sky continent of Lemures, it's up 
 to them to defend it from the evils of the outside world. Your main villian is The Judges of Wings 
 but the story gets more detailed halfway trough the game and explaining on whats going on and why 
 are these events happening.
  
  Gameplay works like Tactics game mixed with its Rock, Papaer Scissors with monters elements, you 
 get this crsytal which can summon monsters on your team by summoning them near a Gate where you 
 can summon many monsters as you like into battle, but you'll need the right monsters in each battle 
 in order to win becuase if your sing Fire montsers against Water eninmies your monsters will die 
 quickly thats when you find out that you need the right group and team for the battles. There are 
 side quest where you can earn more items for making stounger weapons or beat Esper's who will help 
 you if you beat them. Bit more to the sotry if you go through side quest as well explaining on 
 other charcters problems or past.
  
  Graphics look great and cute becuase charcters look all anime comparing to the PS2 version it looks 
 more cartoony mixed with alot of Fantasy, CGI cutscenes as well on both screens which you didn't 
 see much if you have played through Final Fantasy 3 on DS. Sounding you still got most of the music 
 from the orginal FF12 soundtrack plus a few new ones too ut some you'll reconise while playing 
 it so keep your ears opened.
  
  Alot of puzzles and this game can take you more then 20 hours plus side quest but still a smashing 
 game if you have played through it on PS2 or missed it you'll get alot out of it on your DS, specially 
 if your looking for a good game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie_bm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Many people think that making an Ivalice Alliance and another Final Fantasy sequel may be for lucrative 
 purposes, but this is not the case for Final Fantasy XII: Revenant wings. Set 1 year after the 
 original PS2 game, this one focuses on the adventures of Vaan and his group. However, I'm not going 
 to go on the obvious things in this review. I'll write what I found was the good things and bad 
 things of this game.
  
  The Good things
  The gameplay in this game is great, giving you the chance to control classic FF baddies (named 
 espers) in charge of leaders from FFXII and a bunch of new characters. At some times the battles 
 may seem pretty chaotic, but mos of the time you can trust that your units will do the right things. 
 
  The sound quality is excellent. The tunes from FFXII are used in ways you don't expect, but next 
 you start to think that the songs were made specially for this game.
  The graphics are great. Every environment is lively detailed and you wish it could be free to explore.
 
  The missions are varied and you wont get bored of them. Instead, this game motivates you to clear 
 the optional missions for more story bits.
  
  The bad things
  There are some ocations where the AI has some problems and you'll need to make quick decissions.
 
  Also, characters seem younger due to the different art style.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngebreadman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  This game is an RTS sequel to Final Fantasy XII on the DS. It makes great use of the touch screen, 
 and is a worthy sequel to FFXII
  
  Story: 8/10 
  While good, it is shallow in comparison to FFXII. Set a year after the events of FFXII, Revenant 
 wings again is centred around Vaan. Him and Penelo have since become sky pirates. Joining them 
 are Kuyts, who will be remembered as Vaan's friend in rabanastre, and Filo, a new character who 
 is Kuyts best friend. During the beginning, the four of them discover an airship, which takes them 
 to Lemures, the sky continent. There, they find a race called the Aegyel, a winged race, whose 
 continent is under siege by sky pirates. These sky pirates are damaging the continent, and Vaan 
 and the group undego a journey to stop them. 
  Lots of characters from FFXII appear again in this game, which is great. There are also a lot of 
 new characters, who are very good, and are definitely better than Vayne. 
  One of the main criticisms for FFXII's story was that Penelo wasn't very well developed. This is 
 changed in this game, and she has the most development of everyone. Balthier is in this game to 
 please those who liked him from FFXII, but I feel he has always been overrated.
  The story is not as in depth as VII, VIII, X, XII but it is still good and presents a great adventure. 
 
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  This is an RTS game, and it is very well carried out using the touch screen. You command upto five 
 party leaders at any one time in a battle. A map of the area is on the top screen, while the battles 
 take place on the bottom one. Your five leaders can then have a sub group of espers. These are 
 arranged into ranks. 1, 2, or 3. You can have 1 lvl 3 esper, 2 lvl 2 espers and 2 lvl 1 espers. 
 These can also be controlled. LVL 3 espers are incredibly powerful and you can only have one in 
 a battle. Espers can be summoned at summoning gates, and the max amount you can have depends on 
 the leaders total affinity. 
  Units are set into 3 groups. Melee, ranged, or flying. Melee is good against ranged but weak to 
 flying, ranged are good against flying, but weak to melee and flying is strong against melee, but 
 weak to ranged. So this is how you must plan your strategies to win. If you are against lots of 
 melee foes, you will want flying espers and leaders. Another thing to take into account are elemental 
 strengths and weaknesses. 
  Characters near enemies will automatically attack them, but you can also get them to run or use 
 abilities. Ablities range from life to regen and each leader can learn 8. one can be set as a gambit. 
 
  Characters become more powerful as you level up. Weapons also can increase characters statistics. 
 However the best aren't won or bought, they are made. By finding recipe books and materials, you 
 can create incredibly powerful pieces of equipment. 
  The system is fantastic and I like it better than FFXIIs. 
  
  Graphics and cut scenes. 9/10
 
  FMVs are fantastic. They are completely animated and are even better than most animated games 
 found on the Playstation 2. Penelo and Vaan are absolutely brilliant and it's a pleasure to watch 
 So why not a 10? Sometimes the characters are a little pixelated during the quickening scenes, 
 so it is not perfect, but everything else is amazing. It is by far the best graphics on the DS. 
 The characters and espers are all great, set out on 3 dimensional backgrounds. There is also no 
 lag, even when there are about 20 espers and leaders, and 15 enemies on screen which has got to 
 be good. 
  
  Sound and music: 8.5/10
  A lot of the music from FFXII returns here, although not in such amazing quality, but they are 
 still recognizably great songs. The characters do not talk either, which is good because I do not 
 think the DS could handles It anyway. The sound effects are sharp and good, and the sound is one 
 of the best I have played on the DS. However I only own one DS game, and have only played two, 
 so what do I know?
  
  Lifespan: 40hours plus. There is so much to do. There are over 50 optional missions to do to get 
 materials, or the most powerful of espers. There also special melee or summoning battles to do, 
 so it will keep you occupied. Plus the dreaded Yiazmat and Zodiark return. And zodiark took me 
 about 6 hours to train up enough to defeat. 
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfury2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Fuel up your airship and get ready for another Final Fantasy adventure on the DS. 
  This game is realy quite good, and like all FF games it has an immersive story line and great graphics. 
 Though the gameplay graphics may not be revolutionary, the sound and video effects in the various 
 cut scene movies at key points in the game really are.
  The gameplay itself is well thought out, and plays a wee little like Tactics for the GBA. Of course 
 it is'nt the same, you'll have the usual complete control over all the characters, and be able 
 to have five characters in your party at once. This isn't much of a hindrance in the game, considering 
 that you'll only have 5 to 6 characters in your roster for a good portion of the game. 
  There are no random battles in this game, (like FFXII itself,) And to get into battles you'll have 
 to select one of the many missions and side quest's in the game. The battle sequences will take 
 you into a small open map, this is were the similarities between Revenant Wings and Tactics begin 
 and end. Your characters will be able to move to any location on the map at any time, no turned 
 based combat. 
  As you progress in the game you'll be able to unlock more abilities for your characters and be 
 able to purchase more monster summons from the pacts screen. There is a good number of monsters 
 (espers) to choose from, and as you beat various Esper bosses in the game you will gain the ability 
 to unlock them for your own use.
  There are three different levels of Espers, I, II, and III. Level one Espers of course are the 
 weakest and least costly, but will often lead the way in weakening your opponent and serve as low 
 costing fodder. Level II Espers will make up your basic attack force and can be used to take out 
 those which the level ones left behind. Level two's also serve as good defense fr your greater 
 attacking powers, your own characters and level three's. This tactic is probably your best bet. 
 Level three's of course are the titans, and if used effectively can be crucial to your quick victory.
 
  Summoning the Espers themselves is a pretty simple ability. You can summon them from the various 
 summoning platforms on the maps, (warning: sometimes there will be no summoning platforms on the 
 maps and will have to make due with your own characters and your first auto summon, be sure to 
 change your summon list to best suit you in these occasions) Summoning a monster takes up AP, and 
 each individual character has his/her own AP. Once all accumulative AP has been used up you will 
 not be able to summon more espers unless one dies or you capture more platforms to fortify your 
 AP. You can only summon one level III at a time.
  Movement outside the battle zone is simple. While outside of the Airship you can either use the 
 D-Pad or the stylus to direct the character to were you want to go. Airship controls are pretty 
 much the same. While in the Airship you can talk to your friends, gain information, and use shops. 
 Eventually there will even be a forge open to you were you will be able to craft your own weapons 
 that can vastly outstrip the normal ones in power.
  I won't ruin any of the story for you but as you know, if you've ever played Final Fantasy, that 
 the story line will be fantastic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbyethumbs
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  Basically if you're looking for a good RTS then this is the game for you, it's got lots of great 
 elements to it, such as some pretty nifty video sequences, some memorable characters and a good 
 story. Not only that but it also has fantastic battles. 
  
  Each chapter of the game is split up into 3 or 4 battles, generally, getting more difficult with 
 each battle won. you can enlist various monsters into your little army of sky pirates, if you've 
 ever played a final fantasy game before you will recognise a lot of the monsters and for once its 
 nice to have them on your side.
  
  The graphics are fairly good although the game sometimes lags on the busier levels, maybe its my 
 DS, i dont know, but its a problem either way. The sound quality is fantastic.
  
  The controls for this game are very easy to use and new players to the game will pick up on them 
 within about half an hour to an hour, no problem.
  
  The only real problem i could pick out with this game is the back story, if you havent played the 
 original Final Fantasy XII then certain parts of the story may be a bit blurry for you because 
 the DS game refers back to the original several times.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone looking for a good RTS, its just a very enjoyable game and 
 worth looking at if you have a DS, so go enjoy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I don't have much spare time so I'll just tell you that FF12-Revenant Wings is a superb and very 
 innovative sequel with a brilliant story, the same great characters and interesting new ones. The 
 gameplay is more addictive than Puzzle Quest and a slot machine put together, there's a huge load 
 of sidequests and a nice 30 hour story and plenty of espers to summon. You can also forge items 
 from resources that you find if you talk to a little guy called Cu Sith (perhaps a relation to 
 Kate Sith) . I've already readied myself for another playthrough because this game is so good, the 
 characters are sprites but it looks fantastic and you can't expect them to fit big characters on 
 a small screen now can you? The cutscenes look even better than FF12 on the PS2 and it's really 
 a shame that there aren't more of them. The sound is mostly taken from the first of the series 
 but that was good and there is some new music so the sound is good. It's very well changed and 
 is even better than the first strategy, Final Fantasy Tactics making for probably the most innovative 
 game of 2008 (It came out in the US in 2008 too right?)
  
  I don't have time to describe any more so here's how it rates with me.
  
  Graphics-9/10
  
 Sound-9/10
  Gameplay-9.5/10
  Story-10/10
  Characters-10/10
  Value/Last-10/10
  
  Now stop reading about it and start playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donadiojr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  I didnt do my usual research before playing this game, shame on me, however, it turned out to be 
 a great game. I was expecting a traditional FF-style RPG, what I got was a semi-strategy/tactics 
 game - a little discouraged at first, I continued to play it anyway... 32 hours later I'm facing 
 the final battle ;0) .
  FFXII Rev Wings has a great well written story with like-able characters. Most battles can be won 
 on first try, but there were a few really challenging stages and bosses. Each character has their 
 own function in the battles, and you'll find that, despite the addition of more party members later 
 in the game, there's a few characters that you just cant battle without. 
  I liked the system of purchasing new espers as you beat certain bosses or gained certain levels, 
 and the idea of crafting custom weapons is pretty cool too. 
  This game has easily out-done many console games that sell for twice the price. FFXII Rev Wings 
 was well worth my time and money.
  One aspect I feel could've been better was the game-play graphics - a little on the cheesy side, 
 a bit SNESish, but heck, the game itself made up for it, as well as the short cinematic scenes 
 scattered through-out the game (cinematics were phenominal) . 
  Over all a great game, and a "Must Buy". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo-MSTR
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy was a great game: always new espers to unlock, great battles against bosses and it 
 was a big challenge; some monsters were twice your level!!!
  
  Great characters and I loved how Filo and Kytes were those up-mooded characters. And then Vaan, 
 Penelo, Balthier, Fran, Basch, Llyud and more leaders for your party.
  
  As I mentioned before, It's the kind of tactical aproach to the Final Fantasy series. However, 
 You would have to play Final Fantasy XII for the PS2 in order to fully understand the game.
  
  I'd give this game a ten. But instead I gave it a nine... why? Because there's no ending to 
 it. Sure you beat the game and there's an amzing short-scene with incredible XBOX360-like graphics... 
 but after that, the game just ends and you can keep playing on your file without end.
  
  But it'll take you a MINIMUM of about 50 hours to beat it. For me it was non-stop 2 weeks. And 
 if you beat it in less than 30 hours, than you probably used AR... LOL jks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnelZukic
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  -The best game for NDS and after FF XII, FF X and FF X-2 the best game i ever played and that I 
 will play.
  
  -The graphic is amazing and with the touch-screen it makes the perfect combination.
  
  -The 
 sounds are familiar to FF XII player. continue  
  
  -The gameplay is amazing and familiar to FF XII player. The character are also familiar to FF XII 
 player.
  
  -The controls are also very simple.
  
  -The end is very dramatic.
  
  -Something about my experience in this game:
  
  With Final Fantasy XII and God of War II the 
 best game I ever played. It will stay in mind for ever and ever. How can you forget something that 
 you play min. 50 hours and with such a good scenario. I like the game because the story. You fell 
 like you are in the game. Fealthanos, the main boss have done the right thing if you ask me. He 
 stilled the anima from the Aegyl only to stop that they keep attacking each other. The best character 
 is Balthier but Llyid is also good because he have no anima and he speaks like with no hearth. 
 The other character are also good. It would be amazing when Square Enix would make Final Fantasy 
 XII-2 for PS3. In overall the game is worth of the money you spend for it. I will recommend to 
 everyone to buy it and play it to the end and not to stop in middle of the game.
  
  -In overall the game is amazing
  
  My rating:
  
  Graphic: 9.0
  Sound: 10.0
  Gameplay: 
 9.5
  Character: 10.0
  Controls: 10.0
  The end of the game: 9.5
  
  Overall ranking 9.5
  
  If there is any mistake in writing I'm from Bosnia & Herzegovina and 
 only learn English in school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game I had gotten for Christmas and I hadn't started playing it for awhile since I was working 
 quite a bit at the time and had some other games I was trying to finish.. The game is definatley 
 worth the expensive price at least for me since the game takes so long to finish and I had a lot 
 of trouble putting it down unlike a lot of games Ive played.. I kept going back to it everyday 
 until I finally made it to the end.. The game going into it I wasn't really sure how it would play 
 out but it is basically a strategy game with Final Fantasy characters.. There is a world map where 
 you fly your airship to different locations and each area has different missions you can do which 
 are the strategy portion of the game.. There are 3 types of units ranged flying and meelee all 
 of which counter other types.. Theres also the elemental factor to consider like earth, water, 
 fire, lightning to go against.. Another thing is the story got me really involved in it and kept 
 me wanting to play as well.. I havent played a Final Fantasy games in awhile but Im pretty sure 
 most of them are like this in that respect.. The games graphics are pretty good and the characters 
 are cute and well conceived.. The enviroments are pretty interesting to.. The cutscenes are really 
 well done to especially for on a DS.. The sound effects arent all that great but are effective 
 like the clash of the swords or the charging of a magic spell.. Overall the game is worth it if 
 you like the Final Fantasy games or even if you dont.. After playing this game I want to play some 
 of the other ones.. This is right now one of the most expensive DS games out so it might be worth 
 waiting for it to come down a bit.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  Final fantasy XII Revenant Wings is the first tactic style game out for the ds. In this version 
 of final fantasy XII you can modify your team unlock espers, forge legendary equipment with rare 
 minerals and cast a variety of spells and attacks.
  
  Storyline: Revenant Wings begins a year after the events of Final Fantasy XII, with Vaan flying 
 his own airship with Penelo after Balthier and Fran 'stole' the Strahl, visiting them in Bervenia, 
 accompanying them inside to obtain the Cache of Glabados. There, they encounter the Esper Ifrit 
 and defeat him before obtaining the treasure, two strange crystals, taking leave when the building 
 begins to collapse on itself. Balthier soon drops Vaan and Penelo back in Rabanastre where they, 
 along with Kytes and Filo, witness a strange object flying overhead: an airship. After sneaking 
 aboard the airship and defeating the Bangaa headhunter Ba'Gamnan, Vaan and gang christen the airship 
 whatever the player decides, defaultly 'Galbana', and find themselves on the purvama Lemurs by 
 accident. While looking around the unknown ruins, they meet Llyud of the Aegyl race and learn that 
 his people are locked in battle with sky pirates who are raiding the island for treasure. Lemurs 
 is said to possess summoning crystals called Auracite. Deciding to aid the Aegyl in defending Lemurs, 
 Vaan's group learn that the pirates were recruited by the mysterious Judge of Wings, who seeks 
 out the three Auraliths, grand masses of Auracite that protect Lemurs from the outside world. 
 In their pursuit of the villain, the gang are eventually reunited with the friends they made during 
 their previous adventure and face enemies, old and new, while learning the truth behind the Eternal, 
 the god Feolthanos, the Auracite's true purpose, and the mysterious Judge Of Wings.
  
  Game play: Well, you'll be using the touch screen more than usual which is good since many ds games 
 hardly have a decent touch screen game play. You can travel from a sky island to another in your 
 Galbana which is an airship. When you finish a chapter in a basic island you can fight again to 
 train your characters and gain levels for the upcoming battles.
  You can also direct your characters and espers (monsters you can summon and unlock) to a destined 
 location in the terrain including spells and special attacks.
  Now for the so called espers: You can gain better espers when u have more auracite some will need 
 4 or three auracites to use them in battle and some will need only one. To modify your team or 
 get better espers you go to the menu and select on ring of pacts.
  
  Videos: The game has some really cool cut scenes but more should have been added.
  
  Sound 
 effects: Now heres where the game is a letdown. Voice effects should have been added for every 
 character for the storyline. On the other hand, battle sound effects are amusing and have an effect 
 on the reader.
  
  Difficulty: The game is pretty straightforward at the beginning and gameplay explanation is pretty 
 simple and can be understood without any doubts, but when you advance in the game you should always 
 make a strategic plan since it can get really complex and frustrating.
  
  Game graphics: This could be improved and i really mean it character and enemy graphics were really 
 poor. But in overall it doesn't quite matter.
  
  Value: You really don't want to miss this game if your a fan of final fantasy XII 
  also if you 
 LOVE LOSTMAGIC which i enjoyed in the past few years. So if you got the money what are you waiting 
 for? You won't regret buying this game.
  
  Thanks for reading my review i really appreciated it,'till later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vasudean
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Ah, Final Fantasy, a game that originally was supposed to be the last game for Squaresoft, but 
 ended up being their savior and cash cow out of all of them. All right, I got my hands on this 
 game recently and when I turned it on I was a little shocked on how they set up this game, a RTS 
 for a DS?! *gasp* I was a little skeptical because I also played Heroes of Mana and I was disappointed 
 at how it was made, but when I actually decided to play this game, it flat out rocked my face right 
 off.
  
  Now lets take a look at the graphics, not too shabby, 2D sprites mixed into a 3D realm, I enjoy 
 sprites because of the nostalgia and some of the cut-scenes were just beautiful. Of course, game-play 
 is where this truly shined, for an RTS game there's quite a bit less micromanaging involved so 
 it's not frustrating for people who're casual players. The controls are not that bad, but my only 
 beef with it is choosing multiple units, if you screw up and accidentally choose a character that 
 you don't want around, you have to deselect all of them and start over, it's a tad frustrating, 
 but other than that, fun nonetheless. Story is pretty good and there's a few places where you can 
 actually get a kick out of (like your first Bangaa character at a whistle gets an electric shock 
 and runs all over the room whenever he ends up out of line XD) tie that in with good plot twists 
 and you got quite a memorable story
  So I'll just say that if you enjoy Final Fantasy, pick this game up, if you don't, at least try 
 the game out, believe me, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVV1L1TG4M3R
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  The game is very god following a insane starting story from FF-XII. With a great battle system 
 and the need to tweak your strategy for every single battle makes the game so addicting . With 
 the ability to throw twist which change your own perspectives on characters so you feel sorry for 
 the bad guy. With a Indiginous way to earn your weapons summons and the ability to make your own 
 weapons this game will make you want to play it over and over make sure you have time to play before 
 you do because it clings you to your seat with mind twiting cut-scenes that mke you say how the 
 blam! did the do that on a ds. Ran out of things to say son I will sing. Master Chief up in this 
 hoe watch me sit play halo watch me crank that master chief yea yoou know i can't be beat im so 
 good i made this song i'll sit n play all day long bad kids watch and wonder how i'll make you 
 quit and go play WoW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vindictae
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Realtime Strategy has been a difficult type of game on the DS. You'd think that with two screens 
 and a stylus it should be pretty easy to design. Sure, there's the small screen, but with other 
 genres it's not a bother... so why should it be for the DS?
  
  And indeed; just when you're about to give up hope, you catch this rumor of a Final Fantasy game 
 that uses an RTS-gameplay with the setting of Ivalice. Screenshots, trailers; it all looked promising. 
 And then you get it, and you start up the game. Your hopes soar even highen when you see the great 
 intro-movie, which looks terrific and beautifully manages to use both screens. Then you get the 
 usual option screen with the standard, classic start menu tune, that you may already be familiar 
 with. You press 'Start New Game' and sit back. 
  
  If you've played Final Fantasy XII, you'll be familiar with the main character, which happens to 
 be Vaan. Apparently, he and Penelo are following Balthier and Fran into an old cave, for hidden 
 treasure. This is a tutorial that explains selecting units and moving them around the battlefield. 
 It's all pretty easy to start with.
  
  Once you start summoning units it gets slightly more difficult. First thing to pay attention to, 
 is the different types of units and leaders. There's three combat types, which are: melee, ranged 
 and flying. The battle system works like rock, paper, scissors. Melee beats Ranged; Ranged beats 
 Flying; Flying beats Melee. And furthermore units are divided over the four elements; fire, water, 
 air and earth, and general and healing. So that's all things to keep in mind when you select which 
 units you want on the battlefield.
  
  Once selected and on the battlefield, you'll have to defeat the opponent, and sometimes capture 
 their summoning portal, refusing them to summon back-up. Also, some maps feature a soulstone, which 
 brings leader units back to life. On those maps, the trick is to destroy the enemy soulstone. It 
 can be hard though. The opponents usually have access to generally the same units as you do, so 
 you'll have a hard battle to fight. Which made slightly easier by the pretty neat interface. You 
 summon creatures into a leader group, and selecting that leader will also select the units he owns. 
 The trick is to summon flying units into a flying leader's group, so you can quickly send all your 
 flying units to take care of a melee threat. And so on. While it can sometimes seem chaotic, you 
 usually aren't randomly clicking units on the playing field.
  
  The graphics for the DS are great. Characters can be a bit rough, and the game sometimes zooms 
 in when you really don't want it to, but it's not horrible. And environment are just terrific. 
 The sound works great, though the sound effects could have been slightly better, compared to other 
 DS games and other FF games. But the music will help set the atmosphere and just fits the game.
 
  
  All in all, if you like Final Fantasy, you'll very likely enjoy this game. It has hours and hours 
 of gameplay, a very solid storyline and addictive gameplay. Nice CGI cutscenes after finishing 
 certain chapters or even inbetween make it that much more wholesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak_2
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  The Final Fantasy series is known for it's metro sexual male leads, deep stories, and, most of 
 all, being the most well known RPG series of all time. Final Fantasy 12 was the first game in the 
 main series to step outside the the lines of the standard FF game and completely revamp the battle 
 system. The game was successful enough to get a sequel in the form of Final Fantasy 12: Revenant 
 Wings. 
  
  Revenant Wings closely follows behind FF12's story, so it probably helps to have played FF12. Sadly 
 I was unable to play FF12, so I had a difficult time picking up on certain things. Basically, the 
 group (Vaan, Penelo, Balthier, and Fran) run through some ruins to collect a treasure known as 
 the Cache of Galbados. The group heads back to Rabanastre where a strange airships crash lands 
 a few days later. Vaan, Filo, and Kytes decide to explore the ship where they meet some trouble 
 with a bangaa called Ba'Bamnan who attacks the group. You, of course, win the fight and continue 
 to the airship's control room where Penelo meets up with the group. The air ship suddenly takes 
 off and heads for the land above the clouds, Lumeres. 
  
  Lumeres is inhabited by a race known as the Aegyl. The Aegyl have the appearance of winged people 
 and basically have a non-existent personality. Shortly after landing, the group finds one of the 
 Aegyl being attacked by monsters, or Espers or Yarhi as they are known as in the game. The groups 
 aids the Aegyl warrior, Llyud, and he joins the group. The story is quite amazing, but it doesn't 
 really pick up until about half way through the game.
  
  The characters in Revenant Wings are actually quite memorable and distinct. Vaan, the main character, 
 is outgoing and strong hearted, but rather ignorant of other's feelings. Penelo is kind and gentle, 
 but a terrible cook. Filo is energetic and joyful, but naive. Kytes is generous and thoughtful, 
 but, being a mage, frail. Llyud is spiritless but a strong warrior. All of the characters develop 
 well throughout the game, and you really get a picture of who they are by the end.
  
  The RTS controls work out surprisingly well. Using the touch screen to select individual units 
 or groups of units is intuitive and easy. After having a unit selected, tapping an enemy will cause 
 the selected unit (s) to attack. Of course, if you want all units to attack at once, pressing the 
 X button selects all allies. Sadly, that's how most of the game is going to work, by simply having 
 your army move in one mass group. Strategy is sadly not a big focus. 
  
  Of course, you'll be controlling more than just your characters. Through the power of the Cache 
 of Galbados, you are able to summon Espers. Espers are generally going to be weaker than your main 
 characters, and each is under a specific type and element, same with your characters, although 
 the element of your characters is affected by weapons. The three types are melee, flying, and ranged. 
 The types best each other in the rock, paper, scissors fashion, meaning that melee beats ranged, 
 ranged beats flying, and flying beats melee. Assigning different espers to cover your characters' 
 weaknesses is key to victory. 
  
  The game's pacing is absolutely terrible. Beginning missions are very easy, as would be expected, 
 but there are occasional missions that you will have to pull a win out of nowhere or grind for 
 hours to get past. Then the game turns the easy back on until the next hard mission comes. This 
 happens through most of the game. 
  
  Revenant Wings is a great looking game. The 3D backgrounds are actually quite pleasant to look 
 at. The 2D character sprites, however, looks like someone made a picture on paint and then had 
 a child vomit on it. The sprites move fluidly though right? No. Even motions look worse than NES 
 game motions. Luckily, anything done in 3D is gorgeous considering the DS hardware. The music and 
 sound affects aren't exactly amazing either. It becomes apparent that the music was made for the 
 last few chapters, because the music matches perfectly then. 
  
  Overall, Revenant Wings is successful in opening up the FF series to the RTS genre. With tight 
 controls, great graphics, and an amazing story, Revenant Wings is a game FF fans or RTS fans looking 
 for a game should not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musik_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  i love to play it and do play it every day since i got it like a week ago. i didnt think it was 
 gonna be that great but its my favorite DS game i have now. i still do have other games i like to 
 play but whenever i aint playin them im playing this game. there are a few hard levels but other 
 than those u could probably beat it in like a week. Usually a game like this i wouldve already beat 
 but i want to take it slow and do all the things i can and just have fun with it. =) The story 
 line is where Vaan, Penelo, Kytes and Filo find an airship. they ride it and it takes them to a 
 floating city. they rescue an aeygl (which is the species on the floating island) and his name is 
 lluyd. he joins ur team and is very good. You go on many other adventures and u get a ring of pacts 
 which is kinda like a sphere grid from ffx but the more auricite u get the more espers the ring 
 of pasts lets u unlock. espers r kinda the same as espers from ff12 but they r a lot weaker and 
 u get a lot more of them in each battle. There are also summoning gates used for summining more 
 of them. U get to choose 5 different espers u want to use for each battle and u can someone only 
 those 5 espe rs throughout the battle. I think this is a very good way of doing it and i like it. 
 thats just the begining of the game u learn all the in like the first hour u play the game but 
 ya. I dont want to tell too much about it cuz then it will spoil some of the fun. I would recomend 
 it for most people. Hope everyone likes the game. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skudd78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy xii: Revenant wings was great in many ways and went in a different direction than 
 its usual games and was nice for a change. A nice thing about it was the controls like how with 
 x you could control your whole army? Also they didn't leave out the touch screen controls which 
 made the game easier and funner than thought to have been. The bad thing about it for me was there 
 was not enough monsters. i went through all the chapters and levels of monsters so fast that there 
 was like none left before I beet the game. But to follow it up some of if not the best visuals 
 I have ever seen for the DS on the videos where on each one the had it and I really enjoyed the 
 storyline and the choice of your main characters for the battle. The last thing I Enjoyed about 
 Final Fantasy Revenant Wings is the side missions you can do on it. Like if you can't beat A part 
 of a chapter you do a few side missions until your a high enough level to beat the part. And those 
 are what I think are the pros and cons of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostyMcboo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game feels like a combination of FF: Tactics (original) FF: TA, Chrono Trigger and 'XII.
  
  The "RTS" component really just feels like FFXII's battle system simplified and spread across 
 a larger party.
  
  The mission system feels like tactics, as well as how the story pans out, and the game itself feels 
 like it's pushing the DS to its limits. For an adult gamer who has grown up with the games, it's 
 nice to have one that seems to bridge the technology gap between Super Nintendo's finest SQUARE 
 games and PS2's ridiculously high-end graphical feats like FFX and FFXII. PS1's efforts were pretty, 
 but (IMO) ultimately unpolished offerings. The games rocked, but the graphics.... meh...9 was nice.
 
  
  FFXII: RW Feels as polished as Chrono Trigger was on SNES and as potent, relative to the platform, 
 as its Big Brother on PS2. Having the same music and culture helps keep that consistency.
  
  FF Fans with open minds will love it. Kids who grew up ONLY with the PS1 generation may not 
 have played the SNES games. Anyway, this is a load of fun, if easy at times, and anyone with a 
 DS need not look further if they want a polished little toy to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  FFXII gets an RTS makeover. Revenant Wings takes place one year after the events in Final Fantasy 
 XII, where we find Vaan as a very happy sky pirate, hijacking a ship and embarking on new adventures. 
 
  
  The airship leads them to Lemurs, a new continent hidden beneath the clouds, where they rescue 
 an aegyl (a winged race) who then joins them. Vaan, Penelo and the new crew discover that something 
 has gone amiss, since this continent is supposed to be hidden from everyone. It turns out that 
 a group of evil sky pirates have destroyed that magic barrier and taken over the continent. 
  
  
  The story is fairly simple and stars familiar characters, which is something that will 
 appeal to fans of FFXII. And if you haven't played it, it doesn't matter, since Revenant Wings 
 doesn't rely too much on past events, aside from a few jokes between characters.
  
  The game is separated into a series of missions (80 or so) where you first pick your leaders - 
 your generals - and your Espers - the summoned units. There are three main types of units: melee, 
 air and ranged. Each is more effective against a particular one, so that's where your strategy 
 element comes in: flying is better against melee, melee against ranged, and ranged against flying. 
 
  
  You can assign groups of Espers to a leader, so you will have a little group of each kind of unit 
 following the respective group leader. Selecting a group is as simple as tapping the leader and 
 pressing Y.
  
  Everything is controlled by tapping and dragging the stylus, so menus are fairly simple to navigate 
 and selecting your troops or a particular leader isn't too bad unless they're all clumped together.
 
  
  Missions are cleared when you clear all enemy units or when you reach the goal. The map appears 
 on the top screen and shows the location of your units in blue, enemy units in purple, recovery 
 items in red and materials or treasure in gold. Only your group leaders can harvest materials or 
 open treasure chests, Espers won't be able to.
  
  
  There are certain stages where you must protect your Soul Crystal and destroy the enemy's. The 
 Soul Crystal revives your leaders (or your enemy's leaders) while it is "alive". There are also 
 summoning platforms, and if they belong to the enemy, you must pray by them for a while to "convert" 
 them to your own use.
  
  To enlist a new Esper, you must unlock it in the Ring of Pacts by using Auracite. The Ring of Pacts 
 - reminiscent of a Dress Sphere - lets you access stronger and different types of Espers to enlist, 
 but you only have five slots per set, and you must place the Espers according to the ranks on the 
 slots.
  
  Another feature of the combat is the leaders' Gambit, and they're not exactly like in previous 
 games. 
  
  Each of your main characters has a set of skills or spells (and gain more as they level up) , and 
 one of them can be tied to the Gambit ability, which is pretty much use that particularly skill 
 all the time, as soon as the timer on it refreshes. Unfortunately, you can only have one skill 
 on Gambit at any given time.
  
  You also gain boosts from your leaders' equipment and weapons, and they will affect the entire 
 group they are commanding.
  
  
  Leaders also have special moves called Quickenings. To perform a Quickening you must fill the Mist 
 Charge gauge first, which is done by dealing and taking damage. Once it's full, you can unleash 
 this powerful attack and do some serious damage.
  
  Now, what really impressed me shortly after I turned the game on were the cutscenes I mean, wow, 
 I didn't know the DS could make something look that good. Square Enix really went all out to make 
 these, they are absolutely gorgeous and span across the two screens nicely, especially with airship 
 sequences. Outside the cutscenes, the game has an isometric view, cute little sprites and lots 
 of detail in the environments. However, you can't rotate the camera and there are some occasions 
 where archways will partly block your view and hide enemies (or allies) behind them. And with the 
 nice visuals comes the fantastic music we are accustomed to in Final Fantasy games.
  
  It seems to me Square Enix has learned something from their experience making Heroes of Mana. We 
 ended up with a much better RTS with very simple controls, fairly intelligent AI (in other words, 
 no weird pathing) and outstanding presentation. Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings was much, much 
 better than I expected.
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screenshots and videos at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=revenantwings 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings brings players to a mysterious world in the sky known as Lemures. 
 Populated by Winged Aegyl (which resemble humans with wings) players will experience turmoil and 
 conflict first-hand as pirates from Ivalice take advantage of the newly discovered lands in the 
 sky. With a host of friendly faces Vaan, Penelo, Kytes, and Filo, will do their best to defend 
 the Aegyl's home from unbridled destruction.
  
  The presentation of FFVII: RW is fairly ambitious. You will instantly be treated to a pleasant CG 
 cutscene as soon as you start up the game. Sadly, such cut-scenes are rare throughout the game. 
 Thankfully, the in-game graphics are good enough to keep most content to continue playing. Conversations 
 occur through comic-like bubbles that include a portrait of the character speaking. Portraits don't 
 change to convey emotion but they do a good job of keeping you in touch with who's who. The dialogue 
 is strong enough that you can generally understand exactly what each character is feeling. Every 
 character is distinct and unique, an important aspect of any RPG.
  
  This is a real-time strategy game (RTS) . You will control several characters simultaneously in 
 an indirect fashion. Party members will attack on their own, but can also be issued specific commands 
 as needed. First you will have to set captains which consist of the main characters of the game 
 (Vaan and Penelo for example) and then each captain will be assigned (by you) a cast of henchmen. 
 The henchmen in this game are called espers. Espers should seem familiar to anyone experienced 
 with Final Fantasy lore. You will start out with lower level espers such as goblins and bombs and 
 obtain level II and III espers as you progress through the game. Level III consist of the most 
 powerful espers in the game and many of them will be obtained by defeating them in battle and unlocking 
 them. You can only use one level III esper in a battle so your party is subject to some limitations. 
 Specifically you're allowed one level III, maximum of 3 level II, and maximum of 5 different types 
 of espers. When the battle starts the espers you picked are matched with captains that have the 
 same type of general ability (Melee, Flying, or Ranged) . There's about 50 different espers available 
 in the game.
  
  The strategy works in a fairly straight forward manner that is merely complicated when you are 
 presented with a heavy mixture of opponents. Melee units (your frontline fighters) have the advantage 
 against ranged units (typically your magic casters) , Ranged units have the advantage against flying 
 units, and flying units have the advantage against melee units. To complicate this you also have 
 some different elements to take into consideration including fire, water, lightning, earth, healing, 
 and non-elemental unit types. For most of the game you can usually match your units to the advantageous 
 type and element and have little difficulties. It's not until later in the game that you will be 
 facing some more complicated armies with a mixture of elements.
  
  The actual battles themselves take place on a restricted battlefield. Battlefields or battles occur 
 in a couple of different ways. On occasion you may need to defeat a specific leader, destroy a 
 crystal (before the enemy destroys yours!) , stealthily sneak to a specified goal area (really you 
 just run for the finish and hope you survive) , eliminate all enemies, or capture a specified summoning 
 gates. Summoning gates allow you to summon additional espers (works the same for your opponent) . 
 There's a limit to how many espers can be on the field on one time. For the most part battlefields 
 are purely aesthetic. There are no hazards to worry about from the field itself. There is, however, 
 an issue of navigation. You will often want to be cautious in 'how' you approach a specific portion 
 of the map based on the surrounding opposition. The strategy in this game usually ranges from simple 
 opponent-clean-up to an insane war-like mob with little in the middle. The moments where there's 
 a mob of opponents can be kind of entertaining so long as you have the advantage. If you're struggling 
 though it can be hard to select characters and give the right orders because there are simply too 
 many characters packed in one area. In those cases you might just be along for the ride. This is 
 the primary gripe I have with the game. Either you're usually winning without question or being 
 dominated. It's very difficult to recover from severe losses. The difficulty of the game can be 
 a bit misbalanced at times. Most of the battles will be rather easy with just a handful proving 
 very frustrating. The typical answer to this is to change your strategy and, most of all, level 
 up your leaders. Thankfully, there's plenty of missions (45 primary missions across 10 chapters) 
 and you can more than double it with side missions and free battles. The game will take anywhere 
 from 30-50 hours to complete.
  
  The controls are extremely well adapted to the DS. The lower screen shows the battlefield and the 
 action with the top-screen displaying a map and unit information. Music is particularly good in 
 this game. Some of the best instrumental tracks I have heard on a DS to date. Sound affects are 
 fairly good, though they do not stand out or feature much impact. The plot, overall, is well done 
 with plenty of twist and interesting insights. What seems as a broad, simple, plot becomes very 
 intimate and heart-grabbing by the end of the game. Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings does a good 
 job of introducing a set of characters that are, for the most part, likeable and unique. The plot 
 becomes more entertaining after you progress through the game a bit and the gameplay is fairly 
 fast-paced and engaging. FFXII: RW is not without its flaws, but overall an enjoyable experience. 
 I concur with Gamespot's review score of 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Outstanding Visuals; Engrossing, addictive gameplay; Funny dialogue...
  
  The Bad: Middling story; A few interface issues...
  
  Final Fantasy 12 was released last year, 
 and I wasn't very fond of it. Square Enix just seems intent upon changing their classic series 
 into a completely different experience. Unfortunately, it just didn't feel like a Final Fantasy. 
 
  
  Revenant Wings goes down a similar path, but the result is quite different. Gamers get a welcomed 
 return from a great cast, and get an excellent, revolutionary, and different battle system thrown 
 into the mix. I thought I dislike the original b/c it was different, but playing this game makes 
 me wonder if that was really the case. 
  
  The game dumps you into the plot with no preamble, which is good, because your eagerness to see 
 a few familiar faces isn't stilted by an opening, storytelling sequence (Ala Phantom Hourglass) . 
 You're hunting treasure with Vaan, Penelo, Fran, and Baltheir (god, I love that character) , and 
 a series of events makes you lose your ship. The crew returns to Rabenastre (or however you spell 
 it) , and it's there that Vaan gets his new wings. Eventually, and predictably, this need for freedom 
 becomes a struggle for survival. The story could have been better, and it often feels like a cheap 
 excuse to revisit the characters. However, the cast is so likeable, that it doesn't pose a problem. 
 
  
  RW is a Real Time Strategy, and it brings unprecedented success to the DS. The game follows a rock-paper-scissors 
 formula (Like Fire-Emblem) , and throws in elemental attributes, simplified gambits, Espers, and 
 techniques to mix things up. If you thought this game was going to go down the 'Lost Magic' path, 
 you were wrong. 
  
  Everything is seemlessly integrated into the game. You'll get exploration through your ship, funny 
 dialogue clips between battles, and several hunts for extra EXP and items. The game gives you EXP 
 from battles even if you lose, and you're allowed to save between said battles, or even leave the 
 area to gain more abilities for the fight. This is an extremely user friendly game, and you'll 
 never find yourself stuck in one area, and unable to turn back. It's clear that the developers 
 put a lot of thought into the fact that frustration shouldn't pass for difficulty. 
  
  Battles unfold in real time, and this gives the player a sense of urgency once your forces are 
 in combat. There will be a time where you will panic during a beating, and lose your head, but 
 this sensation is relatively short lived. The game's difficulty is very even, and allows your experience 
 to grow as you play, matching your abilities to think straight with the difficulty level. There 
 are just so many forces involved in battles, that you might wind up searching for your forces and 
 forgetting that there's a map on the top screen. This is normal, and the sensation will lift.
 
  
  You'll command espers, and they serve as the majority of your forces. You can summon them from 
 gates (That function in a "Capture the Flag" style way) , and lead them into combat. Each esper 
 has its own element, or fighter strength (Flying, Ranged, Melee) . While you will literally command 
 tons of them per battle, they are far weaker than your party leaders (Like Vaan or Kytes) . You 
 must constantly keep their health in check, and summon more when you run low. You must focus on 
 keeping party leaders safe, as their deaths will eventually lead to a failed mission. You should 
 never sacrifice leaders, because they are the toughest fighters, the game will usually continue 
 as long as they live (Exceptions are rescue missions, or crystal/base guarding stages) , and they 
 command the Espers. 
  
  The battle system can get chaotic, and that's where the majority of the game's flaws surface. It's 
 very difficult to select a single character (via touch screen) when they're in a mob of fighters. 
 Even if you do manage to select them, it's hard to lead them out of harms way when they're stumbling 
 over allies and enemies alike. This can get extremely frustrating, and serves as the worst part 
 of an excellent game - The sole reason why it doesn't get my 3rd perfect 10. 
  
  The visuals are really nice, with colorful backgrounds and character portraits, but the DS visuals 
 really shine during CG scenes. The DS hardware must be sweating with exhaustion to pump out such 
 detail. They aren't as good, but they come close to the animation in FF8 and FF9. They are artistically 
 smooth, offer a great sense of being a part of the action (Like the 'chase' cutscene at the beginning 
 of FF8, where Squall gets mauled by the crawler robot) . The characters are portrayed as sprites 
 rather than polygons, but I wish the creators could have added pantomiming through the expression. 
 Even with the excellent dialogue, a few gestures would have come a long way through fleshing out 
 the characters. 
  
  The music is a great shining point, because it gives a huge sense of nostalgia toward the original. 
 Each soundtrack is hardly remixed, instantly recognizable, and bursting with quality. The sound 
 effects range from spells, to your stylus work during battles, but the effect is pleasant. Fans 
 of the original will also recognize that the game uses the same 'chime' as FF12 when you select 
 something via the menu. It's a nice touch, really. I've always been big on stuff like that. 
  
  You do yourself no favors by not buying this game. FF12 was a far better achievement (Whether 
 I want to admit it or not....) , but RW is a worthy sequel to a great game. Just be glad it succeeded 
 where FF10-2 failed. Ugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemblemlordjr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm not gonna tell you about this game, like how it works, because chances are that if you're looking 
 for reviews, you already know the premises. I've never played FFXII before, but I could understand 
 this story well. Sometimes the characters will mention some event that I don't know, but not often. 
 
  
  Graphicwise, this game is good, but not great. The graphics are artistically good, but not really 
 technically good. The characters look good in battle, but not really good out of battle.
  
  The gameplay is pretty easy to learn, and pretty fun, even though you mainly just swarm and attack 
 the enemy. 
  
  The sound is good, but not revolutionary. 
  
  So far, the game says I'm 38% through, and I've had it since Christmas. It's probably a long game, 
 and it has lots of sidequests.
  
  You can even customize weapons and name them whatever you want to.
  
  If you like Final Fantasy, 
 RPGs, or RTSs, then you should get this game. if not, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornel_72
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Granted, Final Fantasy XII may not seem like a game deserving of that level of prestige in its 
 beginning -- it starts slow (slower than your typical RPG) and can take upwards of three to six 
 hours to get going. In this day and age of videogames hitting the ground running the moment you 
 press start, asking users for an extra layer of patience can certainly prove trying. Nevertheless, 
 like most great things worth experiencing, big effort means big rewards.
  
  And big rewards are what you'll get when you travel to the world of Ivalice. Final Fantasy XII 
 is a massive, multi-character adventure with the darkest and most mature storyline the FF series 
 has yet seen. But unlike past titles in the franchise, there isn't a single major character pressing 
 the action (despite what commercials or FMV introductions might have you believe) -- this is a 
 true ensemble piece that weaves multiple webs filled with every descriptor in the book: misfortune, 
 treachery, love, hatred... you name it, it's in there.
  
  And it all begins with an invasion. The powerful and militaristic Archadian Empire has continued 
 its martial campaign into the previously neutral kingdom of Dalmasca. Only wanting peace for his 
 people, the King of Dalmasca has agreed to sign a treaty granting Archadia occupational rights 
 in exchange for the war's end. On the eve of the signing, however, Dalmasca's king is assassinated 
 under terrible circumstances and his daughter, the princess, kills herself as a result. Flash forward 
 to two years later and Archadia occupies Dalmasca and its people are none too happy about it. Among 
 them is Vaan, an energetic young store worker who moonlights as a thief on the city streets. As 
 the brother of a solider who fell during the murder of the king two years earlier, Vaan feels compelled 
 to take back Dalmasca from the Archadians one purse at a time.
  
  As you might imagine (and as setups like these usually go) , Vaan bites off more than he can chew 
 the day he decides to break into the royal palace during a welcoming banquet for the city's new 
 Consul. As it happens, the Dalmascan resistance decides to take that opportunity to do the very 
 same thing, as does a Sky Pirate (Balthier) and his companion (Fran) . It's all one major snowball 
 from there of course, and we'll leave the rest of the craziness up to the storytelling wizards 
 at Square Enix to tell. But know this: Final Fantasy XII's plot has more ups, downs, and surprises 
 than any other title we can remember this year.
  
  One of the reasons the story works so well (besides the support it garners from its adult dialogue, 
 excellent voice acting, and multiple red herrings) is thanks to its inspiration. Borrowed from 
 the offshoot Final Fantasy Tactics universe, the world of Ivalice is completely different in theme 
 to those of previous installments. Though it still has its own brand of Chocobos, Moogles (which 
 have been redesigned, by the way) , Airships, and other Square Enix staples, its flavor is decidedly 
 European. This newfound direction and influence goes a long way in making old hats feel new again, 
 and this fresh approach affects everything from the style and sound of the game to what would normally 
 be recognizable character archetypes. It's somewhat evocative of what a videogame would be like 
 if Terry Gilliam was involved... sort of an "Adventures of Baron Munchausen on Magicite." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  In the 20+ years that Final Fantasy has existed, it really has not been until the last 10 years 
 or so that the franchise has really altered it's form very much aside from the MMORPG disappointment 
 that is Final Fantasy XI. Fans of the original Final Fantasy 12 for the PlayStation 2, which in 
 itself was a unique and exciting game with a unique combat system and an extremely large variety 
 of things to do, will find this handheld sequal to be very enjoyable. With a story mode that spans 
 approximately 20 hours, this is one RPG that you can take on the road and enjoy.
  
  Revenant Wings takes place years after the original Final Fantasy 12, and while it does not use 
 the same character perspective in terms of controls, it does offer a combat system that draws away 
 from older turn based RPG games. FF12 is a free ranged strategic combat type of game where you 
 are not bound to turn based attacks and instead allows you to use the touch screen to command your 
 characters, whether it be in a massive group or in individual parties. This game is pretty much 
 reliant on the stylus though
  
  You have up to 6 playable characters per mission in your party, and each character has creatures 
 called Esper's (which you do not have access too right away) as well, you can pair up your Esper's 
 based on your own characters abilities, whether it be healer types, ranged combat, flying or melee 
 types if you choose. As you progress through the game you will be able to unlock all of the Esper's 
 in the game, including bosses that you have defeated. Depending on the level and rank of an Esper, 
 you need to have a certain amount of points during a mission in order to summon one from a summoning 
 pad which adds to the strategy part as each Esper has it's own spells and abilities. Eventually 
 you unlock a feature that allows you to level up each different Esper type during battle using 
 AP crystals which you get after beating batches of enemies.
  
  The downside to the combat is that the difficulty of this game can be extremely frustrating and 
 younger players might get annoyed with the swarms of enemies that you have to face, of course you 
 still get your own swarm of monsters to fight at your side. Veteran players of the Final Fantasy 
 Tactics series (at least with the GBA game) , will recognize many enemies from the games of old, 
 including Flan's, Bomb's, Mad Cap's as well as the varieties of Bangaa, Viera, Moogles and whatnot.
 
  
  The story follows Vaan and his companions, Kyte, Penello, Tomaj and a few other friends who hijack 
 a skypirate ship in the early portion of the game and find themselves outside of Ivalice, a strange 
 place in the sky with winged creatures who are being attacked by skypirates and the evil Judge 
 of Wings, a vile creature bent on becoming a being who will live forever ny destroying the creator 
 of Ivalice, the Eternal. This game, like so many other Final Fantasy games, revolves around the 
 crystal theory, in that the destruction of crystals will bring an end to the world, which is one 
 of the Judge of Wings prime objectives.
  
  Overall this game boasts an impressive gameplay experience, a solid game length and is just a lot 
 of fun. One of the more unique games Square Enix has made but still a worthy purchase for any Final 
 Fantasy fan or someone looking for a challenging RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This no question was a solid game with a good story line and some humor, however maybe ive just 
 always been a sucker for turn based games when it comes to the final fantasy series. I enjoyed 
 alot of the features that this game had along with the battle style, however I sometimes felt myself 
 just doing the same things over and over though. The weapons, armor, and accessories were all classic 
 and stereotypical of a final fantasy game (in a good way) which always enhances the experience. 
 I dont rank this game any higher though because it seems to be a bit of a rerun to FFXII. I do 
 not by any means regret buying the game, and will recommend it to others searching for a new game. 
 Perhaps while playing so many of the other great games that have come out lately at this point 
 in time, when I came to one that by most standards is a great game, only looked good. The other 
 sole reason was due to the logic behind the final boss. Since I am one who likes to complete games 
 in their entirety, this meant I had to fight a level 99 boss, along with level 99 espers. This 
 made it very hard and tedious to complete if you wanted the secret ending. Mixed Reactions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aries8269
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  SquareEnix hasnt gone outside of the tried and true Final Fantasy mold but for a few times but 
 when they have, they created masterpieces. The first time was the very well received and highly 
 acclaimed Final Fantasy Tactics. While I admit, I wasn't that big a fan of it at the time (i prefer 
 games that are faster paced) ... it grew on me over time. The latest entries in the Final Fantasy 
 realm outside of the norm; Final Fantasy Tactics: War of the Lions and Final Fantasy XII: Revenant 
 Wings are nothing short of incredible.
  
  Now... getting to the matter at hand. Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings has the truest RTS (Real 
 Time Strategy) feel of any game on the DS not to mention any Final Fantasy game released to date. 
 Granted though, its no Starcraft/Warcraft game however its roots lie in the same control scheme.
 
  
  Let's start with the Story. The story picks up shortly after the events of Final Fantasy XII for 
 the PS2 (here again, breaking the norm by being a sequel) where Vaan and Penelo spread thier wings 
 and become Sky Pirates under the tutelage of Balthier and Fran. Joined with you in the beginning 
 are three new companions who make things quite interesting in both game play and story/plot (and 
 more people throughout the game) . The humor is quite well laid out in key spots just to break things 
 up. I found them quite funny.
  
  The control scheme is vastly different from all other Final Fantasy games to date and really only 
 achievable on the DS with the touch screen. With this being an RTS, you are able control individual 
 units, small groups, or the entire party in just a few motions. You have your party leaders in 
 tabs at the top of the touch screen which is incredibly useful. Each tab will show you what units 
 are under the command of that party leader. Selecting a party leader and moving to another location 
 will move that entire group. Now, you can select multiple units at one time by either creating 
 a box over those you want to select or to do it the quick way... put the stylus on the far left 
 OR far right party leader and drag it all the way to the other end party leader and it will select 
 ALL units. Very useful if you simply want to gang up on one target with everything you've got. 
 Understanding the full extent of the control scheme is paramount to being able to win battles. 
 There will be easy battles and there will be some difficult battles that you will have to do over 
 and over to get it right.
  
  The game play. Game play as I have mentioned is that of an RTS though scaled down some. You control 
 different units by selecting and either moving to another location or selecting to attack a target. 
 There is also another strategic element that is essential to getting the best weapons throughout 
 the game and those are resource points and treasure chests. Each battle you go through will have 
 resource points of which you can gather resources by selecting a party leader and having him/her 
 mine out that resource. The resources themselves come in three varieties: low, medium, and high 
 qualities. As you battle you're way through a map, you must keep in mind these resources and chests 
 so that you either don't forget them or can maneuver in such a manner as to be able to reach the 
 resource without killing all the monsters (yes that will come up as resources/chests will be guarded 
 by what will seem like the last group of monsters on the map) . 
  
  Now... using espers during battle. Throughout the game, you will gain the ability to employ different 
 espers that range from ranks 1 to 3. All of those familiar ones being level 3 (leviathan, Ramuh, 
 Ifrit, Shiva, etc.) along with new ones as you fight bosses throughout the game. Before each battle 
 begins, you have the opportunity to view what you are opposing (the leaders and their builds as 
 well as their espers) . Viewing the espers weaknesses helps a great deal and you can design your 
 esper troops to match their weaknesses. Now, you can have up to three troupes set up but can only 
 select one of them for the fight. There is only one thing about the esper troupes that i don't 
 like and thats the fact that I cant seem to control which espers come out at the beginning of the 
 battle (inexperience or inability... I'm not sure) . 
  
  The battles. Each battle you enter into isn't simply just a "defeat all the monsters." You will 
 have different objectives ranging from said statement to protect an individual to gather all the 
 treasure. You will be told at the beginning of the battle what type of battle it is so be sure 
 to pay attention to that. At certain levels for each character, they will gain new abilities and 
 spells. These are quite useful so be sure to take full advantage of them. Also with these abilities, 
 you can select one... and only one, as your gambit. If you have played FFXII, then you know that 
 the gambit system is an automatic system. This iteration of the gambit system only allows for one 
 spell to be automatically casted without your input. You have full control as to which spell per 
 person will be auto casted... even through the battle so be sure to check what the vulnerabilities 
 and defenses of the monsters you are fighting and change your gambits/tactics accordingly. The 
 only thing i haven't had the pleasure of using is the Quickening system. I have unlocked Vaan's 
 so far but haven't been able to use it. There is a Mist Collection counter that when full, allows 
 you to perform a quickening attack for massive damage to a target. Best if used on a boss =P though 
 it takes a while to charge up and I think it resets after each battle.
  
  Weapon creation. This is one of the more unique systems I have seen and in its own right can be 
 quite funny. Cu Sith is your weapon smith. Taking the resources you gather as rewards from battles 
 and those gathered during battles (or bought from the vendor in the Sky Saloon... don't recommend 
 early on) , you can have her create some nice weapons that are more powerful than those that would 
 be currently available at that stage of the game. To create a weapon, three items are needed and 
 though it goes without saying, the higher the quality item... the more powerful the weapon will 
 be. Now, here's where it gets interesting. After you select your three items, Cu Sith will ask 
 you three questions. The stats of the weapon will be reflected by your answers to her questions. 
 There are no right or wrong answers so don't worry about that however... she will ask some off the 
 wall questions to where you will simply just look at the screen for a few seconds asking yourself, 
 "Did she just ask that?" You'll even get to see her choke up a little with some of her own questions.
 
  
  Graphics and Sound. The graphics are astounding and very well used. Your in game environment is 
 used to add more depth and suspense to the storyline by use of moving camera angles (though you 
 do not have control of the camera... it stays in a 3 quarter position during your battles) . The 
 music is very well selected from FFT: A and FFXII and sounds incredible. Sound effects are done 
 pretty well though nothing really over the top. The 3quarter camera angle though has a pretty big 
 flaw that gets very, very annoying when it happens and that's when a monster goes behind a pillar 
 or high wall and you can't see them. While it still shows a red health bar... you can't see them 
 and become quite difficult to select. It doesn't happen all that often but when it does... its quite 
 annoying.
  
  Overall: Square did a bang up job with this game, especially going well outside of their norm. 
 Graphics are quite solid, music and sound are awesome, and story line is awesome with cool plot 
 twists and well placed humor. The control scheme is pretty solid though selecting individual units 
 can be bothersome as units tend to overlap over each other. Camera angle can sometimes obscure 
 enemy targets forcing you to rely on the auto combat system (that auto selects nearby enemy targets 
 once the one you choose dies) . Difficulty tends to be on the easier side of the house however there 
 are those battles that takes it up a few notches and will take you a couple times to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WSGRandomPerson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is set in Lemures in the beginning of the game. You're Vaan a sky pirate, teaming up 
 with your friends. Penelo, Kyte, Filo in the beginning. Then you later on find out about the Judge 
 Of Wings, having to stop her from destroying the Acurite. You end up finding up in the middle of 
 the story, there is more to the picture then just that. The story of the game is pretty basic, 
 just like almost every Final Fantasy. You must save the world from a greater evil. This game continues 
 Final Fantasy XII's story line, but it seems you really don't have to know the ending of FFXII 
 to know whats going on this game. instead of the MMORPG battle play like in XII, it's more of a 
 strategy game. It's pretty basic to play, and it's like a watered-down version of XII. The characters 
 you fell in love with before, are in the game for a comeback in there 2-D sprite form. Balthier, 
 Fran, Penelo, Basch, Ashe. The graphics are good for a Nintendo DS platform, but the cut scenes 
 are what makes the graphics excel more then the other games. The controls are very easy to learn, 
 so not a huge learning curve for beginners. This game seems to be too easy though, which is a let 
 down. There is really not need to train in this game, the battles come easy. But sometimes harder 
 than others. This game is a great game to a Final Fantasy Collection, and someone in love with 
 the series. I recommend this game to anyone who is looking for a good Nintendo DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_godlet
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Tactics was a good game and despite the fact that the recent games in the Final Fantasy franchise 
 seemed to be a letdown (IMHO) , I thought I'd give FFXII: Revenant Wings a try. 
  
  First Impression: 
  I saw the screenshots and thought "Uh oh, Squeenix has gone and made a Tactics 
 clone" but thank goodness I was sorely mistaken. 
  The minute you turn on the DS, you're greeted with a crisp, clean well orchestrated FMV which shows 
 off the DS' graphical capabilities rather well. They didn't skimp on the background music either, 
 it seems. The game itself has moments when you tend to forget that you're actually playing a hand-held 
 console game. The backgrounds are well rendered and the sprite movement is smooth. You won't be 
 disappointed at all. 
  
  Gameplay:
  From the very start, you're already immersed into a dungeon and combat is the order of the day. 
 The battle system is easy to get used to and doesn't leave you in moments of  
 With Revenant Wings, it's a combination of both levelling and brains. A small tip: As long as you 
 wipe out all enemies you see on the field, you'll be fiiiiiiiine~
  Controls are easy enough and are manageable in a pinch. If you have to give split second commands, 
 nothing bars your way and there's no moment of risking your unit's lives because you were busy 
 fiddling with the commands. 
  I do have one teeny little comment though. Unit movement is so slow, that if you're moving your 
 entire group from one side of the map to the other, you might have to wait a while. 
  Battles are fast paced and are over before you know it. AI for both enemy and friendly units is 
 rather good, your units are responsive and ranged units and healers stay a good distance away from 
 the fray. 
  
  Story: 
  The plot itself is interesting on it's own. For one who has yet to play FFXII, I found myself a 
 bit confused over certain things but nothing that will leave you scratching your head for the duration 
 of the game. A few mentions here and there but Revenant Wings seems to be a completely different 
 kettle of fish from its predecessor. 
  
  Last words: 
  It seems that Square has managed to redeem itself. Revenant Wings is a fresh title with an innovative 
 battle system and engaging storyline that will keep anyone hooked. Completely worth it if you're 
 a fan of RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingsofAdamant
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  There are certain aspects of a Final fantasy game that always seem to hold true within almost every 
 title they release. The music may be a minimized rehash of FFXII's soundtrack, but it remains crisp 
 and not warbled. The visuals are colorful, and the sprites are distinguishable in most cases. The 
 exception being when you group all of your units together.
  The Ring of Pacts is an engaging mechanic that'll keep you playing, earning auracite to enlist 
 stronger espers and allies. Before each battle, you can select a list of 5 espers to use in battle, 
 and if you play to the weaknesses of your foes, the battle should be steadily in your favor. It 
 seems that each creature has at least one foe that can completely trump them in any case, so it's 
 best if you try to unlock all of the espers.
  The art design is similar to FFXII, and also shares elements with other recent Final Fantasy handhelds, 
 Final fantasy tactics Advance being the most prominent example.
  The battles convey a great sense of scale, yet it becomes difficult to select certain unit types 
 to send into the fray. Usually, resulting in just sending whoever you scroll over.
  The $40 pricetag is a little much, but I doubt it'll hinder any FF fanboy.
  Some of the battles 
 may seem overhwelming, but it seems to be more of a matter of finding the right combination of 
 espers and leaders more than anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lacrosse1627
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  At first, i was not sure what to expect from the game. Some people said it was good, others said 
 it was bad. No one could even agree what type of game it is. I believe it is an RTS. The ability 
 to control as many characters as it allows worked much better then i had expected to work which 
 was a major plus. My biggest problem with the game is the terrain blocking enemies from view. The 
 game moves along at a good pace and has a good story to it. I couldnt put the game down until i 
 had beaten it. Overall, it was an amazing game that everyone would enjoy. The many missions throughout 
 the game kept the game fun when you dont want to do the next part of the story. The other missions 
 also make it was easier to level-up characters so you can complete the rest of the missions. The 
 game was not a letdown and it is a game that can be played over and over again. This is by far 
 one of the best games for the DS right now. All ages and types of people would enjoy this game. 
 If you are even thinking about getting this game, get it. There is no question about it. This game 
 is worth it to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _summer-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Although a lot different then any other FF game it still wont disappoint FF fans. 
  It is a rather fast paced game, also a RTS so you might not be used to this type of game. The good 
 thing is that you should learn the basics pretty quickly.
  At points this game can be very simple, but don't be fooled, some levels can be very frustrating. 
 In that case this game can take a while to complete. 
  The game takes roughly 25 hours if your planning on getting 100%. Which is very impressive for 
 a DS game. You can also replay it for the secret ending.
  This game brings back 9 familiar characters, that can all be vital to winning each mission, depending 
 on which role they play (Melee, Ranged, Flying...)
  The graphics are some of the best graphics on the DS system, especially the cut scenes.
  Overall 
 this game is definitely worthy of a spot on your shelves. If your not so sure of buying it then 
 renting it is a good start.
  So hopefully this will push you towards buying this magnificent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Take a glance at my profile's recent reviews and you'd think that I had stopped using my DS. There 
 was a serious lack of great games on the DS this year, but Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings goes 
 a good way towards filling that gap. 
  FFXII: RW is a real time strategy game set in the world of Ivalice after the events of FFXII (which 
 was released on the PS2,) and although players do not need to have played the prequal to understand 
 this game, it would help to understand some of the character's relationships a bit more. 
  
  In the spirit of breaking away from tradition, Square Enix completely ditched the turn based 
 battles of previous DS FF games and decided to focus entirely on strategic real time combat controlled 
 by the stylus. Although some may have doubts about playing a game entirely with the stylus, it 
 really works surprisingly well. 
  
  Tap a unit on the screen to select him/her. Tap the characters icon on the top of the screen to 
 select that unit as well as every summoned Esper under that unit's command (more on Espers later.) 
 Or, if you are in a hurry, dragging the stylus across the screen will select every unit within 
 the radius of your stylus stroke. After selecting your units, tapping on an enemy will order your 
 units to attack. Tap on a resource, such as a crystal, to harvest it. Tap a treasure chest to open 
 it, and so on. The D-Pad will scroll the camera around the map, and there is a less detailed map 
 detailing the locations of your units, enemy units, and other important information on the top 
 screen. The basic controls are really intuitive and easy to get the hang of, but there are a few 
 more complex maneuvers that you can perform that add strategic depth to battles.
  
  Every main character has an RPG esque level up system. Like in a role playing game, the main characters 
 will level up after battles and gain new skills. You can manually activate these skills during 
 battle by selecting the unit, then tapping "Skills" at the bottom of the screen, selecting a skill 
 to use, and finally selecting a target. But this could easily become a hassle to do in large battles. 
 Seeing this, Square Enix has included a gambit system that will tell your AI to behave in a certain 
 way during battle when you are not controlling him/her directly. For example, if I were to assign 
 the "Blizzaga" gambit to my mage unit, he would use Blizzaga as often as possible during battle 
 without my having to tell him to do so. But you are only allowed to assign one gambit to a unit 
 at a time, so choose wisely. This system is an excellent way to keep tabs on your unit's skills 
 during a hectic battle, and its inclusion is much appreciated. 
  
  Now, about those Espers that I mentioned before. In the world of Ivalice, Espers are summons that 
 help your characters out in battle. In order to summon an Esper, you must first capture a summoning 
 gate. You may then summon Espers to the battlefield and assign them to a party leader. That way, 
 when you select the party leader's tab at the top of the screen and give him an order, all of the 
 Espers under him will follow that order as well. This is a good, but not perfect, solution to the 
 problem of micromanagement in a handheld RTS. Sometimes battles will be too chaotic for you to 
 really care which Espers are under which leaders, and you will just order your units to swarm all 
 enemies. Still, it pays to use Espers strategically. There are flying, ground, and ranged types 
 of units, and they have a rock-paper-scissors relationship in battle. For example, it would be 
 wise to make ranged units attack flying units, but unwise to have them engage ground units. Also, 
 each Esper has an elemental affinity, and balancing these becomes important. 
  
  All in all, the battles in RW can become quite strategic and are always intense fun. In larger 
 battles, however, your units will sometimes run into pathfinding problems. It seems that if a unit 
 can't find his way out of a mob of allies, he will eventually just start walking in circles until 
 you give your orders over again.
  
  Revenant Wing's story is fun to move through thanks to well written dialouge and the feeling that 
 you are playing through a true FF game, despite the fact that you are playing a spinoff. In other 
 words, the story, characters, and overall atmosphere hold up to what you would expect to a console 
 FF game for the most part. 
  
  The cutscenes only serve to add to the feeling that you are playing through a true console FF. 
 Frequent at first but much less so later on in the game, the cutscenes are easily the best I've 
 seen on the DS. They really have to be seen to be believed. When you aren't watching a cutscene, 
 you'll still be amazed by the graphical quality on display. It is clear the SE put time into creating 
 a unique looking game. The environments are all rendered in late-Playstation-quality 3D, while 
 the characters themselves are sprites. 
  
  Any FF fan should be able to tell you that the FF experience just isn't complete without the excellent 
 music that the series is known for, and RW is no exception. Whether it's a remixed version of a 
 classic FF song or a relatively new song from FFXII or a completely new song designed for the game, 
 all of the music will suck you into the game world like no DS game's music has done before. The 
 audio quality in RW is simply splendid.
  
  In conclusion, FFXII: RW offers a hybrid RTS/RPG experience that no fan of either genre can afford 
 to miss. With its combination of stunning graphics and music, an entertaining story, and intuitive 
 gameplay, Revenant Wings' many missions and side quests should keep gamers busy well into 2008.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenheart234
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII Revenant Wings is a unique game in the series. It's an RTS/RPG that takes place 
 in the world of Ivalice that we all know and love from last year's Final Fantasy XII. The story 
 even picks up right were XII ended. 
  
  How does the Final Fantasy series fare in the world of Real-Time Strategy? Simply put, Revenant 
 Wings is an amazingly fun and addictive game. While there may be deeper and more challenging strategy 
 games out there, RW still manages to offer a reasonable challenge, even to experienced RTS gamers. 
 The first few chapters get you used to the controls and strategies used in the game and are quite 
 easy, but later missions will force you to think quickly in order defeat a powerful boss or to 
 defend one neutral character from an army 5 time the size yours is.
  
  Contributing to the perfect level of difficulty are the amazing controls. Almost everything is 
 done via the touch screen, and the commands are quite responsive. The only problem is that it can 
 occasionaly be hard to select a single unit in a group, but this shouldn't cause to much of a problem 
 since it won't cause you to fail the mission or anything like that. 9.5/10
  
  The music is great, even if it is mostly recycled from Final Fantasy XII. The sound effects are 
 mostly fine, but hearing the same sound effect over and over again when one your esper falls in 
 battle and dissapears can get annoying. 8.5/10
  
  The graphics look amazing, whether it's during the pre-rendered cut scenes or during the actual 
 game itself. The places you visit look rich and varied and the characters have smooth, if somewhat 
 limited, animations. Ther is some slowdown in some of the battles involving a lot of enemies, but 
 it's nothing to serious. My only regret is that a lot of your enemy leaders and some of the espers 
 are completly recycled from 2003's Final Fantasy Tactics Advance. A little more originality would 
 have been nice. 9/10
  
  The story is very good and the returning characters from XII are much more develloped then they 
 were back in XII. In addition to the main storyline, a lot of sidequests are availlable, rewarding 
 you with treasure, experience, powerfull new summons and some extra insight into your characters' 
 personality. 9/10
  
  Revenant Wings marks the beggining of a new genre of Final Fantasy games, and it's one of the best 
 DS games to come out in recent months. Do yourself a favor and play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  FF XII Revenant wings was a interesting change for Final Fantasy. Instead of the classic turn based 
 play, they made this game a RTS with its final fantasy twists. you cans still equip armor and weapons 
 and use magic and stuff like the other final fantasy games, but now u direct your people around 
 a RTS style map. its not bad game play but can be a little frustrating trying to keep track of 
 all your players movements.
  
  the controls are not bad, in fact they are pretty good, the only let down is that you have to keep 
 reselecting you people after each move, which can after a while be frustrating, but it is easily 
 overlooked. The biggest frustration with the controls is trying to select certain units, you either 
 end up selecting more than you want or not as many as you want. other than that the touch screen 
 controls are sharp.
  
  the graphics for the ds are sharp and look good even with the new more cartoon-ish looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandallarian
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  As I've already said, a great games, worth buying.
  
  Gameplay : 9/10
  
  The battles in this game are but awesome, well-made and intriguing. Final fantasy finally makes 
 its place in the RTS universe, making it even better.
  
  Sound : 10/10
  
  Even though the sounds are reused from FF XII on the PS2, they are still awesome. If you liked 
 the sounds from the PS2 games, you will love this game.
  
  Graphics : 6.5/10
  
  I think the graphics are the only downer of this games. The sprites reminds me of old, ugly games. 
 But, we have to think that the Nintendo DS doesn't have the power to make it looks awesome. However, 
 the clips you see from time to time are extremely well-made.
  
  
  Final : 9/10
  
  Take Final Fantasy Tactics, Warcract 3 and FF XII and you'll get the kind of game that makes me 
 think of FFXII : Revenant Wings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/ffXII_rev. html? var1=sc3
  
  I've been gaming for almost 20 years. I started when I was just a young'un at the age of three, 
 and next year I turn 23, so two decades is right around the corner. Can you believe that it wasn't 
 until this past week that there's a genre that I'd never previously touched? Yeah, seriously, a 
 hardcore gamer that hasn't seen it all, pretty weird eh? Well, no longer, because when I cautiously 
 invested in Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings, I would experience a strategy RPG for the first 
 time, and absolutely fall in love with it. The question remains, is this entry-level RTS RPG for 
 you?
  
  The reason I say entry-level is due to the extremely low level of complexity that RW promotes. 
 Sure it might take an hour or two for someone to feel around the interface and be comfortable with 
 it, but for all intents and purposes, this just isn't hard to play. That's why I love it and why 
 anyone who's never touched these types of games (or barely has) would find significant attraction. 
 But before I delve into the gameplay system, I want to briefly describe the unexpectedly in-depth 
 plot. FF XII: RW is a direct sequel to its rich PS2 counterpart, Final Fantasy XII. I won't be surprised 
 if you want to murder me when I say I haven't played the latter, but thankfully in the case of 
 Revenant Wings, it's not necessary. While like myself, you might not notice obvious callbacks and 
 references that would stick out like a sore thumb to XII fans, you don't need to know anything 
 about the PS2 RPG in order to enjoy this game. It's awesome how so many of the characters make 
 a return, but labor through an all-new plot that occurs two years after the war that happened in 
 FF XII. Vaan and Penelo are the headliners, as they and their crew of sky pirates encounter a sinister 
 villain in the Judge of Wings, who is causing chaos all over the place for reasons that you simply 
 have to find out about yourself. For being a DS game, and an RPG at that, Revenant Wings has a 
 wonderful story.
  
  Playing this RTS RPG is where all the fun is at though. For informing purposes, RTS stands for 
 real-time strategy, which is essentially a genre that emphasizes micromanagement on the player's 
 end. Simply put, you're given command over a number of units that do your bidding on the battlefield, 
 and you have to exploit their various strengths and weaknesses in order to succeed over the enemy. 
 Think Command & Conquer if you will, just without all the resource harvesting and building construction. 
 Revenant Wings is all about issuing orders to actual game characters and their respective support. 
 With that in mind, there are three different classes that are key to the whole adventure: melee, 
 ranged and flying. In battle, melee is strong against ranged but weak when facing flying, ranged 
 is effective against flying but vulnerable to melee and so forth. It might take a few battles for 
 the two-way system to really sink in, but once you do, RW is such a joy to play because it's simple 
 and stays that way. Reason being, there is absolutely no exploration to be done in this RPG. Now 
 before your jaw drops (aw who am I kidding?) , don't be so quick to judge that as a negative factor. 
 The lack of being able to fully check out Ivalice/Lemurs keeps the game engaging and interesting 
 at all times because you're moving from one battle to the next at an appropriate pace. Missions 
 are unlocked one after another, with no unnecessary fluff in the middle.
  
  Regarding actual missions, again, it couldn't be simpler after you achieve a full understanding 
 for how it all works. There's always some kind of cut sequence that shows your prior squad (of 
 five characters) checking out the area you're about to advance into. If the mission is plot-relevant, 
 you witness an exchange play out accordingly. If it's not, which equates to a side mission, you 
 still see a mini-conversation, but it actually manages to feel important that you're doing it. 
 That is why I ended my first campaign with 94% completion. I only skipped the last set of optional 
 tasks because the enemies so conveniently happened to be double my entire party's level. Anyway, 
 when it comes time to assemble your army, I can't repeat it enough, it's simple. Not only are you 
 shown every enemy that you'll face on the battlefield (along with their respective classes, strengths 
 and weaknesses) , but you can change who you bring into the equation however you like given who 
 and what you have access to. Your leaders are the actual plot characters (such as Vaan and Penelo) , 
 and it's up to you to use their abilities as best you can. Revenant Wings also brings back Espers, 
 which everybody remembers from VI and XII, but it's awesome how there are so many, familiar and 
 brand new. Lamia, Raiden and Cu Sith are brand new (amongst others) , others like Ramih and Shivar 
 are offspring of FF's more renowned summons, and then of course the trademark Ifrit, Shiva and 
 Ramuh make comebacks. The Espers can't be summoned in battle until you've satisfied their auracite 
 requirements in the Ring of Pacts, but they come gradually as you witness your army becoming stronger 
 and more able. In other words, you shouldn't be disappointed with the game's roster if you enjoy 
 FF games.
  
  What about pure battle though? Well, as you've probably guessed by now (hopefully) , it's just a 
 blast. DS owners have been wondering for ages when worthwhile RTS games would hit their portable 
 given the touch support, and we finally have something to be very pleased with. Sure Age of Empires 
 is available, but is anybody really playing that game? Anyway, yeah, the stylus control is fluid, 
 feels great, and makes managing the battlefield just convenient. It's neat how every Esper is assigned 
 to a specific character for all battles, so instead of selecting units individually (even though 
 you can) , tapping a leader icon at the top of the touch screen selects that particular character 
 and his/her supporting summons. If you don't want to do that, you can always press down with the 
 stylus and draw a selecting box over a more specific grouping. If you desire everyone at once, 
 simply press X and off you go. Even the view can be shifted in either of two ways: the D-Pad or 
 tapping and holding the stylus until the directional icon appears, denoting that you can drag it 
 to the edges of the screen. Nevertheless, when you have a character or Esper selected, you can 
 do a couple things. If an enemy of interest is nearby and you wish to attack, simply tap on that 
 foe and watch as the sparks fly. Or, you could browse through the specific abilities/magicks (yes, 
 it's still spelled that way) , choose something yourself to use at the current time, or even assign 
 one to be used automatically every time it becomes available. You might think that not having direct 
 control of the fighting might be boring as you're just watching at that point, but I never felt 
 that way because it's just cool to bear witness to the ass kickery that your squad dishes out. 
 There're only two relatively minor complaints I have about the system. Since RW is technically 
 2D, that means no camera angle manipulation, which equates to the possibility of struggling to 
 select a unit or enemy that you wish to target in particular in a large crowd, which can be frustrating 
 if you're desperate to order a tide-changing command. I also think it's rather strange that you 
 can't manage equipment on the battlefield. If I were to score a pretty new sword from a treasure 
 chest, I would have to wait until the mission succeeded before I could consider what to do with 
 it. Were it not for those two quips, I wouldn't have felt any reservations towards this game.
 
  
  It's also this very mission architecture that allows Revenant Wings to offer the value that it 
 does to players. There are ten main plot chapters total, with most of them containing three core 
 missions (with some exceptions) , but the mass collection of optional tasks is what keeps the stylus 
 moving. These can range from fetch quests (such as obtaining food ingredients) to scenarios that 
 actually unlock Espers in the Ring of Pacts. Virtually every of the more obscure summons is achieved 
 through this means, so there's definitely reason to pursue completing these missions. Not once 
 did I feel like I was playing through one 'just to get it out of the way or bored at all, which 
 is really saying something about how fun RW is. Better yet, Tomaj (your airship's engineer/businessman) 
 eventually opens up a sky saloon on your ship, which grants you access to his equipment shop and 
 Cu Sith's Forge. Initially I thought I would be intimidate by the Forge since it allows you to 
 craft custom equipment, but once I realized that all you're required to do is to give her a set 
 of three materials that you just pick from the assembly menu of a desired item, I felt relieved 
 and rewarded. Not only do the necessary constructors make sense, but collecting them is painless 
 since you can nab most of them during battle (plot-driven and optional) . If you've been thinking 
 that the DS has been lacking deep games, Revenant Wings is your answer.
  
  On the technical side of things, RW is quite a feat both visually and when it comes to sound. I 
 don't exactly agree with some opinions I've seen on the net that this game is a top three most 
 impressive-looking DS game, but I definitely think it's got a lot going for it. Ivalice and Lemurs 
 are very colorful and vibrant worlds no doubt, and even I was surprised at how unique every environment 
 looks. However, the textures do suffer from clarity issues and the sprite work isn't wowing by 
 any means. That isn't to say that the characters look like crap, because they certainly don't, 
 but it's nothing that hasn't been seen before. If you'd like a comparison, Chrono Trigger seems 
 suitable in terms of sprite detail and animation, which is still appropriate for sure in RW. The 
 eye candy effects, which deal mainly with all the magicks and special abilities, also could've 
 looked a little flashier (at least in my opinion) but again, none of it is ugly. If nothing else, 
 the FMVs, even while brief and voiceless, are gorgeous and definitely help bring the game to life 
 even further. Square-Enix certainly put some effort into the presentation of Revenant Wings, and 
 they have my kudos for it, because the game looks great, despite my negative pickings. When it 
 comes to audio, it's all about the music and battle effects. A good deal of trademark Final Fantasy 
 themes are present and accounted for (and awesome-sounding) , and the original material sounds wonderful 
 too. It sucks that none of the new stuff has stuck with me, but I won't let that dampen my judgment. 
 The battle score is especially enjoyable, as it dynamically alters whether you're engaging the 
 enemy or not. The effects also suit the goings on as necessary, as audio pleasantries include the 
 clanging of swords, the booming of fire and the striking of lightning. The mind-blowing factor 
 may not be here necessarily, but the quality is, and who am I to challenge that?
  
  It's amazing to think that Revenant Wings is the first strategy RPG I've ever laid my hands on, 
 but we all know the phrase "it's better late than never", and the case is no different here. To 
 me it doesn't matter that there's no local wireless head-to-head or online component to this game, 
 because the package as it is offers plenty to Final Fantasy aficionados and strategists in general. 
 With a surprisingly riveting story, incredibly approachable RTS gameplay, pretty graphics and the 
 usual quality FF audio, Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings deserves a spot in your DS library, even 
 with the $39.99 price tag. Now we sit and hope for the Dragon Quest remakes to make their way over 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silk_Wood
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Okay so another FF game added to the series. Big woop right? Well if you take that sarcasticly, 
 no, but litterally? Yes. FF RW is a good game indeed. You start off with a couple of friends getting 
 back together for another great adventure. So on, so forth.... Your basic adventure... But don't 
 take that the wrong way, this game meets my standards and bests them aswell. The game also includes 
 a different style of battle play for a FF game. It's more so of a World of War Craft sort of style 
 of battling but then on the other hand, you get a sense of Final Fantasy Tatics Advance style of 
 play. You level up, make new weapons, and hire little beasts to fight with you in battles known 
 as Espers. This adds a pretty interresting style of play to the game. Basically, this is a great 
 game for anyone who's interested in buying well, a good game. I'm not going to go over all the 
 game play and graphics but I will tell you, the graphics are beautiful. Anyways, I'll get to the 
 point, it's a 8.7/10 game (rounded off to 9) that is worth the $40 dollars you spend on it. Want 
 a good game to play for hours and waste time in a car or in an airplane? Well. You found one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galadreil782
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  The original Final Fantasy XII was for the PS2. I played that game. I liked it, but I felt it could 
 have done better. So, when this game was released I purchased it. There is no way I could have 
 expected this! Final Fantasy XII: Revenent Wings is a real time strategy, something very new to 
 the Final Fantasy games. Let me tell you more about this game.
  
  Story: 9/10 Pretty immersive story. Better than Final Fantasy 12's. Without giving away to much 
 of the plot, I'll just say that Sky Pirates Vaan and Penelo along with some of their orphan friends 
 find an airship that brings them to a sky continent. where they meet new friends and uncover someone 
 trying to destroy the continent and take the power for herself. Then Vaan and friends try to stop 
 it. That is just the bare bones of the plot, there are loads of sidequests and plot twists to keep 
 you interested.
  
  GamePlay: 8/10 As mentioned above the comabat in this game is not turn-based like all of the other 
 Final Fantasy games, it is Real-Tome strategy. It involves using alot of espers (creatures you 
 summon) to create a sort of army each battle. Then, you would command your troops like an army. 
 I'm sure some people like this type of game. I feel this is pretty well done, only a few gameplay 
 issues. Its just Real- Time strategy is not my most favorite type of game.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10 The sound is pretty amazing. All of your favorite songs from Final Fantasy XII are 
 back with some new favorites. I actually felt myself turning up the volume becuase the songs were 
 so catchy! The music is VERY well done in this game.
  
  Replay Value: 8.5/10 With lots of side quests and extra missions to do. As well as levlling up, 
 getting new espers, and forging new weapons there is lots of Replay Value in this game. Only thing 
 that I found to deduct points was that the sidequests got repetative as they were all based on 
 the same sort of ideas.
  
  So, in conclusion. In a buy or rent situation I would say BUY! This is a game that will last you 
 atleast 25 hours and is very fun and addictive. A worthy sequal to Final Fantasy XII, and a great 
 addition to the profound library of games on the Nintendo DS system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAsh505
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game was interesting and very cool it had a great story and it has the best control over your 
 soon to be great army. I liked this game just like all final fantasy games out there I personally 
 am a great fan and I hope ppl that played this game are also fans but if they just picked this 
 game up for kicks you made a bad choice not to like this franchise. What won me over was the summons 
 you get as your army so I got the chanse to have my favorite summons with me the whole way thru. 
 The game is also kinda long so dont expect to beat it in a day, but for all you hardcore gamers 
 out there you are gouing to beat everything and you will get your fill with the side quests. This 
 is all I can say for now but please try to play this game thru and dont lose.
  
  PEACE OUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabulia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  
  Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings is a game that blends the world of Final Fantasy XII with Real 
 Time Strategy and finds its home on Nintendo's DS. The game continues the story of Final Fantasy 
 XII in another of Square's new Final Fantasy sequels, a trend that began with Final Fantasy X-2. 
 For those of that were put off by that game, don't be. This game is completely different in terms 
 of presentation and style. It brings what you love from Final Fantasy XII and offers a new adventure 
 to be thoroughly enjoyed on Nintendo's handheld. If you liked Final Fantasy XII for the Playstation 
 2, you'll feel right at home here.
  
  Vaan, Panelo, Balthier, Fran, and Ashe are all back in a new adventure that takes place one year 
 after the conclusion of Final Fantasy XII. Vann is a full fledged Sky Pirate and Panelo is still 
 trying to keep him out of trouble. The adventure takes place mostly on the floating continent of 
 Lemures, above Ivalice. Filo, Kyte, and Tomaj accompany Vann as he acquires a new mysterious ship 
 and a stone that allows him to summon monsters or "Espers" in order to help him in his battles. 
 The Espers will be very familiar to those of you that have played previous Final Fantasy games. 
 The Chocobo, Ifrit, Shiva, Bomb, and Carbuncle all make their return in this game as Espers that 
 fight against or along side you. It's not necessary to have played Final Fantasy XII in order to 
 get the idea of what is going on in the story, but it certainly helps. This game is a direct sequel 
 and you will find yourself enjoying the game much more if you are already familiar with the main 
 characters and the world of Ivalice. For those that might have thought that Final Fantasy XII's 
 story was too political or were bothered that a true central hero wasn't the focus of that game, 
 worry not. The story has less of a serious tone and Vann is the main character here. The game focuses 
 solely on his adventures as a new Sky Pirate.
  
  The actual game plays a lot like an RTS except the stylus is used instead of a mouse. Missions 
 are played out through chapters along with various side missions that can be played in order to 
 gain experience and more treasure. In combat, Espers are selected at the beginning of a battle 
 and more can be summoned through Summoning Gates placed in the battle area. The Summoning Gates 
 can be used by enemies as well to summon Espers to fight against your party. If a Summoning Gate 
 is controlled by an enemy, you must conquer it in order to summon your own Espers from it and to 
 keep the enemy from replenishing their numbers. Your Espers are assigned to group leaders and can 
 be controlled individually or under their selected leader as a group.
  
  Battles are quite fun and well done here too. The fights take on a basic "rock, paper, scissors" 
 style that works very nicely. You command your characters to attack your enemies by dragging the 
 stylus over your party member (s) and then tapping on the enemy character (s) that you choose to 
 battle it out with. It's not all by chance though. There are different types of fighters that are 
 used and the wrong combination can make the difference between victory and defeat. You have three 
 types of fighters to choose from; melee fighters, ranged fighters, and flying fighters. Each type 
 has their strengths and weaknesses and it's important to match up your strengths with the enemy's 
 weaknesses or you'll lose. You get to choose from a set of Espers before each fight. You can also 
 check out the enemy stats and Espers before the fight commences. This is where your strategy comes 
 in to play and it's an important aspect to winning battles. Early fights are pretty easy but the 
 game gains momentum and later battles can be quite a challenge. FFXII: RW is laid out in a good 
 way for new-comers to get their feet wet and not be overwhelmed with the very different playing 
 style than that of the previous Final Fantasy games. One interesting aspect from the original Final 
 Fantasy XII that makes a welcomed return is a simplified version of the Gambit System. You can 
 select a Gambit (a specific command) for your group leaders to use automatically during an enemy 
 encounter. This makes battles easier so your group doesn't just use the default attack when fighting. 
 Having to worry about five leaders and their groups of Espers can get rather daunting during hectic 
 battles, so the Gambit system helps out a lot without making things too easy. The game's only real 
 weakness is that the characters on screen can become cluttered and hard to keep track of. The game 
 compensates for this by allowing the player to select group leaders to command and the leader's 
 assigned Esper follows. With the Gambit System in place on screen clutter isn't so much of a problem 
 and the game becomes very manageable. Plus, the Gambit System just makes this game feel that much 
 more like Final Fantasy XII.
  
  Unlike many RTS games out there this is a very simplified formula. Gone are the tasks of constantly 
 building forts, headquarters, and taking over an enemy building. Such tedious tasks would become 
 too cumbersome if included in this game. On that note, gone too are some of the traditional RPG 
 aspects you might have come to expect from Final Fantasy as well. Keeping track of MP (Magic Points) 
 and HP (Hit Points) are no longer an issue with the "rock, paper, scissors" format. Each character 
 has an energy bar and once it's depleted they are knocked out. Some battles have something called 
 a Soul Crystal that is similar to a Summoning Gate. Once one of your group leaders is knocked out, 
 if you have a Soul Crystal, your leader will re-spawn from there and be able to continue the battle. 
 The enemy has Soul Crystals as well so you have to destroy it to keep them from re-spawning all 
 while protecting your own. The enemy will try to destroy your Soul Crystal as well. If they are 
 successful then battles will become much more difficult and one-sided. It's hectic and challenging 
 but it's a lot of fun too.
  
  What FFXII: RW does is puts the focus on the characters themselves and the story. While not as 
 serious or convoluted as that of its big brother, the series of events are just as engaging and 
 emotionally charged. Make no mistake about it; this is not your little brother's Final Fantasy 
 game. The light-hearted nature of the game doesn't make this game any less of a challenge. There 
 is plenty of micro-managing present here but it's more along the lines of what you might be familiar 
 with if you have played Final Fantasy Tactics over your standard RTS. Collecting items and treasures 
 are a big part of this game as is making new weapons with bones and metals and other items you 
 come across in battle. 
  
  Nintendo's handheld has shown it has a lot more graphical prowess than most give it credit for. 
 Never has that been truer than with this game. Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings features the most 
 amazing cinematics yet on the DS. Square Enix shows it truly is the master of cut scenes with some 
 beautiful renderings and top quality work. The graphical style is a little more on the cartoon 
 side than that of Final Fantasy XII. The characters look more like something out of Final Fantasy 
 IX than the realistic approach of the original game. In-game graphics are very colorful and pleasant 
 to the eye as well. The characters are all 2D sprites against an isometric 3D backdrop. Each character's 
 avatar reflects the style of the cut scenes during dialogue but the graphical style is something 
 more familiar to Final Fantasy Tactics Advance. It's a great blend of warm and friendly presentation 
 that gives the game a feeling that's very welcoming. The game keeps the player in the world of 
 Ivalice even more with the inclusion of most of the music from Final Fantasy XII. Altered slightly 
 in that same light-hearted feel, you'll find yourself humming along with the tunes as you play 
 through the game. Sadly, the great voice acting is not present in this game but that's understandable 
 due to the limitations of the DS. 
  
  All in all this is a fantastic game that is very well done on the DS. Real Time Strategy games 
 have come to the DS before but Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings really hits the nail on the head 
 here. The folks at Square Enix seem to realize that the DS is not a PC and have taken certain liberties 
 with the RTS gaming style to adjust to the different format. In combining the familiar style of 
 Final Fantasy with Real Time Strategy we are presented with a fun game and an engaging story that 
 will keep you glued to your DS for hours. Fans of War Craft and Final Fantasy looking for a great 
 game on the go need look no further than here. Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings is a near perfect 
 balance of RPG, strategy, and style.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingJord
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  
  This is one of the first genre benders that really works.
  
  Is it an RTS? No. Is it an RPG? Maybe.
  
  I see it as an RPG with RTS-like gameplay, a ton 
 of action and just enough thinking. 
  
  The first few missions are easy and straight-forward. The in-game tutorials get you right into 
 things. They do a good job of showing you (almost) everything you need to know.
  
  Basically, you get five "leaders" each with their own little army of summons. You can command units 
 individually, but you're going to be moving them around in groups more often than anything. Each 
 leader has a type - and their starting summons will match their type. The four types are melee, 
 ranged, flying and healing. The standard setup that you will have little choice to change for the 
 first half of the game is 1 melee, 2 flying, 1 healing and 1 ranged. It's a good combination. 
 
  
  The gameplay feels very balanced. True to Final Fantasy, there is an aspect of leveling up. The 
 world map and the airship serve as a hub from which you can either continue on with the main mission, 
 do side missions or just do "melee" fights which are straight-forward level clears.
  
  Storyline missions are good at changing things up - some are "standard," some have summoning (spawning 
 more units) while others require you to complete the level with the units you're given. Some involve 
 killing enemy leaders or vast numbers of enemy units while others require you to complete some 
 objective, like saving NPCs or acquiring certain treasure. Some levels are easy and straightforward, 
 and others are very challenging. There are some boss fights that will make you rethink your strategy 
 more than once before you're successful.
  
  The side missions are just as interesting and varied as the main mission, which is a real benefit 
 because it adds a lot of side-story and action.
  
  The melees come in three forms - monster melee, leader melee and summons melee. Monster melee and 
 leader melee require you to use the units that you start with to clear them map. Maps with summons 
 mean that both you and the enemy will be respawning, so there is pressure to push their nodes.
 
  
  The story is good for the platform. One drawback is that it's hard to enjoy the emotion on the 
 players' faces because you can barely see them in the in-the-action cutscenes. The actual video 
 cutscenes, on the other hand, are beautiful.
  
  The gameplay is fun. There are always elements to consider - Fire units work well against units 
 with weakness to fire, but those units are often water units which can then deal heavy damage TO 
 your fire units. There is always something to consider when setting up before the next mission.
 
  
  The crafting system is fun, but it would have been nice to be able to craft something other than 
 just weapons. You get materials from your adventures and you can use them. If you're missing a 
 material or two, there is a shop that sells materials. There is also a weapons and armor shop where 
 you can purchase upgrades and sell your excess.
  
  The one gameplay problem is that the units are occasionally stupid - I've lost quite a few missions 
 because some of my units had pathing problems and decided to find a way around - right through 
 enemies! Also, micromanagement can get extremely tedious in some tight situations. The control 
 setup is usually very good, though, and these issues are forgivable.
  
  I gave this game a 9.0 (and I am very reserved about giving such a rating) . It is extremely good 
 value - a ton of gameplay variation, a great new take on a tired genre and at least 20-30 hours 
 of alleviated boredom. If you're a fan of FF, or a fan or RTS, or just looking for something new 
 and fresh, I suggest grabbing a copy of Revenant Wings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 12 Revenant Wings for the DS
  
  Good: Good Cutscenes, Controls work well
  
  Bad: Boring Gameplay, Sprites are quiet blurry and not sharp at all, the game is quiet repetitive
 
  
  Gameplay 6/10- This game has a somewhat different gameplay then the last game and its more like 
 a tactics game where you choose where to attack and you control 5 main characters on the screen 
 and such, but with no really stratagy needed but pure power this gameplay is BORING! Its fun for 
 a bit but gets real repetitive and just plan dull. 
  
  Graphics 7/10- Cutscenes are well done for the DS, but the animation sprites look horrible. Maybe 
 this is the DS fault but nothings sharp in this game, its all blurry and dull looking, At least 
 the characters look a bit like they did. The same sprite image of them also appears with no detail 
 in there expressions nothing just 1 still image the whole game, major downer.
  
  Sound 9/10- This is probly the only thing in this game that does go well. The music is all music 
 from the PS2 FF12, so since that game was so great, its only natural this game would have the same 
 presentation. Sadly 0 voice overs. 
  
  Storyline 6/10- Another stail save the world from an e-mail lord. These plots just suck! We need 
 new material and theres only a bit of character developement. Some characters change completly 
 like Vaan, as others like Balthier stay there normal good self. The plots very dull, so don't expect 
 much. FF12 PS2 was deep so some hated it, this one is the opposite with like boring 12 year old 
 material. 
  
  Extra's and Replay Value 7/10- If you get a kick out of leveling up well the game offers a challange 
 all the way to level 99 with lots of extra quests to do from the main story. Thankfully they add 
 some depth to the already boring story.
  
  Overall 69 out of 100 for a 7/10
  This game overall was a horrible sequel. It was ment not to be a sequel so it makes sense, but 
 this game goes from ps2 ff12 solid graphics, in depth story to this ugly boring piece of garbage 
 we call a game. I don't recommand this game bash me if you will, but for anyone expecting high 
 hopes for the Final Fantasy Title don't expect it for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII finally has been ported to the DS, and boy does it look and play great! After 
 the Final Fantasy III mediocrity (to me it was bad, sorry) , my vision of FF changed, and I didn't 
 really pay attention to the series. However, I decided to give FF another chance, and I couldn't 
 believe what a gold mine Final Fantasy was!
  
  Graphics: Ok, it has some cut-scenes that have some really awesome and clear graphics, which makes 
 you wonder when the next video cut scene is going to appear. Apart from that, the main graphics 
 (where the game plays) looks fantastically designed. It's that sort of Golden Sun GBA graphics 
 with a touch of DS 3D and some Final Fantasy magic. Some missions will have you literally drooling 
 because of their beauty. On another note, the character sprites could have been a little better 
 designed, but they aren't that bad nonetheless. 9/10
  
  Sound: Hehe, that 'Mission Complete' sound has been around for literally decades, and practically 
 any gamer recognizes it. Fear not, as it has been included in this game as well, since no Final 
 Fantasy game is complete without it! FFXII has some great themes, be it fighting or saving, or 
 simply wandering the continent of Lemurs. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: Innovative. Yes, many people thought an RPG similar to FFIII would be ported, but instead, 
 a RTS (Real Time Strategy) game has awoken and it works! You have your characters and Espers (kind 
 of pets that fight with you) fighting at the same time, and the goodness is that instead of a turn 
 based fighting game (which I think wouldn't go well here) , you can have, for example, Vaan battling 
 a bunch of enemies while Filo captures a summoning port! 9/10
  
  Replay Value: This game doesn't feature multiplayer, surprisingly! Yep, it's a 1 player game only, 
 which lowers the replay value score. However, you have TONS of missions to complete and the story 
 will last you around 45 hours - and no, I'm not joking! I don't think even Pokemon equals this 
 kind of main story longness, despite being highly replayable. Weapons, gold, items, locations, 
 etc - all are waiting to be discovered and found, and you are the one that can unlock all this. 
 8/10
  
  Resuming, Final Fantasy XII is one of the best DS games around, be it due to it's beautiful graphics, 
 nostalgic sound, or simply a great RTS gameplay. It has a very high replay value due to it's missions, 
 and trust me - this is a game that you won't give up for a very long time. Recommended for all!
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arline6
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  This game has great cutscene like you are in a cinema. The type of game playing is like Lost Magic 
 that you call on monsters (Espers) to fight for you. The story is very good to follow. The story 
 is consists into chapters with different missions to complete to continue. The graphic is excellent 
 along with the cutscene. Well, it does get confusing since you controlling espers and leaders (characters) 
 moving around to fight bad sky pirates. The background is beautiful well drawn. If you are FF fan 
 that wants a different approach playing Final Fantasy, may this game you should buy and try it 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboboklashaur
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  RTS gameplay and a Final Fantasy game. Those things you'd think wouldn't really go together, right? 
 Well I didn't either, and then I picked up FFXII: Revenant Wings and I was proven wrong.
  
  The game takes place right after the events in FFXII on the PS2. There's quite a bit of tutorials 
 at the beginning, but it's an easy game to catch onto, and it's really very addicting. Normally 
 with DS games I can only play in little bursts, but I could play this game all day, and this is 
 the first game in a long long time that has made me want to play for as long a period of time in 
 a row.
  
  The sounds are familiar, the cutscenes look really good, and the graphics are pretty good. You 
 can have a lot of people on screen at one time and there's no slowdown at all. The only problem 
 is if you're trying to hit a specific person when they're all in a big group, it can be pretty 
 difficult to highlight just that one character, but other than that it's a very fun game with a 
 good story. I recommend if you need a new DS game to keep your attention for quite a while, pick 
 this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilled_Ice
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Ah Final Fantasy, one of the only game franchises that reviewers dance around because the fanbase 
 is armed with sword and the power to cast Firaga at you with a can of Axe and a lighter. The other 
 fanbase is Halo, but we aren't here to talk about that game, thank god, we're here to talk about 
 a sequel to one of the best Fantasies, "Final Fantasy XII". 
  
  Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings for the DS takes place 2 years after the first game where the 
 main hero, Vaan, and his "fellow sky pirate" Penelo meet up with the "leading man" Balthier and 
 "playmate... er... Viera" Fran to search for the Cache of Glabados. This being said, like any other 
 Final Fantasy, the first hour of the game has a character doing something that sparks this huge 
 adventure. And that is all you really need to start an adventure. Take some treasure, find a ship, 
 come across a new land and make new friends, what more could a sky pirate want?
  
  Fans of the first game will find themselves at home with this game as places like Rabanastre, Giza 
 Plains and the Dalmascan Estersands make an appearance. And friends from the previous installment 
 also return. Gamers that didn't play the first game should have no trouble jumping into a story 
 just as easy as the veterans. 
  
  That being said, the characters in this game really become likable as in the previous game I didn't 
 like Vaan because he lacked personality. Of course, he completely redeems himself in this game. 
 And I will just say that the storyline is a joy to go through except if you skim through the story, 
 you are liable to miss an important story point that will likely confuse you if you miss it. 
 
  
  The gameplay is really nice. Fights are epic and the control takes an hour to get used to. I do 
 have one complaint: My monsters that I could conjure up often would disobey orders by not attacking 
 or they would run into each other and get stuck. While it wouldn't seem like a big deal, this can 
 sometimes lead to a very hefty defeat. 
  
  The graphics in this game are phenomenal. While it is a pixelized adventure in a 3-D world, I have 
 to ask myself why Square Enix didn't take this approach with Final Fantasy III? It would've looked 
 nice. But they can redeem themselves with Final Fantasy IV. Quickenings are very nice. The CG animations, 
 while few and far between, are nice and the in-game cutscenes are well executed as they make the 
 story longlasting.
  
  As for being a Final fantasy fan, my first thought would've been to shrug this game off and consider 
 it a non-canonical side adventure. But elements in this game show that it has connections to other 
 games like Final Fantasy Tactics and Final Fantasy Tactics Advance with monsters, locations and 
 characters.
  
  The sound in this game is also real nice and recycled from the PS2 music. While someone would think 
 that recycled music isn't a good thing, this game tends to pull it off with flying colors and tends 
 to always have music to fit the mood of the situation. 
  
  If you want a game that will take up an entire airplane ride or just for a long "Sit on the couch 
 for long time" game, this is a perfect game for those people that like long games. And hey, it 
 even has side missions making this game stretch over an astounding 20 hours. How's that for portable 
 gaming? Now you'll have to excuse me, I have an esper to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EffixC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  OK, no matter how someone think 'bout FFXII, it is still one of the best game on PS2. And no matter 
 what you consider Square Enix as, a company only knows to make more money? This sequel for FFXII, worths 
 everything.
  
  Square Enix of course is a game company which need enough cash to continue their game developing 
 tasks. So they chose DS, the hottest platform, to make a sequel for FFXII. Since DS's feature is so 
 special, FFXII-Revenant Wings is made as a RTS game, no ARPG, no RPG, just RTS-Real Time Strategy.
 
  
  Most features of FFXII are kept in RW. Like the BGM, the Esper, the Gambit - many, oh, of course the 
 characters. But all got some changes. Like we can only set one Gambit for one character.
  
  RW is developed by Think & Feel Inc, know less 'bout this company, but their style is - tiny. All 
 characters look so small in the screen!! So when the screen moves closer, we can see many big mosaic...
 
  
  Except the too-poor screen, other seem just alright. I now enjoy the brand new world in Ivalice, and 
 hope I can make a 100% save. -- For such type of game, to get a 100% game save is the most important 
 part, right? For me it is...
  
  BTW, just can't understand FFXII Zodiac International version, why only released in Japan? SE thought 
 other players outside Japan won't be interested in it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel1130113
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot, I've played for hours and it's really easy to understand and the controls 
 in touch mode are easy to understand. The plot of the story fits perfectly to its previous game 
 FFXII. The only thing that I found annoying in the game is that sometimes in times of battle you 
 need control of your units, and sometimes you can get a bit stuck in controling many units, but 
 the rest of it is great. If your a Final Fantasy fan, it's a great game, and if youre a F. F. hater, 
 try the game first and you might change opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikastar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  I had doubts about picking up this game. I still had the horrors of Heroes of Mana fresh in my 
 mind. Another RTS game didn't seem like the smart thing to spend my money on. However, I am a Final 
 Fantasy fan so I decided to take a chance on this game. It was well worth the risk because this 
 game is amazingly fun.
  
  The story starts a year after the events in Final Fantasy XII. Characters are the same but Revenant 
 Wings doesn't require you to have played FFXII to understand what is going on. The dialog is interesting 
 and doesn't drone on forever. The characters have depth and humor.
  
  Gameplay is a mix of RTS and RPG. Units are separated into melee, ranged and flying. You have packs 
 of summoned espers that help you battle. These espers can be assigned to a leader which will allow 
 you to send in the proper group to the monster you want killed. Tabs at the top of the screen allow 
 you to select one group at a time. This comes in handy when you have melee, ranged, and flying 
 monsters attacking you all at once.
  Customization and strategy comes in to play at the beginning of each mission, you can choose what 
 leaders and espers would work the best to defeat the enemies you will be facing. Like other final 
 fantasy titles you can find and purchase equipment for your leaders.
  
  It is really hard to explain this game in words alone. I'm not finished with the game yet but it 
 is definitely one of the better games I have played. The gameplay is different then anything else 
 available on the DS. I recommend this game for any final fantasy fan as well as anyone looking 
 for a unique, entertaining story and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud30236
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I will say this for the game, it's fun, it's very fun. The story (as far as I am) is interesting, 
 the forge your own weapon is kinda cool, and the fact that the aegyl is a glorified dragoon. Also 
 the cut scenes are cool both graphically and interesting. Plus the variety of summons you can get. 
 Not to mention how addictive it can get at times.
  Yet at the same time I have to throw caution to the wind: Game play, is what kinda killed me a 
 little. It awesome controlling an army led by the characters from XII, but the stylus controls 
 just seems a awkward. Also, when there is a lot of units on the screen, it begins to lag (but it's 
 resolved when you kill enough of the enemy) .
  Despite a few shortcomings, this is a great game to pick up, especially if you're like me and love 
 the Final Fantasy series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plaxz2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings is the latest Final fantasy game to hit the Nintendo ds (In North 
 America) . After the events of the PS2 hit, Final Fantasy XII, Vaan, Penelo and other familiar faces 
 is back to save the world, and to bring back peace to Ivalice and the Sky Continent.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is somewhat different from any strategy game you've played. So if you're thinking 
 a FFT like battle system, well, this time it's like a RTS. While you still gain experience points, 
 equip weapons, etc., the battle is like a typical RTS. 
  
  Controls:
  the contrls is very easy and simple. You select units by tapping them or select multiple units by 
 dragging your stylus across the screen like you would in a PC RTS game but you use a stylus this 
 time. By pressing L/R buttonsyou can switch between the top and bottom screen. And the directional 
 pad to view the map. It's addictive and very clever since FFXII battle system is different from 
 the previous FF titles, FFXII: RW is also different from other strategy games.
  
  Sounds:
  the audio is great. there are no voice acting but the sound effects is very good.
  
  Graphics:
 
  not as stunning as the original FFXII, but FFXII: RW is very cute. The character is 2D sprite based 
 but the environment is full 3d. You really got to see it in action to appreciate the visuals of 
 this game.
  
  Value:
  I'm pretty sure this is a 20hours game but it has a lot of replay value mainly because the battles 
 are so addictive you'll want to battle again and again. Also the NA version of the game has a bonus 
 dungeon and increased difficulty. No multiplayer support but still a solid game. 
  
  OVERALL:
  I think Square Enix has done it again with Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings. Epic battles, 
 big bosses, good story, unforgettable characters and an addictive gameplay. This is one Final Fantasy 
 you shouldn't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedemery82
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This title starts out quick and has beautiful screens, as to be expected from a final fantasy game. 
 Some of the controls are a little wonky, and doesnt flow as smoothly as other RTS games i have 
 played. They have integrated the touch pad well, better than FF3 remake anyways. The music is good 
 and the gameplay..... well i dont know about the gameplay. The game play is kind of scattered. 
 
  
  If you like final fantasy then go for it but as for the attempt at a RTS i think it might be lacking, 
 Blizzard does it best for me in the RTS catagory, but final fantasy empire knows good Rpg, as you 
 can see i am conflicted and that is the bottom line, maybe its a major accomplishment maybe not, 
 but it is the second best title on the DS so far. 
  
  I have been playing this series since i was a child so i will allways rate it up in order to keep 
 them bringing about more titles.
  
  soo i played into the game some more, and i ended up really likeing the story line and the controls, 
 i say rate this puppy up as the best game to come out for the DS to date!! The ghrapics are great 
 pixalated at times, but the crafting questions are absolutely zaney!! and the charectars are all 
 unique and fun to play, and the espers are funky little creatures, i think ultima may be my favorite! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  
  I wasn't going to buy this game. I was still playing through the latest FF on the PSP, as well 
 as Disgaea, possibly the longest turn-based strategy rpg ever made, but my mind was changed by 
 two things:
  1) I'd heard the graphics were stunning, and the controls were not difficult or fustrating at all, 
 and
  2) although the game is a series of set battles, you can revisit to grind up your character levels, 
 and find new gear or materials to forge new gear.
  
  So, I bit the bullet, shelled out the simoleans, and held my breath as the opening sequence appeared 
 on the screens.....
  
  ... and I haven't been able to put it down since. Disgaea can wait. This game is fantastic.
  
 
  I'm not exactly an expert at RTS... I enjoyed Starcraft, but any monkey can master those controls, 
 right? After Lost Magic frustrated the crap out of me, I figured it was impossible to enjoy RTS 
 without a mouse and keyboard to control the armies.
  
  I was wrong. This game keeps the pace slow enough that you aren't overwhelmed trying to control 
 your troops, but fast enough that battles are exciting and genuinely fun to play.
  
  Yes, there are a few frustrating battles early on, but that was usually a result of either 
  
 a) not levelling up sufficiently (usually only one or two extra levels was necessary)
  b) not having the correct troop types set up (the standard fire/water/earth/lightning weaknesses 
 and attacks are in play here) for the battle at hand
  c) not figuring out how to actually play the game, which doesn't take a lot of time.
  
  One 
 early exception to this was a stealth mission, that pretty much requires you to be wearing a particular 
 pair of boots, and also requires you to run like hell right past most of the troops instead of 
 sneaking around them.
  Other than that one mission, the rest are easily figured out with a moment's surveying of where 
 and what the enemies on a map are.
  
  The strategy component is relatively minor here, but still significant, since the same battle could 
 either be an easy victory or a humiliating defeat if you don't pay attention to the enemy strengths 
 and weaknesses before and during battle. Basically, the  
 archer system is in play, so its a matter of sending in the proper troops to take out the bad guys 
 at particular locations on the map. The AI isn't all that bright most of the time, but some fun 
 can still be had since this means it is possible to send out a decoy troop to their army, and lure 
 some of them back to your main force waiting in ambush. 
  
  In the end, FF-XII turns out to be a very entertaining RTS with RPG elements (level grinding, item 
 forging, etc) , without being a frustrating exercise in troop management. A lot of fun for the 30 
 or so hours it takes to get through the main quest and all the side quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Lostmagic may be loved by a select group of fans, but it was all sorts of frustrating for me. IGN 
 may have rated Heroes of Mana highly, and though it does do a much better job of being a playable 
 RTS than Lostmagic, it too didn't quite hit the spot for me. Now comes Final Fantasy XII: Revenant 
 Wings, and this hybrid RTS / RPG finally does what neither of those two or any other DS RTSes have 
 yet been able to do for me: be fun. 
  
  As I see it, an RTS on the DS faces two main obstacles: good AI and a practical interface. Neither 
 order seems easy to fill on the DS because of the system's apparent restrictions, but Square-Enix 
 has, I believe, done as good a job as any game maker can for the genre. The AI doesn't get stuck 
 (much) , it goes where you command it, and it isn't totally useless. Healers heal, casters cast, 
 and fighters excel in speed, allowing them to be first to the battle. 
  
  The interface  perhaps the hardest kink to work out in an RTS on this system  finally works on 
 the DS. You'll have your main party (for the most part, five main leader characters) to command, 
 as well as espers / yahri (summons) . You can easily select all team members by pressing the X-button, 
 and select individual team members by pressing on a tab icon located on the top-left of the touch 
 screen. Deselecting members is just as easy, using either an X-tab located on the top-right of 
 the screen, or by merely pressing the B-button. And that right there will be the bulk of your battle 
 commands. 
  
  The game, of course, allows for leader members to use "magicks" and "gambits." I've yet to play 
 the first Final Fantasy XII for the PS2, but I have heard of the infamous gambit system. Here it 
 simply means assigning a particular magick or skill to a character for them to perform automatically. 
 In an RTS, that's what you want; it's streamlined and painless. 
  
  The gameplay also includes the "rock, paper, scissors" system, familiar to most RPGs. Melee units 
 are weak against flying, flying against ranged, ranged against melee. In the heat of battle, that 
 mainly translates to sending in leaders (who have the right espers for the job) that can best combat 
 a particular type of enemy  again, simple and straight-forward. 
  
  On the production frontthis is a Square-Enix game, so you probably already anticipate greatness. 
 If that's what you were expecting, then you won't be disappointed. However, the character / monster 
 sprites are still hard to swallow against the game's beautiful 3-D environments. No matter, the 
 sprites are cute enough and considering all the action going on onscreen  and the fact that there's 
 almost never any slowdown  2-D sprites are pretty much the way to go. Additionally, there's cutscene 
 after cutscene of gorgeous CGI video. Actually, the beginning of the game throws a ton of it at 
 you, but then the gameplay pretty much takes over. It's a great approach to easing players into 
 the story and world of the game. 
  
  The sound effects are pretty good. The main appeal for me is the text-scroll; if it's not annoying, 
 I'm pleased. But other sound effects are just okay. The music, however, is the traditional, charming 
 Final Fantasy fare, and it certainly helps to lull fans right into the rest of what Revenant Wings 
 has to offer. 
  
  The game's quite beefy, and the story is a fun, albeit unoriginal, romp. There's no multiplayer 
 that I'm aware of, but the mission set is quite vast and you can redo missions as often as you 
 like, allowing you to both level-grind and collect more material (for making new items) . The story 
 and dialogue are entertaining, and the hub construct is awesome. You can go back to your ship pretty 
 much anytime before or after a mission, and then select from there how to proceed. Missions are 
 a nice slice for gaming on the go, and generally speaking, the game does a bang-up job of being 
 accessible to any and all DS owners. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown_tim
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I am giving this game a 10 marks because I could not get the slider to 9.8.... Anyway, this game 
 has great game play feature, good graphics, the difficulty is right and I think this is the best 
 in the series so far! I have been playing this game ever since I have gotten it and I can't stop.... For 
 Final Fantasy haters or people who don't really like Final Fantasy, your opinion will change after 
 playing this game!! After playing this game, I can't wait for the other Final Fantasy series for 
 the Nintendo DS to be released after translation!! People who have this game are with me, am I right? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: especensor
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings is the newest final fantasy game for the NDS. Its got a unique 
 new control scheme that plays more like an RTS game but still has the familiar leveling up, skills 
 and spells that you're used to.
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay is completely different from the Final Fantasy games that your used to. 
 Its almost completely like an RTS. You select units by tapping them or select multiple units by 
 dragging your stylus across the screen like you would in a PC RTS game. It is easy to just select 
 a character and choose a spell or select a spell/skill to be auto-cast the moment its cool-down 
 wears off. But most of all, its that the gameplay works and is actually fun to use.
  
  Graphics: Perhaps the best graphics I've seen on a DS game so far. While the characters are still 
 2D sprite based, the whole over world is 3D and the spells that you cast are generally all in 3D. 
 Its got lots of detail to everything. You'll be amazed that at times that such graphics can even 
 be possible on a DS. But it is. The Graphics in this game will not disappoint.
  
  Sound: The sound is also done extremely well. Its got a great variety of music for a lot of different 
 situations and a lot of sound effects to boot. The music is definitely on par with most of the 
 best.
  
  Value: The value probably isn't that much. It really depends whether you want to continue playing 
 the game or not. You're able to go back and play all the levels and stages that you've beaten. 
 So if you want, you can go back and play all the stages you've enjoyed, but there isn't THAT much 
 incentive to go back and play the game again.
  
  So Overall, another solid Final Fantasy title. Its got a unique control scheme that works with 
 excellent graphics and sound to boot. Its a must have for your DS collection. Its quite import 
 friendly as long as you don't care about the story. So if you want, import it now or at least definitely 
 get it when its out in the US. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waleywu_basic
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Even as a PSP owner, I am at awe with the graphics on this. Definitely a must have title for all 
 FF fans as well as RGP fans.
  
  I am still in the beginning of this game. Just down battling Ifrit.
  This is a FFXII game, if 
 you played PS2 version, the character will be the same. Nothing out of place there
  
  GamePlay:
  
  If you have played FF tactics, the monsters and character design should be instantly 
 familiar to you. They look good. You use your Stylus to select your group of heros, much like playing 
 a RTS game. the highlighting aspect is not really responsive, so you might find yourself repeating 
 what you're doing a few times.
  
  The battling system is like a RTS game as well. However, the game moves in a more relaxed mode, 
 so you won't have to go nuts over controls.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Absolutely stunning for a DS game, This is definitely one of the most beautiful DS games out there. 
 Character design is good, environment looks good, Bosses look much bigger than you, giving you 
 the 'epic' battle feel to it.
  
  Sounds:
  
  It sounds GOOD, after playing Pokemon Diamond, this feel like day and night comparing to Pokemon. 
 No complains here.
  
  Value:
  
  Great value, easily a 20 hours game.
  
  If you speak Japanese, this is a must have for all DS fans. My only complain is, the game is a 
 bit on the easy side, so you won't feel like you accomplished something special after beating a 
 boss. But on the bright side, you don't have to replay a boss over and over again. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
