-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/fireemblemds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addictive gameplay with plenty of strategic depth.
 Full tactical control of your army.
 Very challenging, but not unforgiving.
 Multiplayer matches and unit borrowing increase replayability.
 Good visual face-lift.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Artificial restrictions are a little annoying.
 Most new recruits are more vulnerable than your regulars.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  3, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 354 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Intelligent Sys.
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Feb 16, 2009
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon rejuvenates Marth's 18-year-old journey with tactical dexterity and finesse. 
 

  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon is a remake of the first game in the Fire Emblem series, which until 
 now has never been released outside of Japan. It successfully emphasizes strategic depth and replayability 
 by including numerous tactical control options and new multiplayer features. It's also immensely 
 challenging, though not unmerciful, providing a forgiving learning curve through new tutorials 
 that appear in the new prologue sequence. Great stylus controls and refined visuals further enhance 
 the gameplay, making this classic a highly satisfying and intense journey.  

  You're cast as Marth, the young prince of Altea, who is thrust into battle when a political ally 
 assassinates his father. He soon discovers that the evil shadow dragon supposedly defeated by one 
 of his ancestors is now enslaving the land. Swearing vengeance, Marth embarks on a quest to free 
 the people and kill the shadow dragon. Though the plot is occasionally confusing, a sophisticated 
 translation and a new prologue segment explain the events.  

           Maneuver allies on an expansive grid-based battlefield...      

  Combat occurs on 
 an impressively large grid-based battlefield. The top-down view is displayed on the bottom screen 
 and is littered with shops, castles, and tiny villages that you can conveniently visit mid-battle, 
 which is advantageous, because it means you don't have to wait for intermissions between battles 
 to manage your army. The field contains multiple terrain types, such as water and forests, which 
 promotes strategic play, because the different terrains affect your army's movement range. The 
 top screen houses a useful map detailing the position of all units, friend or foe, along with valuable 
 character information that is vital to planning your battles, because the intelligent AI keeps 
 you on your toes. The stylus controls are comfortable and precise, enabling you to quickly scroll 
 through the battlefield and cycle through units with a simple tap of the stylus -- a feature many 
 strategy RPGs struggle to incorporate well.  

  The turn-based battle system is simplistic, but it challenges you to strategically position allies 
 so you can attack without being immediately eliminated. Battle initiates a combat sequence in which 
 a pleasing, 3D-styled graphical representation of the fight is displayed on the top screen. The 
 winner is usually determined by a basic weapon triangle that functions as a rock-paper-scissors 
 mechanic. For example, lances best swords, while axes best lances. There aren't many special attacks 
 or tricks implemented to modernize combat, but the action remains thrilling because of key dialogue 
 events, pivotal on-the-spot plot decisions you're forced to make, and the valuable soldier recruiting 
 you perform on the field. These important decisions and events greatly enliven the experience, 
 while new recruits are an invaluable resource because they further the story and bulk up your army. 

  The game is incredibly addictive due to its strategic depth and ability to keep you thinking ahead. 
 Fire Emblem's units suffer permanent death, which forces you to carefully consider every tactical 
 maneuver you make. This system is rarely frustrating, because it's appropriately counterbalanced 
 by a handful of save points on each map, which you'll have to closely ration because each point 
 can be used only once. Enemy reinforcements also apply constant pressure and make it more challenging 
 to figure out which units you need to take into battle at the outset.  

           and then take a ringside seat as the battles play out.      

  An array of satisfying 
 tactical options gives you complete control of your army. And an organized, easy-to-use battle 
 preparation screen, where you purchase goods, modify weapons, manage inventory, and change a unit's 
 class, is key to success and encourages you to play strategically even off the battlefield. There 
 are more than 30 classes available, including pegasus knights and sorcerers, which provides an 
 interesting variety. You're also given a preview of the next map as well as all enemy units already 
 positioned on the field, which lets you view their weapons and make adjustments before jumping 
 into the fray. This is invaluable, because the outcomes of battles are often determined by the 
 participating units' weapon choices. Though this high level of micromanagement could easily overwhelm 
 you, the tutorials do a good job of easing you into the gameplay.  

  Battles offer a compelling challenge, but the game is rarely punishing. If you're suffering serious 
 unit losses and can't progress, you have the option to enter a new side chapter to recruit more 
 soldiers. You also want to keep an eye out for special arenas, where you can enter units to score 
 much-needed experience and cash. Though the normal difficulty is sufficiently challenging without 
 crippling you, there is just one caveat: Most new recruits begin at a much lower level in comparison 
 to the rest of the team. This becomes a hassle because there are few opportunities to train your 
 weaker units, which makes losing your more-experienced regulars exasperating.  

  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon's substantial multiplayer component spans both multicard wireless and 
 the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Both types restrict you to a five-unit squad, which makes for speedier 
 fights, but unfortunately you're restricted to just one game type. Appropriate level matching is 
 also sorely missing. Outside of battling, local wireless allows you to borrow units from friends 
 for your single-player campaign, which could be a potential lifesaver if you're stuck. Similarly, 
 you can borrow units and battle with anyone over the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, though a real highlight 
 is your access to a special armory with prized gear. Battling online with friends allows you to 
 talk to one another via the DS's microphone, which is a neat feature that many games overlook. 

           The visual overhaul allows you to better appreciate that Gharnef is a gnarly old bad guy. 

  The game is much more visually refined than its Famicom incarnation. The 2D battlefields showcase 
 highly detailed terrain and sprites, while classy, hand-drawn artwork enhances both cutscenes and 
 character portraits. The 2D attack animations are superbly animated in a 3D-rendered style; however, 
 they do sacrifice intricate detailing for smooth motion. The music, which provides a fitting backdrop 
 for intense battles, is a little dated but carries the action well.  

  You should be able to complete all of the game's 25 chapters in roughly 20 hours, but you can expect 
 to spend an additional hour or two mastering key fights. An unbelievably difficult "hard" mode 
 is also included to encourage another play through, while the multiplayer modes should prove to 
 be fun diversions. Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon may be a straightforward traditional strategy RPG, 
 but there's beauty in its stark simplicity. If you're looking for a challenging and rewarding strategy 
 game, Fire Emblem is a very good candidate.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: digitaltiger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon is a remake of the first Fire Emblem Game. It's a SRPG but unlike most 
 SRPG's when one of your characters dies they stay dead. This makes every move you make on the field 
 of battle very important and tactical. The game overall is quite simple, you are in control of 
 a army of freedom fighters and your goal is to liberate your old kingdom and others from a evil 
 wizard and the shadow dragon. You go on mission after mission defeating one area after another 
 until you free your kingdom and destroy the forces of evil. 
  
  At the beginning of most missions you organize your army for the up coming battle then begin. The 
 objective of most battles is to get Prince Marth your armies leader to the end bosses location 
 and defeat the boss then seize that location. The actual combat is turn based and the battle field 
 is grid based. You get many different kinds of soldiers and recruit more and more as you progress 
 thru the game. This is important because you will lose many along the way as well. 
  
  Game Play: 9/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 8/10
  
  Overall: 7.5/10
  
  This 
 game took me 28 hours to finish, but I will play it again some day. It is very fun and makes you 
 think a lot about your strategies. The graphics are nothing great and there's not much character 
 interaction but its still a very good game and I enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii_NDS_Master
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:23 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this, I will just tell you about how good this game is. It has been a long time 
 since a Fire Emblem game came out that actually sticks to the original formula. This game is highly 
 addictive and you probably won't put it down for at least three hours. The story is pretty awkward 
 but Nintendo has never been known for making the best story ever. The dense atmosphere doesn't 
 really make you get in the story, but I I have said, Fire Emblem does not have the best story. 
 The gameplay is just like the old ones, controls feel pretty tight. The touch screen control is 
 all a big mess, but the D-pad works out great. Marth is the main character of this game and his 
 whole crew has the power to change their weapons, and they have a wide selection. Once you get 
 to about chapter five, it will get challenging, so if you are not a strategy gamer, I think you 
 should take it slowly on this game. Overall, this is one the best games on DS, but it's definitely 
 not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LDiablo123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Ive always liked this type of game ever since i played FF Tactics for PlayStation one. People say 
 its boring cause its a slow paced take turns moving your player game. However this does appeal 
 to people. The cool new addition to the series is the ability to press the start button during 
 your opponents turn and skip the long letting them move phase. One of the disappointing things 
 about this game is they should have added some of the new classes they had for like the sacred 
 stones and path of radiance. They keep you to some basic classes. I realize this is a remake but 
 that's the glory of a remake. You can add extra stuff. Like something cool they added to this one 
 was the ability to get online and buy new weapons and stuff. They claim it changes everyday but 
 only like 1 thing changes everyday. It has a list of some stuff like steel swords and spears but 
 they thrown in stuff like the "killing edge" and "wyrmslayer" so its worth it if you have a hard 
 boss coming up. Id say this game is a great game for on the go gamers. If you have a long car ride 
 or something like that, this game, to me, seems perfect for some thinking strategy gaming. Like 
 i usually say tho... at least give it a rental to see if you like it first before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slay_09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  It's been over four years since Nintendo launched their DS handheld, and since that time, Intelligent 
 Systems has developed two Advance Wars games for the DS, as well as three Fire Emblem games for 
 the GBA, GameCube and Wii. Now, at long last, Intelligent Systems gives us Fire Emblem Shadow Dragon 
 for a Nintendo's latest portable console. Does Shadow Dragon live up to the quality established 
 by Fire Emblem (GBA) and Fire Emblem Sacred Stones (GBA) ? The short answer is yes! 
  The first thing you'll notice about Shadow Dragon are the beautiful graphics and silky smooth animation. 
 The character sprites have a pre-rendered look to them reminiscent of Donkey Kong Country (SNES.) 
 The effect is that Shadow Dragon looks a bit more grown up compared to its GBA predecessors while 
 still retaining the feel of a proper Fire Emblem game. You'll also notice a handful of new classes, 
 as well as some changes made to returning classes. Among the new classes are: Hunter, which is 
 similar to an archer but with better attack and weaker defense, and the Ballastician, which is 
 a long range unit that very similar to the original ballistae units from the GBA Fire Emblem titles. 
 
  Shadow Dragon is also somewhat "smarter" than previous iterations of the series. Case in point, 
 there are no more "blade" type weapons (for instance, the Iron Blade and Steel Blade.) Blades were 
 very similar to swords except they offered slightly better attack while being heavier to wield. 
 They had limited use and appeal so they did not return for Shadow Dragon. Also, steel weapons in 
 general were somewhat limited in use compared to iron weapons -- iron weapons were lighter, cheaper, 
 more durable, and nearly as strong. In Shadow Dragon, steel weapons (and especially silver weapons) 
 have much more tangible advantages over iron weapons, so you probably won't find yourself still 
 using iron weapons late in the game. One unfortunate change is the fact that terrain bonuses are 
 greatly reduced compared to earlier titles. Forests offer only a 10% avoid bonus (reduced from 
 20%) while mountains offer a 20% avoid bonus (down from 40%.) In addition, the weapons triangle 
 has a far less dramatic effect in Fire Emblem, (in other words, if your sword wielder attacks an 
 axe wielder, the advantage you gain in terms of hit percentage and chance to dodge won't be as 
 great as it was in previous games.) The net effect of these changes is that your characters will 
 not be dodging nearly as many enemy strikes as they may have in previous games. 
  Another significant change is the game's emphasis (or lack thereof) on character development. Marth 
 is on a quest, and he interacts with a handful of other main characters, to be sure, but there 
 just isn't as much interaction between characters as compared to a game like Sacred Stones, which 
 featured a surprisingly deep and complex relationship between Eirika, Ephraim and Lyon. The story 
 is also unfortunately light on emotion. The most emotional part of the story involves Princess 
 Nyna and her conflicting feelings for an enemy general that saved her life. That's it. Twenty five 
 chapters, and that's pretty much all the emotion you'll get from the story.
  (On a side note, I would absolutely LOVE to see a Fire Emblem game on the DS that focused on Camus 
 and Nyna.)
  
  All things considered, Shadow Dragon is a Fire Emblem game, through and through. All the basic 
 elements are here... some minor elements have been removed, some new elements have been added. If 
 you enjoyed the previous Fire Emblem titles or enjoy strategy role playing games, Shadow Dragon 
 makes an excellent addition to your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem, a flagship Nintendo franchise, dates back to 1990, when the first game, "Fire Emblem: 
 Ankoku Ry to Hikari no Ken" (translated to "Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragons and the Blade of 
 Light") was released. For a NES game, it was heralded for its considerably deep plot and gameplay. 
 18 years and ten games later, the latest reincarnation, "Fire Emblem: Shin Ankoku Ry to Hikari 
 no Ken" ("Fire Emblem: New Shadow Dragons and the Blade of Light", or ridiculously titled "Fire 
 Emblem: SHADOW DRAGON" for us stupid Americans) is little more than an advanced remake of the original. 
 The graphics and music are enhanced to meet with today's standards; however, despite these improvements, 
 Shadow Dragon shows that the original game hasn't aged as well as some would like to think.
  
  Story: This game undoubtedly has the weakest story yet in a Fire Emblem game, a series renowned 
 for its involving plots and intriguing characters. Here's the skivvy: Marth (that's right, you 
 Smash-addicted intelligence-deprived monkeys, THIS is the one with Marth in it) is forced on the 
 run when his kingdom of Altea is attacked by the kingdom of Gra. After that... it all gets kind 
 of fuzzy. I think that you're expected to fight the "bad guys", and kill the eponymous Shadow Dragon, 
 Medeus, who has been resurrected by the twisted sorcerer Gharnef. Unlike other Fire Emblem games, 
 though, you're never given a full glance of the entire map, and it hardly gives you a chance to 
 identify with the other countries. It just feels like you're walking from place to place, fighting 
 battles just because you can. There's about three counties on your side, and for some reason, everyone 
 else in the fxcking world wants you dead. A bunch of names of countries are throne at you, as the 
 game says "THESE GUYS ARE BAD GUYS. YOU MUST DESTROY THEM." In this sense, the game is very very 
 vague as to just what is going on. Unlike previous (or maybe I should say later, considering this 
 is a remake) titles, there aren't as many cutscenes between the constant action. You get a few 
 blips of text on the overworld map, then are immediately sent to the preparations screen. Then 
 you're given a few more blips of text, then immediately enter battle. Then, if you're so lucky, 
 you may get a few more blips of actual plot before transitioning to the next chapter. Another big 
 problem I have with the game's story is its characters. You're given over 50 units, which is a 
 lot, even for a Fire Emblem game; most average around 40 units. And yet, numbers aren't everything; 
 other than about five of your units, they hardly have any character development whatsoever. Actually, 
 let me rephrase that; the five above hardly get any character development, whereas the rest have 
 ZERO character development, since you only get a few lines of text from them throughout the whole 
 game. A lack of support/base conversations leaves no room for characters to develop or bond, meaning 
 that they're just flat slabs. Occasionally, the game will throw about five characters at a time 
 at you, giving them no dialogue whatsoever. The big hook of Fire Emblem is that you connect with 
 each and every single one of the members of your army; it's a bit hard to do that when 90% of your 
 troops are faceless, one-dimensional drones. Even Marth, our valiant leader, is a cookie-cutter 
 hero; in fact, he fits the "I FIGHT FOR MY FRIENDS" persona far more than Ike does. No, I'm not 
 saying that every single protagonist of Fire Emblem character has been deep and provocative; however, 
 compared to characters like Hector and Ike, Marth is just flat out dull. The argument may be brought 
 up that "Oh, this is an old game; it's all right for it to have a limited story". The problem, 
 though, is that it doesn't take next-gen hardware to tell a god damn story; the stories written 
 on the walls of caves are more involving than this. Just look at Square Enix's earlier games; aside 
 from Final Fantasy I, they are all pretty involving with three-dimensional characters scattered 
 everywhere. It's true that not many sugar-hyped 5-year old American kids would have the patience 
 to be told a sweeping tale, but then again, this game was made in Japan for the Japanese. No, I 
 won't argue that all Japanese people are smarter than all American people; it's just... look at 
 our countries' respective tastes. The most popular games in Japan are RPGs, with deep stories and 
 fleshed out characters. The most popular games in America are FPS's, most of which (yes, I know 
 there are many exceptions, but I'm talking in the broad scope here) involve blowing shxt up with 
 no explanation other than because you have to blow shxt up. RPGs need stories to keep the gamer 
 involved; more action-fueled games don't, as the gamer will usually be more concerned about chopping 
 apart his enemy than as to WHY he's chopping apart his enemy. Now to be fair, the plot picks up 
 a bit near the end. However, the depth and intrigue of the plot here is the likes of which you'd 
 find in the beginning of better Fire Emblem games (or better RPG games for that matter) , which 
 isn't exactly a good sign. Overall, the story is silly and the characters are unmemorable and stupid.
 
  
  Gameplay: This is one area where the game has aged relatively well: the gameplay. Like most tactical/strategy 
 RPGs, you command a group of units that you move once per turn, attacking enemy units, healing 
 your allies, or using items. There's really not much to say here; it's fun, challenging, addicting, 
 and will let you forget the idiotic plot. A few gripes I have, though, is that the game is lacking 
 many innovations that later games introduced. For example, in other games, the weapon triangle 
 (swords beat axes, axes beat lances, lances beat swords) plays a huge role as to who can beat who; 
 in this game, though, it hardly makes a difference, making it so that any unit can be killed my 
 any unit and deriving the game of many strategic points. It's useless to have a myrmidon that's 
 super-quick if a super-strong fighter can bash him in his unprotected skull with an axe without 
 breaking a sweat. Also, the shove mechanic, a maneuver that was simple yet groundbreaking in FE9, 
 is absent here. Now I can cope with that, but the fact that rescuing other units is gone as well 
 pisses me off, as it makes it nearly impossible to move slow units across the field. One last thing, 
 an incredibly simple yet life-saving implementation in Radiant Dawn, was the display of Attack 
 Speed, which judged if your character can attack twice. This is absent in Shadow Dragon, resulting 
 in confusion and rage. Despite my gripes, though, the system works, and it's developed enough to 
 keep you playing through. An interesting note is that you can use the touch screen to control your 
 units; however, it's no where near as accurate as a D-pad, so I suggest you stick with the latter.
 
  
  Graphics: Years ago, as the DS first came out, I imagined what a DS Fire Emblem would be like. 
 It would have a map on the bottom screen, battle animations on the top, and would utilize touch 
 screen controls. And wouldn't you know it, I was right on the money; too bad it was just for a 
 remake instead of a new game. I must say, though, I'm very impressed with the technical improvements 
 in the graphics. While the bottom screen sprites are in 2D, the battle animations are provided 
 in 3D, and are a delight to watch. I don't really like them as much as those in the GBA games, 
 though, as they use too much of the 3D games' realism, making insane criticals found in 6-8 an 
 impossibility. However, there's something else in the graphics that require much greater attention. 
 As I stated above, the graphics are great. Technically. Artistically, they are... ugh... incredibly 
 bland. The anime-inspired caricatures found in the previous ten games have been dropped, in lieu 
 of a more realistic art style. The result is that almost every character looks the same, only occasionally 
 with a different hair style or eye color. They show absolutely no emotion, continuing to widen 
 the distance between you and the character. It all just looks so uninspiring and dull; I'm not 
 so sure how else to put it. One could argue that this was all done in the sake of realism, but 
 to even suggest that Fire Emblem exists in any sense of reality is just ridiculous.
  
  Audio: The music's... okay. It's not bad, it's not good; it's just okay. The other games in the 
 series have had incredible, memorable soundtracks. The music in this game is just so-so. True, 
 there are a few songs you may find yourself humming, but for the most part, it's all drivel. I 
 guess this is due in part to the fact that the original game's hardware engine couldn't pull off 
 a sweeping score like those of today could. Then again, look at what Yasunori Mitsuda managed to 
 pull of with Chrono Trigger. In an interesting twist of fan service, the music that plays in the 
 arena is a rendition of the battle theme from FE9. Nice touch, Yuka.
  
  Length/Replay Value: The game only took me 23 hours, which is relatively short compared to other 
 Fire Emblems. 7 ranges from 30-50 hours, as does 9; 10, even after beating it multiple times, still 
 takes me upwards of 70 hours, due to its massive depth. 11, though, has a grand total of 25 chapters, 
 29 if you include all of the prologue chapters and 34 if you include all of the sidequests (which, 
 as opposed to 7 where they're unlocked when you perform well, instead act as a crutch in this game, 
 unlocking only when you tend to suck) . If you were to play the prologue AND suck enough to play 
 through all of the gaiden chapters, you'd still only just be matching with 7's number of chapters, 
 and you wouldn't be even near the amount found in 10. Again, the game's short length could be attributed 
 to its age, so I guess there's really no point in complaining about it any further.
  
  Bosses: You remember what I said above about character development in previous titles? Well, that 
 attributed to the enemies, as well. Other than a select few (which are usually either pawns of 
 a greater evil or just absolutely batshxt insane like Ashnard) , they all have their own motives 
 and goals, and are given plenty of screentime before your big battle with them. In this game, though, 
 that's not the case. For the moment, let's just forget the fact that, other than Gharnef, you never 
 even get to see any of the bosses until the chapter in which you kill them; these characters are 
 some of the most lazy, one-dimensional, half-assed enemies that I've ever seen. Yes, these types 
 of foes are common in the first few chapters of the game; yes, there are plenty in FE10. However, 
 all of these games have somewhere between 5-10 villains that are well fleshed-out. Shadow Dragon 
 has three. In fact, I'm being a bit too fair with that; two of them are evil for the sake of being 
 evil, and one you don't learn about until a chapter before you kill him. Other than those three, 
 every single chapter's boss is an "I WILL DESTROY YOU GRAAAAAGH" character that you will completely 
 forget about once the chapter ends. It's sickening. Multiplayer: An interesting aspect of the game 
 is the Wi-Fi battling. I was a bit skeptical when I first heard about it, but it's actually performed 
 excellently. Instead of just fighting one-on-one, as in the Link Arenas in 6-8, your characters 
 are plopped onto a map, where Fog of War obscures vision on both sides, making you feel around 
 for your enemies before you can even hit them. You can either play anonymously, or with friends 
 through friend codes. It's nice to see friend codes slowly dissipating with Nintendo; too bad Brawl 
 wasn't saved from its own demise. Extras: Despite being a remake, Shadow Dragon has included many 
 new features. There's the multiplayer, sound room, ability to save mid-battle, prologue/tutorial 
 chapters, gaiden chapters, class swap (which is funky at first but is actually a great mechanic, 
 as characters that you'd like for their stats but not class can be moved to other classes) , and 
 promotion for characters that couldn't be promoted before. These help keep the game fresh, and 
 not just a pointless remake of the original.
  
  Final Statement: Remakes are a tricky matter. If you are too close to the source material, then 
 you alienate new players. If you stray too far away to appeal to the mass audience, then the core 
 audience will be enraged. This could be said about any form of media (such as, oh, say, the Watchmen 
 film) ; with any adaptation, it's impossible to please everyone. Now, I don't know where I fit into 
 this; I'm not a new player to the franchise, but I wasn't around to play the original, either. 
 So I guess I have mixed feelings towards this game. Here's my suggestion: if you've never played 
 a Fire Emblem game, don't start with this. It'll most likely leave a bad taste in your mouth. Play 
 7, or if you can't find it, then at least play 9. If you have played previous Fire Emblem games, 
 then go ahead and get this one; it'll be worth your time. Just stop holding Marth in such high 
 regard. He's not that great. Really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popcapboy1
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty: extremely easy
  I play on easy mode the first time I play it but I beat it twice in 2 weeks.
  ***** hard is impossible 
 because the foes are stronger than 1 1/2 of your guys.
  
  Music: Fine
  I don't usualy play with music but sometimes I turn it on.
  Its Fire Emblem music wadd'you expect!!
 
  
  Strategy: There's not much strategy, all you do is take your guys and kill their's. Even against 
 Medeus (the last boss) you take your guys and kill him.
  
  Gameplay: Crap! It was the biggest faliure ever!!! All I have to say is NEVER BUY THIS GAME!!!
 
  
  Dissapointment: YES!!! It was by far the worst Fire Emblem game that has came out in Canada. I've 
 beat them all but none have been this bad.
  
  Anything new: NOOOOOO!!! The only thing that was new is the job ballistacan and they still had 
 ballista's in all the other games. Also manaketes some people probably thought they were new but 
 in The Sacred Stones there was a manakete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purple_Mongoose
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The Fire Emblem series has long been one of my favorite game series to date. Now we get to look 
 at the story that started it all in Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon. 
  
  This game easily has its high points and low points. It has solid gameplay that has become a standard 
 in the series and a good amount of replay value. But the total lack of story is what will kill 
 it in the end. The story is more of an outline of what could really happen. Most cutscenes you 
 see Marth talking to his advisor Malledus and that's about it. 
  
  Also there is a huge empty void with character development. In the early chapters, a trio of axe 
 fighters will join your ranks. Two of them are named Bord and Cord, and you have to wonder "Are 
 they brothers?" This is never explained and that is just one example. Most every character in previous 
 games had at least a few sentences of dialogue before joining, but you just get handed new characters 
 like candy. One chapter you get six new characters and only two had dialogue. So what about the 
 other four? They're just there to bolster you ranks.
  
  Now with all these new characters given to you, its hard to keep track of them all. Most likely 
 you'll already have characters you've been building up throughout the previous chapters. For example, 
 you'll get a Level 2 Cavalier when you already have built up a Level 15 Cavalier. The Level 2 Cavalier 
 won't be any good either. I think this can be supported by the new gaiden chapters the game features. 
 These are extra chapters you can only reach if you have 15 or less characters in your whole entire 
 party. I've never gotten to these chapters because the old Fire Emblem mindset of not letting your 
 characters die. But it seems that is the only way to achieve entrance into these chapters.
  
  Besides those obvious flaws, the gameplay is as solid as Fire Emblem gets. Same weapon triangle, 
 but there is only one kind of magic for all magic users. That means a Sorcerer (The Druid of this 
 game) and a Bishop will be using the same weapons. But after awhile, this technicality is easily 
 forgotten.
  
  The battle scenes are well put together, with their 3D style. I only have one problem with these 
 scenes though. The characters in the scenes can't even have their own colors! All Heroes are defaulted 
 to purple and all Generals have blue armor just to name a few. I first noticed this when I got 
 Navarre on my team, who is obviously wearing RED, and in the battle scene he is clothed in BLUE! 
 I'm used to seeing in all the old games every different unit's sprite color. I'm used to identifying 
 characters by their color, but that might sound weird to you. Oh and using Abel, who is wearing 
 green armor, I'm expecting a green paladin once he promotes... but no! Paladins are orange, what 
 was I thinking?!? The only way to tell the difference between SOME units is their hair color, and 
 there are only about 5 different sprite hair colors in the game. Ok, I've ranted enough.
  
  The sound in this game is what I've expected from a Fire Emblem game. Great classic tunes help 
 this game out a lot.
  
  The reclass system is something brand new to this game. This means you can take your Mercenary 
 and make him into a Pirate or other such classes. But you can only change a character into a select 
 handful of classes. That might be all the character sprites are only one color. If the animators 
 had to make a color scheme for six different classes for just one character, I can see where my 
 troubles have come from. 
  
  With so many characters to pick from and so many characters to kill off, this game is just another 
 solid entry in the Fire Emblem series. Its not outstanding, but its not bad either. And if you 
 think of it strictly as a remake, then this game does its past form justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraX64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  That being said, I can at least say that Fire Emblem Shadow Dragon is a great game. I can't say 
 "It's better than other Fire Emblems" or "Compared to FE *insert number here*, it sucks", but I 
 can say that this game is very enjoyable. I'll try to break it down into categories to keep it 
 simple.
  
  Gameplay: Being a Turn-Based Strategy game, Shadow Dragon's gameplay is what makes or breaks the 
 game. No one would want to play a game that is relying on its gameplay, but its gameplay sucks. 
 In Shadow Dragon's case, though, the gameplay is top-notch. I never once had a problem doing what 
 I wanted to do; the gameplay was simple, yet hard to master. The strategy aspect is great: If you 
 make stupid mistakes, the game will kick your ass. If you pay attention and think your moves through, 
 the game will treat you nicely.
  
  Story: Having played Radiant Dawn, I didn't really expect a huge story while playing Shadow Dragon. 
 The story is there, but I didn't really find it necessary to enjoying the game.
  
  Graphics: Standard, pretty GBA level, but I still love them.
  
  Sounds: Fire Emblem music. 
 Enough said.
  
  Replayability: If you want to, you can go through the game on different difficulty levels to challenge 
 yourself more. In addition to that, there are multiplayer modes that are pretty entertaining in 
 a quick fix. While not an amazing online mode, it suffices to entertain you if that is what you 
 are looking for.
  
  Fire Emblem Shadow Dragon is a great game, worth the money you would/will/already did pay for it. 
 There aren't any huge flaws in the game, but as any game would, there are things in there that 
 could be better. I will give it an 8.5, because it is great but not perfect. I fully recommend 
 this game.
  
  ~Sora 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7vaan7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I, am, you could say an "Americanized Fire Emblem fan
  i have only played FE 6,7,8,9 and parts of 10
  and now FE: SD
  
  When i first got the game, 
 i had high expectations
  and truth be told, i am quite disappointed
  in this review, i will judge this game, without the sympathy of it being as old as it is, i will 
 judge this as FE11
  
  Story wise: very weak, main plot line isn't strong, 
  main idea
  "Someone took my kingdom, gimme it back"
  hardly any dialogue outside of marth and 1 or 2 other 
 main characters
  the majority of characters will not have more than one line, let alone many never having a speaking 
 point, 
  with the absence of support, most characters seem as numbers with a face slapped on em'
  no support 
 hurts this game in not only story but gameplay 
  
  Gameplay: this is one of the aspects that wasn't hurt so badly
  it remains OK, but still many 
 flaws keep it from even approaching the standards of earlier games
  units can no longer rescue, towns can only be visited by marth, recruit able characters are usually 
 recruited my marth
  and the most prominent flop,
  the fact that AT LEAST 80% of the characters are utterly useless
  the fail in comparison to other 
 characters whereas are broken
  many a pre-promote are found late in game, seeming like a very cool/good unit, in which are utterly 
 horrible
  (eg. Samsom, Aran, Astram, etc...)
  this is more of a gripe from a GBA fan
  The sprite have been "Day's of Ruined", as in battle sprites and animations have been "Nerfed" 
 if you will...
  many battle sprites don't look as good as they did in FE6,7,8
  not to mention the critical hits, this was my main disappointment 
  Swordmasters? a front flip, 
 Heroes? jump a little higher
  Generals? slight swing of a spear before an attack
  all the critical animations are no longer utterly ridiculous, as i liked
  swordsmaster and hero 
 crits were of my favorite, and now with these new, and boring ones, really, ruined the game for 
 me
  
  this game also introduced a new and, controversial system
  this is the ability to change any character to any class you choose
  ANY CLASS, this maybe a 
 good and a bad thing, depending on your own opinion, i won't go in depth on this
  
  Wifi:
  good idea, gone bad
  sounded so awesome to me, until i tried it
  due to small amount 
 of "good" characters, every team of 5 you meet on wifi will contain at least 3/5 same characters 
 as you fought before
  not to mention the amount of players with completely broken forged weapons, maxed out stats, 
 
  at least 60% of the players you meet will be using AR
  or hacked there characters
  wifi, is only good for playing friends, and even that gets repetitive
  bottom-line, wifi is terrible
 
  
  all in all,
  without a doubt this is fire emblem
  just if you are used to fire emblems of late, this won't seem very good and even disappointing 
 to you
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoE_Morais
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  What's good about a majority of Nintendo's games is that they offer you an opportunity to think 
 about what your going to do next. An example of that are games like Zelda, Metroid that aren't just 
 some dumb beat em' up. With Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon it isn't different. In fact, this game will 
 have you spend a lot of time on weather you should let a pladin in the range of an archer.
  The story stays the same with just a litle spin-offs on some characters and classes that weren't 
 in the first game. That is a bit of a problem too because you'll find yourself with a bunch of troops 
 and nowhere to put them or no time to train them. That's where on-line trading really pays of. It's 
 the most intelligent solution Nintendo could've come up with.
  Altough it's a great game just like it's predecessor was I feel it could've been much more. Remakes 
 have a problem of not offering many new things to revolutionize the experience and with this game 
 it wasn't different. Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon is a solid remake but could've been much more.
 
  If you loved the SNES version you'll certainly love this game but you'll feel like you could've 
 sucked out much more from the experience of this game. I'm giving it a 7.5 and recommending it for 
 those who love tactic games or Fire Emblem series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjlebron
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  SRPG's are a very curious category of game, and, people may play them for different reasons. To 
 my mind, the only important reason to play an SRPG as compared to an RPG, is for the kind of strategy 
 it opens up for you. RPG's require a good story to justify all your down time and town hopping. 
 SRPG's, while great when they do, do not require a great story. They must first, and in my view, 
 ultimately justify themselves with respect to the strategic opportuntieis they open up. so, while 
 some will look at Fire Emblem and see something old, I play it and see something that still shines 
 bright in the growing field of SRPG's.
  
  The story: a man is out to save his kingdom. End of story. Now on to the gameplay.
  
  In this 
 area, FE has a lot going for it. First, as compared to many strategy games, the maps are quite 
 sizeable giving you a sense that you will have to, in good military fashion, cover some ground 
 in order to prevail. Second, along these lines, the maps often alternate between outdoors and indoor 
 environments. This is a nice design choice as you the decisions you will have to make in close 
 quarters are different that the ones out in the open. For example, if you trap your Dracoknight 
 class character in a hallway with archers a few spaces away, kiss that character goodbye.
  
  One of the best aspects of Fire Emblem's design is the sense of control and immersion while 
 on the battle field as well as the small choices you'll have to make in order to keep the battle 
 in your favor. Weapons have a limited life, so it is entirely possible you'll use a weapon for the 
 last time while in the middle of a battle. Marth, the lead character, also serves as a convory 
 - if you pull up next to him, you can access your whole inventory and replenish your stock. This 
 is simply but adds the sense of having to manage a whole campaign, not just units on a grid. Similarly, 
 when a character dies, he or she is gone for good - no miraculous recover back at the base. This 
 forces you to really weigh the rock/paper/scissors consequences of your choices. Again, that Dracoknight 
 is a great character - do you really want her to get shot down by an archer in one turn because 
 of sloppiness, knowing that you can't get her back?
  
  On this note, FE is also great in allowing you to switch a character between multiple classes in 
 preparation for a battle. While FE isn't the only one to do this, it isn't done frequently enough. 
 Why go into a mostly indoor environment with air units when you can put Heroes up front with Bishops 
 and archers in back and move as large unit to your destination.
  
  Most SRPG's give you a turn limit for you to accomplish your goal. This has always seemed a bit 
 artificial to me and FE foregoes this option. This gives you time to really map out a course of 
 action as well employ contingency measures such as replenishing your weapon from the convoy. For 
 instance, every map has houses and villages. It is very much worth stopping at these places, for 
 they will usually clue you to an enemy character that can be recruited to your side if you have 
 Marth or another character speak with him or her first before they get killed. This adds to a sense 
 of a dynamic battle field. Similarly, villages will either give you money or weapons, or offer 
 up a powerful new recruit.
  
  FE is not perfect. Maybe the least well designed aspect of the game is the armory. Your base armory 
 never changes its inventory, so unlike Disgaea, there's no sense of excitement in revisiting. However, 
 this does force you to visit armories on the maps since they sometimes carry more powerful items. 
 Maybe most frustrating is the forging system. First, since every weapon has a limited use and since 
 you don't have a lot of money, it isn't always sensible to spend a lot of money to make a weapon 
 a game changer. Maybe more disappointing is that you are limited to forging only one weapon per 
 base visit. With up to 15 characters in your party and dozens of weapons, being limited to improving 
 one at a time seems like a tactical drop in the bucket and unncecassarily constraining.
  
  The graphics in FE will appeal to you depending on your tastes. I like the washed out grays and 
 drab character designs. First, they are a nice change from the extravagant designs of most JSRPG's, 
 such as those in Luminious Arc. But, also, I think they fit the theme of dark medieval times. 
 
  
  In all, i think Fire Emblem is a gem, and though it's a remake, the real question is, why is it 
 still so much ahead of the curve? Until someone can convince me that it isn't compare to most games, 
 the fact that it's a remake remains irrelevant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 9:35 pm PT
Review:  8/10
  Gameplay: To tell you the truth I was expecting MUCH MUCH more from a Nintendo DS entrance of Fire 
 Emblem.... shiny new graphics.... another Fire Emblem game.... etc.. But was a bit disappointed. Fire 
 Emblem: Shadow Dragon is a remake of the original famicom game Fire Emblem, and it is a solid remake 
 at that. The main character is Marth, the betrayed prince of Altea, in which is home is under siege. 
 In case you haven't noticed, Marth is also in the Super Smash Bros series. When I first saw Marth... I 
 had no idea who he is... And of course I knew who Roy was. Anyways back to the game. Fire Emblem: Shadow 
 Dragon is at heart, a Fire Emblem game (Of course... its a remake of the OG.) . If you played Fire 
 Emblem before, then the whole game should be very familiar to you. The weapon triangle which is 
 a rock paper scissors system is still here, except for one thing. Its useless. Near useless anyways. 
 Normally, A sword beats axe, axe beats lance, and lance beats sword right? Well in Fire Emblem: Shadow 
 Dragon I have beaten many enemies with a weapon that has a "Disadvantage" against the other weapon 
 such as using a sword against a lance, and they do just fine. This is because the stats in this 
 game are stripped. Speed is now next to useless, good for only being able to do two attacks in 
 a row. Whats this? A sniper... with 10+ skill and 10+ speed... attacks my swordmaster thar has maxed 
 speed AND is in a forest. The sniper STILL has a 73% chance of hitting, when in other Fire Emblem 
 games the chance of hitting would be quite slim, around 10-20% hit percentage. Not only this, but 
 the game is severely unbalanced. Speed may be next to useless, but resistance is now also nonexistent. 
 For any unit that does not use magic, their resistance almost NEVER increases. Thus making even 
 low level magic uses killing machines. This goes the other way around too. Magic users have nonexistent 
 defense, and that is a problem for almost every mission in the game, majority of the enemy uses 
 an axe, lance, or sword, while magic is rendered ineffective against your magic users. Remember 
 how I mentioned a forest earlier? Well, strategy in this game has been stripped also, for things 
 like Forests no longer provide the superior protection they once did....20 avoid, 1 def. It is 
 now cut in half and provides no defense....10 avoid. With this, most of the time I would simply 
 charge in, though strategy is still sometimes required or you may lose units... Speaking of which, 
 the deaths are still in the game of course. A team member dies, he/she is gone forever. Your lord 
 dies, you lose.
  
  If you recall, in the previous fire emblem games (That date back to 6.) , you could simply switch 
 off the system mid game and resume the game later. That is now turned into the Suspend feature, 
 which saves mid game and is deleted when you resume. I think this system is good.... but now they 
 put Save points on the map. While they're convenient, they are a bit insulting to veteran fire 
 emblem games. While I admit Shadow Dragon takes it a little easier on newcomers to the series, 
 Save points make the game too easy. You save mid game, and whoops, a unit dies. All you have to 
 go back and resume the mapsave. and there its like you revived him/her. This also takes Arena Abusing 
 to a whole new level. Arena abusing all the way back to I think Fire Emblem 6, was a form of training. 
 You get plenty of experience, and you get money at the same time, for the game cannot ALWAYS provide 
 you with experience, so then you use Arenas (though this was not the case in Fire Emblem 8/Fire 
 Emblem: The Sacred Stones) . There are times where you are too slow in yielding in Arenas, and your 
 unit dies, thus making you start the mission all over again and also start training all your already 
 grinded units all over again. In Shadow Dragon, it is less punishing, simply use a map save. 
 
  
  In the description, I said a few things were added, and that was the Reclassing system. Reclassing 
 is incredibly cool and useful. Your Fighters can now be Myrmidons, and your cavaliers can be knights. 
 In my opinion though, I would rather have some units stay their respective classes, because some 
 class changes make absolutely no sense, and would totally insult the character of who he/she is. 
 I mean Nabarl... who is a Myrmidon (Who looks extremely similar to Karel from FE7) .. can be turned 
 into a friggin healer.... wow... Though some class changes do match some characters than their preselected 
 classes, such as Barst, a fighter... He looked more like a mercenary to me, so I turned him into 
 a mercenary. Though there may be more additions to the game, I either forgot or listed all there 
 was. 
  
  And lastly... the story and characters..... The plot may be absolutely horrid to some people, and 
 to me its not bad but not good either. Although... you have to admit this story is quite good for 
 a game that was made in the early 90's/late 80s. Considering its a remake, it probably uses the 
 original's story. Support conversations... have been sadly removed from the game thus making it 
 more "Stripped". I really enjoyed those conversations.... They contained humor, great relationships 
 between characters, love, and PERSONALITY. The characters in Shadow Dragon have almost NONE. Each 
 character will speak at most only once or twice, thus weakening the story... But hey its not all 
 bad. Overall the gameplay (review was longer than expected) is quite solid. Its at heart a fire 
 emblem game and if you're a fire emblem fan, I don't see why you do not have this game yet. For 
 newcomers, this game takes it easy on you so its good. However, I recommend Fire Emblem 7... AKA 
 in the U. S just Fire Emblem. 
  
  
  8/10
  Graphics: The game HAS been given a pretty good face lift..... unit sprites are good, and animations 
 have been improved. Ok I said the sprites were good right? They are. Except there is almost no 
 difference in the sprites besides color and hair. I find two paladins fighting each other, and 
 their colors are just different because they're on different teams. Jagen has purple armor... But 
 why does he appear red? Back in FE7, each character had the same concept as their class but different 
 sprites... such as differences in hair, clothing, even animations. Though it does not change the 
 game much, it does change what Fire Emblem was known for. Then... There is less satisfaction in 
 Shadow Dragon.... Remember the Swordmaster's critical from FE6-FE8? That was awesome. This.... well 
 not so good. Also *spoilers?*
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  I was EXTREMELY disappointed with the Falchion, the legendary sword that Marth uses.... Its just 
 a souped up Silver Sword that is able to defeat Manaketes in probably one blow, but thats it. They 
 didn't even BOTHER giving the weapon its own animation, except for that flash before the attack. 
 Come now. This is the FIRST fire emblem.... they made the Falchion so.... umimpressive... In past 
 fire emblem games, for certain characters and their legendary weapons, they had their own animation 
 to make it look better. Although this does not matter, it is unsatisfying in using such a powerful 
 weapon that does not look powerful.... Moving on......
  
  
  
  
  Spell detail has been improved dramatically, but only the detail of the spell itself. There aren't 
 many spells that look like they just totally OBLITERATED the enemy. Overall, the graphics are nice, 
 but I expected more...
  
  
  7/10
  Sound: Hey its a fire emblem game, you can't really get a lot out of a game like this. Soundtrack 
 is awesome though, you may hear a lot of familiar music....
  
  Overall: Its a solid fire emblem game. I expected it to be more groundbreaking like the "First" 
 (FE7) one was, but it wasn't. A lot of things here are unimpressive, but at its heart its fire 
 emblem. Like I said, If you love fire emblem, get this game. If you're a newcomer, I suggest you 
 buy Fire Emblem/Fire Emblem 7 for the GBA. Should be cheap used, and its a terrific fire emblem 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordlinuxes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The game is about Marth The Prince of Altea. It is like the other games where an evil from the 
 past has come up again to cause destruction and sadness where ever it may walk and it is up to 
 Marth the only surviving person from the blood-line of the hero that had saved the world in the 
 past to stop it all from happening again. Of course it has the same battle style as the rest of 
 the series but this one is in a 3D animation. pretty good improvement i guess and they also hake 
 use of the touch-screen feature on the DS. the few problems I am having so far is that Marth is 
 the only person that can enter into villages. This is a problem because I for one have always enjoyed 
 sending other people to talk about village problems and use my lord to do a lot of fighting to 
 i can get him/her to the max level. Now that I can't do that I get a little annoyed when there 
 is a town or village and my closer units can't check it out. Another thing is the 3D animation. 
 I mean it is great and all but it does seem a little childish. I say this because when I look at 
 the knight class. They look like its more of a fat clown or something like that and I more see 
 that thing in the boots of the knight because the end of them bulge out like something is swollen 
 in there. Once again another small problem that is easily over looked if you are really into the 
 game like I am. I think another problem with the game is that it seems to have gotten rid of the 
 support conversations between characters. I may be wrong about this but I haven't seen any in the 
 game so far. I always liked reading the little side talks in the middle of a complicated fight. 
 It always made things more fun to play. Then I also have a small problem with how many characters 
 that join your team right at the start. It gives you an army before you can even reach chapter 
 five which I guess isn't really a bad thing but I kind of like to have small forces at the start 
 because I find it easier to plan around. My final problem with the game is that you may have to 
 kill off somebody on your team to help you win a fight. I hate losing a team player even if I never 
 use them I like to know what happens to them after the war. But that seems to be all my problems 
 with the game.
  even with some of the problems the game is still fun and always keeps me thinking of a new way 
 to win the fight. So I do think people should get the game sometime and try it out. The new Wi-Fi 
 feature is fun when you don't have any friends that own the game. All I have to say now is good 
 job Nintendo for another great remake game. (please mind that I probably made some spelling and 
 grammar mistakes but I am only human and do make mistakes some of the time.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riyk
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Well i picked this title up for 2 reasons
  
  1. it had Marth
  and
  2. It was a fire emblem game and im a fan of the series
  
  And i must say i was at first disappointed 
 at the lack of features such as: rescuing, support convos, mounted units moving after an attack.
 
  
  But then i realized that it was the first game in the series and it really showed me how much the 
 series has come since the game first came out in japan. yeah the lack of said features is annoying 
 but it makes it from a little more complex not having these things, and while the single player 
 campaign only took me roughly 18 hours to complete i have found the online mode to be fun and enjoyable 
 and have played online mode for about 3 hours possibly more.
  
  Overall Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon, is worth the buy weather your a fan of the series or just like 
 tactical rpg's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak_2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem Shadow Dragon is the remake of the game that essentially invented the strategy RPG 
 genre. While managing to retain the old-school feel, Shadow Dragon breathes new life into the series 
 with the new online functionality. But how does everything hold up? 
  
  Shadow Dragon's story is a bit more original than one would believe. Prince Marth is forced to 
 flee from his kingdom when war breaks out. His family sacrifices themselves for Marth's flight. 
 Swearing a vengeance, Marth leaves his kingdom for years before beginning his quest to recapture 
 his kingdom and defeat the one who sparked the flames of war, the Shadow Dragon. While the story 
 is a bit cliched at times, the issue is that the game lacks plot development, something that the 
 series has taken great pride in, especially in the past four installments.
  
  Battles have little to no pre-war discussion, so the player never really fully understands who 
 they are fighting, or why. Basically, an short skit informs the player where they are going and 
 they are thrown into battle. The later chapters do alleviate this to a small extent, but even then 
 the lack of text is astounding considering the other titles. That is not to say that the text is 
 poorly written, because what is there is fluent colloquial and surprisingly sound. 
  
  Characters suffer the same fate as the story. Marth is the only character that has any visible 
 identity. Virtually everyone else, aside from a few supporting characters and villains, has no 
 personality. In the early chapters, everyone has at least some development, but everything stops 
 after the prologue. From Chapter 1 on, almost every single character joins Marth's army with only 
 a few sentences. Some characters join and never even have one line in the entire game, making them 
 feel expendable. The player will not feel any attachment to most characters, and since certain 
 characters can only be unlocked by meeting certain requirements, those being that the player has 
 to have a certain number of recruits (generally being much lower than the amount of characters 
 that can be recruited) , any incentive to even keep these characters is dissolved. 
  
  Shadow Dragon may be lacking in the story department, but the gameplay is anything but. Shadow 
 Dragon has the most refined gameplay in any Fire Emblem game hands down. Touch screen controls 
 add speed while the traditional set up allows precision. Both can be used at the same time, or 
 one can be disabled at the player's discretion. The player now has the ability to 'lock' a single 
 enemy's or multiple enemies' attack range by pressing the A button when the cursor is over said 
 enemy or enemies. The X button can be used to have all enemy attack ranges visible at once as well, 
 a helpful addition when in larger, more open maps with enemies with a large attack range. The DS's 
 two screens help keep the battlefield uncluttered with the top screen displaying stats of a single 
 unit or the overall match up between the enemy and allied forces, another welcome feature. A few 
 key commands are missing however. The Rescue command is nowhere to be found and only Marth can 
 visit villages, which really leaves Marth at a disadvantage for gaining experience. 
  
  Leading up to battle, Shadow Dragon uses the Path of Radiance home base feature. The ability to 
 merge weapons of the same type is now available, a much needed feature that has long evaded the 
 series. Players can purchase weapons (of low quality) at the armory and purchase basic necessities 
 at the shop. Another feature borrowed from Path of Radiance is the Forge allowing players to create 
 custom weapons, but the Forge in Shadow Dragon really serves more as a weapon editor than an actual 
 forge, because the forge uses items already in the player's possession. The most interesting addition 
 is the option to change a character's job. For example, at the beginning of the game Marth's army 
 will consist entirely of cavaliers and fighters with a few others thrown in. Not exactly diverse. 
 But since there are three fighters and no mages, changing one of them into a mage might be a good 
 idea. Not to worry though, stats are altered to fit the new role, but at higher levels the stat 
 alterations will not matter. On a side note, the Resistance stat growth is absolutely dreadful 
 all around. Most non magic characters will be lucky to gain 3 Resistance stats by the time they 
 have reached 20/10, something that makes planning out that online battle team a bit more difficult. 
 
  
  Online features are a bit more expansive than one would expect. For battles, players select 5 units 
 and go into a flat out death match against their opponent. Battles support voice chat, so there 
 is some personality not found in the campaign. An interesting online function is the online shop. 
 Players select a file to use for purchasing and then gain access to some of the games more powerful 
 and exclusive weapons, with the available weapons changing daily. Overall the online is a solid 
 start for Fire Emblem's first venture into cyberspace. 
  
  On the technical side, Shadow Dragon pulls an interesting move away from sprites. The graphics 
 are some sort of pseudo-cell shading (in battle that is) that really does not do the game much 
 justice. While they are not ugly, they just do not seem fitting for a game like Fire Emblem. They 
 do run smoothly though, and aside from lacking facial features the character models are detailed 
 with crisp, vibrant colors. 
  
  On the audio side, Shadow Dragon falls short of delivering the highest quality music. The music 
 is still pleasant and fitting, but nothing really sticks out and is not the most memorable either. 
 The soundtrack is fairly large and is available for another listen in the sound room after completing 
 the campaign. 
  
  Overall Shadow Dragon delivers a solid strategy experience. While some of the series' features 
 were lost in translation, Shadow Dragon introduces more and improves on just about everything else. 
 The story is uncharacteristically weak and the character development is about as deep as modern 
 music, i. e. not. In short, Shadow Dragon brings the most refined gameplay Fire Emblem has ever 
 seen, but shoddy story telling show the game's age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soilworkcob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Right up before I purchased FE: SD I was hearing a lot of negative things about the game and I 
 almost canceled my Pre-Order at Electronics Boutique. However, I decided to wait and check it out 
 myself. And I was NOT disappointed in the least! Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon delivers everything 
 that makes Fire Emblem great! The graphics are crisp every chapter provides a new map that require 
 different tactics to get through. Everything in the game has great hand-drawn backdrops and characters. 
 The game is packed full of interesting Characters including enemy and friends a like. The political 
 intrigue is also wonderful. I have to say that I don't remember the music in the game because I 
 was too focused on the game, so I don't know if that's a bad thing or not. Difficult to say! Anyways, 
 I've played through the whole game and I had as much fun with this as I did with the GBA Fire Emblems. 
 Gamespot! I'm calling you out for giving this game a lower score than it deserved! this game should 
 have got an 8.5, so that's what I'm giving it :P
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bomberman10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  Intro: Fire Emblem: shadow dragon has a lot of great pros and some things that could have been 
 improved on. 
  
  Pros:
  -great game play
  -strategic battles that actually make you think instead of mashing a button over and over again.
 
  -great replay-ability
  -great use of touch-screen and microphone
  -great multi-player and wi-fi battles
  -the online shop is great if you are stuck
  -sound is 
 great
  -the game gives you freedom, as in you can use any characters you want.
  
  Cons:
  -the story line isn't as well plotted as other fire emblems
  - the graphics look something 
 like they were from 2000-2001, a little chunky.
  -reclassing can get really cheap if you are using wolf or sedgar, they become BROKEN if you use 
 them right.
  -forging weapons is expensive, but if you have a lot of money, you can kill enemies like 1HKO
 
  -NEVER ARENA ABUSE unless you want to baby a character, or your army will be too powerful and kill 
 the game.
  -characters later SUCK
  
  Conclusion: if you played earlier games in this series, you will love this game. You will still 
 have a great time with this game even if this is your first game. also DONT LISTEN TO THE REVIEWERS 
 WHO SAY THIS GAME IS TOO EASY!
  THEY HAVE ONLY PLAYED EASY MODE WHICH IS REAL EASY. I HAVE PLAYED ***** HARD MODE AND THAT IS REALLY 
 A CHALLENGE! 
  
  worth the money?
  yes this game is worth the money. if you have played other FE games, this story might seem a little 
 shallow, but its still a great FE game that a lot will enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostaddict1993
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:07 pm PT
Review:  So most people have heard of Fire Emblem by now though few have played it. Marth, Roy, and Ike 
 have graced Smash Bros. recently but only four games in the long running Japanese series have been 
 released here so far. Shadow Dragon is a remake of the first with updated graphics, online play, 
 an insane difficulty level, and the omission of a few main features...
  
  Gameplay: Fire Emblem is a tactical role playing game. You take turns with your enemies moving 
 characters and attacking. Your objectives can occasionally be repetitive as they alternate between 
 seize gate A or defeat enemy B, but it never feels like you're doing the same thing over and over. 
 As I've already said, this game is very, very difficult. When characters die they don't come back 
 to life between missions... period. There is absolutely no way to revive characters which will often 
 leave you turning off your DS as you watch one of your strongest characters fall to the might of 
 the very sharp AI. However as you reach for the power switch on your DS, you begin to think, "What 
 if I had done (insert battle tactic here) " and proceed to reload the chapter from the start to 
 try it out. This gives the game an incredible length as you will often repeat missions while having 
 fun, amazing huh?
  
  Graphics: Probably the lowest point of the game. They aren't bad by any means, but for those who 
 have played either of the previous GBA releases or even the Japan only Fire Emblem 6, you will 
 quickly find yourself missing the incredible, detailed sprites. All of your characters will feel 
 like generic soldiers outside of the cutscenes. Even Marth, from Smash Bros. Melee and Brawl, looks 
 like every other soldier as you can't see any faces or facial expressions, though they are all 
 rendered in 3D.
  
  Story: I won't spoil anything for people who have yet to pick up this game but the story is quite 
 excellent. The cutscenes are all quite interesting; filled with snappy dialogue and well done character 
 portraits. Suffice it to say, this is a lengthy tale which is well worth following and the original 
 beginning of the series.
  
  Bottom Line: This game will take you quite a bit of time to beat, and the excellent online mode 
 adds to the longevity. If you're in for a challenge then pick this up, however if you're used to 
 games being very easy then you might want to approach with caution. This masterpiece is definitely 
 worth playing as long as you can be patient with it and look at the consequences of all actions 
 before you make them, then you should definitely pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  I gotta say, this actually came out pretty well, i was worried that they would change it too much, 
 but its very good. The gameplay still sticks true to the series, while combat and critical hits 
 are not as flashy as before, its still an awesome game with many other modes as the sound test 
 as in most if not all fire emblem games, the online mode is very good, the only problem is you get 
 stuck with random opponents that could be way more powerful than you, the only solution to that 
 is to play the story mode to the end and raise your characters levels as high as possible, it would've 
 been great if they included a campaign mode like in sacred stones, to further level up your characters. Hmm 
 what else? well the new reclass option is pretty cool, change your character into the other selected 
 classes, you might be spending a lot of time changing every one if you like this function a lot, 
 also you can merge the two of the same weapons together to restore the durability of the weapon. Touch 
 screen function works pretty nice, but i'll stick using the button controls. As for improvements, 
 well the combat and graphics could've been upgraded somewhat and the story mode could've been deeper. Besides 
 that the game is great, has great music, online mode works fine, even better playing from a friend 
 from afar. This is a must have for any Fire Emblem fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SymphonyOfAshes
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The game IS a remake for the very first Fire Emblem, and features Marth as the main character. 
 As a Fire Emblem fan, I'm waiting for a remake of FE6 or at least its release, sometimes the translated 
 ROM won't cut it.
  
  I digress.
  
  This Fire Emblem can be a let down at times. Thieves don't promote, which really pisses me off. 
 Assassins/Rogues were always good or useful (I loved assassins, btw) . Now a thief is completely 
 useless except for the castle levels, and you'll have no point in leveling them up, as they'll 
 never be in the front lines, or attack anything, at that. Thieves (along with Marth) DO get a level 
 30 cap, rather than 20, but that doesn't make up for jack.
  
  There's also a real.. Weird feature: Class swap. You're able to change any character's class, from 
 a set list of classes. You can make a cavalier into a myrmidon... or a mage. You can make a knight 
 into a mercenary or something else stupid. I really don't like this feature. It defeats the purpose 
 of having a class to a character. There's only one worthy myrmidon in this game, and he can easily 
 be outclassed if you switch a better character. Cavaliers are obnoxiously good in this game, btw. 
 So you can class swap numerous cavaliers, as you get 3 or 4 pretty good ones.
  
  Another annoyance is that Marth can't be promoted. They couldn't add that? Are you kidding me? 
 He DOES get 10 extra levels, making his level cap 30, but I'd just like to see something new. Not 
 to mention his Falchion is also a cheap weapon. I guess that makes up for it, right?
  
  I also don't like how you get the gaiden chapters. You don't get them from doing specific things 
 in the subsequent chapter, this time around. Now, you get almost EVERY gaiden chapter just for 
 having less than 15 people in your squad (or was it 15 or less?) . The only other gaiden chapter 
 that isn't achieved in this way is just by having a certain character dead, etc. It just makes 
 it seem like these chapters are completely unrelated to the main story, sure they're side stories, 
 but wouldn't that mean they should at least have SOMETHING to do with the main story? Whatever.
 
  
  Yes, this game overall is a good game still, and is still a Fire Emblem. It can be really easy 
 at times, but the hard mode is ridiculously hard, good luck with that. There are cool new features, 
 but there are also flipsides to all these features. It's still worth buying if you're a Fire Emblem 
 fan. Just don't be expecting something as good as FE7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerialslayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon is a fun DS game. It is challenging and very addictive. The challenge 
 is what we needed on a Fire Emblem Game and they gave it to us. As you go along you won't be able 
 to put it down after a while. The games story is very well done, great story telling and a great 
 way to bring back the original Fire Emblem. There are a few things that bring it down like the 
 leveling system is way to random. Also the amount of soldiers you can have on one battlefield is 
 kinda to much. Last but not least the annoying part where every chapter has someone you can recruit 
 and you just end up with the many soldiers. The battle animations are superb and look really cool. 
 Some of the hit chances are BS because most enemies have under a 60% chance to hit and the ALWAYS 
 hit. Also when your chance is at 80% or a little higher you ALWAYS miss lol. But it isn't all the 
 time it happens.
  
  Overall it is a great experience that should not be missed if you enjoy the series. This brings 
 back a lot of classic game play and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon Review 
  
  Story ------------- 7.0
  
  Gameplay ------- 8.0 
  
  Graphics -------- 7.0
  
  Sound ----------- 7.0
  
  Tilt/Value 
 ------ 9.0
  
  Story ------- 7.0
  
  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon takes place in a continent called Akaneia which is ruled by the various 
 kingdoms that control the land. A long while ago the kingdom of Doluna, ruled by a dragon race 
 called Manaketes, invaded neighboring kingdoms and enslaved humans. The ruler was called Medeus, 
 the Shadow Dragon. Anri, a heroic swordsman, appeared wielding the blade of light called Falchion 
 slew the Shadow Dragon and with it peace returned. 100 years have now passed since that historic 
 event but the Shadow Dragon has returned once more. However, Marth is now the one with the task 
 of slaying the Shadow Dragon with the Falchion.
  
  The story of every Fire Emblem has been linear yet at the same time good enough to keep the players 
 intrigued in the game. This time Intelligent Systems have taken a different route and remade the 
 first Fire Emblem released in Japan as a DS game instead of creating a completely new game. This 
 can bring about problems in the game but due to the way it's executed it is a perfectly fine-tuned 
 game.
  
  Marth is the main character of the game and he is the son of the ruler of the kingdom of Altea. 
 Eventually his kingdom is overrun by a neighboring enemy kingdom and he must escape with the few 
 allies that he has. Eventually many years pass and so on and so forth. The story is very linear 
 in that there is virtually no plot twists and is fairly short. However, just because it lacks these 
 plot elements does not mean that the story isn't great, but it doesn't mean that it will dazzle 
 you either. The story of a journey of a young man to reclaim what he has lost is quite fascinating 
 and the setting of the game in a medieval time period makes it that much better. Another great 
 aspect of the story is the dialog of the characters, especially Marth. The way that Marth speaks 
 will bring life to him and seem someone that seems somewhat real. Not only this but certain dialogs 
 change depending on the choices that the player has made throughout the duration of the game. This 
 only adds to the deeper aspect of the story.
  
  Unfortunately there are a few problems with the story aspect of the game that weakens the overall 
 game. One of the main problems is the characters. The characters have almost no interaction with 
 each other. This makes the game seem very robotic and dysfunctional at times. The only interaction 
 that you will see will be with Marth and some of his companions, but only some. The lack of emotion 
 in some parts and the lack of attachment the player will have with the characters take a great 
 chunk of appeal to the game's story. Another problem is the length and linearity. Although the 
 story is interesting, it is much too short and much too linear. The game provides not much background 
 info to make the story seem broader or give the player a chance to think about the story. The game 
 will most likely take you 8-15 hours, depending on your skill level, but that means the story will 
 only be at least a fourth of the total amount played. Quite disappointing in that regard
  
  Gameplay ------ 8.0
  
  Fire Emblem has been a long running franchise as a turn-based strategy 
 game. Although this sounds somewhat boring it is quite different from what one might expect. The 
 player has a control of a certain amount of units on a map and moves them around in a grid map 
 and attack the opposing team. This may be very simple and easy when heard or read but once the 
 player takes hold of this team, everything changes. The characters that you have on your team will 
 be a valuable asset in your journey to come. At first the player will start out with only 1 unit 
 but this will grow as you can have up to 30+ characters, but not all on the map at once. The choices 
 are many but you must choose a few characters to place on the map. Each characters have different 
 classes that they belong to and have different stats and stat gains. This will allow the player 
 to choose which class they prefer and which characters the player will enlist into combat. Each 
 class can hold a different type of weapon and though the types are not many, the weapons itself 
 are. They range from swords to axes and tomes to staves. Each weapon has its ups and downs and 
 advantages and disadvantages. Swords may be more effective against an axe but to a lance it will 
 prove to be much weaker; a system known as the weapon triangle. This incorporates much strategy 
 into how the player will manipulate the characters on each map and which characters will be chosen 
 for the map. 
  
  Each side takes one turn moving all the units they can exchanging blows to each other depending 
 on each unit's range. As your units attack and defend, they will gain experience. Once they reach 
 100 they will level up and gain stats. Eventually they can promote into a much better and versatile 
 class and along with it comes more stat bonuses. Promoted units don't change the gameplay much 
 but will change the outcome of the battlefield. Battles are fun and invigorating but at the same 
 time challenging as you will be pitted against an army of 30 while you only have 12. 
  
  Along with the weapon triangle comes a new feature added for the first time in the Fire Emblem 
 series. Class Swap, or Reclassing, is a feature that the player can utilize before they go into 
 a battle. Nearly any unit can change classes from one to another, however, there is a limitation 
 and some drawbacks. There are 3 types of sets and a unit can change depending on what set they 
 belong to. If a unit is a mercenary, then he can only reclass into a unit of that set that he belongs 
 to and the same applies to other characters. This allows for versatilities of a team as well as 
 adding firepower to it. Unfortunately the drawback is that characters will either gain or lose 
 certain stats because of that class and a map can have only a certain amount of a certain class. 
 Regardless of these drawbacks, it is still a wonderful system that the player has on his or her 
 side.
  
  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon is a perfectly fine game but it doesn't go above and beyond the ordinary 
 to warrant excellence. The gameplay is fun and rewarding but at the same time there isn't much 
 innovative or crazily exciting to make the game much better than what it can be. The bad of the 
 gameplay is the lack of anything excellent. 
  
  Graphics -------- 7.0
  
  The graphics style as well as the animations of the game has changed considerably between the GBA 
 and GCN versions of Fire Emblem. The characters look much like anime characters but have an added 
 3-D rendering effect to it. This makes the character look prettier yet at the same time bland and 
 unemotional. When they talk you can barely recognize if he's smiling or frowning. Although it's 
 not like the series to show emotion in character portraits, the pictures lack finesse and details. 
 Not only this but the animation sprites of the character seem very slick, but so slick that it 
 shows no potential on the DS. The graphics that Fire Emblem uses in this game does not use the 
 DS capabilities to the max and therefore falls short on the graphical side. Other than that, the 
 series has taken a slightly different route for how the art and graphics design will be for the 
 future games. It looks okay but not great.
  
  Sound --------- 7.0
  
  The music in the game sounds epic yet they are not diverse at all. The sound is most likely what 
 falls most out of the whole entire game, sadly. There is no variety in the type of music at all 
 or there is a completely lack of differentiation. Certain musical pieces are overplayed, while 
 others are shadowed because of it being played only once. This gives the balance of music a complete 
 mess. The musical pieces still use the MIDI synthetic instrumental/techno sounds but that doesn't 
 truly take away from the feeling of the game. The DS can handle much in the sound department, partially 
 because of its wonderful speakers. Fire Emblem doesn't use what the DS has at all in the sound 
 section, whether it be a lack of voice acting or the overwhelming amount of MIDI files. However, 
 what Fire Emblem attempts to do, it does it well and therefore earns an okay in sound.
  
  Tilt/Value ------- 9.0
  
  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon, although short in campaign, will last 
 you a very long time. This game has incredible replay value due to its difficulty levels, wi-fi 
 capabilities, and branching conversations. First there are a total of 6 difficulty modes. One is 
 Normal and the others are Hard. There are 5 levels to Hard mode and each will test the player's 
 luck and skills. The first chapter on the hardest difficulty will most likely take the player 60+ 
 turns, timed at least 40 minutes. The challenge that the game has will bring players to replaying 
 the campaign multiple, if not numerous times. The story although short has much to be done. The 
 choices that you make in the game create certain conversations but as a result lose another. If 
 you are a completionist, you will most likely be playing through the campaign at least 3 times. 
 Lastly, the Wi-fi is a wonderful feature. Different from the multiplayer mode offered in previous 
 Fire Emblems, Wi-fi actually lets the player fight against another person's team in a tactics match. 
 This is most fun and exciting. Not only that but the player can buy online exclusive items through 
 the game's currency, but the items change depending on the day so watch out. 
  
  Conclusion -------- 7.8 (boosted from Reviewer's thoughts)
  
  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon is 
 a great game but it doesn't go beyond what an average player might expect to wow them. The game's 
 gameplay is stellar in that it does best at what it does. The story is nothing too bad that the 
 player will be moaning through it. The graphics make the characters look somewhat enticing but 
 even more so when they are fighting. The music sounds epic and fabulous. In all said and done, 
 Fire Emblem does what it does best, keeping to the series' core gameplay aspect but changing things 
 up a bit to keep things fresh. This game is something that every DS owner should check out whether 
 you are a fan of the series or a casual player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtimegamerr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  I've enjoyed 2 Fire Emblem games before this one so I was surprised at my reaction to this game. 
 To put it simply, I got bored. In some ways the game is easier this time around: if you play the 
 turorial you'll get lots of characters to start off with. And you can can change troop types for 
 free in between battles. Nothing special needed to change troop types either. Its that simple. 
 Also in the "good but makes it too easy" column is the ability to make custom weapons that do extra 
 damage, etc. This is _very_ handy and it is the key to progressing in the game at higher levels 
 of difficulty.
  
  And there's now typically 2 save points directly on the map so that you can save before a big battle. 
 
  
  But ulitmately its the same Fire Emblem game you've have seen before and (for me at least) there's 
 only so many times I want to replay one map over and over again. I'm not knocking the game because 
 it is fun, but dont say I didnt warn you that this game is too similar to the games before it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swornsecrets
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm completely in love with this game, I mean Im a HUGE fan of the Fire Emblem series. In my opinion 
 this is by far one of the best ones. You can customize your weapons, you can change any character 
 to pretty much any class you want, so if u want your myrmidon to be a cleric just change him over 
 and if you dont like it change him back. The graphics I thought could have been better, not that 
 Im bent on graphics or anything, but they could have made it look a little better. The battle sequences 
 are beautiful though. I like the music, I love the gameplay, its one of my fav games for DS that 
 I have ever played. It has wonderful replay value. If your a fan of strategy games I would suggest 
 picking this game up even if you've never played a Fire Emblem game before or if you never really 
 got into the Fire Emblem series Fire Emblem Shadow Dragon will suck you in. You'll find yourself 
 playing this for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meiaman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon is the Fire Emblem series first game for the DS.
  
  The game is a remake of the first Fire Emblem game ever made: Fire Emblem: Ankoku Ry to Hikari 
 no Tsurugi, launched for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) .
  
  Even being a remake instead of a port and being titled Fire Emblem 11, Nintendo failed to give 
 it the same edge as the predecessors that made the series famous through America and Europe, ending 
 itself as a mediocre game. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------
  - Storyline & Character development
  --------------------------------------------------
  -The 
 story is a generic old-school story, villain try to takes over your kingdom, powerless you flee 
 like a coward to gather allies and power and strike back at the villiain home while it fails to 
 kill you while you're weak.
  
  -The game has a severe lack of character development and interest. Your party only have two or 
 three that has significant participation in the story. You get a lot of expendable characters with 
 practically no story or personality and most only say one line in the entire game, most of the 
 times when they join your team.
  
  ----------------------------------------------
  Gameplay elements and features
  ----------------------------------------------
  - This is a 
 tactical strategy turn based role-playing. Both you and your enemy have phases, on your phase you 
 can move your units and attack the enemies, when you have done all your commands, you end your 
 turn, then the enemy will do the same. In order to attack an enemy, you need to have a weapon equipped, 
 and those weapons have a certain number of times that you can use before they break, because of 
 this, the characters will sometimes need some spare weapons because they can't fight unharmed.
 
  
  - The game has a interesting triangle weapon system which features swords, axes and spears. It's 
 a rock-scissor-paper system in that axes win against spears, spears win against swords and swords 
 win against axes. If in a combat, it happens that one has a advantage weapon against the adversary, 
 this person will get positive bonuses in accuracy, while the enemy will get a negative bonus for 
 accuracy, but unlike the predecessors, the bonus was reduced this time. Now the weapon triangle, 
 even being helpful for the advantaged side, doesn't play a crucial role anymore.
  
  - Other types of attacks includes ranged attacks with bows or certain weapons, such as javelins 
 and magical attacks.
  
  - Another interesting feature is the class swap, you basically can change the classes of any character, 
 such as knight to priest. The only exceptions that you can't change are the lord and the thief. 
 Even being helpful sometimes, you probably won't need it much, because of the huge amount of cannon 
 fodder that you will find.
  
  -------------------------------------
  Graphics and presentation
  -------------------------------------
  - The graphics aren't among 
 the best, the 3d look of the game gave it a strange feel, but they are not bad and the battle animations 
 runs quite smoothly.
  
  - The game presents a inteface similar of a medieval, old-school game. Old gamers will not have 
 reasons to complain and New games might find the quite easy to use interface comfortable.
  
  ------------------------
  Sound and music
  ------------------------
  Not bad at all, 
 not remarkable either.
  
  ---------------------
  Game difficulty
  ---------------------
  - Overall the game is quite easy, but for players looking for a challenge, 
 the game gives you an option to choose among five levels of hard difficulties. The latest level 
 is insanely hard, and might require several tries and every careful planning and luck to be beaten.
 
  
  ------------------
  Replay value
  ------------------
  Non-existant, the only reason that might make you play again is to try a harder difficulty.
  
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------
  Reviewer recomendation and final comments
  --------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I recommend to at least rent it first. Being from the great and famous series of Fire Emblem is 
 causing this game to get overhyped and overrated easily, it fails to keep at the same step of his 
 predecessors, but it might be an enjoyable game if you've been a fan to the series, not really 
 mind-blowing, but somewhat fun. In all the means, be careful, this game can cause some disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSF09
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  Point form is what this game deserves.
  
  -The story line is real simple, but true to the original.
  -Easy to learn, game play is rock, 
 paper & scissors!
  -This game seriously lack new features - It's step in the wrong direction (that direction being 
 backwards) 
  -Difficulty was baby mode. 
  -Flashy, looks great. As great as nDS 3d can look.\
  -Re playability? that's a joke- i still 
 remember the first one.
  -Leaves me asking question, such as:
  
  "Why do I get 7 new characters per level?!" 
  "Why do I have to kill of characters to get new 
 ones?!!!" 
  "Where did the relationship bonuses go???"
  "Why can only Marth go into towns and villages?..."
  "Why do i feel like I wasted my money?"
 
  
  Its a good time killer, but I didn't buy it to be a time killer. I bought it because I was a fan 
 of the series and I loved GBA games.
  
  Was it worth it? No, I'm sorry Intelligent Systems, but this isn't anything new and I'd wait till 
 this hit the bargain bin.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  It's been a funny old year for Nintendo. To the casual observer, it might seem that Messrs Iwata 
 and Miyamoto are suffering from a serious case of split-personality disorder. One moment they're 
 releasing classy, well-mannered lifestyle titles like Wii Music and the next they're showing their 
 dark side and unleashing snarling, none more hardcore tactical RPGs like Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon. 
 If Professor Layton is their Dr Jekyll, then this is certainly their Mr Hyde.
  
  Given the year's post-E3 accusations of a mass market sell out, it's a curious note for Nintendo 
 to end their wildly successful year on, but one that's both very welcome and also a timely reminder 
 that Nintendo's teeth are as sharp as ever.
  
  Flaming Hot
  For those new to the name, Fire Emblem is an ancient strategy series made by Intelligent Systems, 
 the same division of Nintendo responsible for Advance Wars. Indeed, the two franchises share much 
 in common. Both see you taking to the battlefield and pitting various different units against a 
 merciless, relentlessly evil foe. Your units all have different strengths and weaknesses and it's 
 up to you to engage the noggin and figure out how they're best used. Basically, it's chess, but 
 with added bloodshed and none of the tedious clock watching.
  
  Instead of Advance Wars' focus on pure, undiluted strategic thinking, however, Fire Emblem is much 
 more story-orientated with all the RPG trimmings you'd expect from the game's Dungeons & Dragons 
 setting. This is probably why it's the more hardcore strategy game of the two - on the face of 
 it, all that talk of HP, levelling up and character classes makes it less accessible than its more 
 straight-laced cousin. It's a shame though, because the Fire Emblem series is every bit as addictive, 
 and Shadow Dragon is no different.
  
  A remake of the Japan-only NES original, Shadow Dragon follows Prince Marth (yes, that blue haired 
 gent from Smash Bros.) as he tries to kick the evil pontifex Gharnef and arch scumbag Medeus out 
 of his homeland. You'll recruit followers as you progress, ranging from horsebound Paladins who 
 can traverse the battlefield at lightning speed, to thieves who can open treasure chests and bust 
 open locked doors. 
  
  You have a finite set of troops for each battle and, unlike Advance Wars, once one of your team 
 is killed, there's no way to respawn them. Your fighters level up as they fight and can buy new, 
 more powerful weapons as your spoils of war add up. Cultivating your fighters and making sure your 
 best soldiers stay alive is crucial to success, and it's a viciously addictive mechanic. Carelessly 
 losing your lv. 15 Armor Knight in a boss battle will leave you in tears, believe us.
  
  
  
  All The Time In The World
  There's a total of 25 battles to work your way through, with 
 a nicely defined difficulty curve. When it hits its stride at about the half-way point, it becomes 
 fiendishly tricky and there's plenty of gameplay here. It lacks the rabid score chasing aspect 
 and level creation options that had us glued to Advance Wars for 100 hours plus but with the addition 
 of online battling (a first for the series) , there's more than enough to keep you busy here.
  
  As an old school strategy game, Shadow Dragon is extremely difficult to fault. Visually it's 
 not up to much and the dialogue is cheesier than a James Blunt concert in an Edam factory. These 
 are small gripes though. Sure, it doesn't really do anything to push the franchise forward but 
 this is easily forgiven as it's so relentlessly playable. We'll expect a little more innovation 
 next time around but as a first DS offering, this fits the bill perfectly.
  
  With Advance Wars and Final Fantasy Tactics, the DS has already demonstrated it's the perfect platform 
 for bite-sized strategic battling. You can add Fire Emblem to that list now. This is deliciously 
 meaty tactical gaming that fans of the genre should gobble up with relish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneryPopopango
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  My first Fire Emblem game was Fire Emblem 7, otherwise known to the rest of the world outside Japan 
 as the first Fire Emblem game for the GBA. I still remember my absolute amazement when I first 
 played the game. True it could do with a bit more polishing, but that's more for presentation. 
 At it's core, it's a near perfect game.
  
  After that the Sacred Stones came out for the GBA and I took it up, expecting the same brilliance 
 I saw in Fire Emblem. It was good, and it also had improved game mechanisms (for one thing, training 
 is easier in this version) . However I felt the story lacked impact compared to Fire Emblem, mainly 
 due to the fact you're no longer part of the story as an advisor or some other entity within that 
 universe.
  
  Subsequent Fire Emblem games so far told their stories in a similar fashion to Sacred Stones (i. e. 
 you're reading their stories) . Same holds true for the current remake of the very first Fire Emblem 
 game now on the DS, Shadow Dragon. Don't get me wrong though. The various stories in the Fire Emblem 
 series has me hooked more than any bestseller you can find in bookstores. However, the way the 
 story was presented in Fire Emblem 7 was by involving the player into the story. This made it stand 
 out so much over the rest that I hope one day Fire Emblem games could return to that approach, 
 albeit in variations of course and not necessarily as an advisor again.
  
  Sorry for the long detour, but I had to get that out for a bit. Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragons is 
 no doubt a great DS game, incorporating the classic Fire Emblem gameplay we know (and love with 
 any chance) . Well... it should. It is the very first Fire Emblem game after all! 
  
  So yes, you've got an insanely hard battle waiting for you when you get this game. To top it all 
 off, there's a hard mode for those masochistic enough to try. Now, I know that this concept isn't 
 new, what is though is the various levels of difficulty within the 'Hard mode'. Yes, it seems like 
 the developers had too much time on their hands, creating 5 levels of difficulty ranging from 'Hard' 
 to 'Merciless' (five star difficulty) . I've tried the first mission on merciless and got my entire 
 army killed off (I'm no pushover at Fire Emblem, but man... they give enemies increased stats and 
 reduce your by loads causing, for example, one of their thieves to hit my lance wielding cavalier 
 twice taking a huge chunk of health away...) .
  
  So, the gameplay is good. However, there are a couple of grips I have with the game apart from 
 it's story presentation that prevent this game from getting more merit than it deserves.
  
  Firstly, there's no support conversation system. Some of you may like/dislike/ignore this system, 
 but I love it mainly for its part in shaping the story and the relationships between characters. 
 The characters in Shadow Dragon are as good as any other Fire Emblem characters, but without the 
 support system the nuances in the various characters' relationships are lost. Replayability is 
 also reduced in this case (I've played Fire Emblem 7 so many times, and I've only got 47% of my 
 support conversations. I'm taking a break from it but you can bet anything that I'll definitely 
 be going back to play it again!) .
  
  Next up is the fighting animations (is that a cheer I hear, maybe?) . I love the 2D fighting animations 
 in the GBA games. The were oozing with charm and their attacks had sooooo much 'oomph' that you 
 either went into an adrenaline rush whenever your characters made their attacks (let along their 
 criticals) or you reeled from an enemy attack, wincing from the damage dealt. Whatever the case, 
 the animations were fluid, fast and definitely furious. Come the 3D character models... I've not 
 played much of the Gamecube/Wii FF games much yet, but from what I saw the characters attacks lack 
 impact. Same goes for Shadow Dragon. Here, you get a isometric-ish 3D character model. The animation 
 is fluid... but it's lackluster. Remember the criticals from the mercenaries in FF7 or Sacred Stones? 
 Tapping the sword on the shoulder, then tossing it up high in the air quickly followed by a mighty 
 leap, catching the sword in mid-air and slamming it into the enemies' skull? Brilliance. Now? A 
 sudden fast movement forward, he attacks, the screen whites-out for a micro section and shakes 
 for the same amount of time. There's nothing to compare. We need to get the point back to Intelligent 
 Systems, stick to dynamic 2D models until you find out how to do the same for 3D ones!
  
  Finally... well, actually that's it I guess. So in summary:
  
  Gameplay: 8 (-1 from lack of 
 impressive attack animations)
  Story: 8 (-1 from lack of player involvement in story, -1 from lack of support conversations)
 
  
  Hence the 8 I guess. Note that I've still yet to play through the bulk of the game yet, so an update 
 to this personal review will probably be up... in a couple of years time. ^ ^
  
  ~mya 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
