-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ford Racing 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/fordracing3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 25 Ford vehicles including classics, concept cars, and pickups.
 10 different race types offer a nice break from the standard races.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ugly graphics, especially on the vehicle models.
 Odd physics result in floating cars and awkward collisions.
 Almost all of the content is locked at the beginning of the game.
 Annoying and cheap AI.
 Sound effects consist of a single engine noise and a single, tire-squealing noise.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 4.9, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 66 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Visual Impact
Genre: Driving
Date: Dec 7, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ford Racing 3 is a dull and clumsy racing game that will disappoint even the most forgiving Ford 
 enthusiasts. 

  In what might be an attempt to capture the lucrative market of the Nintendo DS-owning Ford fanatics, 
 Empire Interactive has released Ford Racing 3, a straightforward racing game featuring 25 of the 
 most popular Ford vehicles from the past nine decades. Like its console cousins, Ford Racing 3 
 for the DS is a budget title, and it offers the same brand of no-frills, arcade-style racing as 
 those versions of the game. But, while the console versions of Ford Racing 3 have halfway decent 
 racing mechanics and online play, the DS version has neither of these things, and it looks ugly 
 too. The end result is a stiff, lifeless husk of a racing game that will disappoint even the most 
 forgiving of Ford fanatics.  

          This game isn't quite a Pinto, but it's still worse than an Escort.     

  There are 
 25 vehicles, 14 competitions, 22 challenges, and 10 race types in Ford Racing 3. For some annoying 
 reason, though, when you start up the game you can only access a measly three cars and a few basic 
 tracks. So right off the bat you can't help but feel cheated, since almost all of the content in 
 the game is locked away. You have to complete a number of challenges, or win competitions, before 
 you can access any of the more remarkable vehicles or interesting race types, but even those aren't 
 really worth the effort it takes to unlock them. Apparently, all this stuff is locked away to give 
 you an incentive to make your way through career mode, which is the main focus of the single-player 
 game.  

  Career mode is divided into 14 competitions, 22 challenges, and 10 collection races. The competitions 
 are basically race tournaments with a specific theme, such as vintage cars or off-road vehicles. 
 These competitions consist of a series of up to six races, with points awarded based on how you 
 place in each race. The person with the most points after the last race is the winner of the competition. 
 The competitions mix things up by having different types of races for each round. You might start 
 out with a standard three-lap race, followed by an elimination race where the last two cars are 
 eliminated each lap, and then move on to a boost race, which is the same as a standard race except 
 you earn two speed boosts per lap. It's a nice way to keep the competitions varied, but the racing 
 isn't especially fun in any of the different types of races, so the added variety quickly becomes 
 irrelevant. By completing competitions, you can unlock new tracks and more competitions. If competitions 
 aren't your thing, you can try to complete the 22 challenges in the game. These challenges are 
 categorized by vehicle type, and each vehicle has a single challenge with two difficulty settings. 
 The challenges do offer a nice break from the standard race rules. In one challenge you have to 
 draft behind a certain number of opponents, in another you have to collect green icons while avoiding 
 red ones, and in another you have to place first in a sort of relay race where you pass the baton 
 each lap by drafting your teammate. By completing these challenges you can unlock new vehicles, 
 which in turn are used to unlock even more new challenges. There is also a Ford collection mode 
 where you can compete in one of 10 different race types to unlock more content.  

  If the career mode isn't your thing, you can choose to either jump into a quick race or play with 
 up to three other players, as long as each player has a copy of the game. But no matter which race 
 mode you choose, you'll encounter problems such as weird physics, annoying artificial intelligence, 
 ugly presentation, and awkward controls. All the cars do handle somewhat differently, but none 
 of them ever feel like they really make contact with the road surface. You'll move along sluggishly 
 at what feels like a snail's pace, bounce unnaturally off of uneven surfaces, and cruise over grass 
 and gravel as though it were asphalt. Oddly, hitting walls on the side of the track will slow you 
 down only slightly, but if you even slightly tap another vehicle from behind or on the side you'll 
 come to a dead stop while the other vehicle continues on without consequence. This makes passing 
 extremely difficult, since any sort of contact always favors your opponent -- unless you get cleanly 
 rear-ended, which results in a boost of speed as you bounce off your opponent's front bumper.  
 

  The AI seems to exploit this problem by clustering up in a bunch around you. No matter how well 
 you race, there is almost always a pack of racers right on your tail, ready to overtake you if 
 you make even the slightest mistake. It seems as though there's no way to pull away from the pack; 
 they just hover behind you or pass you up as they head way down the track where you can't possibly 
 catch them. The cars are almost always racing in twos as well, making it difficult to pass even 
 in the open stretches. However, the AI opponents follow the exact same lines each and every lap, 
 so they quickly become predictable, and by the third lap, you'll know exactly when to make your 
 move.  

  The controls in Ford Racing 3 are functional, but they are slightly awkward. You can use the touch 
 screen if you want to, but it takes getting used to, and it doesn't feel responsive at all. You 
 can accelerate or slow down by moving your finger or stylus to the top or bottom of the screen, 
 and turn by moving left or right. The easier and more familiar method of control employs the standard 
 D pad and face buttons. The button layout is strange, though, since your gas is mapped to the A 
 button, the brake is B, and the boost is Y. This makes it impossible to hit the boost without letting 
 off the gas or inadvertently hitting the brake. The only effective way to use boost is by leaving 
 your thumb on the gas and using your right index finger to hit the boost, which is more than a 
 little awkward. It would make a lot more sense to have the boost button right above the gas button, 
 or at the very least include an option to reconfigure the controls and possibly make use of the 
 shoulder buttons.  

  Regardless of how you personally feel about the style of Ford automobiles, the vehicles in this 
 game look downright ugly. Some of the vehicles look so jagged and nasty that you wouldn't be able 
 to recognize what kind of car it was if the game didn't tell you. There are trucks, Model T's, 
 Mustangs, Thunderbirds, and more, but at best they only look vaguely reminiscent of their real-world 
 counterparts. The textures are screwy, too. The texture for the rims on the vehicles is off-center 
 from the wheel, so when you see a car moving down the road, the wheels look wobbly and lopsided. 
 The tracks aren't much better, but they do offer a bit of variety, which is nice. Terrain ranges 
 from beachfront to snowy mountains to winding forest roads. You'll see a lot of objects pop up 
 on the horizon, though, and there are some nasty-looking, flickering texture seams visible in most 
 of the courses.  

          For what are supposedly icons of American automotive design, these cars sure look ugly. 
     

  The sound doesn't fare any better. The engine noises are all the same, regardless of whether you're 
 driving a '31 Model A or a '00 Cobra. The engine noise isn't especially good either -- it sounds 
 more like a motorized scooter than a car. Another noise you'll hear constantly is the distorted 
 screech of tires on the surface of the road. Whether you're driving on asphalt, sand, snow, or 
 water, you'll hear the exact same scratchy noise. The music is simplistic and repetitive, and it 
 sounds like it was taken from a NES-era racing game.  

  Ford Racing 3 is a dull, ugly racing game that simply isn't worth your time. Even though there 
 aren't many great racing games for the DS, there are at least a couple that are better than this 
 one. If you're on a tight budget, love Ford vehicles, and you simply must have a racing game for 
 your DS, this game might keep you busy for a few hours, but you're still much better off spending 
 a little bit more to get your racing fix elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Langy_01
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a racing game then keep looking past this title. You will be better off sticking 
 pins in your eyes!
  
  Your would have thought that something titled Ford 3 might have been a thrid and very good version 
 of a game. Well did I think wrong about that. After playing titles like Marios Kart and Race Driver 
 Create and Race I was looking for another stunning title. As soon as the game is even loaded you 
 can see what looks like very old generation graphics.
  
  The view point when racing is about the only good point about the game,
  
  The cars turn very 
 awkwardly in that they just turn and dont keep in the direction you expect them to go in.
  
  I have played many racing games on the PC where even a lot of free web versions are far greater 
 than what this game has to offer.
  
  Don't even think about buying this game, if you even get offered the game free just ask if you 
 can have something different, I can't say that I would even stoop as low to sell it on eBay, people 
 would want me to pay them to take the game away.
  
  Ohh did I sound a bit down on this game?
  
  Well I think you get the idea in that the game 
 is totally rubbish, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitro720
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. it seems like it should be a GBA game. The graphics are so so since it was 
 made early in the DS life cycle. The cars handle so unrealalistically that it is a shame! The bad 
 handling makes this game progressively hard and very unplayable. I really dont htink that any Ford 
 enthusiast should but it at all! The game has alot of content- only if you can access it. This 
 game in my opinion is a waste of DS game pak and not even worth a rent. Another thing; this sgame 
 is very bland. No story, just a super basic arcade type racer.
  
  Buy at your own risk of being extremely bored.
  
  2.0 for graphics
  
  .5 for developers 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_zargon
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 1, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Well, where do I start? 
  
  a) The physics are very poor and it feels like you are driving a broken hovercraft.
  b) The graphics 
 are poor at best, car models really are abysmal.
  c) If I hear that one tone engine noise or those blackboard screeching tyres again I will scream!
 
  d) Lazy Ai which go at a snails pace when you are left behind and at over double your speed when 
 you get ahead, making short-cuts pointless.
  
  Overall this is a broken and annoying game which I would have never had have had the dissatifaction 
 to play if I hadn't won it. (The Alien Hominid T-Shirt was great however!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jembinator
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 11, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  I only got this game because it was really cheap and the cover looked good but u know what they 
 say "never judge a book by its cover".... This game makes little use of the bottom screen, it has 
 a repetitive game play, fairly hard and just plain boring. There are times where you get hooked 
 in the game just because you want to unlock more cars but in most races it is hard to win. There 
 are some extra features like boost but it really doesnt speed up your car much. The sound is not 
 that great all cars have the practically the same "vroom" noise and graphics are very blocky and 
 look no where near the real thing. It is just one of those basic racing games where all you do 
 is race basically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polska1
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  My dad has a 1995 Ford GT90 Concept. that car is beautiful, but when i look at that car in the 
 game the graphics are bad i never knew it was that car until i saw the name, thats how bad the 
 game and the graphics are. the sound is bad the graphics are bad and the graphics on cars are extremely 
 bad. racing games for ds are usually good but this game is very bad. if you want to try it out 
 rent it or buy a used version or get it for xbox. the envoirement graphics are good but the car 
 graphicse bad. trust me do not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaojie
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  Rubbish, not even worth writing a review about it. No really this is so bad that personally i would 
 not even give it to my dead dog. The graphics are poor. The sound is pants, it does not sound like 
 a car it sounds more like your fingers scraping down the black board in the classroom. I found 
 that the game play was just to easy and i found it a bit annoying after a few hours. The value 
 is totally inaccurate, I think they should burn every copy and forget that this game ever existed. 
 The makers of this game should be ashamed as i found that ford racing 1 and 2 were pretty good 
 fun. I would recommend this game to no one this is one game you should steer away from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_motor
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:38 am PT
Review:  I saw this game and said cool, a $10 game for the DS, even if it's bad, WTF! I was wrong! The physics 
 are horrible in this port of Ford Racing, the graphics are PS1, and the control is really, really 
 bad. 
  As cool as the 56 T-Bird was, it sucked in this game. To play as any other car, you were forced 
 to play even more of this crap. To be honest, you'd be better off trying a Need for Speed, etc. 
 However, I found Mario Kart was a far superior game. What makes this buy worse, GameStop didn't 
 have it in their computer so I could get rid of it! Oh the pain! Now I will gouge my eyes out and 
 cut off my hands for ever having to suffer through this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
