-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fossil League: Dino Tournament Championship
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/fossilleague/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Large variety of dinosaurs.
 Satisfying element of strategy.
 Lengthy, cohesive story.
 Great educational value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ugly visuals.
 Too many shared attacks between dinosaurs.
 Often arbitrarily prevented from capturing certain dinosaurs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.0, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 41 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: MTO
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Jan 22, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the game's lackluster visuals, budding paleontologists and Pokmon fans alike should find 
 an enjoyable romp through time in this DS adventure. 

   Pokmon  meets  Jurassic Park  meets  BattleBots  meets... Doctor Who ? Such is the zany setup 
 of Fossil League: Dino Tournament Championship on the Nintendo DS, a decidedly Pokmon take on 
 the prehistoric and postpresent world. Unlike last year's Dino Master, which somehow bricked on 
 the slam-dunk concept that is dinosaur brawling, Fossil League offers a lengthy romp through time 
 and is accompanied by a cohesive storyline and an enjoyable, moderately strategic battling system. 
 This game also adds an edutainment twist to the Pokmon formula, and it goes a long way in differentiating 
 itself from all the other Pokmon clones.  

          Pachycephalosaurus... I choose you!     

  Despite being absolutely ludicrous at times, 
 Fossil League's story does a good job of keeping you entertained as you time-trot through the six 
 prehistoric eras ruled by man-eaters, both monolithic and miniscule. As is inevitable in a futuristic 
 human society, with the discovery of time travel comes a wanton disregard for the butterfly effect, 
 as well as the founding of a universally popular dinosaur fighting league. However, it isn't all 
 fun and games, as the stringent Time Travel Control Act governs the issuance of Dino Battle Licenses, 
 which are needed to acquire dinosaurs from the past and bring them to fight in the present. Not 
 just anyone can receive one of these licenses, of course -- you must be at least 12 years of age 
 and pass a test proving you are responsible enough to not disrupt space-time. That last requisite 
 apparently isn't all that well enforced, as an ecoterrorist organization known as Syndicate X attempts 
 to destroy all of mankind to prevent humanity's epic final war that totally annihilates Earth's 
 inhabitants. Their plan is to go back in time and exterminate Big Mother, an animal that is believed 
 to be the earliest branch of the Mammalia class, to which Homo sapiens belong. Being the hero of 
 this story, you happen to have the only known fossil of Big Mother, which your father entrusted 
 to you on his deathbed. In your first jaunt to the past, this fossil is stolen from you and broken 
 into seven pieces, which are then somehow scattered throughout the early, middle, and late periods 
 of both the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods, and you must find the pieces before Syndicate X does 
 to thwart their maniacal plan. Suffice it to say, the story is totally bananas (though hauntingly 
 plausible) , but it acts as an excellent backdrop for the meat of the action: dropping the gauntlet 
 with dinosaurs.  

  As you progress through the story and, subsequently, through time, you'll encounter a large variety 
 of reptilians with which you can fight. Battles play out much like they do in Pokmon, where you 
 engage a dinosaur and then use a variety of attacks to either defeat it or drop its health low 
 enough for you to capture it. It's difficult to achieve anything other than a Pyrrhic victory in 
 battles, because enemy dinosaurs often hit you harder than you'll hit them, and your attacks tend 
 to miss more frequently than theirs. It's good, then, that dinosaurs level up at a fairly quick 
 pace, because in addition to the stat boost you receive, leveling recharges your hit and skill 
 points. So in practice, you'll often be cycling through your troupe of up to five, burning through 
 your dinosaurs that are currently healthy while you wait for your defeated dinosaurs to level and 
 recharge. As frustrating as it sounds, it actually works well to expose you to more than just one 
 dinosaur, and it encourages you to strengthen several different dinosaurs' skills. It also helps 
 to reinforce the game's strategy element, which deals with the various dinosaurs' elemental affinities. 
 Most dinosaurs specialize in a particular element -- earth, wind, fire, or water -- though some are 
 neutral. Elements play out in the typical rock-paper-scissors format, where one element is more 
 effective than another. These attacks are balanced well against each other, and even if you're 
 matched up against an opponent who has the upper hand, you still have a good shot at walking away 
 victorious. Because of this, battles often become nail-biters, where you flirt with being completely 
 wiped out and must strategically maximize your matchups to get the most out of each dinosaur.  
 

  From an edutainment perspective, Fossil League does an excellent job of offering a wide variety 
 of dinosaurs while avoiding the urge to focus on the glamorized heavy hitters such as the T. rex 
 or velociraptor, though those are certainly included. There are more than 100 different dinosaurs 
 in all, spanning the early Jurassic period to the late Cretaceous period. And while the jury is 
 still out on whether, for example, a kentrosaurus could breathe fire, the game does a good job 
 of accurately representing these dinosaurs -- placing them in their appropriate time periods, classifying 
 them in their proper infraorders, and rendering them fairly accurately. In the game, dinosaurs 
 that wouldn't normally come into contact with each other do cohabit, but this allows for more variety, 
 so it's mostly forgivable. As you run up against dinosaurs, they'll be added to your Dinopedia, 
 where you'll find all of their statistical information, as well as a 3D model of each, for your 
 perusal.  

          It doesn't look like much, but you'll probably enjoy Fossil League anyway.     

  Fossil 
 League is by no stretch of the imagination a good-looking game. Between the muddy, blurry environments, 
 the dull 2D character models, the uncomfortably close camera angle, and the nondescript and inaccurate 
 overhead map, you'll be disappointed around every corner. The game does at least try to animate 
 the dinosaurs as they attack one another, which is slightly better than just having their images 
 jiggle or do nothing at all, but the animation is as awkward as you'd imagine from a 10-ton quadruped 
 doing a dropkick. Granted, no one really knows what a dinosaur actually looked like, but more time 
 probably should have been spent sprucing up the visuals, especially in light of the intended educational 
 value of associating a name with a face. The audio fares better, as it provides some nice, up-tempo 
 battle music and a different looping tune for each time period. However, there isn't much variety 
 to it for how long the game is, so you'll most likely turn off the sound a few hours in, or sooner. 

  If you've got a friend or younger sibling who also has this game, you'll be able to extend the 
 value of Fossil League even further with the multiplayer battling mode. But even without it, the 
 gameplay is enjoyable enough to keep you interested for the 15 to 20 hours it will take to reach 
 the end of the story and be crowned champion of the Battle Coliseum (and, you know, save every 
 human being who has or ever will live) . It may not look like much, but Fossil League packs a satisfying 
 experience, and you might just learn something in the process of saving the world.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bimoru
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  What you do if an ultrasaurus appears in front of you? Why, I'll be feeding it some dino grass! 
 Who would not like to own his (or her) own giant dinosaur? Everybody in Dino Tournament Championship 
 (DS) would! The story starts with a boy that is losing his dad, and his dad gives him a fossil. 
 Little did he know that this fossil is mother creature (or so what it is called) . Then comes the 
 professor to help him. To dream to be the no. 1 is the boy's dream, nothing different from other 
 characters like Ash of Pokemon and the main character of the Digimon World (DS) . Then you will 
 go time travel and see dinosaurs. And, dinopedia gives you an idea of ancient dinosaurs, but you 
 have to search them on your internet. Because it doesn't complete your knowledge about 'em. There 
 are plenty of cut scenes and many boring talks, but the over - all are beautiful! 
  Owning a dinosaur is great, and having them battle is another fun! It's just like another game 
 there on your first look, but, remember, never judge a book by it's cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchiz
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm only a novice gamer, mostly because I'm not that into fantasy. One of my favorite parts of 
 Sims2 Castaway is learning to recognize a needed plant from a cross a chaotic jungle, and I was 
 hoping I might get a bit of the same peripheral enjoyment with the dinosaurs here.
  
  Well, yes and no. It's nice to get to play around with the dinos, which are grouped into early, 
 middle and late sections of the Cretaceous and Jurassic, respectively (what, no Triassic?!) but 
 it's still a fighting game. The unexpected bonus for me, as a 46-yr-old mom, has been learning 
 just how my Pokemon-loving son keeps All That Stuff in his brain. It sticks pretty quickly and 
 easily, I was surprised!
  
  However, even just a tiny bit more dino-realism would have been easy to achieve and much appreciated. 
 In a battle with a Plesiosaur, for instance, one should not get a message saying, "You were not 
 able to outrun your opponent!" : )
  
  In my dream world, the Museum of Natural History would team up with Nintendo to make some fabulous 
 guide-games that taught one about the sciences, using the collections and scholars of the museum 
 as info.
  
  Wouldn't it be neat to try to build the tree of life using cladistic information, or even -- just 
 think! -- helping to identify the endless archived little bits sitting in dusty boxes in the museum's 
 basements? The possibilities are endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLoneDinosaur
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  I love dinosaurs. That, from my name you can tell.
  
  So, I got this game not thinking that it might be bad, mediocre, or disgusting, or just plain awful. 
 I got because I like Dinosaurs. I started playing, and from the first dinosaur you meet, I was 
 hooked. I started to get into the battles and the story. It isn't an adult game, as most people 
 will probably pass it up for something else. But, if you love dinosaurs, this game does not live 
 up to what the latin word Dinos (DY-Nos) means. It means Terrible. I've seen some pretty bad games, 
 and good ones too. This is good. I'm not here to give a guide about it, so I'll stop rambiling, 
 but, holy triceratops, this is a fun game. Megaman and digimon meet Jurassic Park and Dinotopia. 
 Yippeee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Yes, it really is pokemon-style play with dinosaurs. Nice 3-d renderings of the beasties, with 
 multiple smooth moves.
  
  The bad:
  Poor design choices makes for a frustrating time trying to just walk around. Crappy music can't 
 be turned off. main quest is a bit on the short side.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  This is one of those ideas we all wish we'd had, it's so sweet. Take the pokemon battle system, 
 and insert dinosaurs where the fuzzy wuzzy anime used to be. I mean, it just resonates with dollar 
 signs.... what warm-blooded male under the age of 70 doesn't love dinosaurs? I still fondly remember 
 leafing through my first Little Big Book of Dinosaurs, pausing wistfully on the diplodocus... everybody 
 wanted a pet dino to take to school and stomp a few heads for them. Well, with Fossil League Dino 
 Tour, you now have the chance. The basic premise of the game is to collect dino friends and use 
 them (in groups of up to 5) to battle other dinos out there in the wild.
  
  The ripping off of the pokemon structure makes it very easy to get into the game, as many of the 
 mechanics are comfortably familiar. For example, you 'catch' dinos by hitting them with yours, 
 weakening them enough that you can throw them some food to eat, which might lure them into joining 
 your Jurassic Posse. The battles themselves take place as turn-based affairs, where you decide 
 which attack to employ on that turn, then sit back and watch them trade hits. If your dino's HP 
 drops to zero, you can sub in any other dino you have with you, and the battle continues. When 
 the battle is over, your 'dead' dino turns out to not really be dead, having a single hit point. 
 With every battle, all of your crew gains experience, allowing them to level up and improve their 
 stats (attack, defense, speed, luck, hp) , and gain new moves (each dino has slots for up to four 
 of em) .
  
  The battles themselves are random-ish, in that as you walk around the world map, you can see little 
 dinosaurs wandering around. If you get too close to one of them, you fight. Luckily, this means 
 that it is possible to avoid some battles by running past the dino while their back is turned, 
 but doing this too much might leave you under-levelled to take on later, more powerful enemies, 
 including the boss at the end.
  
  In addition, there is also the fact that each dino has an 'element affiliation' (fire, earth, wind, 
 water, or neutral) , with each element being strong against another, and weak against still another. 
 For example, fire is strong against earth, but weak against water. It adds a slight strategy element 
 to the game that makes things interesting at times, since the weakness/strength differential is 
 significant. The notion of an element affiliation isn't as dumb as you might think: dinos that 
 lived in water are affiliated with the water element; dinos that can fly are affiliated with the 
 'wind' element. So, while it can be a little far-fetched at times (especially since no dinos were 
 naturally affiliated with 'fire') , for the most part it makes some sort of sense.
  
  There is a storyline, which generally involves getting you to visit different time periods in the 
 prehistoric past to gather artifacts. Saying any more would introduce spoilers, and frankly, the 
 story is secondary to the battling anyway.
  
  The battles take place on the upper screen, with the two dinos rendered in full 3-d loveliness.... smooth 
 animations and good roar/shriek sounds go a long way toward giving the battles life, although the 
 dinos don't actually *touch* when battling. Far more irritating, though, is the incessant battle 
 music which plays the same refrain over and over and over and over and.... you get the idea. No, 
 there is no way to turn it off. So, if you want to keep your sanity, you quickly turn the sound 
 off altogether, meaning you now lose all the cool dino battle cries and roars. Yes, the dinos still 
 look pretty good, but not being able to hear them really takes away from the experience.
  
  A second issue I had was with navigating the world map when you are in 'the past'. Basically, it 
 is a 3rd person perspective, so you move your avatar through a fully 3-d rendered environment. 
 Sounds good right? Well... the view is locked in a constantly annoying position, so that you find 
 yourself guiding your avatar toward 'you' (out of the screen) , not being able to see where you 
 are walking. I suppose they did this of necessity, in order to leave enough memory for all the 
 dino renderings, but it makes for very frustrating navigation, as you basically have to guess what 
 direction to walk in. Luckily, most of the maps are runway-style affairs, where there aren't too 
 many choice-points (zero or one per map, usually) . You make your way to the end, fight the boss, 
 then move on to the next.
  
  If you can get over the crappy navigation style and crappy music, you will be rewarded with a decent, 
 somewhat lengthy (if you try to 'catch em all'... if not, it can be a little short, around 15-20 
 hours) pokemon-style RPG while solving a mystery game, with all your favorite dinos to boot. Why 
 my score of just 'good'? Well, the fact that you basically have to play it in silence to avoid 
 having that four-bar refrain burned into your subconscious means nearly a third of the game is 
 lost (at least for me) . Others, you maybe, might not mind the repetitive mind-droning dun dun dun... dun 
 dun dun.... drummed into your skull..... the movement issue is also annoying, but not insurmountable. 
 Again, it just made what could've been a great game into a merely good one. That said, there's 
 dinosaurs... lots of dinosaurs..... flying, swimming, stomping roaring Jurassic buddies...... wheeeeee. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
