-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Freedom Wings
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sim/orenosentoiki/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique mix of air combat and role-playing.
 Good variety of upgrades and weapons.
 Solid dogfighting controls on manual mode.
 Escort missions and certain boss fights are exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story is weak and poorly translated.
 enemies are slow and stupid.
 Far too easy when played on AI mode.
 Random battles are repetitive and tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 4.4, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 71 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Natsume
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: Flight Simulation
Date: Aug 21, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Natsume's attempt to marry the air combat and role-playing genres often feels underdeveloped and 
 unpolished. 

  Natsume, the company that's best known for producing role-playing games based on fishing and farming, 
 has now produced an RPG with aerial dogfighting. You earn experience and money not by raising animals 
 or catching fish, but by shooting down enemy aircraft and liberating occupied islands. That reward 
 money can then be used to purchase better planes and to outfit each aircraft with a variety of 
 weapons and upgrades. Unfortunately, some aspects of Freedom Wings feel underdeveloped or unpolished. 
 The story is barely there, for instance, and the combat is simplistic and repetitive. Anyone looking 
 for the next Final Fantasy or Ace Combat should probably look elsewhere. With that said, when you 
 consider the overall game, it's a pleasant and quirky hybrid that people of the right mind-set 
 will enjoy.  

          Freedom Wings is part air combat game and part role-playing game.     

  Just like any 
 other role-playing game, Freedom Wings puts you in the role of a lone hero trying to rid the world 
 of evildoers. In this case, the lone hero is an unnamed teenager who was separated from his parents 
 as a young boy when the family's passenger plane was attacked by pirates. Our hero has joined the 
 Air Patrol Association to bring air pirates, which now control the skies, to justice and in the 
 hopes of one day finding out what happened to his parents. The plot is RPG clich, and the structure 
 and progression of the game aren't much different from what you would find in a traditional RPG 
 either. You must wander from one town to the next, talk to people, engage in random battles, and 
 fight powerful boss characters. The twist here is that the towns are airports, the people are pilots 
 who hang out in cafes, and all of the battles are real-time dogfights played out in the skies. 
 Experience and money are earned by fending off pirates and clearing the skies around airports, 
 and these rewards function as you would expect them to, allowing you to buy new planes and outfit 
 them with dozens of part upgrades and weapons.  

  The game's role-playing aspects are more focused on collecting and building planes than on advancing 
 a meaningful story with developed characters. Much of the dialogue involves thankful pilots telling 
 you where to go next or brash pirates challenging you to a showdown. Character development is nearly 
 nonexistent, with the exception of Sebastian, a helpful mechanic who turns out to have an interesting 
 past, and the eventual plot payoff involving the nameless hero and his parents. As it is, the translation 
 from Japanese is riddled with spelling errors and grammar gaffes. Some role-players may also be 
 disappointed that the main character doesn't turn into the typical RPG superhero as the game progresses. 
 Gaining experience doesn't upgrade his skills or give him any new attacks. Instead, you become 
 stronger by buying better airplanes and constantly upgrading them with meatier parts. That aspect 
 is one of the game's high points. There are six different planes to unlock and dozens of parts 
 to buy. New engines, armor, and wings influence a plane's fuel consumption, speed, and durability. 
 Meanwhile, the succession of guns, bombs, and missiles lets you go from shooting down a pirate 
 aircraft with a handful of bullets in multiple passes to downing them with one or two shots in 
 a single run.  

          Manual controls and escort missions are the way to go.     

  Up in the skies, Freedom Wings gives you the option of controlling the plane yourself or letting 
 the CPU do all the work. Playing in artificial intelligence mode sucks all the fun out of the game, 
 since all you have to do is tap targets on the touch screen and wait while the computer automatically 
 shoots them down. Once you have a decent set of armor and weapons, you can literally let the game 
 play itself. People who are more interested in the game's role-playing aspects may prefer AI mode, 
 but real air combat aficionados will want to play in manual mode. Here, every aspect of the aircraft's 
 handling is under your control, including throttle, steering, and weapons. It doesn't take long 
 to get used to steering with the D pad, shooting with the buttons, and adjusting the throttle with 
 the touch screen. You'll have to work harder to lead targets and stay behind enemies while playing 
 on manual mode, but those uncertainties are exactly this mode is the best way to play. Most players 
 will probably resort to a combination of both modes, such that they handle the aircraft in battle, 
 while the CPU takes the stick when traveling the long distances between airports. Despite the simulation-like 
 controls, the combat in Freedom Wings has more in common with an arcade game like Afterburner than 
 a sim such as Ace Combat. Your plane won't stall if you fly straight up, for example, and you can 
 bounce off the ground and water without incurring so much as a scratch. Even on manual mode, landing 
 the aircraft is as simple as smacking into the airport's runway. Enemy AI is also rather rudimentary. 
 The enemies are slow to react and, with the exception of battleships, can usually be destroyed 
 before they fire a single shot.  

  Thanks to the dumb AI, most battles are predictable. For that reason, random dogfights and even 
 some boss encounters turn repetitive in a hurry. They don't provide much challenge, so there isn't 
 much reason to get excited over them. Skirmishes involving sea-based targets are more challenging, 
 however, and more interesting, because they typically take multiple passes to destroy. The scripted 
 escort missions handed out by people in the airport cafes also provide better thrills and more 
 challenge than standard dogfights do, because in the escort missions, you're usually escorting 
 a flimsy transport while dealing with multiple heavily armed bogies. If you kill time fighting 
 random pirates, you'll definitely find the game more tedious than if you keep moving from airport 
 to airport and make it a point to participate in escort missions. The game is at its best when 
 you stick to the program, so to speak, even though doing so does significantly decrease how long 
 it takes to finish the overall campaign. In all, there are seven airports to liberate and approximately 
 two dozen side missions, which should take the average player about five hours to run through. 

  There's also a Wi-Fi mode with support for up to four players. As is the case in the regular game, 
 dogfighting against your friends is much more enjoyable when the controls are set to manual mode. 
 If everyone plays with the controls set to AI mode, the winner, without fail, is the person with 
 the strongest plane or who fires the first missile. The nice thing about the game's Wi-Fi mode 
 is that it requires only one game card. Players with their own copy of the game can use their own 
 planes. Anyone who doesn't have a copy of the game is limited to using a duplicate of the host's 
 plane. That's not a horrible limitation, especially considering that all of the other graphics 
 and audio, as well as the entire gameworld, are sent to the receiving system's memory in just a 
 few seconds.  

          Wi-Fi mode supports four players using a single game card.     

  The game generally manages to put the DS's hardware to good use depicting the sights and sounds 
 that people expect from a 3D air combat game. The graphics engine keeps a healthy portion of the 
 scenery in view at all times and has no problem handling a half-dozen bogies at once. Most players 
 will be happy sticking with the default behind-the-aircraft viewpoint, although you can toggle 
 between three other chase cams if need be. The terrain looks blocky and ugly at low altitudes, 
 but the various islands and cities come across as picturesque at cruising altitude. Similarly, 
 enemy planes and battleships are rather plain and appear as jagged blobs until they're within gun 
 range. Once they're closer, though, you can make out details like insignias, cockpits, and gun 
 ports. Player aircraft flex a higher polygon count and show significantly more detail than pirate 
 aircraft. Fans of World War I and World War II planes will appreciate the retro style of the game's 
 aircraft designs. As for the audio, there's a healthy variety of different engine and gun noises, 
 and they all sound sufficiently realistic. The same two music tracks play constantly -- one for standard 
 flight and another for boss encounters -- but they fit the action and aren't obnoxious. Overall, 
 the graphics and audio are roughly on par with similar games produced for the original Sony PlayStation 
 console, which is right in line with what the Nintendo DS is capable of.  

  Though it covers a very different type of subject than Natsume's popular Harvest Moon series, the 
 games still have a lot in common. It's low on flash, it's clunky in spots, and it doesn't quite 
 live up to its potential, but it also brings together two divergent genres in such a way that's 
 bound to please a certain segment of the population.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mmackin1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I first saw this game at E3 2006.. It was one of the few DS games that I left the show wanting 
 to play. Wow an Airplane style RPG... Wow that seems really cool. When it was finally released 
 I was apprehensive about buying it because of some of the negative reviews that I had read. Well, 
 I eventually picked it up. It has become one of my most played DS games. I love this game. I liken 
 it to an old PC game called Elite . I'm little biased about this game because I like airplanes.. 
 Any type of flight simulator, or flight game.. I usually pick up and give it a go. Well this game 
 isn't going to blow your socks off. But when you think about what it's doing on the DS I find it 
 impressive. The DS 3-D engine isn't that great. But this is a really fun game. It takes a bit of 
 time and investment to get going in the game, and I think that's where most of the reviews fail. 
 The reviewer didn't get into the meat of the game... You eventually get better aircraft, more unique 
 missions. Yeah you can let the computer fly the plane for your, but you can also take over and 
 fly it yourself. The controls are a bit difficult to get use to, but you use a combination of the 
 auto and manual mode, that's where it works out best. One you get further into the game you get 
 additional aircraft, better equipment, special missions, shooting down giant airships. etc. If 
 your not an airplane buff, stay away. This game wasn't made for you. But if you are, run out and 
 buy it. It a great game for $20... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgathright
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  The wait is over, the first real flight simulator for the Gameboy platform has been released! With 
 a price of around $20 at most retailers this is a title you should pick up to relax your nerves 
 and tear up some evil pirates. I have played this title for a little over two dozen hours now and 
 I can't wait to start playing again. I enjoy putting the entire simulator on auto and watching 
 the planes dog fight each other. This title reminds me of Electroplankton's Audience Mode where 
 you let the DS entertain you. Of course, you can take total control over the sim at any time. The 
 flight controls all work intuitively off the DS game pad and should pose little challenge to the 
 average gamer. The physics in this game are very impressive when considering the limitations of 
 the DS platform: CPU, RAM and limited space to store simulator data on the game card. I will give 
 no spoilers, half the fun is learning from the in game tutorial and taking off into the cloud filled 
 scenery. Yes, this game actually implements flying through clouds. The clouds block your vision 
 in dog fights, which make you depend more on your missile accuracy. However, you can always fly 
 in a lower altitude. Just don't try low flying around mountains.
  
  There are a lot of secret missions in this game. I have uncovered a few that were so hard that 
 I simply gave up on them for now. For example one mission is to escort a fighter plane group to 
 another base. You must keep the planes from being shot down. I lost all the planes on my patrol, 
 after being ambushed by 6 planes at once! I shot down 4 but the other two were to high for me to 
 intercept with my fighter.
  
  Pros: 1) Automatic control let's you watch the air battles like they were a movie. 2) Completely 
 customizable airframe: turbos, oil coolers, different wing types, weight reduction and more as 
 you gain experience in the form of levels. 3) Statistic rich format keep you involved in the game. 
 4) Graphics actually are quite good for a dual screen realtime air battle simulator on a mobile 
 platform with limited memory capabilities! Cons: 1) If you never liked flying, this title may not 
 be for you. 2) If you do not like having to figure out the right upgrade to make an RPG character 
 work, this title may not be for you. 3) If you are looking for a playable map (only about the size 
 of the state of Texas) larger than the continental US, this title may not be for you. Note: I am 
 a software design analyst. I apply these concepts towards the limitations of the DS platform in 
 all my reviews. The design team for this game overcame a lot of major challenges to make this work 
 on the DS hardware. For example, When playing this game, the texturing on the terrain changes as 
 you get closer to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denjohan
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I was so much looking forward to this game, and the previews were very promising. But with the 
 completed product in my DS, a vague sense of disappointment makes it's entry. I've got a feeling 
 that this is an unfinished product. The strategic gameplay is fair enough, but flight control and 
 the "action part" of the game is mediocre, at best. It compensates by having a fair AI, but using 
 the AI makes the most fun element of the game, flying, just like Elvis leave the building. It is 
 playable, but all in all I'm slightly disappointed. So I still have to wait for a good flight sim 
 for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al7bert
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  What a lovely little game. I'm completely addicted. You can play it as an RPG (with fully automated 
 combat and landing) or as a normal combat flight simulator with RPG elements. It has already become 
 my favourite DS game. It will take quite a long time to complete as upgrading your plane will
 
  take a lot of kills but you'll never tire of going on another mission. While the graphics wouldn't 
 compete with the latest PC flight sims they are more than adequate and actually very charming giving 
 you a good sense of height and speed. The game is very easy to get into and has a friendly and 
 short tutorial
  at the start. I highly recommend it to anyone who has even a passing interest in flight simulators 
 and RPGs. Well done Natsume. I hope this becomes a series and not just a one of. Strider 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
