-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Frogger Helmet Chaos
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/frogger2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique hop-and-jump design.
 Lots to do.
 Voice dialogue is delightful.
 Colorful 3D graphics.
 Wi-Fi-capable minigames.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Hop-and-jump gameplay is an acquired taste.
 Controls take time to master.
 Rectangular blocks dull the scenery at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.0, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: KCE Hawaii
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Sep 27, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Frogger: Helmet Chaos is a lively 3D adventure packed with plenty to see and do. 

  Don't confuse Frogger: Helmet Chaos, which is available for the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP portables, 
 with Frogger: Ancient Shadow, which is available for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and GameCube. Both 
 games went on sale the same day, both games are 3D platformers built around the play mechanics 
 of the classic Frogger arcade game, and both games look and sound roughly the same. But, whereas 
 the console game is bland and broken, the portable game is a lively 3D adventure packed with plenty 
 to see and do.  

           Frogger can hop, jump, and grab things with his tongue.     

  Right off the bat, we're introduced to the story. It seems an evil crocodile scientist named 
 Dr. Wani has come up with a way to control the minds of innocent animals by putting mind-control 
 helmets on their heads. Frogger discovers the scheme when his pal Lumpy ends up with a helmet on 
 his head, and after smashing the helmet, Frogger sets off to free his friends and stop Dr. Wani. 
 That's all the story a game like this really needs, but kudos to Konami for going the full monty 
 and crafting dozens of comic book-style story sequences complete with full voice narration. The 
 story sequences in the DS and PSP games look and sound identical, although they are laid out differently 
 due to each handheld's unique screen dimensions. On the DS, the hand-drawn artwork is shown on 
 the top screen, while the captions are displayed on the bottom screen. On the PSP, the artwork 
 and captions are displayed on just the one screen, so there's ample room to spare.  

  The game itself is a 3D isometric-view platformer that mixes the hop-and-dodge play mechanics of 
 the classic Frogger arcade game with many of today's traditional platforming staples. Throughout 
 roughly 30 levels, you have to safely guide Frogger past floating platforms, patrolling enemies, 
 various block-and-switch-based puzzles, and a smorgasbord of other obstacles. There's plenty of 
 jumping and pushing and pulling to do, but what distinguishes the game from traditional platformers 
 are the controls, which emphasize Frogger's hopping abilities. Frogger doesn't walk, he hops. When 
 you push a direction on the control pad, he'll hop one space in that direction. You can make him 
 leap an extra space by pressing the jump button, or, have him jump straight up by pressing the 
 vertical jump button. Tapping the vertical jump button a second time will make him perform a double-jump 
 followed by a ground smash, which is a great way to grab floating coins or to reveal secret underground 
 passages. In order to turn Frogger around without hopping, you have to push one of the shoulder 
 buttons. It does take a while to get used to alternating between the hop, jump, and turn buttons, 
 but once you do, you'll find Frogger fairly easy to control. Lastly, along with all of those jump-related 
 controls, you can also press the grab button to extend Frogger's tongue or hands, which lets you 
 push and pull objects and swing across dangling hooks.  

  Frogger: Helmet Chaos is very much unlike its recent console counterpart, Frogger: Ancient Shadow, 
 even though both games look, sound, and play similar to one another. The levels in Ancient Shadow 
 are boring and drawn out, and the controls are often unresponsive. Furthermore, it seems like the 
 levels in that game were built to emphasize how complicated the controls are. Those complaints 
 don't apply to Helmet Chaos. The levels in the portable game are lively, diverse, and nicely balanced 
 in terms of difficulty and length. The second level alone contains a few block-pushing puzzles, 
 a tree swing, an obstacle course with some enemies, a pair of underground caves, and two potential 
 exits. One exit leads to a beach level, which has a slide puzzle minigame and numerous jump sections 
 where you need to pull platforms in order to create footfalls. The other exit leads to a farm level, 
 which has fewer jumps and more enemies, and contains a bug-eating minigame and an optional baby-bouncing 
 minigame. And that's all in the first few levels! Most levels have optional side areas and hidden 
 underground caves to discover and explore. Some levels shake things up by letting you choose between 
 multiple exits, or by giving you the option of competing against the CPU in a minigame for the 
 chance to skip a level or win additional health units. That sort of nonlinear,  
 of progression is nice, even if it means you'll have to play through the game multiple times in 
 order to experience all of the levels and bosses it has to offer.  

  All told, the story mode should take most players roughly four hours to finish, and twice that 
 much time if you want to see all of the levels and unlock all of the minigames. Frogger: Helmet 
 Chaos actually has a decent selection of minigames, and they're all multiplayer-capable. Some are 
 simple tag and avoid-the-crumbling-floor-type games. Others are takeoffs on classic arcade games, 
 like Bomberman and, of course, Frogger. The DS and PSP versions of the game each have one minigame 
 that's not in the other version. For the DS, it's Roly-Poly Toady, a demolition derby game where 
 you blow into the DS microphone to move your onscreen character. And on the PSP, it's Gator Gotcha, 
 a polygon-intensive gator-dodging game. In all, each version contains eight minigames. Thankfully, 
 you don't need multiple game cards or UMDs to take advantage of these multiplayer minigames. Just 
 as long as you have one copy of the game, you can use the system's wireless game-sharing feature 
 to beam the minigame to your friends' systems so they can play alongside you.  

  In terms of presentation, the game does a good job of flexing the visual and audio muscle of the 
 systems it's on. On the whole, the quality of the DS version is about on par with typical PSOne 
 or Nintendo 64 games, and the PSP version looks and sounds just as good as the Frogger games that 
 have been released for the PlayStation 2. The isometric viewpoint serves the game well, lending 
 enough depth to the environments without obscuring line of sight. And the 3D graphics make it easy 
 to quickly judge platform heights and jump distances. Environments are colorful and run the gamut 
 from tree-filled jungles and grassy hills, to frozen mountains, dank factories, and gilded castles. 
 Little details, such as fluttering fireflies, flowing streams, and massive waterfalls, help bring 
 the environments to life and offset the bland nature of the rectangular platforms and blocks. Frogger 
 himself has a wide variety of different animations for actions like hopping, jumping, landing, 
 and pushing and pulling. The enemies aren't quite as realized, but they do at least have separate 
 walking, running, and turning animations. Plus, there are dozens of different enemies, unlike the 
 recent console Frogger game, which recycled the same insects constantly.  

           There are also eight minigames to play, all Wi-Fi-enabled.     

  The audio is fairly 
 pleasant, too. Many of the in-game tunes sound similar to themes found in games like Super Mario 
 World or Sonic the Hedgehog. The various animal and insect noises used for the sound effects aren't 
 particularly noteworthy, but there are plenty of them. And, again, the voice acting during dialogue 
 sequences is a welcome feature.  

  Although the level layouts in the DS and PSP versions are identical, the PSP version definitely 
 benefits from the superior hardware. Graphically, the PSP game has a higher polygon count, better 
 textures, and more miscellaneous visual effects. For instance, the breakaway ice platforms in snow 
 levels are transparent in the PSP version, but not in the DS version. By the same token, the music 
 in the PSP game is a touch richer and fuller than it is on the DS.  

  No matter which version you get, if the concept of a 3D platformer built around the classic Frogger 
 play mechanics appeals to you, you'll probably be pleased with Frogger: Helmet Chaos.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: upiter000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  this is a very fun game and the puzzles are moderte this game will give you just over 26 hours 
 of gameplay. all in all a very fun game. I found this game fairly easy but im a huge frogger fan 
 . if you've never played a frogger adventure game just the old retro game than this a great game 
 to start with.
  The multiplayer is also very fun there are a wide assortment of multiplayer minigames which makes 
 the game replayable so you can try to unlock more minigames for you and your friends to play. The 
 single player adventure mode is non stop fun you wont want to play another game until you have 
 completely finished this. The only way to play with friends though is for another person to have 
 the game there is unfortunatly no wifi avaliable for this game that is probabaly the only bad thing 
 about the game the graphics are great the music is wonderful and the gameplay is hard to put down. 
 One of the best froggers yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitro720
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game for my little brother. Before you know it, I found myself playing it. It is 
 so fun and addictive yet simple and I like that. The graphics are so crisp. They aren't amazing 
 but it look great and they will do. The story is like something out of a story book off of Sesaeme 
 (how ever you spell it
  ) Street. Some evil animal is putting these crazy helmets on every body (animals) and Frogger goes 
 out to see whats up and stop it. The drawbacks are the controls. They can be kind-of confusing. 
 You think they would be a logical button that would make more sense, but no. Still works. It is 
 also pretty sweet on how much extra stuff they packed up in there. So many minigames and they are 
 all fun. One you actually use the mic (i'm not going to spoil the minigame itself) There is even 
 have a version of the original Frogger.
  
  This game is fun for all ages. Definitely worth a rent. Definitely worth a buy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
