-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fullmetal Alchemist: Dual Sympathy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/fullmetalalchemistds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Large quantity of bonus media.
 Tells your fortune.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Low quality of bonus media.
 Very easy and not much gameplay.
 51 anime episodes is a few too many to cover in a four-hour game.
 Slightly disturbing story, in a bad way.
 Poor sound quality from voice actors.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 322 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Destineer
Developer: Bandai
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Dec 12, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A lousy conversion of the anime's story, as well as some equally poor beat-'em-up action, keeps 
 the golden shine out of Fullmetal Alchemist on the DS. 

  Alchemy isn't without irony, it would seem.  Fullmetal Alchemist  is one of the most popular and 
 well-liked anime series worldwide, but somehow its conversion to the Nintendo DS diminishes the 
 series from gold to lead. This short adventure that skews toward the macabre tries to cram the 
 entire running length of the anime into a short beat-'em-up. In doing so, it completely saps the 
 anime's story of its personality, and it offers a pretty unsatisfying beat-'em-up to boot. However, 
 it does act as a shining example of why the anime's vaunted law of equivalent exchange is a fallacy, 
 if only because you'll feel gypped after sinking your time and money into this game.  

          I eat homunculi like you for breakfast.     

  Typically, when a developer tries to 
 cram, oh, say, 51 full-length anime episodes into a four-hour game (including gameplay) , a few 
 of the details, itty-bitty or otherwise, get pragmatically sidelined. And wouldn't you know it, 
 such is the case with Fullmetal Alchemist. What seems to have been left out is the humanizing portion 
 that counterbalances the stark, Machiavellian world in which the story takes place. So instead 
 of the inspirational heroes' journey of Ed and Al to reconcile their hopes and aspirations with 
 the realities of the world, you get a story that harps on Nazi-esque human experimentation, mass 
 genocide, and the futility of our own existence from the perspective of a few kids who seem to 
 have no problem aligning themselves with the group most likely capable of helping them reach their 
 own ends, regardless of whether that force is the physical incarnation of evil. There's also some 
 matricide and religious doom and gloom thrown into the mix, presented with equal moral ambiguity. 
 The storyline as it is presented here in many ways misrepresents what the series is actually about, 
 because in its haste to get through the story it leaves several downright abhorrent faults in logic 
 unresolved -- so the game really might not be suitable for those who lack a proper perspective on 
 the world. And aside from the heavy delivery, the game makes ample use of the ever-helpful "... 
 ..." response, as well as several sequences where characters are essentially just yelling other 
 characters' names, accompanied by ambiguous visuals on the top screen, which makes digesting the 
 story even more of a task.  

  With the story being in such shambles, it's problematic that the gameplay plays second fiddle to 
 it. Between the prolonged cutscenes, you work your way through a series of stages and boss fights. 
 Defying the traditional beat-'em-up style of play, the action here is for the most part extremely 
 easy. On your first play-through, only the normal mode will be available, and in this mode it is 
 simply a matter of jamming on your attack button as you stroll from one side of the screen to the 
 other. Making things easier is the one wrinkle that Fullmetal Alchemist introduces to the formula, 
 that being the alchemy powers. By tapping on the touch screen with your thumb (the stylus isn't 
 practical) , you can activate an alchemy attack or erect a wall. Both of these have three power 
 levels, where the first level is free to use and the others require a certain amount of transmutation 
 icons, which float around on the touch screen to indicate how many you've got. These powers trivialize 
 all regular encounters, because the free attack is enough to one-shot kill most enemies and the 
 artificial intelligence isn't smart enough to go around the walls, which, incidentally, you are 
 able to shoot through. Occasionally, one of the enemies will have a gun, but your gun is much, 
 much larger, so it rarely ends well for them. The several bosses are able to arbitrarily dodge 
 most of your alchemy attacks, so you'll need to figure out the usually obvious opening when they 
 are vulnerable. Also, the game is stingy with health pickups, but dying has no real penalty, as 
 you simply restart the current area you're in, not the stage, with a full health bar.  

  Once you make it through the story mode on normal, you'll unlock a hard story mode as well as a 
 character mode. Character mode lets you go through mostly the same adventure you just went on, 
 except you'll be able to play through it with a character other than Edward. It also gets rid of 
 all the cutscenes and most of the terrible minigames, so it's in many ways far more enjoyable than 
 the story mode. You'd be hard pressed to extend each run-through here to longer than 45 minutes, 
 but at least you do unlock a number of character-specific assets once you complete the mode. These 
 include screens from the show, character profiles, and voice clips, among others. It's all nice, 
 but there's really nothing here that you can't find a better version of on the Internet... for free. 
 Other bonus features include a truly puzzling fortune-telling mode and an alarm-clock mode, presumably 
 for when you fall asleep playing this game.  

          There's a heavy bovine presence, which is par for the course in an anime such as this. 
     

  The look of Fullmetal Alchemist is better than the sound, but neither shines through in any way. 
 There is a lot of the same hand-drawn artwork you'd expect from a game based on an anime, and most 
 of the dialogue is delivered with a still shot on the top screen and a face shot of the speaker 
 with some text on the bottom. Several typos and grammatical errors appear in the dialogue text, 
 which is bordering on inexcusable in this day and age. During the brief fighting periods, the game 
 recycles the same few enemy sprites throughout, but at least the main characters' sprites are distinct 
 and recognizable. Occasionally accompanying the text, the actors from the anime will chime in to 
 voice the dialogue. However, they do so rarely and the sound quality is extremely poor, sounding 
 as if it were recorded at a lousy studio. Also, many of the sound effects are quite archaic, including 
 a Super Mario Bros. fireball sound when you hit A to advance the dialogue. The music sounds as 
 if it's taken straight from the anime, so if you like it there, you'll probably like it here.  
 

  As benign as most beat-'em-ups are, the ESRB wasn't kidding around with the T it slapped on the 
 cover of this box. Because the story has been stripped down to its bare-bones essentials, a lot 
 of the charm of the anime falls by the wayside and is replaced by a disturbing storyline that lacks 
 redeeming qualities. Plus, the lousy beat-'em-up action and undistinguished bonus media do little 
 to salvage the package, so it's probably best to just avoid this one altogether, even if you're 
 a fan of the anime.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: louielouiee
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  For those who didn't even know what the heck is Fullmetal Alchemist won't like it at all, too many 
 cut scenes, never ending talking, and reading, and explaining, and after all that too little of 
 real game - although while you're playing is really cool. But for those who're fans of the anime 
 or manga series, and have seen, or read, in a long time, is cool to play to remember, and feel 
 nostalgic about the story. Is very nice the way they were capable of abstracting the series story 
 just right, and the feeling of the anime too - the serious and fun stuffs. Anime's games often 
 just do the serious part, like in all of the fighting games, but anime and manga is all about laughing 
 too.
  Very beautiful graphics and a very well responding game play. Just enough attack's variety - and 
 after you end the game you can unlock other alchemists tricks -, fun and fitting mini-games - not 
 just anything to use the stylus - and a fine sound effects and soundtrack - they used a lot of 
 the anime's musics, which is great.
  But is a short game, almost looking like a casual game, but there's too much story things, what 
 makes this not be a casual game. Casual gamers do not like to be reading and waiting for the real 
 fun - PLAY!
  Is a cool game to play, I've enjoyed and I will play it again, but is very understandable how could 
 someone do not like Fullmetal Alchemist: Dual Sympathy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjaxNeron
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm a crazy anime + FMA fan, so of course I bought this on launch day. I really enjoyed it, but 
 I wish it would've been longer. It takes less than a half hour to beat story mode after you've 
 beat it once or twice, which is a major bummer. Beating it with all the characters is fun because 
 you get to explore new moves and alchemy.
  
  They actually did put quite a bit of effort into this game, though. Lots of neat bonus features, 
 extras, character abilities, etc... make this game unique. I wish it would've been a bit harder, 
 though. Even if there are different difficulties, none of them keep you on your toes or frustrate 
 you. Harder and longer, and this game would've been a few times better. Other than that, the sound, 
 gameplay and storyline were fun.
  
  As a last thing, I'd like to say that they took advantage of the use of the stylus in this game, 
 considering it's 2D nature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoto5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  OK these is my review for the game Fullmetal alchemist Dual Sympathy
  For the begining we habe a great anime game but is wish if it is not so histori is most like a 
 graffic novel and very lettlie game .
  The game play is really cool you can play as Edward alphonse Roy ETC with the pen you can draw 
 alchemy circls and more you can make alchemi powers like the anime, the game habe history mode 
 arcade mode and minigames mode (really funny) these habe all history of the original serie .
  for me these is a good game but i wish if these is goin to be better but is cool 
  for all fans 
 of the animete serie and portables consoles is cool.
  OK i say the best ranck for these game is a 7.0 because these is not the best game for these grat 
 serie of anime OK gamers these was my review of FMA DS for the NINTENDO DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archale
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Soooo.... judging from screens and videos, I thought "It can't be that bad, right?". It isn't. 
 But it is. I mean, it's not THAT bad, but it ain't good either. Truth be told, the game will manage 
 to hold your attention until you unlock all there is to unlock (8 playthroughs, 1 is about 3 hours 
 long, and the others 1 hour or so) .
  Keep in mind i AM somewhat biased, I love the series, so I it's kinda hard being impartial (If you 
 dislike the series, reduce my score to 4.0.
  
  Graphic wise, the sprites are clean, they look nice, although, personally, I didn't think most 
 characters looked as good as I expected them to be. Also, Edward is allright, but some characters, 
 such as Izumi, could have benefited from some more frames (Ever saw her running?) and others, such 
 as Scar, simply look weird. Most of the images, which are stills from the series, are of bad quality. 
 I mean, not only is the story told with stills, but they don't good! The in-game sprite are really 
 colourful, but the stills , compared with the sprites, are all grainy and pixelated. Not good, 
 not good at all. Worst part is, most of the unlockables are images. I think it would have been better 
 for the unlockable images to be original artwork......
  
  Concerning sound.... There's music from the show!, the intro is "Melissa" (Instrumental) . There 
 are also some sound bites here and there, but for a DS game they are just too few. Although, compared 
 to the images, have great quality.
  
  The game plays just like a brawler, old school, meaning one button for punching and one for jumping. 
 There are two possible combo strings, standing and moving, although they are practically the same. 
 There are no desperation attacks, instead you have access to alchemy. Tap the Touch Screen, and 
 you can unleash your attack alchemy (Which is WAY stronger than any other attack) . If you have enough 
 "Alchemy Materials", obtained by breaking boxes and killing enemies, you can charge it , and deal 
 more damage in a bigger area. There is no block button, instead, you can create walls.
  Here's the catch, the walls don't block attacks per se, rather, they prevent the enemy from tresspassing 
 it. So, if the enemie's animation is large, and you are close by, he'll hurt you anyways. The walls 
 do block projectiles, though, and on key places, you have to use them to cross gaps. BUT, if you 
 were to, accidentally fall, the spikes/fire/whatever you wanted to cross, they hit you and knock 
 you back.... TOWARDS YOUR WALL!, so sometimes, it's impossible to get out, since there's no invincibility 
 when getting up, so until your wall disappears (Or you die) you are stuck. 
  Now, concerning attack alchemy, the more you charge the attack, the more alchemy material it consumes 
 and the more it needs to recharge. The thing is.... doing level 1 alchemy drains NOTHING, it does 
 A LOT OF DAMAGE and recharges really fast, so you can simply raise some walls and spam the weak 
 alchemy and kill enemies without even getting hurt, talk about challenge.
  The game, is rather easy and rather short. There are a few mini-games, but they are not much fun. 
 Also, there are unlimited continues, so if you die, no worries.
  Also, they tried to condense the 52 episode series, and in the begining I thought they did it pretty 
 well, but nearing the end, unless you've seen the series, you won't understand a thing, so if you 
 haven't seen it, just skip the story sequences, it'll make you dislike the game, since you won; t 
 understand it.
  
  After finishing storymode, you unlock Character Mode, in which you can play as six characters. 
 All characters follow the roughly the same path, except that the third stage is a bit (A TINY little 
 bit different for some characters) , but Edward, who has the longest "stage 3" (There's an extra 
 boss for him there) and has an extra stage (Flame VS Fullmetal) . The good thing about Character 
 mode, is that there are almost NO minigames and no story sequences.
  All characters play roughly the same. Some have shorter/longer attack strings, and for some, the 
 timing of your button presses are a bit different. All characters have acces to everyone's alchemy. 
 This is a good idea, but they use it the same way the other characters do, except that they can 
 use THEIR alchemy up to level three, and the other dude's alchemies up to level two, but you'll 
 be sticking mostly to Ed's or Al's, since regardless of the character, all alchemies deal the same 
 damage, and Al's or Ed's have the best range.
  By finishing story mode, you unlock images (Ugh) , "Mascots", which look equally bad, sound files 
 and Alarm clocks. Also, you can unlock two alchemies, which, regardless of the character, can be 
 levelled up to three. But they make the game even easier!. One enhances your attack, and has 0 
 recharge time, regardless of the level. The other one can heal, however it's recharge time is "inversed", 
 as in, the lower the level, the longest it needs to recharge.
  
  Wrapping things up, for fans, it's a decent game, but for other people, it doesn't even deserve 
 to be rented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  When I start to watch an anime series and I like it, it's law to buy a game related to it. Fullmetal 
 Alchemist wasn`t the exception.
  
  Story: the game, like the series, tells the story of the two Elric brothers, Alphonse (Al) and 
 Edward (Ed) . With their mother's dead, the two boys decide to bring her mother back from the death 
 with alchemy and something goes wrong: Al losses his body, Ed losses his left leg and in a desperate 
 action to bring his brother back, Ed attach the soul of Al to an empty armor at the cost of his 
 right arm. That's where the story begins and so the game.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay it's a very simple one, too simple in my opinion, you can choose a variety 
 of characters after beating the game but that dosen't change the fact that your only options of 
 fighting are a poor melee combat style and the use of alchemy. The game has a side-scrol style 
 that could had been improve with the DS' characteristics. Altough the game has some decent number 
 of different levels, they`r not quite much.
  
  Graphics: I've never been the kind of players that complains much about graphics. Honestly the 
 graphics don`t bother me at all, the have that same essence that the anime. But thay sure quite 
 limited, only 2-D.
  Extras: The extras consist of mini-games, images, soundtracks and galleries, that, at least, impulses 
 you to finish the game to it`s 100% but it`s too boring to do it!
  
  Resuming
  Positive: 
  *The game follows really well the story of the anime.
  *At his FIRST time playing 
 is quite fun.
  *The extras have a variety of things, impulsing the player to unlock them.
  Negative:
  *Gameplay and after-finishing are really lame.
  *The other modes of playing are 
 too repetitive and they easily bore. 
  *The controls are quite difficult to adjust to, and the level of difficulty is really unstable.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimate-drift
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  No matter which way i looked at it i till found this game lousy.
  
  Its about as challenging as sitting down.
  
  The graphics... Terrible, the game tries to follow 
 the path of the anime which in all honesty it does but they cut out quite a few main points in 
 the story which i dont like.
  
  Bosses are easy, enemies are easy, gameplay is lousy, replay factor... 0 
  
  I'm not going 
 to be plugging this into my ds anytime soon, im more likely going to give it to my 4 year old cousin 
 for christmas, he'd finish it in a day.
  
  One of THE easiest and lamest games i've played on the DS.
  
  Fighting - 0
  Playability - 
 0
  minigames - 2
  Replay factor - 0
  
  Overal score - 1 because im feeling nice
  
  This game is a waste of money, dont buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall6Cloud
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I read about this game before it was released. The images on the website were very nice, and the 
 fact that you can use the stylus as an integrated part of the game seemed promising. Then I saw 
 this game on special for $15.99 brand new at Costco and I thought that at price I can't go wrong 
 especially with the great graphics I had seen on the images. So I ended up buying the game. So 
 I come home and open it. Nice packaging. Nice looking booklet. And the story Prologue sounds promising. 
 I start the game, and the story scene looks VERY nice. The story itself was basically a rundown 
 of what Full metal Alchemist is so it can acquaint you with the character which was also great 
 as I had not seen any of the anime, or played any other games that had to do with him. Then after 
 the lengthy storyboard the game starts. It plays like any beat 'em up game kind of like Final fight. 
 But it's quite lacking. I didn't really care for the story that much, although it gets a lot better 
 as you progress through the game. Anyway, I finished the game I unlocked a bunch of options. You 
 have a ton of extras you CAN unlock which I didn't really want to do at that point. But since the 
 game play was so boring, I can't really recommend this game for anyone unless you are a die hard 
 fan of the series. I have played through a lot of BAD games, and this is one of the most boring 
 games I have EVER played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magejutsu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Many fans of the fullmetal series waited anxiously for this game before its release date. Sadly 
 most of them were disappointed (why, i cant understand) being a long time fan i was just happy to 
 have a game out there based on the anime. The game, to me, is much better then the reviews say. 
 Gameplay: The game is set in the style of a classic sidescroller beat em up, alone with a few minigames. You 
 travel through the level, killing all enemys in each section to move onto the next, until you get 
 to the boss. it is simple, but very fun.
  
  Difficulty: Most enemys are taken out with 2 melee attacks and every boss can be killed in 2-3 hits 
 from a simple strategy (which i wont tell, as to stop people who don't know it from easily getting 
 through the game)
  
  Sound: Music and voice clips form the show make the sound very enjoyable, and songs never get old.
 
  
  Graphics: Sprites, but a bit better then seen on GBA sprites.
  
  other: Tons of extra unlockable media make replay worth it.. although you can also find it online, 
 free and better.
  
  in the end i give the game a 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indra_agustia
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Got this from EB for half price and checked GameSpot for rating. I'm surprised that it gets 4.0 
 rating. It's a bit underappreciated.
  
  Well, the only down side is that it is indeed a short game. If you don't like following the stories 
 then you won't enjoy it much. You can beat the story mode in 2 hours and half of it are just stories. 
 It'll bad if you don't like cartoon stories. The story is good. I don't follow the series but after 
 playing this game, I got quite satisfied.
  
  There are lots of unlockable and can be obtained by playing the character mode (6 character) , so 
 you could get up to 10 hours of good game play. After that try to beat the hard mode that is really 
 HARD if you like. This should give you more hours. Its best to check the bargain bin for this game 
 since it's a short one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smartguy73
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Like I said, it has a quick and cut up storyline, anyone who dosn't watch the anime, or hasn't 
 seen all 51 episodes (like me) , won't have a clue as to wherethey are or why. It's storyline can 
 become a tad understandable to those who neglect Fullmetal Alchemist, but only if you go through 
 story at least twice, and watch all those cuts scenes again. This game is also quite simple. The 
 only part I found hard was fighting Pride for the first time, since I didn't know how the easy 
 way. And while I'm here, I'm just gonna put it out there. If you're gonna put actual lines in the 
 game done by voice actors, you should make it every line!
  At the beginning of the game when I was pleased to hear the Law of Equivilant Exchange voiced by 
 Edward, but then, in the desert scene no voice on actual lines from the anime! Then at the very 
 end, they were talking again. As insignificant as it sounds it was still quite annoying. My review 
 may sound like I don't like the game, but I do! And so, to close off, the good: plenty of mini-games, 
 bonus media, playable characters, and replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coffee_D
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Before I write the bad, heres the good: 1) Its a fullmetal alchemist game.
  2) You can unlock character bios, sounds, minigames, and little doodads.
  3) You can play as 
 most of the main characters of the anime series while in character mode.
  4) Colonel Mustang is awesome The Bad: 1) really short, i beat story mode on both diffuculty selections 
 in a little less than an hour...
  2) Each character has only 2 alchemy moves. And each move is pretty much the same for every character. 
 3) The Bosses are easier than the little chimeras you fight.
  4) The character mode is really cheap. You play about 3-4 really easy bosses, then you face the 
 homunculi Pride. Once you beat him, you get a really cheap story that basically tells you buy the 
 movie 
  5) Colonel mustang is pretty weak. His alchemy isnt very strong, and ALL of his attacks are based 
 on alchemy. Expcept for his final move, where he unleashes a giant tornado of fire. damn thats 
 awesome
  
  basically its an overall ok game. its worth the $15 to buy it just for the extras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaudBlaze890
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  When you get the game you think it will be a nice long fun game that will take almost as much time 
 to play as it took to watch the anime. This game covers 51 breath taking episodes and turn it into 
 a 2 hour bore fest. If you are a super fan of the anime please don't buy the game, it only disappoints.
 
  The levels are repetitive, the enimes are not very original, and you never really need alchemy. 
 Even after you get play in free mode you still feel empty. The mini-games are pretty fun but that 
 really does not warrant running out to the store and buying the game. When the game finally ends 
 you fell you have wasted 3-4 hour of your life when you could be playing something funner.
  
  Gameplay: 2. It is to short and dissapointing
  Controls: 5. the controls are very simple 
 that, a caveman could do it.
  Graphics: 5 and 9. the regular game play graphics are pretty crummy, but the cutscene graphics 
 are awsome.
  Replay:2 you may want to go back in free play, but other than that pretty dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogameman66
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  it is a fun game overall, with extras, but it is very fast, even with getting the extra alchemy 
 books, i just thought that it would be more fun, and it is disappointing... but once u beat it, 
 u can still beat it over and over again, and, well, not to great graphics, but different stories 
 for each char and portraits to fill up, so just keep beating it and u will get them all... and 
 then, there is the fortune telling, and that is sorta fun, but at the same time, just the luck 
 of the draw, and what is up with the cow? i mean, its everywhere on this game. There are statues 
 of Cows, and a cow shaking the basket thing with the fortunes in it, and that is just weird... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasc389
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  First let me start off by saying this game, along with Inuyasha were the only reasons i decided 
 to purchase a DS Lite. Now im having mixed reactions about that.
  
  I have to say i was pretty excited when i first popped this game in, but that shortly faded. The 
 story mode is very short, the only decent thing here is that you can play with many characters 
 after this.
  
  Here is a rundown of the game:
  
  Gameplay- The sidescrolling effect is nice but can get old very fast. Repetitive enemys really 
 put a boring touch on it. I do like how you use the bottom screen for alchemy, and power ups.
 
  
  Graphics- This would look fantastic if it were a Gameboy Advance game, but the fact of the matter 
 is, that this is the nintendo ds. It has the capability to have much better graphics than what 
 is being put into it. Overall, the environments and character models are nice.
  
  Sound- Voice overs are what make this game, its a nice touch to hear ed and al's voice, unlike 
 the Inuyasha game inwhich its horrible music the whole time. Its also nice to hear scar or mustang 
 when performing there main attacks.
  
  Overall, Fullmetal Alchemist Dual Sympathy is a good game. I reccomend it to only the diehard fans, 
 who are desparate for a decent anime game for the DS. Hopefully this is just the first for many 
 to come, but improvements are needed.
  
  Have a good day and thanks for reading!!
  
  Lucas Cayce 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireboy224
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Fullmetal Alchemist Dual Sympathy, I have to say is the best FMA game I have enjoyed plus it was 
 hte only one I had so far. THe gameplay was simple as going through but its hard after a while 
 3 continues where use when I was playing story mode on Normal but After practice u can memorize 
 and finish with out dieing. Its a next FMA game but there is others to explain this is like a summery 
 of it. Graphics are simple Pixel Non animated game so don't be thinking its 3d. Allot of Alchemy 
 Books So much Destruction I would say The sound and music are great. I would say that the Original 
 Voices where used. Character mode will knock ur socks off How? 6 chracters and so much fun unlocking 
 there books. there is 4 u get from Story mode. 2 from Character mode. and 2 secrets. total of 8 
 books!! The touch screen is great 2 buttons for attak and defence and charging for teh Elements 
 u collected from enemies About how many u have depends on the teh charge level. The valua is a 
 good price but for people who hatted will be really be disapointed but Its nice I would say.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze1daplayer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool. The graphics arnt all that great, but still... I have a lot of fun in 
 character mode (you get once beating story mode) . You can choose from scar, ed al, izumi, armstrong, 
 and mustang.
  
  You also get differant alchemy books to do differant transmutations. If you beat the game with 
 no coninues, you get something extra. The sound is alright, the music is ok. And the mini games 
 are pretty cool too, there are 5 or 6 differant ones. Then theres all this little small stuff you 
 can mess with.
  
  This is an addicting fun action game that I would recomend to FMA fans and just action game players. 
 There is also a character gallery which you can see every single person that's involved in the 
 Anime. This is based of the Anime and not the Manga so much. There's a sound gallery and art gallery 
 and a fortune telling thing thats kinda koolll.
  
  It is a little short though. I beat story mode in way under 30 minutes and thats about the same 
 with each play on character mode. I gets really repetative and sort of boring. Its an alright game, 
 but if you're looking for a longer lasting game, get something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemasterWii
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: great game play, very addictive and long considering story and character mode. First game 
 that I seen that goes like the tv series but like every other game the developers added things 
 that where never shown in the tv series which is good because it makes the game longer and more 
 interesting.
  Graphics: great graphics Sound: awesome they actually used Ed's and Al's real voices from the tv 
 series value: good value
  Tilt: great
  
  description: one of the best game ever (one word to describe it awesome)
  many people said it 
 was pretty short but it really isn't at all if you get into it and try to beat story mode in normal 
 then on hard and the character mode the game is pretty long Character Mode: You get to play as 
 Ed, Al, Mustang, Scar, Armstrong, and Uzumi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bender_Rox
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  This is a very easy but fun game it has good graphics and sound. The best part of the the game 
 is after you beat it because you can play as scar,  and, 
 Iam pritty sure that you can unlock more charecters. The more times you beat the game the more 
 stuff you unlock but the game does have some faults like how you can only have one alchemy thing 
 on your touch screen but you can change your alchemy by touching the center of the touch screen. 
 I didnt expect the game to end the way it did but it does have a good story line witch follows 
 the show very closely. I highly recemend it if youre a fan of the show our you like action-role 
 playing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Dual Sympathy is based on the series of FullMetal Alchemist maily all 51 episodes of the series 
 thas if you seen them all.
  When you start playing the game you play Edward Elic on a journey to find out more about the Philosopher's 
 Stone. The main Gameplay is very simple there punch and Kick, Jump and you can use the touch screen 
 to use alhemy for a stone wall or a cannon shot there are alos other alchemy skills as well. Its 
 kinda like Streets of Rage thats if you played it on Sega Mega drive your mostly beating up Bad 
 guys such beat up 15 enimies to get to the next area and there's a boss you have to defeat at the 
 end of each level. There are a few puzzles that have to do with alchemy.
  Once you finish the game you can start a new game and play with anathor charcter such as Alphonse (Ed's 
 little brother) or Mustang and a few other chacters. If you want to play the game longer you should 
 start on Hard mode if your looking for a challenge, there alot of other things you can do as well 
 there are quite a few mini games that are fun to play.
  
  I did enjoy playing the game, the game is abit short for fans out there but it is worth playing 
 on your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfgirl90
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Fullmetal Alchemist: Dual Sympathy is a fun game but, due to difficulty in the gameplay, it may 
 only be fun to fans of the show. Otherwise, once the second level starts, they may smash their 
 DS into a wall. The gameplay is not very smooth, with the characters often missing the enemies 
 or facing the wrong way at the wrong time. Also, using alchemy with the touch screen is pretty 
 frustrating when you have to keep looking up at the top screen to make sure that you are facing 
 the right way or even within your enemy's line of sight (using the L and R buttons and switching 
 books with the touch screen would have been much better) . You will have to use alchemy on some 
 bosses, but you may die once or twice before you actually know what to do (a transmutation circle. 
 Now what?) . Often, items will appear with little or no reason and with no explanation on them (i. e 
 the Arakawa cows ) . The levels are short, however there are LONG bits of dialogue in between them, 
 making the game feel like your reading through the anime instead of playing it. There are parts 
 that contain spoken dialogue but the voice actors sound bored and often don't speak loud enough 
 to make out some of the words. The mini-games used between the levels are just stupid, often with 
 no point towards finishing the game (i. e Armstrong's wood-splitting mini-game) ; you do them then 
 back to 2 minutes of dialogue. The difficulty of the levels are either easy or hair pulling hard. 
 It takes a bit of concentration to complete each one but once you do, you will hope the your DS's 
 battery is charged so you will make it to one of the scarce save points. All in all, this is a 
 great game for Fullmetal Alchemist fans who want to play some of the good parts of the anime. Fans 
 will feel a bit of nostalgia when they play as they hear the familiar sounds of the theme songs 
 and background music used from the anime throughout the game. Others may not understand the story 
 as well as fans (since they story is laid out so that pretty much only fans will be the only ones 
 who completly get it) . To fans, this is a fun game with fun elements. To others, rent it or borrow 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaluv
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  All things considered this is a pretty good game for the ds. Definately better than the PS2 FMA 
 games released in the past.
  
  The basic gameplay is reminiscent of Streets of Rage or Captain Commando while using timed stylus 
 based activities at certain trigger points. I found this to be quite fun as I am a big fan of the 
 genre. The gameplay is simple yet fun.
  
  In addition to the core game play many extra's have been added to enhance the enjoyment of fans 
 of the show. The list includes a FMA fortune teller, Gallery, Character Profiles, Sound library, 
 and Minigames.
  
  The actual presentation of the game is its weakest point. The amount of media used is quite impressive 
 (original voice actors provide sound bites and narration, many small video clips from the show, 
 and tons of show stills) but the end result does not quite fit together as well as it could. Someplaces 
 could of used video while others would of been better suited for stills rather than video. Also 
 the means of progressing the story between stages with small pictures and a few paragraphs of text 
 is a bit dissapointing after watching full screen vid clips from the show at other points in the 
 game. I give the developers an A for effort but a C for implementation.
  
  The game is worth a try though, especially if you are a fan of the show. There is tons of media 
 pulled directly from the show to connect the game with the show/manga it pulls license from. If 
 you are not a fan of the show this game could also be enjoyable if you are a fan of classic side 
 scrollers like Golden Axe. This is due to the fact that you are able to skip almost all cut scenes 
 and get right to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belmont2971
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  When i played this... i thought it would be not that good. Actually its a pretty decent game with 
 its own twist. Not that lengthy but it has alot of mini games and character mode when u finish 
 the game. You will be able to use alchemy of the main character and also other alchemist if u unlock 
 it. But... the mini games can scratch the screen if you dont have that protective screen. Even 
 thought its an old school beat em up game, its pretty good. Also it follows the series. Theres 
 only a few sound tracks but they sound good. Also makes it lively to here the character speak during 
 the scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragorn_bleh
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I never played Fullmetal Alchemist before so when i got started to this on the Nintendo DS, i knew 
 that i was going to play something who looks like a beat'em all game because i saw some screenshots. 
 This game is very easy, but it's so addictive that i can't stop playing.
  
  Graphics: Anime cartoon graphics. Good animations, there's a lot of animations when your casting 
 spells. Something i hate a lot is that people talk very much before and after a level.
  
  Gameplay: Very simple... A to jump, B to attack. But the only thing i hate with the gameplay is 
 that when you want to cast a spell you must use your stylus and touch the bottom screen. Mini games 
 are very amazing !
  
  Sound: Nice sound. Good music and the voices of the characters are easy to understand.
  
  Tilt: 
 For people like me who never played or never heard about Fullmetal Alchemist before, the story 
 is a r&eacute; sum&eacute; of the life of Edward and Al. All is perfect for the story... nothing 
 to say about it except that i enjoyed it.
  
  To conclude, I recommend this game for everyone who want to have fun 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
