-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gardening Mama
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/gardeningmama/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Your garden grows and reflects your progress.
 Needy plants keep the action moving.
 Minigames are mildly educational, not too difficult.
 Pleasing variety of flowers, fruits, and vegetables.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minigames can become repetitive.
 Gameplay is fairly shallow.
 Lame multiplayer.
 Mama still has an awkward accent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.7, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 14 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Mar 31, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mama's minigames bloom nicely in their new garden thanks to improved game design. 

  After years spent toiling away in the kitchen, Mama is long overdue for some outside time. In Gardening 
 Mama, she heads outdoors to tend her fertile gardens (plural!) and reaps a full harvest of brand-new 
 minigames that range from educational to dull, from amusing to downright preposterous. The game 
 starts off calmly as you plant a variety of flowers, fruits, and vegetables, but once you've got 
 a good number of plants growing, you'll find that there just isn't enough time in the day. You'll 
 be running from planting bed to orchard, tending to plants that are wilting before they wither 
 and die. Although this isn't exactly relaxing, it gives Gardening Mama a momentum that was lacking 
 in its culinary predecessors. It retains the same supercute aesthetic that will charm some players 
 and annoy others, and, despite its breadth, the action is quite shallow. Nevertheless, with newfound 
 momentum and the satisfying reward of seeing your garden grow into a colorful, fruitful landscape, 
 Gardening Mama is uniquely fun and playable.        

  You can also spruce up your gardens with gift items such as arbors, potting trays, and gnomes, 
 allowing you even more decorative freedom in your garden. You earn these presents by doing well 
 in the minigames that comprise the bulk of Gardening Mama's gameplay. To fully grow any given plant, 
 you'll play at least 10 minigames, all of which are controlled with the stylus (with the exception 
 of a few that use the microphone) . Just planting corn consists of seven different tasks that generally 
 last no more than 10-20 seconds each. This level of detail is initially appealing because it is 
 interesting to see what kinds of things proper gardeners actually do when planting seeds. However, 
 it does wear a bit thin when you're planting your fifth species of flower and performing the same 
 planting action. Fortunately, the actions begin to diversify as each plant matures and requires 
 unique treatment, resulting in a fairly robust and varied suite of minigames.  

           Mama has some serious acreage.      

  The minigames are generally easy once you learn 
 how to do them, though more than a few require some tricky timing. When you complete a set of tasks, 
 Mama will pronounce her verdict and offer you encouragement in her mildly grating, heavily accented 
 voice. If you finish individual tasks swiftly and accurately, you can earn presents, which include 
 the aforementioned garden-sprucing items, as well as new fertilizers, new screen icons, and new 
 clothing for Mama. If you do poorly or fail, "Mama will fix it for you," but the fire in her eyes 
 tells you she's not very happy about it. You can always retry for a better score, which is a great 
 way to learn the ropes, and improving your performance will earn you a higher rating and more bonuses. 
 Many of your tasks are mildly educational (unless you already know your way around the shed) , but 
 some are just preposterous. Blowing away the clouds so your veggies can get more sun? Braving a 
 Category 5 hurricane to keep your dahlias from flying away? Come on, Mama. There are also some 
 awkwardly contrived actions, such as trying to soak the roots of a young sapling by quickly dunking 
 them into a bucket of water that is shooting across the screen. Though there is one particular 
 task in which it is nigh impossible to accurately shovel the correct amount of dirt, the minigames 
 are generally easy to master and quick to blow through.  

  No matter how quickly you make it through your tasks, each set of minigames feels much like a measured 
 turn. At the end of each turn you are scored, rewarded (if you've earned it) , and updated on the 
 status of your garden. Here is where you'll learn that now you can plant cherries in the orchard, 
 for example, or that the trailing rose in your rose garden is wilting. Plants can generally wilt 
 for a turn or two before they wither completely, but you'd do well to prioritize them -- better safe 
 than sorry. Wilting means that you simply have to do the next action required for the plant's growth. 
 As your garden grows larger, you'll regularly have one or two plants wilting at the end of each 
 turn, forcing you to care for them before planting new ones or tending to your favorites (though 
 everyone knows a good Mama doesn't choose favorites) . This pressure makes things less relaxing 
 than they might be, but it also provides a sense of momentum and purpose that keeps you wrapped 
 up in the game. Sometimes you'll begrudge it and feel like you're just getting shunted along from 
 task to task, but at other times you'll get caught up in a whirl of watering and pruning and feel 
 an enjoyable sense of progress and prosperity as you shape your garden into a  Better Homes and 
 Gardens  cover story.  

           Try not to over-water it. You know how Mama gets.      

  You can take the gardening 
 gloves off for a bit and decorate your grounds more extensively, wirelessly trade treasure items 
 with a friend, or just freshen up Mama's outfit with your latest bonus presents. These elements 
 fit in nicely with the "make it pretty" mindset, but the same can't be said for the multiplayer 
 mode. Up to four players can use one game card to play a variety of different minigames, but any 
 fun that you might have had with these just shrivels and dies outside of the larger garden context. 
 This context is actually what makes Gardening Mama so successful. It provides tangible rewards 
 for your progress and encourages you to keep getting your hands dirty. The shallow minigames and 
 repetitive gameplay aren't likely to charm those who haven't enjoyed cooking with Mama previously, 
 but the stronger structure and fresh setting provide the latticework that lets Gardening Mama reach 
 higher than she ever has before.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Axman89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama has been one of my favorites game series since Cook Off was released for the Wii. 
 I love all 4 Cooking Mamas for their campy quirks and delightful gameplay. As it turns out, the 
 best game staring Mama takes place outside of the kitchen...
  
  Gardening Mama bursts at the seams with all of wonderful antics and gameplay you'd expect, but 
 is also full of pleasant surprises. Each plant or crop requires constant upkeep until harvest or 
 until the plant simply dies of old age. Unlockables and extras are as bountiful as the flowers 
 and produce you'll be cultivating.
  
  While the spatula and frying pan have been replaced with a trowel and shovel, the gameplay formula 
 hasn't changed much. Each of the steps you take follow a familiar format, but each individual game 
 will require practice.
  
  The game's greatest strength is the surprisingly high level of addictiveness and replay value, 
 not to mention the sheer variety of plants available.
  
  Frankly, gardening has never been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spade_Crisis
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Now, before you say anything, Cooking Mama was definately a fun game. Don't get me wrong. What 
 killed it was the introduction of Gardening Mama. With some unresponsive control, no change in 
 music, we have just another gardening simulation that you can actually play through.
  
  Gameplay - You plant flowers. That's about it. Unfortunately, we are complimented with some rather 
 unresponsive control, and some rather, "lacking" gameplay. Sure you have your planting, your watering, 
 all that good stuff. But some of the minigames we have are just not doing it. For example, planting. 
 You get out your planting seeds, and just plant them. Oh, but watch out! Wind might blow your seeds 
 away! Really? Another example, plants are not growing because of lack of sunlight. It's a cloudy 
 day. We can not have that! Quick Mama! Blow the clouds away! Hurry! Really? She's gardening mama, 
 not mother nature!
  
  Graphics - Just recycled graphics you've seen before in our previous Cooking Mama series. Not good, 
 but not bad either. 
  
  Music - Again, music is pretty recycled, too
  
  Flaws - I think I've mentioned the flaws, already. Either that or I'm rushing to get this review 
 done. 
  
  Conclusion - Now, don't get me wrong, Gardening Mama is a great game you sit by and play. Just 
 some minor problems this game has that make it lacking. Gardening Mama would have been much better 
 if they introduced more memorable gameplay, rather than watering a plant with a star pattern. Good, 
 but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hespie
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the other games in the Mama series, I'm sure that you'll find this game entertaining 
 as well. This time around Mama is spending her time outside in the sunshine of her gardens, and 
 yes! Garden*s*, meaning more than one! You begin the game with one garden with a couple of different 
 flowers to choose from, and as you progress through the game growing healthy flowers you will gain 
 access to three other gardens: The Rose Garden, The Veggie Garden, and the Fruit Garden. Similar 
 to the previous games, you carry out a series of tasks using the touch screen and stylus to begin 
 the growth process for each seedling or bulb. These tasks can consist of opening seed packets and 
 taking a certain number amount out, digging holes to place the seeds inside, picking bugs off of 
 plants, measuring the correct amount of fertilizer or planting soil, and the list goes on and on! 
 The beginning tasks for each plant can become a bit repetitive and tedious, but once sprouts begin 
 to show there will be varying tasks to carry out.
  
  Something new to this game is that once you have finished carrying out the initial group of tasks 
 for one plant, you must check back on it later on to continue its healthy growth. If you fail to 
 go back and check on your seeds then it could wilt and die! This isn't usually a problem because 
 you will receive a message informing you that a certain plant is beginning to wilt, so that you 
 can hurry and attend to it. Another new aspect that showed up in this Mama game was that you are 
 unable to go back and re-plant a particular plant to improve your score, so you have to make sure 
 you retry as many times as it takes to achieve a perfect score the first time! You will receive 
 bonuses for carrying out tasks quickly and correctly, which will award you with new accessories 
 and outfits for Mama, items to place in your garden, and even special growth serums for your plants 
 as well. 
  
  As usual, the stylus and touch screen can become annoying when trying to figure out how to complete 
 certain steps correctly, but after a few practice runs you should get the hang of it. The graphics 
 are bright, colorful, and just as adorable as they have been in the other games in this series, 
 and Mama's voice is just as cute and endearing. Overall, definitely something to pick up just to 
 kill time with if you enjoyed the Cooking Mama games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
