-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Geometry Wars: Galaxies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/geometrywarsgalaxies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Revamped control scheme provides surprisingly solid accuracy.
 Gameplay is still intense and engaging.
 Galaxy mode is deep and addictive.
 Visuals are sharp and colorful.
 Multiplayer is good fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Visual fidelity and game speed are worn down a bit.
 Control scheme is accurate, but also a bit tough on the hands.
 No online multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.9, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 284 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Kuju Entertainment
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Nov 27, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The control scheme has its quirks, but this is still an intense and enjoyable shooter. 

  Geometry Wars just keeps getting bigger and bigger. Originally released as a hidden minigame in 
 developer Bizarre Creations' Xbox racer Project Gotham Racing 2, the brightly-colored dual-stick 
 shooter eventually evolved into its own entity as a $5 download on the Xbox Live Arcade. Now the 
 game has come to the DS and Wii in Geometry Wars: Galaxies. One might be wondering how a $5 game 
 translates into a worthwhile value on these platforms for $30 and $40, respectively. The answer 
 is depth. Galaxies overhauls the Geometry Wars experience into a structured series of unique levels 
 that continually ramp up in challenge as you go. There are unlockables to acquire, multiplayer 
 modes to check out, and on top of it all, the XBLA version of Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved is included 
 as well. There's a surprising amount of stuff to do here, and while it all basically translates 
 to shooting lots of geometric shapes over and over again, the gameplay is so consistently intense 
 and crazy that you're bound to get sucked in.  

  For the uninitiated, Geometry Wars is a colorful take on the sort of dual-stick shooter that games 
 like Robotron and Smash TV popularized years and years ago in arcades. You control a small ship 
 that looks like a few hexagons smooshed together, and move around a grid shooting a wide variety 
 of threatening geometric shapes, like spinning pinwheels, splitting squares, ship-seeking diamonds, 
 circular serpents, and the like. The number of enemies you face steadily increases over time until 
 the whole thing looks like some kind of neon-colored geometric orgy, at which point your best bet 
 is often to either to drop a nuke and wipe the screen clean, or likely get destroyed.  

           All geometry is evil and must be vanquished into the darkness, so sayeth Geometry Wars. 

  One might question how exactly a system with no analog sticks manages to host something like Geometry 
 Wars, and play well to boot. For the DS, Galaxies implements a touch-screen-based control system. 
 You move your little semihexagon of a ship around using the D pad, and use the stylus on the touch 
 screen to direct your shots. On the DS's top screen, you'll see a small red line that denotes which 
 way your gun is pointing, and a small icon that sits along that line shows where the stylus is 
 in relation to the ship itself. Guiding the ship this way is a bit of a challenge, mostly because 
 it's not the most comfortable position for your hands to be in. Holding the D pad the way you do 
 is definitely a good way to cramp your hand up, meaning you may have to set the system down from 
 time to time and play that way. Still, the accuracy of this control system is surprisingly good. 
 It doesn't quite replace the proper dual-analog setup, but it's a solid enough replacement.  

 
  Little of the intensity that made the Xbox 360 game so addictive has been lost in translation 
 in Galaxies. The DS version of the game does run slightly slower than the Wii version, which sometimes 
 makes some of the more furious battles a bit more easygoing than you might prefer. The DS game 
 also lacks some of the visual flair of the console games. The background grid never distorts, making 
 the onscreen action a little less chaotic. But that's really half the fun of the game, seeing so 
 many insane colors bearing down on you at once, and, quite frankly, not quite knowing what the 
 heck is going on. So with those details missing, the DS version loses a bit of its appeal. By no 
 means does it wreck the game, as the DS version can be quite a lot of fun on its own merits. But 
 if you're deciding between the two, the Wii version definitely has better, more exciting action. 
 At least both versions include the same delightful techno soundtrack.  

  One interesting thing about the two versions of Galaxies is that they both offer nearly identical 
 content. Both include the original, never-ending Xbox 360 game, both include multiplayer options 
 (though those options do differ a bit -- we'll get to that shortly) , and both offer up the Galaxies 
 mode, which is where the meat of the experience lies. Galaxies mode takes the standard Geometry 
 Wars gameplay, and spreads it out across several galaxies, each with multiple planets to visit. 
 Each of the game's 64 planets is a slightly different take on the standard game. One level might 
 take place in a jaggedly shaped grid and include ever-moving barriers that you have to avoid getting 
 stuck on while ducking incoming enemies. Another might include a couple of mine-laying baddies 
 whose mines you can actually trip yourself to take out large groupings of enemies and earn a higher 
 score.  

  Each level comes with a gold/silver/bronze medal system for high scores, but that's not the only 
 incentive to keep going back to levels again and again. New to this game and exclusive to the Galaxies 
 mode are geoms, little collectible shapes that fall out of recently exploded enemies. Geoms actually 
 act as your score multiplier in this mode, replacing the old method of multiplying via kills. That's 
 sort of a curse, since it forces you to actively upgrade your multiplier rather than having the 
 game do it for you, and running around to collect those geoms can sometimes put you in a dicey 
 situation. Still, it's a neat variance on the old scoring system.  

  These geoms can be used to unlock new galaxies and planets, as well as to buy upgrades for your 
 drone. The addition of a little helper drone is also brand new to this game. Essentially, this 
 little dot will follow your ship around, attacking enemies as you command it to. Initially it starts 
 out with only one ability, attack. However, over time, you can buy new upgrades that change up 
 how it attacks. You can program it to hover close and defend you, snipe enemies with more powerful 
 but less frequent shots, act as bait to draw enemies away, or just run around collecting more geoms. 
 Now, keep in mind that you can pick only one skill for each stage you play. Each new ability starts 
 off fairly weak, but as you play with it more and more, your helper will level up. Leveling up 
 seems to be exclusively based on playing time, though the game is never 100 percent clear on how 
 the experience is doled out.  

  Multiplayer options also give the game some legs, though they aren't quite as fleshed out as the 
 single-player experience. The game includes versus, co-op, and simultaneous play. Versus mode is 
 odd, in that only one player actually controls a ship, and the other player ends up dishing out 
 waves of enemies to try to kill you. Co-op is a fairly straightforward mode where both players 
 control ships, and you both share the same supply of lives, nukes, and score counter. Simultaneous 
 play has the both of you controlling ships, and each of you are given your own score counters, 
 with the ultimate goal of getting the higher score. All of these modes are basically fun, though 
 online play isn't an option, unfortunately. At least you do have the option to play with a single 
 cartridge by having your friend download the demo via the local wi-fi connection and joining multiplayer 
 from there.  

           Multiplayer options are limited, but fun.      

  It's also worth quickly noting that there is a bit of connectivity between the Wii and DS versions 
 of Galaxies. It's nothing too major, but if you sync up a Wii copy and a DS copy via the connectivity 
 mode, you'll unlock an extra galaxy in both versions of the game.  

  In the end, Geometry Wars: Galaxies proves its worth. This isn't just the same $5 game all over 
 again for a higher price. The content added with the galaxies mode and the multiplayer functionality 
 adds a lot of depth to the experience, and the control changes to both versions, while not as spot-on 
 as a straight-up dual-analog control setup, work well enough to be not only playable, but fun as 
 well. If you were a fan of the original game or just like intense shooters, Geometry Wars: Galaxies 
 fits the bill.  

    Editor's Note: The original review text stated that the game did not support single-cart multiplayer, 
 which is incorrect. GameSpot regrets the error.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Feral_Slug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Having played both Geometry Wars Retro Evolved and the sequel Geometry Wars Retro Evolved^2, I 
 was in need of even more of this addictive game. Galaxies DS provides just that, in a format that 
 is very convenient.
  
  Galaxies has two primary modes: Galaxies, and Retro Evolved. Galaxies is an all new single player 
 mode, while Retro Evolved is a port of the game from Xbox Live Arcade. In Galaxies mode, the player 
 is shown a Galaxy select screen, and can initially only visit on location. There, each "Planet" 
 represents a specific challenge to overcome. I have yet to unlock them all, but so far they have 
 been nicely varied (However, the color of the planet indicates a similar theme.) with even simple 
 things such as the level (Being an Octagon instead of a Rectangle, for example) design creating 
 new ways to think and play the game. The game play itself is solid, though due to a lack of analogue 
 sticks, the play is allowed to either press the buttons (For a right) in any combination to shoot 
 any of eight directions. Or, they can use the stylus and touch screen to aim around in a reticule 
 on the bottom screen. While this is a bit limiting, having such few directions to aim with, the 
 programmers must've for seen this problem, and I've noticed enemies tend to be a bit more linear 
 with their attack patterns.
  
  Also included in Galaxies mode is the concept of a helper bit, which is a small polygon that follows 
 you around and assists with attacking the enemies. There are several "AIs" you can unlock, and 
 they level up as you use them, allowing for smarter aiming/movement and better firepower.
  
  As of righting this review, I am only a few systems into the game (Less then half unlocked.) 
 You start off with only one, but as you beat the missions, you earn points called "Geoms" that 
 you can use to buy new AIs, unlock new missions, and then unlock new galaxies. Each Mission carries 
 with it a target score to reach a medal, ranging from Bronze, Silver, and Gold, which when achieved 
 grant a generous amount of Geoms, so the incentive to hit these markers is fairly high.
  
  Overall, while this game does feel much slower and easier then the XBL Arcade versions, it has 
 a few features I find make a good twist on the game, and the actual game play is still solid, boasting 
 great visuals (For the DS) and a solid musical score. If you are itching for some Geometry Wars 
 to take on the go, I strongly recommend this game. If you are a big fan of the series such as I 
 am, I would again highly recommend it. I picked up my copy new for 20 bucks, and it was well worth 
 the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chee006
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game is just perfect its highly addictive and the graphic is good so ill give it 8/10 and 
 the sound 10/10 game play 9/10 and overall 10/10 just plain perfect THIS GAME IS A MUST. 
  
  Why I say its perfect cause the game play its really addictive and intense cause you can see 
 the those geometry thing trying bang you and you'll be shooting like there's no end to it and the 
 music is fantastic it really blends with the game play and the graphic its 3d and yet so colorful 
 and vibrant as I said overall its perfect I highly recommend it to anyone who love fast pace shooter 
 game.
  
  The game has two modes that include something resembling the original game as closely as possible. 
 "Galaxies" mode has you collecting "geomes" to raise your multiplier as well as "purchase" each 
 new level to unlock. You also use them to power up your ever-present "drone" who fights automatically 
 beside you.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Udsen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Geometry Wars has evolved into it's own with Geometry Wars Galaxies. For those that are unfamiliar 
 with the series, Geometry Wars was an unlockable mini-game in PGR2 on the XBOX, and then made into 
 an Xbox Live Arcade game on the Xbox 360 under the name Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved. I'm pleased 
 to say that Geometry Wars has finally done just that, evolved, with Geometry Wars Galaxies on the 
 DS and Wii.
  
  
  This is the best Geometry Wars game to date, for many reasons. Unlike the XBL Arcade game, Galaxies 
 has much more depth, a better soundtrack, and more rewards to boot. Couple all of those with the 
 option of local multiplayer, and you've got yourself a pretty good arcade shooter. However, it's 
 not without its flaws. The largest flaw I noticed was the control scheme. In Galaxies you control 
 your "ship" with the D-pad, while shooting and aiming with the stylus on the touch screen. To use 
 your bombs, you press any button, but I preferred pressing the left shoulder button. Unfortunately, 
 the slow pace and the control scheme combined can be painful and frustratingly awkward.
  
  
  The visuals in Galaxies arewell, they're Geometry Wars alright. They stay true to the original 
 Geometry Wars design all-while adding new shapes and new maps. These two things not only make Galaxies 
 better, but more challenging and fun as well. The game has surprising depth, too.
  
  
  What's good about Galaxies is that you can play while going on a long trip, or even if you're just 
 going to the corner store. It's almost a tricky game to classify. It's got enough depth and fresh 
 content to keep you playing for hours on end, but it's also shallow enough so you can just play 
 for a few minutes and not feel dragged down by a 50 hour epic story. This is definitely a good 
 thing.
  
  
  Like I stated before, it's not without its flaws. No online multiplayer hurts big time. The game 
 does have local multiplayer, however. It supports single-card play so if you've got a buddy with 
 a DS, invite him/her over and enjoy. I think it's nice that they added the local multiplayer, but 
 in the end, the lack of online multiplayer is quite disappointing.
  
  
  Also, the game's slow pace really hurts it in my opinion. While it is forgiving if you're new to 
 the obscure control scheme, it just doesn't feel quite like the hectic "omgwtf" Geometry Wars staple. 
 I know some people that actually quite enjoy the slower pace, and that's fine, but it's not my 
 cup of tea.
  
  
  Overall, Geometry Wars Galaxies on the DS is a step in the right direction, nothing more and nothing 
 less. It's the best Geometry Wars game to date with awesome depth and local multiplayer, but it's 
 awkward control scheme and no online multiplayer bring it down the most, and for me, the slower 
 pace of the game hurt my impression. If you're a fanatic forgiving of Galaxies obvious flaws, I 
 recommend purchasing it. If you're new to the series, give it a rent.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluemanSteele
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  The DS has never been a work-horse of graphics, so my initial reaction to hearing that Geometry 
 Wars would be featured on it did not grab my attention.
  
  What did grab my attention was not being able to find the game just weeks after it was released. 
 "Am I missing something?", I thought to myself.
  
  Indeed I was.
  
  Geometry Wars for the DS, is a fast-paced, eye-straining, arm-cramping good time. The controls 
 depend on mixing D-pad and stylus control. If this bothered you on other games, it will bother 
 you on this one.
  
  However if you've mastered the "pinky support" and near double jointed requirements for doing this 
 then you are in for a lot of fun.
  
  Let's face it, the game is moving and shooting. The original would not have been what it was without 
 analog joysticks and the DS loses a bit of control by forcing you to either limit your movement 
 or your shooting to 8 directions, movement and shooting controls being interchangeable.
  
  The game has two modes that include something resembling the original game as closely as possible. 
 "Galaxies" mode has you collecting "geomes" to raise your multiplier as well as "purchase" each 
 new level to unlock. You also use them to power up your ever-present "drone" who fights automatically 
 beside you.
  
  At the time of this review I've not tried to wi-fi modes of co-operative or competitive play.
 
  
  It's insane at higher levels where you will find yourself responding to subtle audio cues that 
 will make you sweat or down right panic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravencr0w
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Fun amidst the chaos. 
  
  Geometry Wars can be said to be Asteroids Extreme To The Power Of Extreme. This package comes with 
 a mother-load of different levels (about 60, presented as being grouped into Galaxies with different 
 'planets') with a variety of intriguing designs and enemy spawn patterns. This very simple shooter 
 has extremely intense action, leaving no time for the player to blink. One distraction will kill 
 you as the screen fills with geometrical shapes of various sizes and attack/evade behaviors. 
 
  
  Players will find it very easy to earn points (geoms) to spend on unlocking planets and drone abilities. 
 In fact, it isn't that hard to get at least a bronze on most of the planets. It is however, a grand 
 task to aim for gold for every planet. 
  
  The controls are well done, although with the DS Lite I'm using, the d-pad feels a bit lacking 
 and loose. This game is made to play with d-pad and stylus, so while the d-pad can be a little 
 slow in moving the ship, it's the stylus control of shooting direction that mostly saves the day.
 
  
  I do find the sound a bit weak in this one. I wish the explosions were a little louder, rather 
 than just little sputters.
  
  Excellent pick-up & play game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Extra Note:
  This is a comparison review. It is written under the assumption you know what the game for Wii 
 is like. I wrote a review on that here:
  http://www. gamespot. com/wii/action/geometrywarsgalaxies/player_review. html? id=549819&tag=readerreviews; continue
 
  
  Story is cut due to irrelevance.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics look fine for a DS game, but a lot is missing. They had to make a lot of to make it 
 run, which is understandable. This is a portable, and it's weaker. The problem however, comes in 
 the fact that all these cuts didn't stop the game from becoming a slower experience anyways. Lag 
 will kick in like bullettime from the matrix, and overall, I think everything is moving slower 
 with or without chaotic action. The small screen might also be responsible for the slow movement, 
 but I'll explain that in gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is mostly the same, but what little changes and glitches have happened hinder the game 
 a small bit. You see, the small screen seems to have made the developers think that if the game 
 was moving at the pace it was on the Wii, you'd die a lot. So every enemy now moves slower, and 
 overall, made the game easier. where my first score for retro evolved on wii was 150k, I easily 
 went into the 360k mark for the DS version. This makes the games incompatible scorewise, so when 
 you tell people your scores, you better tell them which version. There are also a couple enemy 
 oddities. Where all other enemies got a speed adjustment, the red odd shaped ships move at their 
 usual speed. They are an insanely fast enemy on terms of time when they get on screen, and time 
 when they kick you ass, making these the hardest enemy in that game by seemingly accident. Further 
 more, I find the snake's tail not effective for blocking bullets. This makes them a ridiculously 
 easy opponent to kill for the score they give you.
  
  Galaxies mode is also different for this. Not gameplay wise, but level wise. Each system has it's 
 own lineup of levels in galaxies mode, and that's why the 2 can connect for bonuses. You get the 
 "best of" the wii and ds version levels on each when you connect. Control wise, I have to say they 
 did a good job here at least. I actually wish I could use my DS as a method of control on the wii 
 version sometimes.
  
  Sound:
  You'll hear every sound from the wii version on here, but that's it's problem. You don't feel like 
 you're playing geometry wars music and sound effects, you feel like your playing with wii's music 
 and sounds being played through the lower quality speakers of the DS. I once again hold all my 
 praise for it's great use of sound, but it is played through a low quality emulation job it seems.
 
  
  Who wants this game?
  Someone who needs geometry wars on the go, not just thinks it will be kool to have. It is not a 
 perfect port, and you will want to play the wii version when possible over this version due to 
 that fact. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimairawr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  I'm going to spare you the details of exactly what you have to do in the game, and be a lot more 
 to the point. This is an excellent game, but in many different ways.
  
  Okay, I'll start with the controls. The use of the touch screen to aim is excellent, as it allows 
 for good precision. The d-pad obviously isn't the best tool when you're trying to move accurately 
 at speed, but the game seems to detect even subtle changes in direction quite well. If that fails, 
 just fire in the direction you're moving and clear a path!
  
  The gameplay itself works excellently in part due to the controls, but also due to the design of 
 the game. The enemies each have different behaviours, from the pink star that moves around seemingly 
 at random to the magnet that speeds towards you, forcing you to either fill it with bullets or 
 lose a life. These behaviours also help you to choose a strategy, for example if the screen filled 
 with blue chasing diamonds then you might try to get to a point so that they're all coming from 
 a similar direction, making them easier to kill. The level designs, similarly, might make it easier 
 to shoot the green shapes due to a lot of corners to force them into, or harder in general by having 
 barriers. Most of the (numerous) levels also seem to differ in the way enemies respawn. These factors 
 combined make each level different to the last, keeping you on your toes. There is also the drone 
 system. Being able to set a different behaviour is an interesting feature, though I think that 
 the Collect behaviour is probably the best at least when you're not playing levels purely for a 
 higher medal. It means you don't have to worry about collecting the geoms left behind by the enemy, 
 and can focus on just killing wave after wave of spaceship safe in the knowledge your multiplier 
 should be going up (as it is increased by collecting geoms) .
  
  I personally don't see why people seem to dislike the graphics. Yes, they're simple and yes the 
 game lacks the background "tears" of its bigger brother. But the graphics do the job perfectly. 
 The colours are crisp and clear, the particle effects look good, your bullets will thud into the 
 perimeter wall and leave small trails from the ricochet. Even though the shapes are simple, it's 
 actually a good-looking game. I think the most obvious way to tell the graphics work is that they 
 don't impede you at any point.
  
  This isn't to say the game is perfect. I personally play the game with the volume off, as the music 
 and effects don't really add to the game for me, though I don't feel they really ever needed to. 
 Also, when an enemy spawns right next to you and hence kills you, it can be extremely irritating, 
 though it can be avoided by noticing where they tend to spawn and avoiding those spots.
  
  The addition of Retro Evolved makes this already-cheap game even better value. Overall, Galaxies 
 is a game that can be enjoyed either in short bursts or for a more prolonged period of time. If 
 you own a DS and want what is simply a fun game to play, you should consider investing in Galaxies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  After taking a look at the Wii version of Geometry Wars: Galaxies, I got to check out the game's 
 handheld debut.
  
  Geometry Wars is simple enough that it handles well on the DS. The top screen is your battle stage, 
 while the bottom screen gives you a radar graphic and according to where you slide your stylus, 
 your ship will fire in that direction. It does get a little crazy when you are swarmed by enemies, 
 and eventually lose the great pace of movements and coordination needed to continue, and get shot 
 down. Moving around is done with the D-pad, and personally I like this control scheme quite a bit, 
 and the only downside is my left hand (the one I hold the system with) hurting after about 10-15 
 minutes of play.
  
  The Galaxies campaign offers the same "quest" type of gameplay, planet by planet. Just like in 
 the Wii version, you have your faithful drone floating near your ship. Drone upgrades become available 
 as you gather enough Geoms to purchase them, turning your drone into a useful enemy bait, a shield 
 or a sniper, among other useful skills. Obviously, the more you use a certain behavior, the better 
 your drone becomes at it. In between levels, when you check the interface you can see a progress 
 bar that measures the drone's experience, so to speak.
  
  Geoms are the little yellow things that appear when you defeat enemies, which act as game currency 
 and score multiplier. Score multipliers are needed to reach those insane point goals and proceed 
 to the next planet, and if obtaining them is easy, getting to them isn't. Many times you will kill 
 yourself trying to gather them all when they're scattered all over the board, and trying to reach 
 some of them will seem impossible when waves of enemies keep coming after you from all directions. 
 
  
  The pace of the game is, for lack of a better description, frantic, but fun and addictive. Stages 
 become progressively more difficult and obtaining the three score medals for each stage turns into 
 a time-consuming task.
  
  We can also find Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved on the DS version, but the great advantage this handheld's 
 version has over the Wii's is the multiplayer option. 
  
  Multiplayer games have a few options to pick from. In co-op, both players fight side by side sharing 
 the same score, lives and weapons. In versus mode, one player controls the enemies while the other 
 controls the ship. There is also a simultaneous mode where each player gets his own ship and both 
 compete for the highest score.
  
  Graphically, the DS version is much simpler and the elements don't seem to stand out as much as 
 Galaxies on the Wii or Retro Evolved on the Xbox 360, but simple color palette changes make everything 
 clear and the particle effects are nicely done. You might also come across a few slower frame rates 
 when the screen becomes crowded with enemies and particles, but they few and far between, never 
 making the game unplayable. The techno beats and sound effects were also maintained, but there 
 are occasions when all sound mysteriously disappears for a few moments when the battle gets hectic 
 and the screen is extremely busy with activity.
  
  If you own both DS and Wii versions you can link the games together via Wi-Fi to unlock the last 
 area of the game. Personally, I am not too crazy about this idea, since it somewhat forces you 
 to purchase both versions to see the "bonus" content.
  
  Still, Geometry Wars: Galaxies ends up being a great little addiction for gamers on the go.
  
 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=geometrywarsds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 8
  GRAPHICS: 8
  SOUND: 8
  VALUE: 10
  TILT: 9
  
  ROUGH SCORE: 8.6
  FINAL SCORE: 8.5
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  The Good:
  - Portable 
 Geometry Wars
  
  The Bad:
  - No kick*** grid distortion effects
  - Occasional drop in frame rate
  - Too much content?
  
  ----------------------------------------
 
  
  I was looking forward to this game for months. And until the game finally came out, I was still 
 hoping that it wouldn't suck. Why? Because there were only like, ten screenshots posted for the 
 DS version before the release... and no gameplay videos. I had nothing to go on to determine if 
 I still wanted to track/buy the game. Finally, someone submitted some vids on Youtube and I was 
 able to make the game's presence on my Christmas list official. I was very happy.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The stylus/button controls are solid. There a bunch of possibilities, and once you 
 find the one that suits you best, you'll be good to go. Personally, I wage geometric war with left-handed 
 stylus shooting and right-handed ABXY ship navigation. I also have the battle displayed on the 
 top screen, so that my hand doesn't block some of my vision of the battle.
  In the Galaxies campaign mode, there are ten galaxies total (including the Wii-unlockable one) , 
 each with anywhere from three to eight planets. There is quite a variety of different types of 
 levels, such as Survival, Classic, and Battle. No two levels really feel identical or repetitive, 
 thanks to the levels' diverse design and enemy variations. Each brings something new to the table. 
 Besides the Galaxies mode, Sierra has also included the entire Retro Evolved game, which for people 
 like me that never played it on XBL, is pure awesome. 
  Also new to Geometry Wars is the presence and collection of Geoms, which are tiny, golden shapes 
 that you can collect to do a number of things. They increase your score multiplier, upgrade your 
 ship's weapons, grant you extra lives and bombs, and act as a currency for unlocking other drone 
 behaviors, planets, and galaxies, just to name a few functions. You don't need to fly over each 
 one to collect them, which is good because that would really make the battles way more insane than 
 they already are.
  There is a ton of content here. This is a bit of a double-edged sword, depending on your playing 
 style. You can easily gather up geoms to unlock as much as you can as quickly as possible (mastering 
 levels later) , or you can try to master each galaxy's roster of levels as you get to them (casually 
 unlocking the rest of the game) . In the latter case, you may think that there's simply an overwhelming 
 amount of content. Personally, I've only unlocked the first two galaxies thus far, even though 
 I've played for about two hours. There's just no rush. And once I unlock everything, then I can 
 just go back and play whatever level I want. So I think it's great that there's such selection. 
 Every level gets harder the longer you last, and each galaxy gets tougher. You can't really lose 
 here.
  Unless the game jumps back and forth as a result of sudden drops in the frame rate. It happens 
 rarely (about 15% of the time and depending on the level) , but when it does, it can affect your 
 gameplay significantly. It's just the DS trying to handle all the action. It's excusable in my 
 book, only because it doesn't happen consistently or constantly. It genuinely does not bother me.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  GWG consists of a whole lot of sprite animation. Sadly, there are no grid distortion effects, but 
 I don't feel this hurts the game in any way. That could just be because I never played the XBL 
 version so I just don't know what I'm missing out on. In any case, the game looks good for a DS 
 game and it works for a Geometry Wars game. No harm, no foul.
  
  SOUND
  The music in the game is the traditional techno you've come to associate with Geometry Wars. It's 
 simple and catchy and serves its purpose as sufficient background ambiance whilst epic battles 
 ensue. 
  
  VALUE
  As I've already mentioned, there is quite a load of content here. This, joined with the fact that 
 GWG is in fact an arcade shooter, equates to endless replayability. This is the very definition 
 of "pick up and play". There is always room for improvement. Heck, the medal system encourages 
 it. 
  
  TILT
  I'll admit it. I had never really heard of Geometry Wars before I found out about Galaxies. The 
 only reason I was interested at first was because of the "Geometry" element (I'm currently majoring 
 in Secondary Math Education) . Since then, I've come to realize how solid of a shooter GW is. It's 
 simple, it's addictive (my god, is it addictive...) , and it's fun. For DS owners seeking a solid 
 arcade shooter, it really doesn't get any better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved was a smash hit on the XBOX 360's Live Arcade, and for good reason. 
 It is an intense, crazy, and fun arcade-style shooting game where you have a ship on a grid and 
 move with one control stick while shooting with the other to destroy the various enemies that come 
 on the grid. Now, Geometry Wars has come to Wii and DS, and while both versions are good, the Wii 
 version is much better than the DS version. Both games include Retro Evolved and a new campaign 
 called 'Galaxies'. 
  
  In Galaxies mode, there are a ton of levels all with different point requirements, life and bomb 
 amounts, grid shape, and enemies. You also get a little ship that follows you, called a drone, 
 to help you. Before you begin a level, you tell the drone what action to take. You can make it 
 fight with you (Attack) , go in circles around you and destroy enemies on contact (Sweep) , have 
 it stay in one place and fire in a circle (Turret) , and more. The drone levels up in each ability 
 and gets better and better until it reaches level 10. There are also objects called geoms in the 
 Galaxies mode, which is the currency of the game. With geoms, you can buy new drone abilities, 
 galaxies, and planets. They also increase your score multiplier within a level. There are also 
 online leaderboards for every planet in the game and for Retro Evolved as well, which is a good 
 addition to an already complete game. To top it all off, there is one galaxy that can only be unlocked 
 by connecting a Wii game with a DS game
  
  In this version, you move with the control pad (which, even on a DS Lite, is a little bit painful 
 after awhile) and shoot using the touch screen. The controls in this version work very well and 
 the aiming is just as precise as in the Wii version. The graphics in this verison are simplistic, 
 but they still look pretty nice. The frame rate is pretty bad at some points, unlike the Wii version 
 which has a perfect frame rate. Some enemies move much, much slower than they're supposed to and 
 make the game a whole lot easier than on the Wii. This also makes the game feel much less intense, 
 and intensity is key in Geometry Wars, so the game suffers from that as well. 
  
  There is also a multiplayer mode in this game. In the multiplayer, there are actually two ships 
 on the grid, which sounds like it would get confusing, but it somehow isn't that confusing. You 
 can do versus or co-op on Retro Evolved or do select Galaxies levels with a partner. The multiplayer 
 was a nice addition to the game and is very good and fun. You can even do it with one game card, 
 which is very nice
  
  Despite its faults, the DS version of Galaxies is a good game. It just suffers from lack of intensity 
 and lower difficulty, which makes it feel less like Geometry Wars. Otherwise, this game is worth 
 checking out, but if you own a Wii and DS, then the Wii version is the way to go.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 6
  Sound: 7
  Value: 8
  (this does not necessarily effect the overall 
 score)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  Remember Tetris? Well maybe Geometry Wars: Galaxies still can't be same-leveld with that legend, 
 but it IS addictive. Really.
  You can control the fires of your "Gunship" with either stylus or the ABXY buttons. You will try 
 to survive against attacks of endless unidentifed geometrical galactic objects as long as you can 
 to earn the maximum score. You are on your own, your companion is only a  
 drone. You are armed with an unlimited ammo gun and sometimes three Mega-Galactic Bombs (I named 
 it myself) . Everytime you devastated an enemy, it will flush a yellow crystal-like object, which 
 turns out to be Geoms, the game's currency. When you earn medals, you'll also earn extra Geoms 
 for your effort. Geoms can be used for multiple purposes, from buying new drone behaviors to unlocking 
 new planets and/or systems.
  The entire galaxy consists of several systems, one of which is already unlocked and the rest must 
 be unlocked via Geom spending. The last system can only be unlocked by connecting to the Wii version 
 of the game.
  The graphics are initially good for a DS game, it's basically colorful and dazzling, firing effects 
 and bomb explosions are also animated well. Since it's a DS game, such graphical effects, in my 
 opinion, is already a decent one.
  The sound, well, the musics are not bad, and the sound of blasts and fires are not too bad too, 
 but it's not decent either.
  Geometry Wars: Galaxies is essentially a bit hard to describe, a decent game, it's worth playing 
 and it's addictive! Once you get your hands on it you'll be curious to end it up to the final planet!
 
  gameplay: 8 graphics: 8 sound: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Galaxies takes the Geometry Wars formula and twists it in all kinds of different ways. It runs 
 off the simple bullet hell formula in a small area and adds in all kinds of different factors. 
 If you're unfamiliar with the Geometry Wars gameplay for whatever reason, let me give you a rundown 
 first.
  
  In Geometry Wars you get a simple ship that can shoot bullets out in all directions. You start 
 off with a gun that shoots a two bullet stream and eventually upgrade to 2 higher level guns. One 
 shoots a fast 3 bullet stream, one shoots a slower 5 bullet stream and they randomly swap between 
 the two. You are then bombarded with randomly appearing enemies all around you that die in one 
 hit, but so many appear that it quickly becmoes a frantic fight for your life.
  
  In Retro Evolved (the Xbox Live Arcade version) you simply had a square grid area that was slightly 
 bigger than the screen and the difficulty ramped up fairly quickly on you as you attempted at a 
 high score. In Galaxies the formula has changed up quite a bit. There are now several different 
 room shapes, more enemies and you even get a secondary ship with you in all the levels. 
  
  You first pick a galaxy to play in then you can pick from several different planets within each 
 galaxy to play in. There are roughly a dozen galaxies and 4 to 7ish planets in each galaxy. Each 
 one of these boasts a different challenge and none are to similar to be honest. 
  
  Some have you in a square room just like retro evolved, but with the newer enemies and secondary 
 ships you're strategies will have to change a bit. Some however will put you in diamond shaped 
 rooms, real funky shaped rooms or rooms with barriers (some even have moving barriers) in them. 
 This really messes with your mind and causes you to have to switch up your playing style based 
 on where you are.
  
  As I mentioned, there are now secondary ships for you to take with you into battle. At the beginning 
 of the game you have one that simply attacks with you. As you play levels and collect geoms (dropped 
 by enemies you kill) you'll actually level up this ship. I believe they all max out at level 9. 
 Geoms can also allow you to by more of these ships. There is a defense one, a turret one, a bait 
 one, one that helps collect geoms and more. This gives some extra strategy to this crazy frantic 
 game and also gives some replay in leveling these guys up.
  
  The game is really great, a lot of fun, but it has some flaws. If you've played Geometry Wars you 
 know that the screen can get quite chaotic and filled with hundreds of enemies chasing you down. 
 Well, the DS doesn't always like this and has major slowdow when you get to many enemies on screen. 
 If you are in the running for a gold medal on practically any level you're going to be experiencing 
 this slowdown. 
  
  The controls can also be quite difficult to get used to. I tried out all the control schemes from 
 using the D-pad for movement and the face buttons for shooting, the bottom touchscreen for aiming 
 while the playing field is on the top and the playing field on the bottom while I touch in the 
 direction I want to shoot. I found the middle one the best after I finally got used to it. But 
 the D-Pad and holding the stylus through fierce battles can become quite painful on the hands and 
 doesn't always feel like you have total control, not like the dual joysticks of the 360. 
  
  The other thing is that since the DS has to run sprite based graphics, you don't get those 
 fancy grid effects in the background. Until you've played without them you don't realize how much 
 they really do help you play. You can tell where black holes are easier, where your shooting, etc. 
 Once again something that can be overcome with time, but it's sad to not see there. 
  
  All in all this is a quality game. For some Geometry Wars action on the go you can't really go 
 wrong here. There is a lot to play, a lot to experience and quite a bit of replay value so don't 
 miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sthompson022
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I'm a casual gamer who does not get into the fast-paced action of first person shooters or twitch 
 trigger games, but this game hooked me very quickly. Two of my favorite games as a child were Asteroids 
 Deluxe and Tempest. The way the enemies hunt you down, especially the diamonds, reminds me so much 
 of Asteroids Deluxe which also had crystal structures with diamond shaped characters that would 
 hunt you down. The RPG element of being able to develop the capabilities of your side-kick is quite 
 fun and it makes you want to keep playing so that you can get to the next level and use the new 
 capability. The play areas and game play circumstances on each planet are quite varied and a lot 
 of fun. I highly recommend this game to casual gamers and serious gamers alike. The game play is 
 fun and it gets quite frantic very quickly. I own the DS version of the game and my reflexes are 
 pretty slow, but the action is just right for me. I am able to practice my skills on the easier 
 planets and then advance to harder planets. This works quite well at advancing my skill level and 
 I continue to advance, which is something I'm not used to doing as a casual (older) gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edmen_Tam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  I never played this game before earlier. i only heard of it. well, it might not be as good as its 
 console counterparts, but its still cool nonetheless. what really bugs me is in some parts, gamespot 
 compares this version of the game to the Wii version. COME ON MAN, STOP COMPARING DS GAMES AND 
 COSOLE ONES, it aint fair. for the ds, the graphics are top notch, really bright and colorful, 
 music is cool and gameplay is awesome. there are certain slow downs when the top screen is full 
 of shapes or ''alien ships' overall, this game will be a cool collection to your ds games. if you 
 dont have a wii and you're finding for an intenso and addictive shooter, Geometry wars galaxies 
 is a good choice for anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuky06
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game and it's amazing, I got it this morning and I'm still playing it.
  
  In this game you control your ship with the d-pad and shoot with the buttons (think robotron) or 
 stylus. You just shoot stuff up. It may sound dull, but it's actually really fun. 
  
  This is not like most games where you go through the stage from point A to point B or where you 
 have a time limit. You just shoot and gain geoms, wich are the game's currency and you also get 
 a score, depending on your score you can gain bronze, silver or gold medals, and you unlock new 
 stages with your precious geoms.
  
  If you see screenshots or gameplay videos you may notice a small silver square at your side. That's 
 my favourite feature. Before entering a stage you can select the way your little companion's behavior, 
 like setting him to attack enemies, defend you, collecting geoms, etc. The little dude also gains 
 experience depending on how you play and the more you use a behavior the more powerfull it gets.
 
  
  Different enemies behave in a different manner, some will just swarm at you, others may run (fly/ 
 float/ whatever) away from you or your bullets, and some others will follow you like heat-seeking 
 missiles. There's plenty of variety.
  
  On the graphics. The graphics are really good, lots of particles and stuff blowing up, so colorfull. 
 This colorfull-ness also help you identify the different objects, to help you expect what will 
 happen since (almost) every enemy type has a different color. The only downside is that the frame-rate 
 falls behind when there's alot of objects on-screen, but it's not as bad to the extent that you 
 can still handle the situation perfectly.
  
  On conclusion: Get this game if you have a DS or Wii. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
