-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Glory Days 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/glorydays2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting balance of action and strategy.
 Enjoyable, bombastic orchestral score.
 Great background detail.
 Interface makes it easy to handle a number of duties at once.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign is too short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Secret Stash Games
Developer: ODENIS Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date: Aug 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The unique blend of action and strategy in Glory Days 2 will make you wish the campaign lasted a 
 little longer. 

  Glory Days 2, the sequel to a Game Boy Advance game that was released here in the US as Super Army 
 War, whips together a light blend of 2D side-scrolling shooter action, tactical combat, and modern 
 real-time strategy convention into something that feels simultaneously unique and familiar. For 
 the most part, the action and the strategy are never terribly taxing, but the constant juggle between 
 deploying units, capturing bunkers, rescuing civilians, and raining death from above onto enemy 
 forces keeps the game constantly engaging.  

  The loose narrative, which sees you fighting as a procession of pilots fighting different wars 
 during different eras, is driven by written correspondence between your soldier and his loved ones 
 back home. There's a natural quality to the writing in the letters, which see the characters go 
 through a range of emotions as they progress from mission to mission. They share feelings of dread, 
 longing for home, a steeled determination to do what's right, and anecdotes about their day-to-day 
 lives and their comrades. There are occasions of overly politicized heavy-handedness over the cost 
 of war and the relative value of the opinions of those who aren't on the frontlines, but for the 
 most part it's a disarmingly effective device.  

           Glory Days 2 comes from an alternate dimension where Desert Strike and Command &amp; Conquer 
 are the same game.      

  Though you'll fight across sandy beaches, snowy mountains, the sun-bleached desert, lush plains, 
 and city streets, the battlefield in Glory Days 2 is invariably a long, flat, horizontal stretch 
 of road. At either end, you'll find your base, as well as your enemy's base. In between you'll 
 find bunkers, gunner positions, and civilians caught in the middle of your military quagmire. Depending 
 on the mission, you have direct control over either a plane or a helicopter, and which one you're 
 given has a significant impact on the feel of the mission. Both have air-to-air artillery and air-to-ground 
 payloads. The planes benefit from speed and a certain maneuverability, while the choppers can change 
 direction more easily, can be landed in the middle of the battlefield to rescue civilians, and 
 can be used to pick up soldiers at your base and deploy them in the field. Their relative flexibility 
 end up making the chopper missions inherently more fun.  

  Rescuing civilians -- be it by chopper or ambulance -- and deploying troops on the battlefield are 
 important, because civilians that you're able to pluck from the field and shepherd to safety translate 
 directly into cash, and troops can take up position inside empty bunkers, which provide a regular 
 revenue stream. All of this cash is then used to deploy troops, tanks, antiaircraft jeeps, and 
 ambulances, and your ground forces are key to victory. While you're flying overhead, bombing enemy-held 
 bunkers and the never-ending procession of enemy vehicles, your ground forces are marching along, 
 engaging whatever enemy forces happen to be coming from the opposite direction. You're essentially 
 fighting a huge, militarized game of tug-of-war, and victory is invariably had by pushing enemy 
 forces all the way back to their base on the other side of the field, and destroying it.  

  Though you'll be focusing on the air unit that you have direct control over on the top screen, 
 you've got several good tools to keep you abreast of the situation elsewhere on the battlefield. 
 A distilled map of the battlefield makes it easy to figure out, at a glance, your forces' progress 
 on the battlefield, your current position, and which bunkers are controlled by which army, while 
 the lower screen tracks whatever units are on your frontlines. It's easy to deploy units on the 
 fly, and once they're on the ground, you don't really need to worry about them again. They'll just 
 truck along, doing what they're programmed to do. The game will also deploy troops and vehicles 
 for you automatically, should you get too caught up in the action, though if you neglect any one 
 part of the game for too long, you will invariably find yourself overwhelmed. When you know the 
 strengths and weaknesses of your units, you'll find specific deployment patters that help increase 
 their survival rates. Even then, a huge percentage of your units invariably end up as cannon fodder, 
 and it's not uncommon to deploy several hundred units over the course of a mission.  

           It's not the parts of Glory Days 2 that are amazing, it's how they're put together.   
    

  As you progress through the game, you'll gain access to special attacks like air strikes, as well 
 as more advanced military hardware. At the same time, your enemy's units will get stronger, faster, 
 and smarter, and while it can be a challenge, it never really becomes unmanageable. The biggest 
 shortcoming in Glory Days 2 is the relative brevity of the campaign, which can be torn through 
 in a few hours. There are other ways to play, including a skirmish mode where you can define an 
 incredible number of variables, and a local multiplayer mode that supports up to eight players 
 at once, but it's hard not to wish the campaign would keep going for at least a little while longer. 

  There are shades of Advance Wars to the presentation in Glory Days 2, specifically in the way it 
 depicts anime-style soldiers fighting in a violent but oddly bloodless war, but the overall tone 
 here is much more somber and serious. The soundtrack consists of just a few huge, sweepingly righteous 
 orchestral compositions that bring an unflinching grandeur to your constant march toward victory. 
 The look of the units errs toward realistic, though the generally zoomed-out camera perspective 
 keeps you from seeing too much detail. Where the visuals really shine are in the environments, 
 which are packed with detail and a number of scrolling background layers that provide a level of 
 depth that almost rivals actual 3D graphics. Touches like the way you can see wind whipping past 
 you as you speed across the battlefield, nice-looking weather effects, and the odd scan-line flicker 
 of night vision when you're fighting in the dark bring a sense of heightened realism to the visuals. 

  As commonplace as the components are, Glory Days 2 adroitly assembles them into something pretty 
 rare. It's lamentable that the campaign is as short as it is, but it's not enough to keep the rest 
 of the game's unique charms from shining through.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EyeShatteredSky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Addictive gameplay? check.
  
  Solid graphics? Check.
  
  Tight and responsive controls? Check.
  
  One of the best soundtracks to grace the DS speakers? 
 Check and check.
  
  Yep, that's Glory Day's 2 in a nutshell. If you're an adrenaline junkie then you own it to yourself 
 to pick up a copy of this fast, furious, and challenging action packed title that will have you 
 on edge till the very end! AI is sometimes ruthless and alot of the battles are stacked against 
 you right from the get go. But that's what makes these fights all the more rewarding! As you go 
 along you unlock more and more aircrafts and other little nifty things to help you change the tide 
 of the war. And the great controls, fluid looks, and awesome soundtrack only add to the experience.
 
  
  Long story short, this is a brief but sweet game that will have you fighting against all odds in 
 hopes of achieving victory. And when you take into account all the aspects that make this game 
 fun to play, you really do have a glorious title that's well worth every penny you spend on it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Sadly, truly great 2D games are petering out, thanks largely to improved graphics engines in consoles 
 over the last several years and an increased demand for "realism" in a game. Even on handheld consoles 
 (these days, the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP) , 3D games are dominating the market. So it's refreshing 
 when, every once in a while, a really cool, great looking 2D game comes out -- and the nearly unheard-of 
 Glory Days 2 is just that. And while it may not be perfect, it's got a lot to offer and is a dream-come-true 
 for 2D gaming fans.
  
  Much of Glory Days 2's relative success comes from it's really awesome 2D engine. While such graphics 
 might seem outdated to some of you, the game's development team has definitely proven that a game's 
 quality is completely independent of its polygon count. The premise of Glory Days 2 is essentially 
 that you're a pilot during a war, so all the things you'd expect in a war game are there. The title's 
 got tons of soldiers, tanks, bullets, other aircraft, paratroopers, even civilians running around 
 -- and, of course, huge explosions. Everything is crisp, clean, and looks really great on the DS. 
 Additionally, some of the aircraft you pilot can get going pretty quickly, and the game employs 
 a very neat blur effect that adds tremendously to the game's sense of speed. I'll confess that 
 the game's visuals were the reason I decided to pick up this game -- however, it was the way the 
 game was designed that really kept me playing.
  
  The set-up of Glory Days 2 is interesting. As I've already emphasized, it's a 2D action game. But 
 what's cool is that every battlefield is kind of like a football field -- it stretches way far 
 off (there's a linear map up at the top of the screen) , and you've got free reign over where you 
 go. It's not top down, like you might expect from a 2D game involving any sort of aircraft -- instead, 
 you'll fly back and forth, essentially trying to turn the tide of the battle in your army's favor. 
 The enemy has a pretty impressive force for each battle, and your job is to stop their march to 
 allow your troops to get to work. Dropping bombs is the most efficient way to take out land units, 
 but you've also got a machine gun on your plane to take out some weaker land units as well as any 
 enemy pilots that attempt to contest you in the air.
  
  However, Glory Days 2 isn't just an opportunity to mash the Bomb button over and over again -- 
 rather, there's a lot of strategy involved if you want to come out on top. For starters, you can 
 only be destroyed a set number of times during a mission before you fail, so blindly rushing into 
 the fray is usually a bad idea. You ground troops are in greater quantity and are therefore collectively 
 stronger, so it's usually a good idea to soften up the foe and allow the rest of your army to finish 
 them off. Additionally, your aircraft can only contain a set number of bombs in its hold, so you'll 
 often have to return to the airport -- all the way at your end of the battlefield -- to restore 
 health and refill your weaponry.
  
  As I already mentioned, your ground troops are pretty capable, so long as they've got some backup, 
 and part of Gory Days 2's strategy also lies in assisting them in ways other than just bombing 
 the crap out of any tanks in their way. Scattered throughout the battlefield are a number of bunkers 
 -- capturing them give you funds to deploy more units, and many missions require you to capture 
 all of these bunkers. Dropping bombs on a bunker will neutralize it, but by the time you go back 
 to reload the bunker will likely have been retaken by the enemy. The solution to this problem? 
 You take advantage of the fact that your aircraft, in addition to carrying bombs, can also carry 
 soldiers. You can then fly low over bunkers, drop a number of bombs to neutralize the bunker, and 
 let loose a few paratroopers to secure the base. It's this sort of strategizing that will ultimately 
 help you win missions, and thinking through a mission combined with the frantic action that the 
 game provides allows for a pretty exciting game play experience.
  
  The game offers plenty of variety, ensuring that you have fun with it till the very end. Missions 
 tend to be cut from the same mold, but there is a bit of variety -- for example, you may be required 
 to capture a certain number of bunkers or rescue a set number of civilians. The game's real variety, 
 however, comes in the form of the different aircraft you can use. Sadly, there's no option to choose 
 what to use -- each level has an assigned vehicle -- but the variations in them is pretty cool. 
 Each of the many aircraft have certain specialties, and it is often in taking advantage of your 
 aircraft's particularities that you'll be able to complete a difficult level. In fact, doing so 
 is going to be pretty important, because the game's difficulty level is pretty high, even from 
 the start. The AI is smart and you can't expect to just breeze through missions -- you've got to 
 think about them logically, develop a strategy, and then execute it. It's a fun, addicting experience 
 that will be enjoyable for both action and strategy gamers alike.
  
  Sadly, though, there's very little reason to spend much more time with Glory Days 2 after you've 
 completed it. There aren't very many missions, and while there's a neat little plot cleverly told 
 via letters written home from a soldier, it's no incentive to play through the game again. It's 
 one of those titles that's great the first time around -- afterward, however, it'll probably sit 
 and collect dust. For this reason, it's a bit tough to whole-heartedly recommend Glory Days 2. 
 But if you prefer some serious quality in your handheld gaming and are willing to sacrifice game 
 length to get it, or if you're in a situation to rent it, then Glory Days 2 is a good game to pick 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klynch13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I never had the pleasure of playing the first one but man is this game addictive. It's old school 
 choplifter with a bunch power-ups added. The sound is just unbelievable that it is coming from 
 a hand held. It sounds even more intense with a headset on. I've gotten about halfway through the 
 game already and they just give you more tools to play with. I'll admit that when you lose the 
 first couple of times it's a pain but it doesn't take you long to figure out a strategy right away 
 to win. Very well done and the graphics fit right. for the DS. This is one to definitely pick up 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The game didn't turn as what I thought it would be when I checked out the screen shots. It is very 
 nice and the campaign is challenging. You can also control 3 types of helicopters and 3 types of 
 jets.
  
  You can shoot down enemy air units, make your army and much more. This single player game allows 
 you to also make your own battle. You can select 11 jets with you and bombard the enemy.
  
  The game really pumps adrenaline to your body with all the explosions especially when you are using 
 the jet at a tremendous speed.
  
  The explosions are quite nice also. You should really get this game if you haven't. It's a real good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siebe9
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  This Game is totally awesome,
  Anyway you don't play a tank or a jeep.
  You play as a helicopter ,you may think ,What the heck.
  Helicopter ,his is crap!
  But, it 
 is not and you don't always play a helicopter!
  Your goal is to destroy the enemy's base and/or capture al the bunkers
  You might think Hmmm.. This 
 is easy i just fly to the enemy's bas
  and destroy it, but that's not possible, because only your units can destroy it tanks, jeeps, infrantry 
 etc. But you are not the only flying guy The comp also have helicopters but you have buddies to
 
  You are also the one who ''built '' the units.
  There are also special weapons an things. but you are the one to find that out.
  Multiplayer 
 is really good, but it's without ds download play : (
  
  This game is good don't think low about this But get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornrocker666
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Glory Days 2 is actually more fun than i thought it would be. I started this game and was turned 
 off a little, but when i started to play it was actually fun. The graphics are nice and i cant 
 stress this enough but the music is really cool. It really sets you in the Glory mood. The controls 
 are pretty good. If there was a rating for controls id give it and 8. I dont know the game is just 
 plain fun. It is also really hard and addictive so be prepared to get a little frustrated at times. 
 Honestly this is one of the only good games that came out in this summer drought buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Glory Days was marked as being one of the best strategy games on the GBA. Now that it's sequel 
 is being released, we take a look at what may be an interesting strategy game - but it's definitely 
 not that great.
  
  Graphics: 2D. That's practically it. NO 3D whatsoever, it's got GBA quality graphics. But wait, 
 aren't we analyzing a DS game? Oh, yeah. A little old-school, but whoever likes these kind of strategy 
 games won't be disappointed. However, a little 3D wouldn't go amiss here. A lot of action-packed 
 movement is a surefire way of preventing you from taking your eyes off the screen, though!
  
  Sound: Some say it's good, others report it as acceptable. Well, considering some strategy 
 game I've played, the music is quite nice - possibly the best feature the game presents! SFX sounds 
 are fine.
  
  Gameplay: Mixed reactions. We have lack of a left-hand stylus control feature, so lefties will 
 have to play with the buttons. But anyhow, I bet you'll be playing with the buttons even if you're 
 right-handed - the stylus mode is quite inaccurate. Controlling your fleet is nice, but some missions 
 will have you grinding your teeth in despair, because the chopper missions are much more fun than 
 some others. Not that good, overall.
  
  Replay Value: No Wi-Fi, no download play, just a standard multi-player mode. Campaign is too short, 
 in my opinion, and you'll get bored with it even before it ends, despite the action.
  
  Overall, Glory Days 2 is a fair strategy game, but don't count on it to entertain you for many 
 hours. If you are a 3D enthusiast, stay well away from this and go play BiA. If you like old-school 
 strategy, combined with good soundtracks game, then this is for you. Still, it's too overrated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, well, well...
  It appears that some team of designers have some favourite games in their secret emulator-rom files 
 at work. And then they decided to do some design a-la-gene-splicing-esque development towards the 
 making of this game.
  
  It''s like Defender meets Metal Slug meets Spielberg Soundtrack meets (a way better than) Advanced 
 Wars.
  
  It's alot of fun. I'm not a big fan or pro-war bang-bang kill evil-doers everywhere type of video 
 games. But this is a well done game.
  
  The aircraft handling is fun. The strategy to some missions are demanding enough and the saving 
 civilians by helicopter is just great.
  
  And I was surprised that alot of time was spent making the game music sound engaging and soundtrack-like.. 
 very nice.
  
  It's a good choice for any fan of side-scrolling shot-em ups.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
