-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Godzilla Unleashed: Double Smash
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/godzillaunleashed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Occasionally looks very nice.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mothra's butt breaks buildings, gameplay.
 Godzilla is a wuss.
 Takes a couple of hours to beat.
 Definitely one of the worst DS games ever made.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 2.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 2.9, 106 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Santa Cruz Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The King of Monsters stars in the worst of DS games. 

  Do you ever wonder what it must be like to be the guy who plays Godzilla in all those movies? By 
 day, he's Godzilla; by night, he's Todd. He gets paid to act like a monster, but he's only too 
 aware of his actual limitations, just as he knows that King Ghidorah isn't really a giant, alien 
 space dragon; King Ghidorah is really Bill, and his wife is leaving him. Now you too can share 
 in Todd's feelings of disillusionment and despair with Atari's new Godzilla Unleashed: Double Smash, 
 a game that ostensibly lets you burn cities, crush armies, and defeat monsters as Godzilla, but 
 actually serves to remind you that you're just a normal guy or gal playing a bad video game.  

 
  The story is incomprehensible. A crystal meteor hits earth and causes all sorts of damage, so 
 you have to take control of two monsters and kill the army, other monsters, and eventually Space 
 Godzilla, who is behind it all. As the game begins, you pick two monsters from a group of several, 
 and then begin the side-scrolling shenanigans. Your first impression will probably be that Godzilla 
 Unleashed looks and plays just like a free Internet flash game. Your first impression will be spot-on. 

  You'll presumably begin as Godzilla and quickly discover that you can kick, punch, breath attack, 
 and jump. As you learn this, planes will fly toward you shooting what appear to be basketballs. 
 After a level or two, bombers will appear on the top screen and drop bomb after bomb on you. So 
 between the storm of basketballs, bombs, tanks, and kamikaze pilots, Godzilla basically gets blasted 
 from all sides constantly, and unlike in the movies, this stuff actually hurts him. Also unlike 
 in the movies, blocking or ducking is not an option here.          Why are Mothra and Gigan teaming 
 up? We have no idea.      

  When Godzilla is nearly dead, you'll hit a shoulder button. This will cause Godzilla to exit screen 
 left, and Mothra, or some other flying monster, will enter the top screen. Given that only one 
 enemy in every 10 can actually shoot upward, Mothra can fly through a level relatively unmolested 
 as long as she sticks to the top. However, if you charge up Mothra's breath attack, she rears up 
 and removes every part of herself from the screen except for the very tip of her abdomen. If you 
 do this in the left corner of the screen, even the enemies that shoot upward will not be able to 
 hit you. Nothing can stop Mothra's flying bum.  

  There are two instances that you cannot simply butt-glide through: crystal structures and boss 
 fights. When you encounter a big crystal, your monster flies up to it and a prompt tells you to 
 "Use your combos!" Then another prompt says something like "Y, Y, B" or "B, B, Y." You press the 
 buttons, the crystal breaks, and if you tear it down fast enough you get a bonus, such as 20 seconds 
 of invincibility. There's no challenge here, and the rewards are pointless because flying monsters 
 are invincible anyway.  

  The boss fights are better because you actually have to attack them to win, and they fight back. 
 Every boss has four or five attacks that hit different areas on the screen. Each of these attacks 
 will hit Godzilla multiple times, whereas Mothra can easily avoid them all. It's also worth noting 
 that by discharging a half-dozen breath attacks during the course of the preceding level, you can 
 build up a super attack for each of your two monsters that can't be avoided and deals heavy damage. 
 Naturally, you burn both of these, at which point your opponent is half dead. Then you simply finish 
 the job with Mothra. This strategy takes about an hour to learn in the course of playing, and with 
 it you can defeat any boss in a minute without any risk of death -- even Space Godzilla, and he's 
 behind it all. Curse you, Space Godzilla!  

           This game is much worse than it looks      

  We don't know if he's behind the graphics, 
 too, though they're actually quite nice. The art style is crisp, consistent, and hip (like a flash 
 game) , and as you hover over Tokyo in the form of Mothra's keister, you'll notice three things: 
 the pretty background moving by, the planes and tanks moving in the opposite direction, and snowfall 
 or ash (depending on the level) falling from above. The effect is entrancing and serene, like a 
 lava lamp. But the music is inconsistent. The monster island level features a very catchy tune, 
 but an earlier level is played to what can only be described as a mash-up of an alarm clock and 
 someone banging on a screen door. It's so painful to listen to, it could bring down a flying saucer. 

  After you beat the game, which takes an hour or two, you'll unlock some new monsters. Consequently, 
 we grabbed Destroyah and Megalon, and played through again. This time the story, levels, and bosses 
 were all different. Unfortunately, given that Destroyah has such a huge butt, our top-left strategy 
 wouldn't work anymore. However, in consideration of the beast's tiny head, we moved him to the 
 bottom left corner, where he became mostly untouchable. You'll also find that this game is playable 
 with two players, although this doesn't actually improve it. It's quite the opposite; the fewer 
 people playing this, the better.  

  And that's Godzilla Unleashed: Double Smash: a terrible side-scrolling game for the Nintendo DS 
 that should be free on the Internet. With a perfect storm of terrible game design, bad play mechanics, 
 and uninspired destruction, this game does what oxidation bombs, volcanoes, and Matthew Broderick 
 couldn't: It kills Godzilla.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  You probably heard it all before, but I'm here to say that one more time - this game is awful.
 
  
  If you want to play a better Godzilla game - try the normal version of it on Wii, or at least on 
 PS2.
  
  If you want a good handheld Godzilla game - try Godzilla Domination! on GBA, it's not much better, 
 but still better.
  
  Or, for God's sake, try the game simply called Godzilla for the original Game Boy (not Godzilla: 
 The Series for GBC!) . It's a puzzle game where you move boulders in order to reach the exit of 
 the level, and after finishing all 64 levels you'll find Godzilla's son, Minilla, whom you were 
 trying to rescue from the beginning. This game is much more entertaining than the piece of crap 
 that Godzilla Unleashed: Double Smash is.
  
  I don't want to go deep into details, but basically everything is wrong with this game.
  
  
 The graphics are yucky. They're somehow cell-shaded, yet the models look really, really bad. Godzilla's 
 pawns, for example, are bigger than his head.
  
  The music is really boring by itself, and it loops every 20-30 seconds, which makes it almost unbearable 
 to listen to.
  
  The gameplay is repetitive like hell. The visual appearance of the enemies you encounter may change 
 from location to location, but they still follow the same waypoints and they still fire the same 
 lasers and rockets at you. The stages are the same in terms of playing, they just look sorta different, 
 and they're really long, because you have to encounter not one, but two bosses per location. And 
 there's lots of moving to the right in between.
  
  The movements of characters are so bad that they're not even funny. Imagine Godzilla hanging in 
 the air and spinning its tail over and over. That's the least stupidest thing about the movements.
 
  
  This game can't be called a sidescroller action. Also, it's not a beat 'em up. It's some boring 
 2D arcade rail shooter (puncher?) with bad design and music. Because you don't move to the right 
 by yourself, the stage moves you. Sometimes it's not even necessary to touch the d-pad. If you 
 want a normal Godzilla sidescroller - try the old title for NES called Godzilla: Monster of Monsters.
 
  
  Boss fights are almost every time the same, and it doesn't matter whom you're fighting. They seem 
 to use the same attacks all over again, like they share the same techniques with each other. Some 
 bosses are twice as big as you, which is really unnatural and, if you wish, non-canon.
  
  On the bottom line, this game is neither movie-to-game bad, nor game-to-movie bad, if you know 
 what I mean. This game is bad by itself, and I strongly advise you not to play in it, ever. It's 
 a complete waste of time, and if you're a Godzilla fan - it'll also be a heartbreaking experience 
 for you. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riariases
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  When I spotted this game at a local game store I was quite suprised. It was selling for $30 used 
 and was still a horrible game. The graphics would get an 0.5, especially because not many side-quest 
 games catch my eye in a good way. Another thing is this game is just not fun. I don't see myself 
 enjoying my leisure time on this game... at all. I was mad when I bought this game and returned 
 it in half and hours time. I didnt think it would end up like this... unfortunately it did. I thought 
 the idea of being the infamous Godzilla, roaming a city, destroying all would be quite fun. But 
 its not all its cracked up to be. It would be great if it were a GrandTheft Auto kind of scenario 
 where you are mostly the "Harbinger of Doom". If it were more 3-D or maybe a first person game, 
 it may have been worth my while. Sorry but you let us all down Godzilla. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirDart
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  My friend knew I'm a huge Godzilla fan, and bought me this game for Christmas. I popped the game 
 in and then was assaulted by some of the worst art, graphics, gameplay, and sound I've ever heard 
 on the system.
  
  Where to begin with this giant disappointment? 
  
  Well for one thing the music gets so repetitive it isn't even funny. At first you think "Hey, this 
 is some decent techno." But as it goes along, it becomes pretty annoying. 
  
  The sound effects I really can't complain with. Just your basic beat 'em up sounds of punching, 
 roaring, and the like. However one thing that I thought was kind of nifty is that they added Godzilla's 
 classic roar sound to this game. But that's all the niftiness I could find of the three levels 
 I stomached. 
  
  My next issue is the boss fights. They're repetitive as heck, and the boss patterns can be figured 
 out so fast that it's just plain stupid. Except with the boss that drove me to almost snap my cartridge 
 in half, Jet Jaguar. Jet Jaguar was one of my favorite characters in the Godzilla universe, but 
 here they just screwed him up BAD. Well for one thing, his pattern can barely be avoided, as Mothra 
 or Godzilla, or whoever you choose to use, unless you're crunched up in the corner and even then 
 you can't even hurt him without using a beam, which needs charging, and he attacks so fast that 
 you could probably barely charge it at all before he hits you and takes the entire thing away. 
 
  
  But enough of my angry ranting on Jet Jaguar. Now, this game is a sidescrolling beat or shoot-'em-up. 
 Depending on what screen you play on.
  Yes, you can play as two different characters, much like in the original NES version, except there 
 are several characters you can unlock in this one, such as Destroyah and several others. On the 
 top screen you have your flying character, such as Mothra. On the bottom screen your walking man, 
 Godzilla for example. If you ever play this terrible game, I recommend you play as Mothra or any 
 of the top screen characters and simply mash the X button. 
  
  Another thing that really bothers me is the level length and how repetitive and boring they get.
 
  Basically each level is the exact same thing, with, at every midpoint, a building for you to press 
 three buttons several times at. Why press three buttons several times? Because you are forced, 
 yes, forced, it isn't optional or anything like that, to destroy a building by pressing those three 
 buttons several times. 
  
  In conclusion, you can do a lot worse than Godzilla DS, but I recommend you do yourself a giant 
 favor and simply avoid this game. Pick up a good DS game like Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin for 
 example. 
  
  Thanks for reading, and take care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-Fett
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Now I'm a big godzilla fan, but this game just hurt my brain. The moment I started playing the 
 first level I was like "Holy hell this freaking sucks I want my $30 back, what the hell this should 
 be in the bargain bin at $5" 
  
  The Graphics arent too bad for a ds game, but the side scrolling is absolute crap I dont understand 
 why your health goes down if you kill somthing? maybe mine was just glitching but the health bar 
 clearly went down every time I blew somthing up with the fire breath. Theres not enough monsters. 
 Godzilla seems too weak. What the hell is this teaming up thing? destroying some crystal by having 
 to do some dumb combo attacks that dont work Y-B-Y B-Y-B? This game is terrible.
  
  
  Coming from a huge godzilla fan saying this sucks you better beleive it. Dont waste $30 on it, 
 definitly not worth it, maybe $15 thats even pushing it a little. Dont even waste your money to 
 rent it. My review for the DS version does not reflect my opinions of the wii version. The wii 
 version it kick @$$. Save your money Buy Orcs & Elves a good, non-expensive game well worth your 
 money spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vbartilucci
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  This game is incomprehensible in every way. Its game play is tiresome and unpleasant, the graphics 
 make cel-shaded animation seem like Pixar-quality 3-D and the plot is nonexistent. As you (for 
 lack of a better word) play this game you keep thinking you must be doing something wrong. There 
 must ba a way to block or dodge these energy balls, or a way to, in short, fight back. But no. 
 You walk along and get hit by these things and you die and then Mothra comes in and apparently 
 the Japanes army, like dogs, cannot look up so you sail through unassailed. They you have to fight 
 a crystal by playing a bad Follow the button combo game that doesn't actually tell you if you've 
 succeeded or not, and then the crystal goes away, and oh boy you get to play again.
  
  Calamitously bad. Each time they announce a Godzilla game I hope this one will be good, and every 
 time I am served a crap sandwich and told I will eat it and like it.
  
  A pro wrestling engine game, but with Godzilla. Is that really that hard to figure out? Basically, 
 I want Kaiju Big Battel.
  
  O well, better luck next time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
