-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: GoldenEye: Rogue Agent
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/goldeneye/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Almost as good as the console version.
 Single-card multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 None of the control options work all that well.
 Dull gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 17, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 5.7, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 936 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Jun 13, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it's sort of impressive on some level that the DS can deliver an experience similar to the 
 console version, the experience it's based on wasn't any fun to begin with. 

  GoldenEye: Rogue Agent for the Nintendo DS packs a very similar experience to the console game 
 of the same name, which was released last year. The level design is basically the same; the same 
 sort of tactics still work; and the story still follows the same path. That would be great... if 
 the original game was any good. While it's sort of impressive on some level that the DS can deliver 
 a similar experience, the experience it's based on wasn't any fun to begin with.  

          This rogue agent isn't worth chasing down.     

  In Rogue Agent, you play as a former 
 associate of James Bond who loses an eye. Then you go bad and sign up with Auric Goldfinger. But 
 you won't be getting revenge on the good guys. Instead, you'll get caught up in a rumble between 
 Goldfings and Dr. Julius No, who just so happens to be the guy responsible for your eye loss. Goldfinger 
 springs for a new bionic eye (which happens to be golden) that gives you a few basic abilities, 
 and then you set off into a pretty standard first-person shooter, complete with dual wielding, 
 a variety of different weapons, and the occasional grenade toss. To sell the whole "bad guy" nature 
 of Rogue Agent, you can also take hostages and use them as human shields. However, this just slows 
 you down. Considering that all your health will recharge if you back off for a few seconds, avoiding 
 damage isn't really that much of a concern.  

  Your eye powers are the game's lone twist, and they add a little variety. For example, your first 
 power gives you the ability to see through walls. You'll also occasionally find a mag rifle, which 
 is basically a railgun that can fire through walls. When you put these two aspects together, you're 
 blasting enemies that can't even see you, which is handy.  

  While the game's fairly dull level design certainly doesn't help matters, it's the control options 
 that will initially impede your progress. The game expects you to use the thumb strap, it seems, 
 because you'll have to steer with the touch screen while still having access to both shoulder buttons, 
 since you'll need both to fire your weapons. Try finding a comfortable way to do that with a stylus. 
 Given up yet? Then you're probably just better off switching to a control mode that doesn't rely 
 on the touch screen for anything other than picking up weapons and reloading them, because your 
 only other option is an awkward layout that lets you select which weapon fires from the shoulder 
 button by tapping on the touch screen. In the game's lone functional control mode, the left D pad 
 moves and strafes, and the four buttons on the right side are used as a second D pad of sorts, 
 letting you look around and turn. This control scheme isn't exactly optimal, either, but we found 
 it to be the easiest one to use. In all cases, you'll have to turn on your eye powers by tapping 
 entirely-too-tiny icons on the touch screen.  

  As you play, you'll unlock different things, including some additional training-style levels. But 
 even with the unlockable stuff, there's not too much here to see. If you're dedicated to getting 
 through it, you'll finish Rogue Agent in an afternoon. The game also has a handful of multiplayer 
 modes that up to four players can participate in. You'll find standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, 
 as well as tug-of-war and domination. Unfortunately, most of the characters and maps are locked 
 until you play the single-player campaign. So anyone looking to dive right into deathmatch may 
 find that to be an additional hassle. It's nice, though, that the game supports multiplayer with 
 only one copy of the game, as well as lets you play skirmish matches against bots (though the artificial 
 intelligence-controlled enemies are awfully stupid) . Unfortunately, none of the multiplayer action 
 is very good, either, so the whole mode's usefulness is limited.  

          It looks and sounds good, but Rogue Agent can't back that up with solid or interesting 
 gameplay.     

  At least the game looks good. The frame rate is smooth, and the textures are just fine for a Nintendo 
 DS game. The sound also does a good job, with a collection of upbeat MIDI tunes that seems like 
 it would fit perfectly in the Super Nintendo era, in addition to a collection of appropriate gunfire 
 and explosions.  

  GoldenEye: Rogue Agent may be the debut first-person shooter for the Nintendo DS, but its generally 
 uninspired levels and weak control make it tough to recommend to shooter fans. If you're absolutely 
 dying to play a shooter on the DS, and Metroid isn't coming out fast enough to satiate you, you 
 might want to pick this up. But for the most part, you're better off waiting for something else 
 to come along.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (98 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zvan92
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  just like any other goldeneye shooter, this game lacks the punch and surprise that most other FPS 
 game single-player campaigns have. the AI is terribly predictable, the visuals are disappointing, 
 and the storyline is very mainstream and lame.
  
  the only cool thing about this game was that you can unlock powerups, like shields, some kind of 
 super vision (that lets you see people through walls) , etc., and the dual-wield weapon system. 
 the multiplayer is nothing special... if its not wifi play, you obviously know what its going to 
 be. a simple head to head with a few other DS players, with the choice of only 1 or multiple DS 
 game cards. there are about 4 or 5 maps to choose from, from what i remember...
  
  i sold it a long time ago, who knows. i had fun playing this game with a friend for a while, but 
 he didnt have the game card, so we did single-card play. the weapons are laid out all over the 
 maps and its just one on one, like every other goldeneye shooter.
  
  unless youre a die-hard fan, dont even bother with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You spend all the time walking around, shooting your enemys as you here them say "ow, ow, ow, ow, AGHH!" 
 untill they fall over. They have no reaction. They just say ow. The wepon choice is nice, with 
 a singl and multi player skrimish (timed deathmatch) , but no online play. You WILL get tired of 
 hearing ow and fake sounding gunshots.
  
  Grapics: The graphics are better then metroid. But thats bacicly the only good thing. That's the 
 only reason that I gave it a 2.0. I
  
  Replay value: None. Thats it. Zip, zero. There is probably a 99.99999999999999% chance that you will 
 want to replay this game.
  
  Conclusion: Avoid this game as much as you avoid King Kong. (Read the reveiw if you want to know 
 more.) If you really want a modern FPS though, you should try Call Of Duty 4. Read the review if 
 your interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teeeooop43
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  First off what's up with the rogue agent thing they fired him so since he is no longer apart of 
 the agency how does that mean he is a rouge he would be if he left willingly and started taking 
 on his own missions I suppose. Now that's done with, the game play just gets boring after a while 
 because it gets so repetitive it's not even funny unless your the one watching someone play this 
 not the one who is. There really is nothing that breaks up the repetive play. The graphic design 
 is lackluster, basically every level you're looking at another bland environment. The sound is 
 ok, the only thing that might give this gave any replay value is the multiplayer which if you are 
 looking for a fun multiplayer shooter for the ds I would suggest metroid prime hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edpeterson
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks, period. There is not a lot of replay value, you can't select what couse you can 
 play. This game is also hard and very annoying. Also the Controls suck. The story is very messed 
 up, without any good cut-scenes I was lost, so what was the story about?
  
  the only good thing about this game is the multiplayer and the different guns you get
  
  sorry 
 for such a short review but if I don't have a lot of good stuff to say I don't say much.
  
  Good
  + many weapons
  + Multiplayer is awsome
  
  Bad
  - graphics
  - sound (nobody talks 
 at all, you have to read)
  - short and stupid (I couldn't even tell what the story was about)
  - controls really sucked
 
  - not much replay value
  - hard and very annoying
  - I think it's fair to say this game's crap
  
  Bottom line: Don't Get this game (unless you 
 only play if for the multiplayer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhao_guang
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is very underrated game. For the debut of a FPS on the DS, they did pretty good. The 
 story mode is good, though a little short and and the narrative is poison. It can be very easy 
 or very hard depending on what difficulty you choose, so don't expect to master it quickly and zoom 
 through the high difficulties. ( I thought I could but I could barely beat normal let alone the 
 other impossible difficulties.) They could've used a few more hidden secrets in the levels. The 
 enemies look pretty good but there are only 7 or 8. It's kind of tedious to fight the same enemies 
 over and over. The music and the sound is pure torture, worse than an NES game in my opinion. The 
 Goldeneye powers are few but useful, though that last one is pretty cheap. The virtual training 
 is pretty fun too, though the AI are dumb as a doornail. They did a great job of re-creating former 
 Bond areas. The virtual training will keep you busy for a short time. The single-card multi-player 
 is awful but the multi-card games are amazing. Multi-card multi-player one of the best Bond multi-players 
 I've ever played, behind Nightfire and Goldeneye 64. All in all, Goldeneye Rogue Agent is a fair 
 game. It's fairly short and they definitely could have tweaked it up a bit. However, I recommend 
 for the DS. It's underrated but I can see why people are sad with it. Nonetheless, it's still a 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Now I did not really enjoy the console version of this game that much, but I felt like I had to 
 buy this game with my DS because I don't think that I could live with just the Metroid demo for 
 my FPS likings. Well, anyways this is a much more solid game in my opinion than the console version 
 was in my opinion, even though not all the levels are here. That was one thing that I did not like 
 since the new Splinter Cell DS game has all the levels from the console version. In this version 
 of the game I also found more ways to use the Goldeneye technology, so I no longer think that it 
 is stupid. The graphics are very nice and unlike some handhled FPS there are more than one enemy 
 model. The framerate also runs quite smoothly. THen there are the controls. The controls will take 
 you a while to figure out, but once you find your calling, then you will start to get used to the 
 rapid, drop your stylist and fire ruitine. This game is very tense and the cutscenes look nice. 
 I also liked how they used the touch screen to hack doors in a simon type of game. Then there is 
 the dual wielding, and that is awsome. It took me a while to figure this out, but as far as I know 
 this is the first handheld FPS to have duel wielding, and this game should have gotway more publicity 
 for that. The game is a little on the short side with only six missions, but the levels are long 
 and very hard. So even though it is short beating it will leave you with a sense of accomplishment. 
 To quote Game Informer Issue 148 Goldeneye Rouge Agent Reveiew for the DS: In short, Goldeneye 
 demostrates that FPS games can be done on the DS, but the real question is if they should. I completely 
 disagree with that statment. In my opinion this game means that now FPS can run with a good frame-rate 
 on a handheld and they should be done more. This game is way more than people say that it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The FPS genre is one of the most ignored genres on the DS. But if you've played the hell out of 
 Metroid Prime Hunters, GERA is another good game to get your FPS fix on the DS. In case you've 
 never played the console version, Rouge Agent puts you in the shoes of Goldeneye, an MI6 agent 
 who has been banished from the agency to due reckless brutality. The first mission lets you work 
 for MI6, but after your expeled, you join Goldfinger who is involved in a gangwar with Dr. No. 
 You spend the game blasting No's goons to pieces, destroying stuff, and, uuhh, that's about it. 
 While that might sound boring, the game is still pretty fun. Most of the levels involve getting 
 to the end of the level, and occasionally blowing something up, or killing a certain dude. The 
 levels take place in a variety of locations such as - Goldfinger's hideout in the Swiss Alps, a 
 Las Vegas hotel, and the rooftops of Hong Kong skyscapers. The music is simple techno music, that 
 has an old-school vibe to it, making it enjoyable in terms. GERA has a variety of weapons including 
 pistols, machine guns, shotguns, sniper rifles, grenades, ect. But there are a few unique weapons 
 such as a venom injector which stuns thugs, as well as the Mk. 2 detonater, a pistol that shoots 
 bullets which can be detonated, and creates a big explosion. The downside of all these weapons 
 is that there's only one kind of each weapon. One pistol (not counting your default handgun) , one 
 smg, one shotgun, and so on. GERA is a fairly short game, you can beat it on easy in about an hour 
 and a half. The game's hard mode is quite challenging, and if you do beat it, you unlock a mode 
 where if you die, you have to restart the entire mission over again. There are quite a few multiplayer 
 options for Rouge Agent, you can go up to 8 players over download play, but you can only play one 
 character, and there's only one map. You can also do four player over multi card play, featuring 
 more characters, maps, weapons, and settings. You can also play deathmatch by yourself against 
 bots, the best part is that you can pick what weapons you start with. So you can start with a mini-gun 
 or rocket-launcher, while the guards only have pistols. Overall, Goldeneye Rouge Agent is a good 
 shooter for anyone who's sick of Hunters, and is just looking for a simple, yet fun time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarPAaron
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because i love shooter games, and based on the other games in the series and the 
 gamecube version, i thought it would be awesome. I was slightly dissapointed, but at the same time, 
 i liked it. It has pretty decent graphics for a handheld, and i like that u can dual wield guns. 
 The bad part is that the leveels are very long, with very few checkpoints. Theres terrible AI , 
 so they just throw more people at u and hope you get shot by enough stray bullets to die. IT will 
 be interesting for a while, but then ill stop playing it for like, a month, then i'll play it again 
 for a couple of days. It really depends on how muchs you like filling bald guys with lead. IT you 
 love killing evil henchmen, hits game could be for you. If not, don't get your hopes up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game shouldn't have had the Goldeneye name on it. It just lacked any soul and the AI was just 
 abysmal. I gave it the full run through and have virtually nothing good to say about it.
  It didn't help that the gameplay was so bland. Grenades did their job, but the poor AI made the 
 game so repetitive if you had any sense of aiming at all it was basically a run through and warm 
 up FPS for the DS. I couldn't stand to play anymore than a couple multiplayer games because there's 
 a strong sense of auto-aim when I can aim past someone and still manage to hit them. So the damage 
 modeling was pretty loose around the enemy body.
  As for the art style and graphics, it was very boxy and basic. Kind of made me wonder if the game 
 was brewed up in a basement by 1 Tiburon dev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexSempf3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is WAY too under-appreciated, because when you beat the game, there is an even 
 harder mode to the game, which boot up the fun a TON!!! It isnt GREAT, but the game lives up to 
 my expectations... Sound and Graphics: they are good but not GREAT, but what more could you expect 
 from a DS?
  
  Controls: A little cocky at first, but a player could get used to them.
  
  Gameplay: Single player, 3/5 but MULTIPLAYER: 4.8/5
  im saying that the multiplayer is better 
 than the singleplayer, but im not saying that the singleplayer is just plain crap... its just that 
 the multiplayer is fun, playing against your buddies...
  
  Value: the value of this game is GREAT! I mean that this game is very very fun... its hard to explain!
 
  
  Bottom line: high replay value makes this game great but It could be improved (with wi-fi or simliar) . 
 But if you just want to buy it for the singleplayer, better off renting it... but if you gots some 
 buddies or if you to to a plaza or something... this game can live on forever...
  
  Final Score: 4.78/5
  
  Just Plain Fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Rogue Agent for the DS is just very mediocre, and it also says something: First person shooters 
 similar to this game are just not meant for a handheld system like the DS. The DS is good for other 
 types of games, bu t definitely not first-person shooters. This game is just disasterous on the 
 DS. It's not worth you money. Here's a quick summary of the game:
  
  The Good: Some cool, unique touchscreen controls
  
  The Bad: Grainy graphics, bad sound affects, 
 using touchscreen controls is sometimes a pain, awkward, tedious controls
  
  This game is not worth getting. I have a bad feeling that you will be disappointed. It's just a 
 waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntfx
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Well after recently watching casino royale, my love of old bond movies became rekindled for a short 
 while, thus explains my purchase of this portable ds game Goldeneye: Rogue Agent. As I loved the 
 idea of a portable bond game, aswell as having a great love for the other nintendo goldeneye release.
 
  
  I figured this game would be of the same exceptional high quality. While it does have potential, 
 the horrible control scheme, and enemy behaviour, spoils the adventure for what it could be.
  
  I forgot to mention the sound, My god, that has to be the most awful in game music one could 
 ever imagine. The worst kind of ancient midi releases ever to guide you through each level, which 
 combined with the control scheme, you will be crying for your money back and losing your hair at 
 the same time...
  
  Definitely check out metroid prime, an example of what DS First Person Shooters should be, before 
 you consider this product...
  
  This release definitely feels like it was rushed out in time for the other console releases. With 
 a little polish, this product could shine, but unfortunately, it looks like someone ran out of 
 cleaner.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HAC-Oscuro
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Ok, so the clunky story, clunky controls, clunky characters and clunky design of the single-player 
 game have just about clunked you out. You're sick of playing Honk Kong over and over again because 
 of that badly scripted bit with the helicopters. What now? Hey, someone on my bus has a DS. Wait 
 a minute... what's this? Single pack link? well, let's give it a try. You'll soon find that: you 
 + DS + Goldeneye single pack link + a friend + DS = Rocket Launcher-related FUN!!
  
  This is because although the campaign struggles to get off the ground, the multiplayer is a whole 
 different animal. Although it still suffers from some framerate issues, the control system is well-implemented, 
 the weapons are well-placed, and sniping your friends up from your lofty perch is well-fun.
  
  In short, don't get this game if you're a sociophobe or live below the Antarctic cirlce, because 
 you simply won't be satisfied with the campaign. I wasn't, and I'm relatively easy to please. If, 
 however, you have some friends who don't mind you pwning them through a wall with the Mag-Rail 
 every five minutes, you've got yourself a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave7500
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  golden eye rouge agent is a 1st person shooter game from EA and it was also previously made for 
 the console version (xbox, ps2) and now they are transfering it to a not so powerful hardware the 
 nintendo ds. But supprising the game turns out to be quite a good shooter for the ds but is not 
 perfect.
  as you know the ds do not have a tumbstick unlike the psp or other controller and that makes the 
 controling difficult to handle as using the d-pad need quite a few training 1st. and beside that 
 even you master the control well you will still have some problem controlling sometimes. beside 
 the bad control the single player campagn turns out to be kind of short and you will complete it 
 less then 2 hour. beside the single player there is also a single card play and a multi card play 
 but it turns out to be less fun. as you will easily grow tired of the game after completing the 
 single player but overall the graphics is good and there are also a range of weapon to get. if 
 you love 1st person shooter game i recommend you to get metroid rather then this. but if you really 
 want to try it then i recommend you to rent it 1st before spending your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebi_Furya
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I played Rogue Agent first on the PS2 and it was a lot of fun... difficult but fun to play. Then, 
 when I saw it was out on the Nintendo DS as well, I thought it would be much the same, only with 
 the stylus for control in place of the Analog Stick. Plus, we needed a new multiplayer game for 
 lunch at work :) .
  
  Graphicly, the game is very good considering it's on the DS. It looks as if they are pushing the 
 3D Graphics to the limits of the DS. Everything is smooth when walking around and you can see the 
 little details. There are several parts within the game that the enemies appear out of thin air 
 and you lose track of where you are and where you're going briefly. You do get used to it.
  
  The sound isn't all that great. When in the heat of battle, you don't seem to notice it, but 
 other times, it just does not seem all that great.
  
  I think the biggest drawback of this game is the controls. There are options for different people 
 and their styles, but the default uses the plus-pad to move / strafe and the touchscreen to turn 
 / aim. This is fine except that you're right handed which means you need to use the R Button to 
 fire your weapon... so, you're left hand is on the L Button (for your left hand weapon) and the 
 Plus-pad to walk, and your Right hand is on the R Button to fire your main weapon... that leaves 
 nothing to use the stylus and aim with... I did finally get it down where I could hold the stylus 
 with my thumb and index finger and use my pinky to fire the trigger, but it took a while to get 
 used to it and my hand kept cramping up from the awkward position.
  
  I can't really give a full opinion on the multi-player part of the game. We only had one game cartridge 
 to use which meant we were very limited to what we could do. It was basically a deathmatch on the 
 same level with the same characters and no options at all. The level we were on (I don't remember 
 the name of it) had red walls, red floor, and a red ceiling. After spending a few 5 minute rounds 
 in the level, it started to get a little hard to concentrate.
  
  The bottom line, if you want an OK First Person Shooter, it's not a bad game. The single player 
 campaign is challenging and fun to play. However, if you have the option of getting this game on 
 an actual console, go with that instead. You'll get more levels, better graphics and better control 
 that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homsar13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  1. Story
  GoldenEye: RA starts you off as Goldeneye, you just failed your M-16 test and still need a job. 
 Goldfinger then gives you a job offer as his errand boy. You then go against the world, killing 
 anyone in your way. Until then, Goldfinger sees you as a threat and then goes against you. So basically, 
 you're against everyone in the world. Although it has nothing to do with Goldeneye 007, it's still 
 a great game.
  
  2. Gameplay I. Single-Player
  Great action, but really short. Only 6 missions availible for campaign, but virtual trainer extends 
 it only slightly. Completing virtual trainer missions then grants you PSI Powers for your goldeneye 
 that you can use at your advantage. II. Multiplayer
  One of the best games to make use for single-card multiplayer. Up to 8 players can go all out on 
 each other in fast and frantic FPS action. There's also a multi-card option but for some reason, 
 it only goes up to 4 players.
  Have friends and need a great single-card game? Goldeneye is that game.
  
  3. Controls I. Right 
 and Left
  This control sceme uses the DPad and the ABXY buttons to look or move.
  Right uses the DPad to move and the ABXY buttons to look around. R to shoot your right weapon, 
 and L to shoot your left.
  Left uses the ABXY buttons to move and the DPad to look around. R to shoot your right weapon, and 
 L to shoot your left. II. Stylus
  The more precise control sceme. Use the stylus to aim and make precise shots to your enemies via 
 touch screen. To move, you either use the DPad or the ABXY buttons, depending whether you're left 
 or right handed. To use grenades, you have to tap the grenade icon on the touch screen instead 
 of L. Dual-wielding is a little harder now. A little arrow at the bottom of the touch screen either 
 points to the left, right, or both. When it points to the left, L will shoot the gun in your left 
 hand. When pointing to the right, it shoots the gun in the right hand. When it points both ways, 
 you fire both guns. III. Thumb
  Use the included Nintendo DS Thumb Strap to aim. DPad or ABXY to move.
  The least recommended 
 control scheme.
  
  4. Sound
  Techno/Jazz music plays throughout the action. Music is mediocre at best.
  Sound effects are 
 good at least, explosions, gunfire, great sound effects.
  
  5. Graphics
  Good 3D engine with great frame rate. Guns look detailed enough to make out what they are and look 
 good overall. Character models are detailed and there are more than one enemy model.
  
  6. Replay Value
  You'll want to play through the game multiple times on each difficulty to get 
 all the unlocks. Multiplayer extends the life of the replay value by alot. Espeicially with 8 players.
 
  
  THE VERDICT:
  8.6 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_guy2500
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  I don't get why people hate this game so much, I can't see any problem with it, it isn't much different 
 than any other FPS out there, but mabye that is the games one problem. I'm not saying this game 
 doesn't have flaws, but I am saying it isn't as bad as people say it is.
  
  You hear alot about poor controls in this game, but I acually found them quite good. It is kinda 
 like playing a FPS on PC, but here you are using a pen like thing (stylus) instead of a mouse. 
 The only problem I found was that sometimes the player flicks around a bit. I don't know if that 
 is a problem with my DS, or the game, or if I just don't press hard enough on the screen, but it 
 really can get in the way, but it does happen on very rare occasion, and it doesn't make the game 
 hard to play really.
  
  The campaign mode I found was really entertaining, even though it only has six levels, it has good 
 replay value if you start on easy and work you're way up to hard each time you beat it. The story 
 is not that great, but the levels are fun enough to keep you playing, and you can unlock multiplayer 
 content by beating the levels.
  
  The multiplayer comes in many different forms, there is single player, multi-card, and single-card. 
 The single player is pretty fun, but it is very predictable, because the bots have kind of a set 
 behaviour in every level. Like, they won't come looking for you, ever, they just stand around waiting 
 for you, and once you find them, it isn't too hard to kill them because they still don't have a 
 very complex mind, they just run back and forth shooting at you, not using any strategy. But it 
 can still be pretty fun, but the campaign mode is probably better for single player, considering 
 the bots aren't as stupid there, but they still aren't brilliant or anything.
  
  I haven't really had a chance to try multi-card or single-card, but it seems like it would be good, 
 it is basically just like single player but you battle against actual people rather than bots. 
 In multi-card you need to have people who own the game as well, and it has more options but you 
 can only have four people play at time, but in single-card, you only need one copy of the game. 
 Of course the other people you're playing with need a DS too, but you can have up to eight people 
 playing at once. Though it is pretty unlikely that you know eight people with a DS that want to 
 play Rogue Agent, it is still nice to have the option. However, you can only play one level in 
 single-card. But overall it has pretty good multiplayer modes, with the execption of the artificial 
 idiots (AI) in single player mode.
  
  Graphically the game looks pretty good. It has nice textures and stuff. It is nothing outstanding, 
 but it looks like something you would expect on N64, mabye not as good as perfect dark, okay, definitely 
 not as good as perfect dark, but it still looks good.
  
  So, if you want a good DS FPS, and don't believe those bad reviews, pick up Goldeneye Rogue Agent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorb
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  My neighbor bought this game, because he owns a DS, and he like first person shooters. I've already 
 played the Gamecube version of Goldeneye Rogue Agent (which I think is decent) , and I was expecting 
 the DS port to be almost as good. Boy, was I wrong. First, I need to warn you, if you are considering 
 buying this game, be prepared to turn off your sound. One loud, obnoxious, repetitive theme goes 
 on at the menu screen, and just as annoying songs for different levels. The sound quality isn't 
 even good. All the music and sound effects are buzzy and loud. Now let's get on with the rest.
 
  
  Gameplay: Not bad. Dual-wielding is fun, and the weapons are cool. My only problem is that you 
 move really slow, and you can't jump. Alos, the action button isn't well placed.
  
  Graphics: Think Goldeneye 007 (N64) , but with random pixelated messes. Everywhere.
  
  Sound: 
 See above.
  
  Value: Barely worth the shipping from Ebay. If you want it, find it on Ebay for a penny (I'm sure 
 you will) .
  
  Tilt: Don't bother. Buy Metroid Prime: Hunters instead. It's better in all aspects, except for 
 having actual guns, being a secret agent, and sucking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilikfire
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a FPS that has had a great idea SLAUGHTERED. The controls are sluggish, and you really 
 need to adapt to it. The graphics are actually pretty good, and the sound is dazzling with some 
 sweet techno tunes. Single-player is horrible, you can beat it in one sitting and is extremely 
 easy. The game does offer 'virtual training', which is a few bonus missions that have a few options 
 that you customize yourself. There's no online element, so this game really doesn't last long. 
 There is single-card and multi-card play, and it's pretty good if there's someone who has a DS 
 near you. This shouldn't be your first game, and only get it if it's price is really low, you have 
 someone constantly nearby that you can play multiplayer with, or you just don't care. It would 
 have been really cool to have a James Bond-like FPS for the DS, but this game fails to pack the 
 punch that many people want. Skip this, and get either Metroid Prime: Hunters or wait for the James 
 Bond game scheduled for Jan. '07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielgriswold
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that as a casual gamer, I didn't get past the second level. There was this hallway 
 that some character always sniped me just as I was about to beat the level and I could not for 
 the life of me figure out (with the odd graphics) where that guy was. I really didn't have the 
 kind of time to play the level over 63 times (I played through about 12 times) to figure out where 
 he was. It was awfully early in the game to hit a person with such a challenge. Maybe you'll think 
 I'm not a hardcore gamer (though I can be... with rpg's and sim games) , but I found this to be a 
 little to hard and not compelling enough to keep me going.
  I ended up trading it in and getting Castlevania: Symphony of the Night which has become much more 
 of an investment of my time and I can save almost anywhere which is a plus when you have school 
 schedules and work schedules and little time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inferno636
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I'm talking to you. My friend Bullseye owns this game and I played it and it was quite fun! 
 But he told me that really he changed the controls to make it 10X funner. All you have to do is 
 have the D-pad go foward, back, and strafe. Then take the A, X, Y, and B buttons and change them 
 to your view control. Works perfectly. Keep the same pickup controls and stuff but just instead 
 of the stylist just use your finger really quick. I love multiplayer for this game, also one player 
 is way more fun with my friends alternate controls. This game is a great car trip game to keep 
 you having fun. Just try the alternative and it works fine. I was though let down with the music. 
 Very bad meaty music. I would have given this a better rating if they amped up the sound and used 
 the alternative controls as default. But yes the story is still crap. Otherwise this game is worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperMetaDragon
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Back in Summer '05, I had realized that I only owned a few DS games, so I went to find GoldenEye: 
 Rogue Agent. The game was rare - I ran all over town for two weeks trying to find it. When I had 
 finally got the game, I had realized that it was definitely not worth running around for.
  
  GoldenEye: Rogue Agent is an FPS-shooter released for all systems at its time. The controls 
 itself are broken - you must use the stylus to aim, and not control sticks (since this is the Nintendo 
 DS) , but it is not like Metroid Prime Hunters. This game forces you to spin around repeatdly, and 
 unfortunately, it will scratch your screen, as it did to mine. The graphics and sound are ABSOLUTELY 
 HORRIBLE in this game. All you will hear are random noises when enemies spot you, and the audio 
 sounds like it has been through 10 telephones and into your ears. The graphics are also just downright 
 ugly. Character models are fat, ugly, and inanimate. The environments in the game appear over and 
 over again, and the pixels on your screen are enlarged too much. The storyline is not good, either, 
 but it is not bad (When you get kicked out of MI6 for your ruthless acts in a mission, you are 
 also shot in the eye by Goldfinger,. Instead of chasing down Goldfinger, you and Goldfinger decide 
 to rival Dr. No. There is a surprise ending to the game once you defeat Dr. No, so I won't spoil 
 it.) . If you can manage to get by the horrible storyline, audio, and graphics, the gameplay has 
 to be the best part. There are many weapons to choose from, and you can dual-wield them, too, so 
 there are no limits for that. Unfortunately, once you are done the Campaign, all you are left to 
 do is replay the game to earn extra characters in other modes, and playing fustrating mini-games 
 in which you must complete an objective (which can be difficult) .
  
  Overall, GoldenEye: Rogue Agent, on the DS, is one of those games that you might want to play at 
 your friend's house once, but never again. Don't bother with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money-Mo
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Rogue Agent is a fun game that works well on the DS. Once you move from the default controls to 
 a more stylus centric method the aiming is decent if not perfect and the game becomes much more 
 inuitive. There are issues with long distance shots without a scope due to the size of the touch 
 screen, but I get the feeling that the game is desiged to avoid making it too easy useing that 
 method as there are a significant number of open spaces.
  
  One of the bigger drawbacks of the game is it's length, it is just too short. A reasonably skilled 
 player could get though normal in about 5 hours. The multi-player is lacking, making the short 
 single player mode more unforgivable.
  
  A decent game, just don't pay a premimum for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GENERALPUG
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game as it says... sucks. It hardly tells the story line of whats happening. The sound is 
 horribble (It goes like this bee bee boo bop) the controlls sadly are difficult to memerize. The 
 graphics arent bad but I dont think that the games graphics meet the DS's graphical capabilities. 
 When I first bought this game i thought that it might be the DS's best first person shooter but 
 when I started playing it for about fifteen minutes I was like ughh this game sucks. It was definatley 
 not worth the 30$ for it. So if your thinking about buying this... one simple word... D O N T !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  Being the first FPS game on the DS (Metroid Prime Hunters demo excluded) you'd expect a little 
 more from Rogue Agent. You'd expect something more enjoyable, well designed, and interesting. Unfortunatly, 
 Rogue Agent, while although a very well done port, is still not the great game it was meant to 
 be on the consoles, much less the DS.
  While the controls are simple and easy, the visuals quite nice, and it features some sharp sound, 
 Rogue Agent just lacks in most other facets, making it a repetitive, tedious, and uninspired bore.
 
  
  If you want a quick fix, or are just desperatly in need of an FPS game for your DS, pick it up 
 used for a few bucks.
  The game has the same story as the console version.
  
  Hell, let me put up this disclaimer.
  There is nothing different about this from the console 
 versions. Sure, lower quality visuals, but the sounds are even similair, the levels similair, in 
 fact, you have the same weapons and the same powers. It's all here, executed in the same poor fashion.
 
  
  On to the review again. Rogue Agent casts you as nothing other than a rogue agent. Failure on a 
 mission, and your reckless behavoir had you expelled from the same Agency that 007 happened to 
 work for. At the last moment, you receive an offer from a evil shadowy type. Being the badass evil 
 dude you are, you of course, accept.
  
  While Rogue Agent casts you as the "bad guy" there's nothing different about its playstyle, and 
 it has absolutely no impact on the game whatsoever. The most difference it makes is a few extra 
 abilities, like using an enemy as a meat shield. While your different powers and abilities to abuse 
 enemies are entertaining at first, they're rather useless, and one will find it much more profitable 
 to simply pick up two automatics and fill every baddy with bullets.
  
  Surprisingly, Rogue Agent doesn't even cast you agains the good guy, just against another evil 
 shadowy type. What's the point of this? If you're a bad guy, you should be able to carve up innocents, 
 instead of the sinistar henchman of another delusional madman.
  Despite its lacking story and rather underwhelming extra features. Goldeneye manages to satisfy 
 partially with the ability to duel-wield most weapons, and a smooth control scheme.
  
  While the controls take getting used to, they're very well designed, and once you've gotten the 
 hang of using the stylus for aiming, the game will be a breeze. 
  
  Too much of a breeze actually.
  
  Rogue Agent will take you less than a few hours to complete, 
 and during that whole time, it'll be ridiculously easy. And while Rogue Agent offers multiplayer, 
 it's not much better either. 
  
  Despite its faults, it's worth a purchase of ten dollars or less. But if you're looking for a good 
 FPS on your DS, go play Hunters instead, you'll find a much more satisfying experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BostonMario
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I went to buy Gun on gamecube and i saw this game sitting on the shelf marked down to $8.99, I 
 already have it on gamecube, and despite what reveiws said I myself would give it about a 7.5, 
 so i figured what the hell why not pick it up. When i got in my car i popped it in and started 
 to play. The controls were horrible, having to use the stylus to look around and only the left 
 trigger to shoot, which means you can only fire one weapon at a time. But soon i figured out there 
 were 4 control modes and i soon found 1 that worked extremely well. What surprised me most was 
 that the first two levels were damn near identicle to the Gamecube version, and it had that same 
 feel as the Gamecube verision too. And i thought of something that made me think of writing this 
 reveiw, hoping i could convince at least one person to buy this game. Goldeneye for the DS closely 
 ressembles the Gamecube version. BUT the its on the DS, which is about as powerful as a NIntendo 
 64. Now if it was 5 years ago when I had an N64, and i was offered a 10 dollar shooter that was 
 made with the same quallity as next gen systems, of course i would get it.
  Dont be cheap, its a great game and its 9 bucks. go get it before the stores run out because a 
 bunch of game magazines wouldnt give it a chance where the console version was somewhat of a dissapointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouthPark_Fan13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  ok so the graphics aren't the best, but they're still ok. the multiplayer in this is awsome, but 
 unless you have 4 or more people then mutli card sucks! this is a great shooter and i don't see 
 why everyone hates it. the stylus control is so bad and the game plays the same music throughout 
 the whole game so you may want to turn the volume all the way down. but if you look past that the 
 game isn't so bad. i ecspecially love the single card because when you have a couple of guys w/ 
 you then whip it out and start playing. my friends and i love the single card in golden eye better 
 than the metroid single card multiplayer. well if you want a good shooter to pass the time then 
 i would go pick up golden eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 24, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Rogue Agent is a fun game that works well on the DS. Once you move from the default controls to 
 a more stylus centric method the aiming is decent if not perfect and the game becomes much more 
 inuitive. There are issues with long distance shots without a scope due to the size of the touch 
 screen, but I get the feeling that the game is desiged to avoid making it too easy useing that 
 method as there are a significant number of open spaces.
  
  One of the bigger drawbacks of the game is it's length, it is just too short. A reasonably skilled 
 player could get though normal in about 5 hours. The multi-player is lacking, making the short 
 single player mode more unforgivable.
  
  A decent game, just don't pay a premimum for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyGuy1
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 11, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  lets get one thing straight. The first goldeneye game for the n64 was really good! Then Goldeneye 
 rogue agent apperaed on the ps2 and didnt do that well, i know cause i have it. Then dis portable 
 version showed up and is the worst of the 3 goldeneye games.
  
  first of all, the controls are really hard to get used to. Having to use the pencil to move around 
 is really difficult and having to use your pencil hand to shoot your gun makes it even worse.
 
  
  graphics = horrible, sound = crap, gameplay = BLECK!!! 
  
  Thats all i have to say. If youre looking for a new fps game for ur ds, stay clear from this one!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Golden Eye was a relatively early entry on the DS and if your hallmark is Metroid Prime, you may 
 be a little disappointed. What it is is a first person shooter that takes advantage of the DS's 
 stylus and touch screen. It's also a plainly linear game with onscreen cues to prevent you even 
 the possibility of going off track. The frame rate is great, especially comared to Slinter Cell 
 -- even when there are a number of enemies on screen, all firing at you while you're running around 
 trying to stay alive and in a room with a dynamic background, things run smoothly.
  
  The story isn't well presented. The rogue-agent premise is a good one, but its execution is forced 
 and the cut scenes that present it often feel too short. 
  
  The Golden Eye is dispayed on the lower screen of the DS and it's upgradable as you progress through 
 the game. There are difficulty levels for the campaign setting that allow you to play at your leisure 
 on easy, running around killing the baddies and trying out every gun you find, or stress yourself 
 out just trying to stay alive on hard. The controls are variable and you can choose not to use 
 the stylus, replacing it's axis with the four buttons of the controller. 
  
  All in all, it's a good game -- not great, mind you, but definitely worth the price of admission. 
 CHeck it out (especially if you see it on sale or used) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  The Mediocrity is killing me. It really is killing me. This game is a pseudo sequel/ remake of 
 goldeneye 007 for N64. The weird thing about this game is that even though it was made years later, 
 it kind of looks like the n64 original and plays like it , actually when i was playing it, I thought 
 it was the n64 version more than a couple of times. This game however is not like the original 
 in alot of the worst ways. For instance, this game has very repetitive missions. The missions are 
 bland and leave you wondering "why the **** am i playing this piece of **** game", at least thats 
 what i thought when i played it. The games Graphics are crap as is the enemy A. I and somehow this 
 game was bad enough to make me hate the 007/james bond universe. The only thing i like about this 
 game is that it is a First person Shooter. This is worth a rental, maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a bare bones example of what the D. S. might be capable of. It's not a failure, but it fails 
 to demonstrate the D. S.'s full potential.
  You play a wanna-be member of the CIA, but you are turned down after your failure to disarm a bomb 
 at Fort Knox in a simulation mission. A criminal named Goldfinger offers you a job, and you take 
 it. You may be impressed by the game's unique style, but keep a few things in mind:
  A) The AI is some of the weakest in years (it practically LETS you kill it in normal and easy modes) .
 
  B) You wont end up using your "eye powers" much, if at all.
  C) Even on hirer difficulties, the game only increases the amount of damage you take and decreases 
 the amount that your opponent takes.
  D) If the console game was a half hearted attempt, then what might make this game better?
  Remember 
 that there are other FPS's for the D. S.; most notably, Metroid Prime: Hunters (which supports Wi-Fi) . 
 Still, a Bond game might give some appeal to diehard fans. And the graphics are okay, sniping is 
 interesting, and it's fun to blow up your opponents in multiplayer. Still, there are better things 
 out there. I'm not impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hangid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Goldeneye: rogue agent is a pretty good game but i'd have to say that goldeneye 64 was better. Other 
 than that fact it's still a good game for many reasons. One of them is the large amount of weapons 
 but goldeneye 64 did have a bigger variety. One of the best features was probably the virtual training. 
 The single player wasn't very strong but the excellent multiplayer makes up for it. The single-card 
 play wasn't as good as the multi-card play because of the lack of features and arenas. One of the 
 biggest problem is the single because it only had 6 levels which made it really short. Goldeneye: Rogue 
 agent is an OK game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phalanx-2k6
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  While I'm a huge fan of FPS, this one really makes an insult to the genre - especially being the 
 first major FPS to hit the Nintendo DS, after the Metroid Prime: Hunters demo which shipped with 
 the DS practically everyone was awaiting the first fully featured FPS, unfortunately, this was 
 the one that happened to come first - after playing it for about 30 minutes, you notice straight 
 away just how rushed this game was.
  
  Lets start with the Gameplay, while this is obviously meant to be a pick-up-and-play run-and-gun 
 shooter, its not all that fun - while there is a wide variety of weapons at your disposal, each 
 with their satisfying sounds. The enemy AI of the game, well... as soon as you are in range - fire, 
 occasionally they'll run behind cover and stare at the wall for a couple of seconds before deciding 
 to shoot you again, other than that - they're just plain stupid. Your health in this game regenerates 
 over time for some awkward reason, just like the shields from Halo - this makes no sense at all 
 and leaves you wondering what sort of Human (if you are even that) you are playing as.
  
  Now for the Graphics... I was expecting this game to look atleast a bit better than the Hunters 
 demo, but instead it actually looked worse - although there were some cool parts where there was 
 a massive draw distance overlooking a mining site, but these big areas you'll only ever encounter 
 at 2 points in the entire game, and require lots of running... While playing Single-Card mode with 
 a couple of friends, we noticed that the arm which held the gun wasn't even attatched to the model, 
 just goes to show how much polish was put into this game... eh?
  
  Sound, this was alright actually - setting aside the horribly annoying alert'ish type sound when 
 your health is low, even though it replenishes slowly... (WTF!?) - the gunshots sound pretty neat 
 for the DS, since you have nothing to compare it to because this is the first FPS, it doesn't seem 
 all that bad - the sounds are accurate and satisfying... The music, gah... sounded like some sort 
 of techno theme, while this really isn't to my taste at least it wasn't all that noticeable since 
 it was pretty quiet, you could tell it repeated alot which added to the annoyance.
  
  The Multiplayer can be fun at times, but very rarely - it just seems like a rush to the rocket 
 launcher, no skill... some weapons are completely unbalanced, naming one, the mk2 detonator - if 
 you know how to use it, then thats an easy bunch of kills until your ammo depletes. Again the AI 
 is downright stupid, the only thing different is that they run for weapons every now and again 
 but apart from that they're just the same as the single player. There aren't all that many maps 
 to play on either, most of them are locked - forcing you to unlock them by playing the poor singleplayer 
 mode or the slapped in challenges.
  
  The Value? if you're desperate enough for another game to slap into your collection, and you absoloutely 
 love FPS - consider looking at the cover of this game, otherwise... unless you get it for free, 
 don't even bother renting it. What a waste of a perfectly good FPS, all down to the publisher which 
 rushes games more than McDonalds does with fastfood, EA games... seems like a missed opportunity, 
 when the DS is fully capable of running Goldeneye 64, makes you wonder... why didn't they just 
 make a port of that with stylus support and WiFi? oh well, heres dreaming... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeyBoy505
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  it is pretty cool that the DS can give us 3-D graphics and all i still think the game was a letdown......... 
 a big letdown when you see the name goldeneye you think i wonderful and exiting time not this piece 
 of crap. But despite its obvious flaws i did have some fun with this piece of crap. there was plenty 
 of button configurations to fit anyones style, the controls were fluid enough and the duel weild 
 system worked fairly well. So if your not the hard core FPS fan, maybe its worth a rental, maybe 
 not. Whatever you choose to do you will still have SOME fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Its your typical fps, if fps was about shooting complete morons lacking the intelligence 
 to shoot, and reload their guns. Controls were pretty good, It used the move direction pad, aim 
 stylus config. which is beautiful, but at the same time you must use L and R buttons. It's hard 
 to hit the R button with sylus in hand (lefty for me so i use the L button) this makes it diffulcult 
 to shoot left hand gun.
  
  Graphics: Great for a handheld, Not much else to be said.
  
  Sound: If you turn the sound all the way down it makes this game so much more enjoyable. Just make 
 your own sound effect to replace the most pathetic gun shot sounds you ever heard. And to replace 
 the garbage they call music, just kind of hum the James Bond Theme, oh wait, your not James Bond.
 
  
  Value: An afternoon of gameplay of dumb AI.
  
  Tilt: Brings alot to the table for a portable, nothing the metroid prime hunters demo didn't display 
 though
  
  Misc: This game could be fun if you have 4 friends to have it, but nothing the consoles can't deliver 
 better. It's worth checking out if you can find it under 20$
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ds_Bloodlust
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game BLOWS. At the very beginning James Bond dies. I mean cmon its not even James Bond. The 
 graphics are terrible the music is repetitive. The weapons selection is poor. The plot is predictable 
 and unbelievable at the SAME TIME. I didn't have any fun playing it and I lost the game on purpose. 
 I mean what were they thinking when they released this game. It is NOT worth buying and is a weaste 
 of space. I hope thay this game would just go away. It would do me and the world a favor in my 
 opinion. Just dont even concider buying this game turn around and cry yourself to sleep. Go buy 
 a book or something. Just avoid contact with this game and its stupidity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmjavier
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The good: It has easy controls and good aim. The missions are taken straight from the PS2 and Xbox 
 versions. The virtual training is challenging and fun. 
  The bad: Horrible voice acting. Im glad they used subtitles on most parts. The last level (when 
 you kill Goldfinger) is very hard from my point of view. The power icons on the bottom screen are 
 hard to touch with your finger. The hitting ability is hard to use. The single card download play 
 is just terrible! You only have one map and one character. The weapons are limited also. I recommend 
 renting this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConfuseRay
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Not a completely bad game for the only first person shooter on the Nintendo DS. Should really try 
 it out before you look at the 6.3 rating it got. After all it is the only first person shooter 
 for the DS and it wasn't too horrible I mean cut it some slack, will ya? The multiplayer is what 
 got me. There's only one ring to play in but it's still pretty fun. You get hooked on pretty fast 
 to that. There's an arsenal of weapons at your disposal and 8 people can play. IN single player 
 you can even put the enemies in traps and freeze them in these triangluar shapped thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimateDoom400
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for an FPS lover on the go! IT has guns from rocket launchers to sniper 
 rifles, including the best, the one, the only, GOLDENGUN!!! You also get to use the powers of goldeneye 
 to defeat enemies. The easy mode is to easy, and the hard mode is almost impossible. YOU ONLY LIVE 
 ONCE MODE!!!!! I pee in my pants just thinking about the fun challenge! The campaign is fun, but 
 the REAL game is the virtual training mode! You choose an arena, choose your weapons, customize 
 the enemies, and kill all opponents! ONe of my favorite games!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jembinator
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  If you've played this game on an xbox, ps2 or gc it is practically the same but in miniature size 
 and some few changes. Its got faifly good graphics and sound ain't that bad. Career mode is abit 
 sort but if you've got friends then you would have plenty of hours trying to shoot your friends 
 head off... but if not i suggest you take your time finishing the game because its not really fun 
 finishing it again. The only problem i have with it are the controls which kinda strain my hands 
 but if your confortable with it then its all gravy.!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Goldeneye on the DS is very fun. The campaign, while short, is entertaining. The virtual training 
 is always fun. The multiplayer is awesome with a friend, and there are a bunch of unlockables.
 
  
  The gameplay is solid. A lot of what you do is through the touch screen such as reloading, switching 
 guns, eyepowers. Health and armor is also down there, eliminating HUD on the top screen so none 
 of the tiny screen is clogged. The controls are akward, though, and since my hands are kinda small 
 for the thumbstrap, and it's awfully impercise, I'm forced to use the stylus with my pinky on the 
 R button. Also, sometimes your aim jumps around (Even though the framerate is steady) . Maybe it's 
 just crap on my touch screen.
  
  The 3D graphics are very good for the DS, although it's hard to see distant enemies. Maybe it's 
 cuz they spawn randomly. Whatever.
  
  The sound is OK. Nut as bad as some people are saying though. Some of the tunes are catchy but 
 all of the SFX are very pixelated.
  
  Underappreciated. Yup. Better than advertised. If you're craving for a DS FPS, look no further 
 (right now) . If I could have three games ported to DS, they'd be Goldeneye 64, Perfect Dark, and 
 maybe Quake 2. Oh yeah, the AI is dumb and stationary at times, and know-it-alls other times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalFreekz13
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I was suprised that the DS had a pretty good shooter. The controls take some getting used to, but 
 once u do, the game is pretty superb. The ga, e has full length missions, and wireless multiplayer (and 
 Deathmatch only requires one cart for up to 8 players!) . EA did a very good job of making a portable 
 BOnd (actually its not even bond. u play as an evil agent, thats a good refreshing twist) . This 
 game plays pretty solid, although the A. I. is sometimes simple. You'll have a good time playin 
 this game, especially with friends. And for those of u that are skeptical about getting this game, 
 if ur a FPS fan, do urself a favor and pick this game up. It is rad as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  golden eye was supposed to be a great game but when it came out it sucked. the Graphics were horrible 
 and you couldnt even see any details. the game was also way to short. there was practully no sound 
 at all. even though it was only $30 it was still a wast of money. the keys were so hard to use 
 that you could not do anything. this story line sucked to. there wasn't one good part to this game. 
 no way should you get this game at all. If THE GAME WAS FOR FREE I STILL WOULDN'T GE IT  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmythegent
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Why use the Goldeneye license if you plan on making an
  average game that lacks a good game? This game of
  course is Rogue Agent for the DS. This may 
 not be the
  greatest game on earth but it will provide some entertainment.
  The controls will drive you crazy at first buy eventualy you
  will appreciate the accuracy of 
 the Stylus which reminds me
  of a PC first person shooter. And just like its console brother
  their is not really any replay 
 value. You just play the game
  and turn it off. The enemy AI is some of the worst Ive seen
  and the sound will make you ill but this is still a decent,
  merely decent game that abuses the 
 Goldeneye license.
  Yet surprisingly the DS version is better than the console
  one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  If you look back on my previous reviews you'll see that I really enjoyed GoldenEye: Rogue Agent 
 on the GameCube. I also own the DS version and its definately a good start to DS FPS games. But 
 over all the game is to hard to controll (espicially for me being left handed) But this game, like 
 the console version, makes up for its mistakes with the multi-player which is pretty fun although 
 its even better if the person you're playing against also has the game. Otherwise you can only 
 play the virtual training stage. This game would of been better if it used the dual weapon system 
 better. Overall this makes for a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strkr241
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:12 pm PT
Review:  YAY! a portable 1st person shooter... awsome. based on bond? WOW even more awsome... this is what 
 i thought when i saw rogue agent on the ds in the local store. i had enough cash and bought it. 
 BIG MISTAKE. 
  
  the levels are basic. the games full of bugs. its a really dark game and the bad guys kinda blend 
 into the dark background a little too well. i woudnt mid if they were ninjas and were meant to 
 blend in. but they wernt and they wasnt meant to blend in.
  
  the range of weapons just doesnt exist. the sound is horrid too. when you shoot a guy rather than 
 them just screaming they sound like dying rhinos. and the shoot sounf effects are kinda... (cant 
 swear so...) RUBBISH!
  
  the good side of this game is that theres a multiplayer mode and its download play. so you only 
 need one cartridge. o and the front cover on the box looks quite good. but apart from that its 
 a nasty game that should have been released when the very very last bond film is made (do u see 
 what im saying? they will never end james bond so they wont bring out this game) .
  
  all it was good for was adding to the total of games i had for my ds collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR0M
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Immediately I enjoyed picking up and trying the dual wield-able shotguns and railguns. I had a 
 little spazzing of the controls. I used stylus controls as thumb and button controls are ridiculously 
 hard to use. The game would be absolutely perfect if the screen didn't move spasmodically every 
 couple of seconds. The weapons are cool, the graphics are good, the multiplayer is very nice, single 
 player is rather fun, it is the first FPS for the DS... It has so many things going for it except 
 for the little bit of glitching that occurs every few seconds. Nonetheless... the game overcomes 
 the difficulties and prevails as a great FPS that will pave the way of many more games (hopefully 
 MPHunters) Goldeneye is worth a purchase of about $25 - $30... dont get suckered into anything above 
 that. This game deserves to be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromHellskream4
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Remeber the N64 version of the original GoldenEye? Remeber how the graphics werent great but it 
 was still hours of fun. Now take the hours of fun out of that sentence and you have GoldenEye Rogue 
 Agent. 
  Rogue Agent was nothing like i thought it would be. I was thinking, Hey a game where you can 
 finaly be the bad guy, and duel weapons too, awesome!" So i bought it for 3o buks and took it home. 
 At first i found out that the character you play ACTUALY has a GOLDENEYE. I thought this kind of 
 really stupid and cheesy. I mean a goldeneye wtf??? THen i play further and find out that my eye 
 has powers, this made me laff, you can kill people with you GoldenEye! how stupid. Although the 
 people that made this game where trying to make a unique shooter they missed thier mark with stupidity. 
 You turn out to be working for GoldFinger against Dr. No. Dr. No's guards look wierd and "from 
 the future" they have gold vests that they wear and ski goggles, Another preticulary wierd thing 
 was that when you shot a person he would spin a few times in the air and then fall down. The drew 
 out the "fall down dead" process so much that i ended up using the rest of my clip on them to make 
 shur they were really dead and not just running or dodging. 
  But GoldenEye does have some cool fighting and a few good weapons. Every once in a whil you will 
 meet someone with a Minigun and that provides and extra challenge (its welcome since the game itself 
 is not very difficult atall) I still like the thought of duel weapon holding but not to the degree 
 that Rouge Agent took it. The AI is not bad either in this game
  Now the multiplayer (crawl outta one hole to fall into another) was a total disaster and for the 
 life of me i dont kno y. Something just felt empty in the maps. Even when there were 3 players 
 in the game it feels empty, they did something wrong. In NightFire it was an Edge-of-your-seat 
 kind of multiplayer (see other Review) but this one seemed to lack the excitement. 
  All in all this game wasnt good atall but you have to give the programers some credit becaus they 
 were faced wit the challenge of making a James Bond Game without a James Bond actor to model the 
 face after..... Oh well..... Dont buy the game, rent it if you want, but i wouldnt buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vee42
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game is a good game in my opinion not only does it have good controls graphics and sounds 
 but wait ya thats what it has. This game may not have a good story ( An ex agent now working with 
 Goldfinger to kill Dr. No who shot his eye which was replaced with you guessed it a golden eye) 
 but it is just plain fun this game is definately better than the console version and it brings 
 back that run and gun gameplay. This game also borrows from newer fps' by adding a recharging health 
 bar ( halo anyone) and the enemies to me look a little killzone-ish but for the fun factor and replayability 
 alone it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxus9
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Characters: 8.5/10  You meet many well known enemies of James Bond (who are actually your buddies) 
 but you dont actually meet James Bond.
  
  Graphics: 8/10  Unlike what was said in IGNs review, guards wont actually be able to shoot through 
 walls and kill you and 3D engine was as good as it was in Mario 64 DS
  
  Sounds: 7.5/10  Music actually wasnt as annoying as it was said to be by others and gunshots 
 sounded pretty cool. The music was still kinda bad.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10  Single player campaign is pretty fun and challenging; virtual training mode 
 is also fun; multiplayer is crazy and is better than Metroid Hunters: First Hunt (which of course 
 was a demo)
  
  Lasting appeal: 8/10  multiplayer and many unlock able levels, difficulty levels and weapons this 
 game can be played for a very long time.
  
  OVERALL: 8.1/10
  Verdict: A good buy and is better than other DS FPSs
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piku_the_Great
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  dhf dgy ugyhi sdngjuas hgyed gdnghid gidng uidh gydhgji sngjn jg gdgd gdugd gdugdg dugd g djgnd 
 gdugndsjg digd gdghndj ggpdgjiugnf giodfgnd gjodngd gjodgnjd gojdng dgjondjg djg jdg dg dg d g 
 g g g g dmgjd gdg gdj gkog s gjod gjodg jodnogd j sfhbd fh f fh shif difbdhgn dhgd gihbdghidbgihgbihdbigh 
  ogndjg doigndsmkg sj hm h d fh smh h hrh rmh tmh gm nkk bnpkhnf 
 hfhk fmh fjkh fmlhf hk fgksnh fjoh jhnsrhk fjdh dfojhndfm hkofdnhmf djhnfj hjonh jk hio hjoh o 
 hm j j m m m m m m m m mo gojmjm jo hmojkhm jlm hl oh hflkh fpkfhkhpo m, h ml hml hhmpl jx phmj 
 jkjm jphjm mkh jk k piku vj nhv bn iovnbfm nojnfg nbjb j bj bjvnb bjfnbfl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Why save the world when you can rule it? As a former 00 agent gone bad, youve been recruited in 
 the ultimate war for control of the Bond underworld. Embark on globe-spanning missions of vengeance 
 and demolition with an array of gadgets and firepower. Use the dual-wield weapons system to blast 
 away with both hands in massive firefights, while simultaneously checking your ammo levels or decoding 
 combination locks against the clock via the dual-screen HUD. Your powerful new GoldenEye can shield 
 you from bullets, unleash devastating EM pulses, and more. With a little help from evil allies 
 like Oddjob and Scaramanga, rise through the ranks of the underworld and find out why it is good 
 to be bad in the Bond universe.
  
  Double the FirepowerEngage the dual-wield weapons system to fire guns in both hands. 
  
  * 
 Wireless Multiplayer MayhemOutwit villainous rivals in wireless multiplayer challenges, including 
 a unique game spawning feature for up to eight players. 
  
  * A New Way to Access Vital IntelligenceUse the dual-screen HUD to check ammunition levels, hack 
 electronic devices and weapons, decode security locks, and more. 
  
  * Sharpen Your Lethal EdgeDefeat foes in the exclusive new Virtual Training mode. Gain experience 
 and earn valuable upgrades to your GoldenEye weaponry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisisinlondon1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  Glodeneye 007 was a masterpiece. I was introduced to it by a friend a few years back and deeply 
 enjoyed it. When I heard about the console remakes I was excited, but quickly let down, But, I 
 decided I 'd give them one more chance. With the utmost hopes I bought this game used for 25 dollars. 
 The graphics at first glance are detailed and clearly 3D, but when you get up close things get 
 messy. The weapon variety is decent and so is the dual wielding. The single player much like the 
 console versions is boring and short. The real fun comes from the multiplayer, Rogue Agent has 
 download play, and while there is only 1 map and 1 game mode the multi card play has more than 
 that. The only extremely bad part of the game is the sound, it's flat and boring. Guns sound horrible 
 and the music reminds me of the Super NES days. All in all if you need a FPS fix for DS and can't 
 wait for Metroid give this one a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calgel
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  have a good graphics but thas all is too short the gameplay bad 
  the mission on the game suck the only think you do is kill people you dont have to do anythink 
 only shot tht all very bad very bad is the worst 007 game never created dont buy  
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla a bla fgdf fd gdfgdfdfgdffd fgf f g jfjf fkkf kjf jf fjh fhj 
 fhf hf fh fhf hf hf fh fhf fh fhf hf fhf hf fh fh fhf ffh htrkijtuighrth tiuwtiehr7ht ieyite h 
 tehyrtjny e9wtyhrthy8 r es8typtng reyhrthy et8yhsre hewhpy rptiy t 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nutrious
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  You should definetly get this game, its great. but its a bhit short so if u hate short games dont 
 buy it. but i think it is worth the buy. go out and get the game. or borrow it from a friend. you 
 dont really get the evil feeling like u would think. its also hard to tell you aare evil in the 
 game. i think that this game is better than the one on consoles. I I I I I II I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I II I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorion
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, lets get started. The game itself has many MANY flaws in it. There are six levels to complete 
 in total which is brutal. There arent that many guns to use. The G. E powers are useless in just 
 about every way. If you play on easy mode, it is a breeze. If you play on hardmode, enjoy your 
 time spent not playing this game, because it is insane. You do little damage and enemies shoot 
 the hell out of you.
  
  Pros: Multiplayer isnt all that bad
  
  Cons: You name it. 
  
  Overall: I think this game was a rushed process, and it came up drastically short.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Goldeneye Rouge Agent for the Nintendo DS hand held system does several things right, and wrong 
 at the same time. The graphics vary. The enemies, guns, and some parts of the envirnment look decent. 
 Some parts of the envirnments just look like a complete mess of pixels, and look as if the developer 
 didn't really try to make the game look well in some areas. There are a few slow downs in two areas 
 of the game, but it isn't bad enough to get in the way of gameplay.
  
  Gameplay is decent. You can choose to either use touch screen controls, which are almost impossible 
 to use, or the buttons. Neither one is completely precise. The level design is bland and boring, 
 and will sometimes make you wish that the level could just end in a timely fashon. The enemies 
 are repeditive and don't offer very much variety in combat either. There are only about 7 enemies 
 in the entire game, so you may get annoyed by how many just keep looking and acting the same. You 
 can choose to pick up dual weapons and use those, just as you could in the original Goldeneye. 
 However, the number of weapons in the game is extremely limited, so deciding which one to use won't 
 change a whole lot.
  
  You play as 006, better known as Goldeneye, in this game. Although you play as the "bad guy", you 
 never really shoot anyone from MI6 or 007 for that matter. You'll constantly be shooting other 
 bad guys from the series, which kind of eliminates the purpose of playing as the bad guy.
  
  Multiplayer is great. The DS download, and multicard play modes are available to use. Single 
 card play supports up to 8 players and multicard play supports 4. The multiplayer is the main part 
 of this game that actually makes it worth picking up.
  
  This game has some of the most terrible sound I've heard in a while. Gunfire is the only sound 
 that's actually fair, otherwise sound effects such as collisions, enemy voices, sound effects, 
 explosions, and just about everything else sounds like crap.
  
  Goldeneye Rouge Agent for the DS manages to capture the overall feel of its console counterpart, 
 however that isn't exactly a good thing. If you're looking for a good shooter for the DS, this 
 game is merely an appetizer. This isn't a bad, nor a good game for the DS, but the multiplayer 
 alone makes it worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsa
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a first person that has great gameplay and graphics but lacks replay value 
 then Golden Eye is the game for you.
  
  Good: 1. The graphics on this game are great and resemble the graphics on its console counterpart.
 
  
  2. The gameplay is easy to pick up and quite fun.
  
  3. If you have a few friends with DSes then prepare for some multiplayer madness.
  
  4. The 
 level set up is quite good and in campaign the missions are quite addictive.
  
  Bad: 1. Though this game has good gameplay, graphics and it's quite an addictive game this game 
 has no replay value. So in other words, after you beat the campaign you can beat it again or kill 
 incredibly stupid AIs in virtual training.
  
  2. Though the campaigne levels are long there are only 6 of them and the first 2 are really easy 
 in all dificulty modes, which makes this campaign pretty short and easy.
  
  3. The weapon combination thing in this game is pretty cool but the weapon set-up for the virtual 
 training game is just stupid. The weapons are always the same for the levels so for each level 
 the enemies always use the same weapons.
  
  In conclusion this game is fun untill you beat it and realize that there is nothing to do. Honestly 
 EA should have put more work into this game and released it a bit later with more replay value 
 and better weapon distrubution in virtual training mode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theoj911
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game is my favorite. Its got everything in aa Fps and the graphics is great. The sound is 
 well not the best in other words im sayin its crap in a nice way. It doesnt match the action and 
 its very much like an 80s track. But overall i like this game alot. Mutiplayer is nice. I say the 
 best of this game is displayed on multiplayer. If you kno someone with a ds just play with them 
 and youll be wowed by this game. I highly recomend this game to a fps fan its a great game for 
 a great deal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_smitersux
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Golden eye is not a great game but it is good enough to be a 7.5 I really only brought the game 
 because iam sick of waiting for metroid prime hunters and i thought that this would be good practice 
 as my DS was getting dusty waiting for some good 1st person shooters. The game was too short and 
 the unlocking of doors was very tedious. The graphics wern't as shocking as they looked on gamespot. 
 As the first shooting complete game on the DS it was a start and it shows that the games are just 
 going to get better. i Believe that developers over time will get more used to having games that 
 use the touch screen or the mic and that all Ds users need to do is wait as the games are getting 
 better just look at mario kart and great gameplay games like advance wars and before you know it 
 there will be a lineup of 9 rated games on the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarLord5000
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  With the revolutionary DS out FPSs will have a whole new feel for them. The flagship of this wave 
 is Goldeneye: Rogue Agent. I kinda had mixed reactions about this game at first. Now this game 
 is for people looking for an FPS to pass time on the road.
  
  The singleplayer I will tell you flat out sucks. You can't save at checkpoints and you'll often 
 feel to tight running in a perfectly linear level just taking out enemys while they stand and wait 
 for you. Basically almost every character is the same. He'll run up to you, stop, and you'll both 
 stand in front of each other shooting until one of you dies and if you die than its back to the 
 nearest checkpoint you passed. The graphics are ok for a game new to the DS but not something that 
 will really attract your attention. Unless you want multiplayer weapons and levels singleplayer 
 is pretty worthless.
  
  Multiplayer is a whole lot better than single. If you have at least 3 people running around a level 
 your in for some fast and intensive fighting if all of you have played before. However its difficult 
 finding people playing this game so multiplayer is hard to come by and your rarely going to ask 
 that strange guy sitting next to you with a DS if he wants to play against you. For multiplayer 
 maps you have to unlock during singleplayer which really sucks because singleplayer is a bore fest. 
 
  
  Goldeneye fails to capture the excitement of a true FPS. All DS owners can hope for is someone 
 else will come along with FPS learning from Goldeneye's mistakes and make a quality FPS. I highly 
 recommend borrowing or renting this game before going out to make a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit it takes a LONG time to get used to the controls and the standard controls are 
 terrible, but after a while and configuring it becomes a second nature. The mulitplayer single 
 session is amazing fun and has incredible replay value. When i baught this game i couldnt put it 
 down. the single play has a rich story line with plenty of variety, admitadly the game could use 
 a bigger variety in enemies but the AI is impressive, i even saw a guy steal my gun which i thought 
 was pretty gr8. Playing the multiplayer would be incredible but sadley DS's have become rare since 
 the release of the PSP which i also own lol.
  A must have for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordo_ten
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game was with a few friends using Single card play I was quite happy 
 with the controls but the sound.. not so grate so after thinking about it for a while I decided 
 that I liked it enough to buy it so I did. 
  after getting home i played singal player for a bit i enjoyed it alot it was fun then a hour or 
 2 i reolised i was done, so i satrted playing on hard end then i gave up.
  
  The sound is horribul and the graphics were just mediocre not only that but it was just too easy 
 and then i set it to hard & it was like imposibule, so i dont know the game seem so unblananced 
 and could have used more time under cunstruction. Dispte the errors it was pritty fun for a while 
 any way. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a good goldeneye 007 game but it really short.
  
  Gameplay: You play like in the previous game, you play James Bond and you are trying to save the 
 world. You have lots of weapons but my problam was that you can play for like 8 hours and then 
 finish it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics here are suck except for the weapons. The enemies look terrible and yourself 
 look bad.
  
  Sound: There isn't much sound in this game so I can't judge.
  
  Value: You can play for like 8 hours and finish this game but the good thing about this game is 
 that there is an online mode.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a good shooting game and if you like shooter games then you 
 should definitely but this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first played it back in 05 i was not that impressed mostly due to the spotey controls. But 
 now that i fonud out you can use the buttons I found it manigble and enjoyable. The storey pirty 
 musch isnt there. From what i can figuer out your an angent who joined the evil golden eye and 
 now your doing work for him. The stroey is told though mission brifes and dosentt revile much. 
 You could pretend to give a sh*t about mission objecives 9and the game really trys) but all it 
 amonuts to is go into a room shoot it up repeat, go to anroow action button. The game's touch screen 
 contolrs isnt the best, its slipery and to lose. The game also has a problem with depth percption. 
 it can be hard to see whats a blob or a foe shooting at you. Luckly the crosshair turns red when 
 pointed at an enamey. having two weapons is cool and offers smoother gamepaly. Theres also simon 
 as a door delocker. But the game is short and can be beaten with in a day. Thankfully theres virtual 
 training missions and diffculy setings that buch it up a bit and rankings are a nice touch. , and 
 some good multi player options, even for today. if you want a simple action game this dose nicely 
 for $20 or less why not. if you want a deeper shoter try metriod prime hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameplayer2105
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game, started playing it and for some reason, the game felt and played great. i loved 
 it. after i beat the 3rd level, it knocked me flat in the face that this game is GARBAGE, sound 
 and graphics suck, and if you rent it, you might as well wait outside the store, because youll 
 be bored in an hour. if you bought this game for multiplayer, which is pretty good, youre gonna 
 have a hard time finding some other person that was stupid enough to buy it
  
  in conclusion: they took an absolutley awesome idea and smeared bad graphics sound and gameplay 
 all over it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Goldeneye is one of my favorite shooters for the DS. While it may have gotten mixed reviews, this 
 is one to pick up.
  Lets start out by saying the graphics are very well done. It can be blocky though, but you get 
 the 1st person feel.
  The gameplay is easy to pick up and use. For those of us who are used to simple controls, these 
 may not be a walk in the park.
  The sound is very basic, and it has all the explosions, and gunfire but what really brings it down 
 is the music. Oh it isn't pretty.
  Goldeneye still turns up to be a good shooter that is better than the console versions, so pick 
 it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desialex
Rating: 2.1
Date: Nov 12, 2005 10:09 pm PT
Review:  "Oh my god!!! 007 on the ds, no way, this is going to rock." Thats what I thought before I got 
 my hands on this peice of crap. When this game was announced I was one of the happiest guys around. 
 Dreams of a great sequel where flodding my head. I even started playing the original goldeneye 
 again. Then I bought the game. Sure it was cool at first, and i figured I could work my way around 
 the crappy controles (and I did) , but all in all I was happy during the first level. Then I got 
 to the second level, boring stuff. So I'm done the second level, I wonder how far I am. So i look 
 at the completion percentage, 54% complete. There you go, the single most disapointing part of 
 the game. Once you see this you wonder what else that money could have got you and all the other 
 little annoyances in the game become more aparrent and you look a little harder at the story. 
 
  
  Any one who has played the first Goldeneye knows what this game should have been like and I'd like 
 to punch the people who made this game. The first goldeneye had much better controles, better graphics, 
 better game play, better sound, it was at least 6 times the lenght, it had more weapons, better 
 multiplayer and it did it all with less space avaialble and a weaker system. Lets face it the only 
 difference between the ds and the n64 is that the ds is stronger, has more storage, doesn't have 
 analog and has 3 less buttons. So why couldn't they make a descent game. I was thinking about this 
 and I was able to think up a better controle scheme in 3 minuts than what probably took them a 
 week. They would have been better of porting The original onto the ds instead, though it's a good 
 thing they didn't cuz they would have !@#$ed up the controle scheme. Problem is they're too used 
 to the new double analoge shooters and forgot how to program for something that has no analog.
 
  
  So with all these prolems you would think "hey maybe the stories good, maybe it's relevent to the 
 movie or the first game". Problem is it isn't. Fpr those of you who don't know, the goldeney was 
 a disk that had something to do with a satalite. The only reason rouge agent is called goldeneye 
 is because the main character has a bionic goldeneye. Thats not a sequel thats a load of horse 
 crap. The first game was beleivable, this game makes you wanna snap the sd card.
  
  So the final thing I is that goldeneye rocks and this isn't goldeneye, this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willman256
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2005 6:09 am PT
Review:  Love the graphics, great for the DS, sounds are cool, tetxures are good, bots are quite clever 
 (i loved that) overall a very good game. i have seen better games though for the DS system, and 
 its a bit too easy. Having the touch screen as a weapon select, and everything else is very good. 
 The only bad thing is model detail, the guns are well textured yes... but the level of detail in 
 the gun model is pretty poor... the amount of detail in the gun is just too low poly, it really 
 needs to be higher detail, but maybe thats down to the engine, or the grpahics in the DS system 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Hi I'm Yadish! This game is probly the best multiplayer out of the DS games
  and the graphics are not that bad. But when I was playing this game on multiplayer with my neighbor/cousin 
 I noticed that James Bond looks completely different and when they run I guess they dont really 
 run it's more of a waddle. The single player is somewhat short and repetitive but I just like blowing 
 people up with gernades! This game is good if you have alot of friends with the DS systems. But 
 I would recomend this game to people like me who just like shooting people without being sent to 
 jail right away!
  Thank you so much for reading my reveiw! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterC2009
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  This is by far the worst game I ever got; and I bought it!! The graphics are hideous by far, the 
 are too few guns, the touch screen provided a difficult addition, and the story was lacking. It 
 was so short, I was begging for a refund, but I lost the case, so now I'm stuck with it. The game's 
 versus mode was absolutely stupid, and the challenges were dumb. I think this is the worse addition 
 for the James Bond series. I mean, whoever heard of a James Bond game WITHOUT Jame Bond. Hmm... 
 is there something wrong with this picture? Not only that, the boring game music with pure old 
 folk music will have you praying for mercy. I can't believe I actually wanted to get this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariobro999
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  if you buy this game, play it for the ride to your grandma's house, who lives 100 miles away,. 
 i played it for a while, but only to get the cool unlockables, to find out they're not so cool 
 after all the hype. don't count on easy controls either, it's harder to control than a drunk guy 
 at a spelling bee. repetition will keep you away from this game. They had an oppurtunity for an 
 OK game, but they screwed up. hopefully, they won't make metroid prime hunters like this. why couldn't 
 they have made this game the same way as the original goldeneye, instead of a crappy remake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falco1029
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 2, 2005 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely nothing special. Even considering that it's a handheld FPS, it's lacking. 
 
  
  
  Gameplay: Alright, I suppose controls should be covered here. They are annoying. You have 4 options:
 
  
  Use stylus control
  
  Use stylus for thumb control
  
  use thumbpad for thumb control
  
  use button control
  
  The stylus control is stupid. You 
 manually choose which gun to fire, using the touch screen, so that you dont need to use both shoulder 
 buttons. But that doesnt work well if it's set on your grenade and you need the shotgun in a split 
 second. It's annoying.
  
  Using the stylus for the thumbpad setup is perfect if you're double jointed like me (my pinky can 
 easily stretch and mold to the right shoulder button) . But most people arent, so dont try that 
 if you wish to keep your pinky.
  
  Using the thumb [pad is akward, and inaccurate. The touch doesnt register correctly for this game, 
 and it really just sucks.
  
  The button control is alright, but it isnt good for quick turns or for precise aiming.
  
  The 
 singleplayer campaign is short, repetitive, and annoying. With save spots few and far between, 
 and certain parts being too hard, you may get 30 hours of gameplay from all of the retries. And 
 that's on normal mode. 
  
  Virtual training singleplayer is alright, and can add maybe a couple of hours of extra gameplay 
 time to it. 
  
  Multiplayer is great. Single card play lets you play in a strange level, with up to 8 (?) people, 
 and with high amounts of people, you can have loads of fun. With the multicard paly, you can do 
 cooperative virtual training, or you can deathmatch in other levels. I havent tried it, so i cant 
 give a verdict on the multicard play.
  
  
  Graphics: Ick. The ds could handle much better graphics than this. However, because of the low 
 quality, there is virtually no slowdown even in the high action parts. But seriously, this game 
 gives new meaning to the phrase "t3h jaggiez cutz my eyez and givez me t3h cancerz :cry:". About 
 half of the objects that should be modeled are sprites, which looks like total crap. and the textures 
 are very lackluster.
  
  
  Sound: It's fine, but nothing special.
  
  Value: Single player will bore you, but the multiplayer makes the game worth not reselling.
  
 
  Tilt: A combination of everything above just puts the tilt where it is.
  
  
  Bottom line is this: get it if you're starved for a DS FPS, but if you arent, just leave it alone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidmaniac88
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 28, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  Althought this is a short lived expierience, there is a lot of fun to be had with the game. The 
 weapons are fun to use along with the thumb strap option. (which I used throughout the whole game) . 
 The graphics could be better but they are playable. The gameplay is fun but the controls couldve 
 been better. The sound is alright but good for a portable system, as well as good music for a FPS. 
 Forget what others have said about this game, it really truly is good. The value of this game is 
 right up there and i gave the tilt a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imachelseafan
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 14, 2005 11:56 pm PT
Review:  The DS is undoubtedly the best handheld console ever when it comes to playing FPSs on the move. 
 If you've played the Metroid Prime demo free with the console you'll know what I mean. So why on 
 Earth EA set the default controls to be harder to handle than a ferret on speed is anybodies guess? 
 Somehow you have to play with your thumb and all your fingers on the face buttons, trying not to 
 drop the console as you play.... bad start.
  
  Things shape up though when you find the Options screen. A quick change to the 'Stylus' setting 
 and the likeable and recognisable Metroid settings are installed. Using the stylus to look around 
 and the d-pad to move you can finally get to grips with the game.
  
  So on to the game itself. Solid in all areas really, a bit buggy here and there but nothing serious. 
 Just the occasional clipping problem, although i've noticed the screen is prone to jumping randomly 
 at times which is a bit annoying.
  
  The level design is also a bit boring and generic, with the enemies pretty much always following 
 the level format. Weapons on the other hand are scattered thoroughly, obviously with weaker ones 
 appearing more often beside the corpses of your average dead grunt. The weapons are also quite 
 varied in design and feel, in a similar way to the original Goldeneye 64. For Exmaple, the 'Jackal' 
 is particularly reminiscent of the 'Dostovei' from the original game and feels much more powerful 
 than the standard side arm, dropping enemies in half the time.
  
  The Single player mode is not something you'll want to replay over and over, and following from 
 its console counterpart is one of the most stupid and obvious 'Cashing in' concepts ever. Unlike 
 the original game, this has nothing to do with the Bond Classic with whom it shares its name, instead, 
 you play a 'Rogue Agent', dismissed by MI6 before joining the legendary 'Goldfinger' in an attempt 
 to end a crime war with Dr No. After being shot in the eye and surviving, our 'anti-hero' is equipped 
 with a new 'golden' eye. Yes, literally, a golden eye. No joke. Thats the only link to the film 
 or N64 version. Of course, what would a golden eye be without special powers? Well EA were thinking 
 outside the box on this one, granting the user four powers such as the ability to see enemies through 
 walls. If you removed this clear money making gimmick and produced a more believable story line, 
 this game could have been something more, but as it is, its hard to take seriously. Longevity is 
 a bit of a problem, and your advised not to play through on 'easy' from the word go, but it does 
 have its share of moments that nearly capture that Bond spirit.
  
  Although not disatrous, the single player mode shades in comparison to the Multiplayer. Available 
 via either DS Download or Multi-Card Play, when you add you friends to the mix the fun really starts. 
 Up to 8 DS can be linked for a straight deathmatch through download, whereas Multi-card allows 
 for refined options such as team play or Domination (where teams must control certain zones to 
 rack up points) . Its a good old fashioned action romp, which may have only been improved by the 
 inclusion of bots to make up the numbers.
  
  Graphically the game impresses. Texures are a bit bland but with all the action on screen to contend 
 with and almost no sign of slowdown visually the game is impressive. The animations are nothing 
 groud breaking but they do the job and add that OTT high octane feel you would expect from the 
 genre. For example, a shotgun shot to the head of a bad guy sees him flip straight back 360 degrees!
 
  
  The sound is at best pasable but nothing like the quality of Mario 64DS or Electroplankton for 
 example. You can't help but feel that the GBA-ish music and digetic sounds could have been improved. 
 There are some catchy tunes and meaty gunshots in there, but not enough to make up for the overall 
 dissapointing quality.
  
  If you want a straight up, no frills, but solid FPS and have plenty of DS owning friends, then 
 Goldeneye: Rogue Agent is definately recommened. However, if a unique, original and immersive title 
 is what your after, you better look elsewhere. 
  
  Solid, and has it's moments, with nothing specifically outstanding as a good or bad point, Goldeneye 
 is promising title that will grow on you given the chance, but far from a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Se_BBB_e
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  This game probably have the best graphics seen in a DS game. They are very impressive, dynamic 
 and varied, although there are not too many enemies. You can shoot at computer monitors and windows 
 and see the shatter. That's very good for a handheld game.
  
  The sound and music really isn't all that bad. Sure, some tracks may get tiresome, but there are 
 plenty of them and the sound effects are varied, but unfortunately, recorded at a low bitrate.
 
  
  The GoldenEye powers are interesting, useful (although not needed to complete the games) and add 
 an extra twist to the game.
  
  The story is nothing special, but is divided into missons which makes it easy to follow. You can 
 anytime pause and see you objectives.
  
  The multiplayer contains a handful of modes and quite a number of maps if everyone has their own 
 copy of the game. Else you're stuck with one single map.
  
  This game is very short, but additional game modes help make the game longer. It has several difficulty 
 modes and can challenge the most experienced player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimD73
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 29, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The console version of the game was a terrible disappointment. It managed to take a decent enough 
 concept of having you play as the bad guy, and essentially destroy it, thanks to a sloppy campaign 
 and a worthless multiplayer. Why EA even bothered with a DS version of such a failure is ridiculous, 
 but in a sense, it is the only currently available FPS for the DS (besides the First Hunt demo) , 
 so I guess that was the selling point. The DS is still a growing system, and any extra games are 
 welcome.
  
  The question is, did EA learn anything with the console version? Does the DS version succeed where 
 the console version crashed and burned? Read on
  
  STORY: 1/5: You play as a former agent of MI6, who lost his right eye after an encounter with SPECTRE 
 member Dr. No. Since then, you resorted to brutality and other tactics. Because of this, MI6 has 
 deemed you unfit to serve there. After your dismissal, you are recruited by Auric Goldfinger, another 
 SPECTRE member who is at war with Dr. No. He needs you as a special operative, and has Francisco 
 Scaramanga replace your old eye with a new golden eye, hence the name GoldenEye.
  
  The plot is essentially the same as it was in the console version. However, in the transfer, the 
 story has been severely watered down. Cut-scenes are gone and replaced with text briefings. Of 
 course, since this is a fairly straightforward game, the text readings are negligible, as the lack 
 of any personality whatsoever renders the plot even more useless than it was before.
  
  The old problems still carry over. In fact, some are even worse than in the console version. The 
 most notable disappointment on the console was the lack of true Bond villains to face in combat. 
 In the console version, only seven were present, and only two were actually fought in-game. In 
 this version of the game, most characters are merely mentioned and never shown, and Dr. No is the 
 only one you ever get a chance to fight. There are cameo appearances by Goldfinger, Oddjob, Francisco 
 Scaramanga and Xenia Onatopp, but these are even briefer than they were in the console version. 
 
  
  Of course, for a game that has basically sold itself by the simple idea of having you become a 
 Bond villain, the story should at least include you doing some fairly dastardly deeds? Unfortunately, 
 no such luck, as the story still does not have you do anything truly bad guy-esque. Sure, you shoot 
 down a lot of guards, but considering they are all working for Dr. No, it doesnt seem like anything 
 that Bond himself wouldnt gladly take care off.
  
  The console version of the game contained what was a pretty bad story in itself, but at least it 
 had cut scenes to at least convey it in a slightly interesting way. The DS version basically hands 
 you a plot that is completely unnecessary to know in following the gameplay, so dont be surprised 
 to go through the game and not even notice a plot of any kind.
  
  GAME DESIGN: 4/15: The console version of Rogue Agent managed to bring you through a campaign consisting 
 of a measly eight levels, though those levels were very expansive. Other than that, the single 
 player mode had little to offer.
  
  The same is true of the DS version, yet the game is even shorter. In fact, two whole levels have 
 been cut off, leaving only six levels in the entire campaign mode. Those expecting a portable version 
 of the Octopus and Hoover Dam are sure to be disappointed. Considering the low number of levels 
 available in the console version, there is really no reason for these two levels to be left off, 
 as this game needs as much length added as possible.
  
  The missions in the console version were often unbearably long. Thankfully, this version has shortened 
 the levels drastically to make them less tedious. In effect, this also makes the game much more 
 portable, as the levels take a half and hour at their longest (not including how many times you 
 may die) . However, there is no compensation for the shorter levels, and instead of eight long levels, 
 we are left with six levels which can be completed in the span of one or two sittings. While the 
 games with shorter levels are often better than those with long ones (as far as FPS games are concerned) , 
 this is only true if the number of short levels is numerous.
  
  In between missions, you can participate in Virtual Training missions, of which there are six. 
 These are what you must go through to earn your eye powers (see play control) . Initially seeming 
 like an extra detour to squeeze extra mileage out of a woeful single player campaign, they turn 
 out to be annoying hurdles to go through to earn these powers which, in all honesty, are not worth 
 the trouble these training simulations present. Most notably one involving Scaramangas funhouse 
 is near impossible to beat, and is also unfortunately the only one which is necessary to complete. 
 Most gamers without the beat-everything mentality will simple beat the three necessary for the 
 powers and move on.
  
  The enemy AI in Virtual Training may be lightning-quick, but dont expect the same of the regular 
 lackeys you square off against in the regular campaign. While the AI in the console version was 
 overrated, it is nothing compared to here, where the AI tends to walk down a long hall to about 
 ten feet in front of you before shooting. Other than glitches like that, the AI has pretty much 
 average stupidity.
  
  In addition to the regular grunts, occasionally an enemy will appear with a health bar and shields, 
 much like the named enemies in the console version. This simply means that they dont go down as 
 fast, but it really poses no problem a quick burst of lead will knock them right out. Since only 
 one real villain is presented in-game, giving these characters personality and boss characteristics 
 would have been a major help.
  
  The level design itself is extremely straightforward, and it is essentially impossible to get lost. 
 Despite this obvious fact, EA has still kept the arrow in the game, where, most of the time, you 
 will always be pointed in the right direction. Sure, it doesnt hurt, but it is as pointless as 
 pointless gets.
  
  Just like the console version, there is no real feeling that anything you are doing is bad in any 
 way whatsoever. Sure, you shoot a lot of people, but Bond does too, and its all bad guys. You 
 can take a bad guy hostage, but it is almost impractical to do so, and even that really isnt anything 
 most good guys dont do. This is what it is like to be the bad guy? There is really no difference 
 in the morals than any other FPS.
  
  In fact, none of the design is really any different (or, more accurately, better) than any other 
 FPS out there. The campaign is a huge waste of effort, thanks to a ridiculously low number of levels, 
 stupid virtual training and a lack of originality.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 9/15: While the single player mode is sorely lacking, it seems that EA put most of 
 its efforts into the multiplayer aspect. The console version was quite different in this aspect, 
 as the multiplayer was extremely limited, with only three different modes of play (of which two 
 were worthless) and no AI bots. Without the online multiplayer in the PS2 and Xbox versions, it 
 was a real step back for FPS gaming.
  
  Thankfully, more focus has been added here. Though, being the first FPS for the DS, it is unknown 
 what the genres true capabilities will become, Rogue Agent is an ample sampling of what is to come.
 
  
  Possibly the best aspect of Rogue Agent (and pretty much the only reason to purchase the game) 
 is the fact that it had single-cartridge multiplayer for up to eight players. For those who do 
 not follow me here, basically that means that only one player needs to have a copy of the game 
 for eight people to play multiplayer through the use of the DSs Download Play service. While this 
 mode does offer a nice taste of multiplayer, it comes with very few available mods and only one 
 map. To get the full package, every player must have a copy of the game. Considering the fact that 
 the single player modes are worth nothing, it is highly unlikely that you could find enough friends 
 to start up a full game.
  
  Unless you have many friends with DSs, even the regular single card multiplayer plays pretty weakly, 
 as the levels (including those unlocked through multi-card) are all too large for simply two or 
 three players. If only AI bots could be used to fill in the extra spaces, but alas, youll just 
 have to make due with running around searching for a while.
  
  While AI bots cannot be used in regular multiplayer matches, there is a Virtual Training mode separate 
 from what is found in the campaign which does pit you against AI bots in any of the regular multiplayer 
 levels. This will do in a pinch, but the AI is generally fairly slow witted and quick triggered. 
 It would have been a lot more helpful if you could play with the AI bots and other friends at the 
 same time to fill in the gaps in the action.
  
  The multiplayer modes are the best aspect of the entire game, but on the whole, they are not overly 
 impressive. While it is currently the only DS FPS out there, it is safe to say that there will 
 be many other games the same as this which will match the multiplayer easily. On paper, it looks 
 good, but the fact that the gameplay itself just isnt all that fun hinders it dramatically. Definitely 
 an improvement over the console version, however.
  
  PLAY CONTROL: 6/15: Dual wielding was one of the better qualities of the console version of the 
 game. Basically, it allowed the relatively small arsenal of weapons to seem much larger through 
 different weapon combos. That aspect of the game has carried over to the DS version, but the results 
 are not as good.
  
  There are three basic control types. The first is a style using the stylus the look around and 
 turn, etc, while using the two shoulder buttons to fire and either the buttons or D-Pad to move. 
 Why this was chosen as the default is beyond me, as this is easily the most uncomfortable of the 
 setups. Try hitting the left shoulder button to fire the gun in your left hand while holding the 
 stylus to move to see what I mean. On the plus side, this setup does grant the easiest access to 
 the eye powers and weapon icons.
  
  The second setup is one using only the buttons and D-pad, where the d-pad moves and the buttons 
 turn (this can be reversed for left-handed players) . Moving is the easiest of the three, but you 
 still have to use the touch screen to switch weapons and eye powers, which is what stops this from 
 being the best way to play.
  
  The real way to play the game is using the thumb strap to look and turn and the D-pad to move. 
 This allows for mouse-like aiming and proves how the DS is the true handheld for FPS games. However, 
 there still are problems, as the eye power icons on the top of the screen are too small to hit 
 accurately with the thumb strap, but considering the rarity in which you will be using them, it 
 isnt a large problem.
  
  It is obvious EA was searching for extra opportunities to use the touch screen, as at certain areas, 
 a game of Simon is thrown in to open a door. This basically means that a sequence of flashing colours 
 is shown to you, and after it is finished, you must repeat it by pressing the four coloured circles 
 that appear on the touch screen in order. While it is best not to think of how the doors of the 
 richest bad guys in the world are guarded by a childs game, this is still a huge annoyance as 
 the games are extremely easy (the largest sequence to remember is only about five colours) and 
 just waste time.
  
  Throughout the campaign, you will also earn certain powers for your false eye. The first (MRI scan) 
 will be given to you, the other three (EM hack, magnetic polarity shield and magnetic induction 
 field) earned through Virtual Training. The power for them is limited, and replenishes itself as 
 time passes.
  
  The MRI scan is the only one given to you for free, and will enable you to see through cover so 
 you can spot all the enemies in an area. It is really only useful when using the Mag-Rail (which 
 can fire through walls) with it (well, there are other applications explained later) . For the most 
 part, it is just not worth the trouble.
  
  The EM Hack is the only eye power you are forced to use throughout the entire game, allowing you 
 to activate machines from a distance. Once turned on, all machines and electronics you can interact 
 with will have a green box around them. Simply aim at the box and press select to activate. It 
 can also disable enemy weapons for a short period of time. The EM Hack is essentially the only 
 eye power you will ever feel the need to use.
  
  The polarity shield renders you invincible for a short period of time. Sounds good, huh? Well, 
 it makes you vulnerable for a while you activate it, and it lasts for a very short amount of time. 
 You wont even make it halfway down a hall before it runs out, where you will likely be surrounded 
 by enemies with itchy trigger fingers. All it takes is this to happen once before you will simply 
 ignore this from then on.
  
  Finally, the magnetic induction field is one of the more novel additions. It allows you to target 
 an enemy and then toss him by flicking the touch screen. With skill, you can throw enemies into 
 other enemies, off walls, etc. It is a pretty cool addition, but it definitely a novelty, as every 
 other enemy will rip into you while you set it up.
  
  The eye powers are activated by pressing the icons at the top of the touch screen, which are small 
 to the point where the thumbstrap will often have trouble reaching them. The stylus mode is the 
 only optimal setup for these, and that setup is completely useless for the main game. The EM Hack 
 becomes the only one to use, as it only needs to be pressed once to be turned on for the entire 
 mission (it only uses power when the select button is pressed) .
  
  Health will regenerate much like the eye powers, as long as you are not under fire. This means 
 that, even in the middle of a firefight, if you can find cover, you can refill your health bar 
 rather quickly. However, there is a huge problem with cover, being that most of it doesnt work. 
 Bullets tend to fly through what is meant as cover, and occasionally through walls. This works 
 both ways, as sometimes you can kill enemies in another room, and, more commonly, you will get 
 hit when sitting behind a concrete block. This is one of the more annoying glitches in the game, 
 and more proof that EA rushed this game out.
  
  GRAPHICS: 6/15: Since the DS has only been around for a short amount of time, it is difficult to 
 say what the exact capabilities are. Basically, all we know for certain is that it can render excellent 
 2D graphics and N64-plus calibre 3D graphics.
  
  From a strictly technical aspect, the DS version of Rogue Agent certainly does not push any limits. 
 The graphics are not quite as polished as we have seen in games like Super Mario 64 DS. However, 
 they are tolerable, even though fairly blocky. The framerate usually holds constant, an improvement 
 over the console version, and the general effects are decent.
  
  Like the console version, however, the main fault of the graphics lies not in the technical specs, 
 but more with the design. There is absolutely no originality or variety to this game whatsoever. 
 The most obvious case of this is in the character design. There are only about 6 different skins 
 for the average enemies, meaning that basically every character that isnt a boss or story-mode 
 player is shown to you constantly, with no change in appearance. It may not be annoying at first, 
 but it definitely adds to the blandness of the game. Also, since the game has no cut-scenes, we 
 are not treated to the great character graphics of the console version.
  
  There are numerous little nuances to accompany the others. One of the most annoying (though not 
 nearly as annoying as in the console version) is the fact that the enemies do not bleed. Instead, 
 blue sparks come off of their bodies when they are shot. This may not seem like much when read, 
 but it does get annoying.
  
  The game plays like a broken record, repeating itself constantly and not understanding variety, 
 and the level design reflects that. It seems that almost every area looks pretty much the same, 
 with only slight differences appearing now and then. More variety definitely would have gone a 
 long way.
  
  Overall, the graphics reflect the rest of the game, and are befittingly bland, lacking variety 
 in skins and levels, and with only mediocre technical graphics.
  
  SOUND: 1/10: If there is any part of this game that will send children screaming into the woods, 
 it would be the sound. With the DSs excellent surround sound speakers, there is absolutely no 
 excuse for it.
  
  While the console version did not have great background music, the DS version takes video gaming 
 to a new low with a horrendous backtrack that makes turning on the volume a punishment. Basically, 
 the background music is all the type of stuff that you would normally hear in the backgrounds of 
 websites. Thats right, the MIDIs from eternal damnation. The music never changes to fit a situation, 
 just a godawful repeating sound made from haphazardly combining approximately six different beats 
 (most of which are beeps or boops) . The best option here is to turn the sound right off.
  
  The gun effects are decent, and do a fair job of drowning out the music. They do not excel in any 
 way, and since the best way to play is with no sound, it really makes no difference.
  
  Just for the soundtrack alone, I really put shame on this game. The best way to play is with no 
 sound whatsoever, which is a pity, as the DS does have excellent sound capabilities.
  
  And may this put an end to using MIDIs in modern gaming.
  
  SATISFACTION: 7/25: Pretty much 
 the only reason anyone would consider this game is the fact that it is, so far, the only FPS available 
 for the DS. While I still hold strong that the DS is the perfect system for FPS gaming, this is 
 hardly the flagship game I could expect. This is a shoddy, third-rate FPS with only single-pak 
 multiplayer going for it. If it is FPS action you crave, stick with the consoles for now, as this 
 is just the game to turn you away from your DS.
  
  The lasting appeal on this game is very small. Thanks to having only six boring levels in the campaign 
 mode, there isnt much incentive to replay the game. Virtual Training may occupy you for a small 
 amount of time, but it gets old fast. Unless you know many more FPS freaks with DSs, there is no 
 reason to waste either time or money on this.
  
  TOTAL: 34%: GoldenEye Rogue Agent for the console was a sorry excuse for a game. Hopes for the 
 DS version were high. While it does prove that the DS does have the optimal controls for FPS (though 
 it would work much better without dual wielding) , Rogue Agent is a hollow experience overall.
 
  
  Possibly the worst part of the whole deal is that EA has really salted the wounds of old GoldenEye 
 007 fans. That N64 classic was such an incredibly experience, even today. It is bad enough that 
 EA used the Bond license for no good reason, but the fast that the GoldenEye name was used has 
 simply milked the nostalgia of thousands of fans. Hopefully, EA has learned its lesson and will 
 return with no more of its half-efforted FPS Bond games, and bring another fun third person game 
 like Everything or Nothing. With From Russia With Love, my wish is being fulfilled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt121489
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 17, 2005 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Golden Eye was definately a good game. When I first went to get it I was thinking it was going 
 to be a game that I was going to be playing for a while but I was wrong. It did not take me that 
 long until I noticed i was saving my game and it said "85%" which was also that last level. I thought 
 it was a challening game but it was just too short. Multiplayer is a pretty good feature and the 
 download play isn't bad at all. That is all I really have to say about the game. And if anybody 
 knows how to unlock the multiplayer levels please message me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaxxmom
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2005 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Goldeneye Rouge Agent for the DS is basically the same game that was on the consoles, only smaller 
 and with improvement on the multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are among the best so far on the DS. The frame rate is decent, and there is hardly 
 any slow downs. The slow downs don't occur very frequently, and when they do, they aren't bad enough 
 to get in the way of gameplay.
  
  The touch screen controls are unusable. Because the dual weapons system uses both the shoulder 
 pads, you can't control the stylus and shoot both weapons at the same time. Using both the controller 
 pads is much easier to use, and you can set the sensitivity.
  
  Level design isn't half bad for a Bond game, and of course, this is a hand held version. Like every 
 Bond game, there isn't a huge variety of enemies nor is there a variety of weapons. You cannot 
 carry weapons either, all you can do is switch whenever you want something on the ground.
  
  The only real bad thing about Rouge agent, is the sound. The enemie's voices are fuzzy and 
 you can hardly understand them, and almost all the guns sound exactly the same. The music isn't 
 even like anything from 007. The 007 theme isn't even in this game. The backround music is just 
 some old techno music crap.
  
  The multiplayer is very good compared to the other DS games on the market. Up to 8 players and 
 battle on download play, and up to four when everyone has a copy.
  
  Overall, Rouge Agent isn't exactly a bad game, and it isn't the best. If you can get passed the 
 crappy sound and short story, you'll find a decent game. If you can't, just leave it on the shelves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kernnee
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 9, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Goldenye 64, as we all know, was and argueably still is probably the best console shooter of all 
 time. We also know it is probably on of the best movie to game conversions ever made. But, since 
 Goldeneye, the James Bond series' vidoe games haven't been up even to par with 64. EA owns the 
 license for the series now and have released several games that trail away from movie storylines 
 and and end up with EA's own. Goldeneye: Rouge Agent was released on all consoles last year and 
 made you the bad guy, as a character and for buying the game in the first place. Now the DS get's 
 RA and, EA, as usual have not learned from their mistake.
  
  GoldeneyeRA is an FPS that looks more rushed than the XBOX 360. It doesn't even look as good as 
 the N64's Goldeneye. It really is poor. Death animations are pretty scarce, with about 3 animations. 
 Character design? Well, to be honest, there isn't much. Enimies look clunky and there are about 
 5 characters or less. Level design is bland to say the least. This game looks sub-standard. Little 
 effects like glass breaking and explosions are decent but, again Goldeneye 64 did them better.
 
  
  Gameplay is okay with the touch screen recreating a mouse like feeling, but sometimes it can jerk 
 and send you looking the wrong way. The game has a dual- wielding weapon system which most of can 
 use the L and R buttons for. Unfourtunatly you can only carry one or two weapons at a time which 
 is annoying since G: RA is hardly realistic. There are a good few weapons that range from pistols 
 to machine guns. Grenades are also a good weapon. One of the features is the Goldeneye Goldfinger 
 gives you after a nasty encounter with Dr. No. It gives you the abilty to see thorugh walls and 
 cover, and with the Mag- rail gun, you shoot them before they even see you. This is really a gimmick 
 that does not work all that well and you are almost better off if you don't use it. Enemy A. I is 
 at an all time low, with enemies that love to stand up rather than take cover when reloading. And 
 enemies also love to hang about while you reload. Some nice but iffiy touches like when you enter 
 a room, there could be a giant furnace that if your enemies step near you can active it and toast 
 them, and in turn your enemies occasionaly do this to you. This is nice but RA still has pretty 
 much a terrible campaign mode.
  
  The audio effects of this game have been highlighted by many a reviewer and, yes, I can find better 
 music on my Nokia 3510i, but it isn't that bad as you can just turn the the music off. Gun noises 
 are nice but aren't anything to go crazy about. If anything, the sound is quite grainy, but you 
 can turn that off too.
  
  Rouge Agent has some lasting appeal if you haven't already traded it in. Single card download play 
 lets from 2-8 people play and Muti-card play lets 2-4 players. The multi-player is decent and definatly 
 more fun than the single player but you really need more than one card to get the best out of it.
 
  
  Rouge Agent really is a rushed, gameplay wise, an awfully poor experience. Graphics wise, it could 
 have been slightly better and al round is just a poor game. Multi player just makes it buy-able. 
 But only if you're really, really bored. Really, a paper cut between the toes is more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thespiritoflife
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 8, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Goldeneye Rouge Agent for the console systems did not recieive good ratings. It was the only bond 
 game to not feature "James Bond" in the game and didnt deliver what fans of the series hope to 
 expect. Goldeneye R. A. for the ds though delivers a satisfieing expereince on the other hand. 
 It's the first FPS game to be release for the ds and the whole experience turns out fun in some 
 ways but a little glitchy.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of this game is pretty good for a change, theirs alot of nice textures, 
 i do admit some areas could, ve looked better but the wall, guns, enemys, interaction effect, etc. 
 turns out to show very good for the ds.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay turns out very well implemented for a fps, you got the thumb pad for your 
 right analog movements and the D-pad for your moving around movement. Some things can make the 
 experience a little fustrating sometimes though. For instance one time i was looking to aim at 
 a enemy with the touch screen and i lost control of the view and it reseted to looking somewhere 
 off the screen. It happend to me alot, but it doesnt happen so much as to affect the experience 
 entirely.
  
  Sound: The sound is done pretty well, all the guns got a pretty unique sound to them, some areas 
 could use improvement as some things just make the same noises even though its something different 
 than what you were shooting before.
  
  Value: The lasting value of this game is not so bad, but after the game is all said and done it 
 can get pretty repetitive, all and all this game would not appeal to some people and for others 
 who are looking for a good FPS experience to hold you up until say "metriod" comes out. This game 
 shall deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShaz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 2, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a FPS on the DS Goldeneye: RA will satify until Metroid Prime: Hunters comes 
 out. Mainly because it's the only FPS out yet. The controls are the work like the Metroid demo 
 with the thumb nub device or others if desired. But the Goldeneye powers are controled with the 
 touch screen on the top which makes it hard to hit. The huge problem I had with control is with 
 taking a hostage. To take a hostage you first have to knock a guy and then hit the select button. 
 The select button is all so used to hit switches but when hiting switches you can all so hit a 
 button in the middle of the touch screen but for some reason it does not come up when taking hostages. 
 The gameplay over all is simple as run and gun then let your sheild recharge. It's obivous that 
 sound design was not a major comcern with the developers, for each level there is a 10 second loop 
 of bad techno for each of the levels. It's best to just turn it off. The graphics are the best 
 I've seen so far on the DS but there can be some slow down when there are too many characters on 
 screen at once. The length can be determined on the difficulty you choose the harder the longer. 
 But if you want to unlock everything for multiplayer reasons you will have to choose hard mode 
 which will take some time especially in latter levels. The main draw of this game is the single 
 cart multi play but to get the full experence each person will need there own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opja
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 1, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  (copied and pasted from another sites forum where i originally wrote this)
  
  GoldenEye: Rogue Agent DS.
  
  A port of the dissapointing console FPS released last year, somehow 
 this downgraded version of a bad game turned out better than the original.
  
  Perhaps its because of the controls. The DS' touchscreen works excellenty in emulating mouse control, 
 and the sensitivity can be adjusted to your liking. There are several control layouts; thumbpad, 
 buttons and stylus. While the game was designed with thumbpad control in mind, this can lead to 
 trouble as its limited reach prevents you from reaching your special powers at the top of the screen, 
 and you often find yourself inadvertantly reloading. Button control is similar to that of consoles, 
 but you still have to use the touchscreen to switch weapons and use powers which can be arkward 
 in the middle of a firefight. Stylus control works best, and anyone who played the Metroid Prime: 
 First Hunt demo this way will have no problem quickly adjusting to the slightly altered control 
 scheme put in place for the duel-wielding system.
  
  The game is set in a generic near-future setting with plenty of cliches, but this is forgivable 
 as it is the James Bond fanchise that created most of these cliches.
  
  Gameplay is a lot of fun, and suprisingly difficult, even on the normal setting. Enemy AI is quite 
 basic, but this doesnt detract too much from the gameplay. Enemies AI come in two varieties, seen 
 in equal proportions: stupid enemies that stand still and shoot untill they die (occasionally ducking 
 for cover if it is available) , and slightly smarter ones that run, gun, take cover, and dodge slow 
 moving projectiles such as rockets or grenades effectively. The only problem these enemies seem 
 to have is that they stop in their tracks to reload. There are also minibosses (enemies with shields, 
 helicopters and tanks) and boss characters (famous characters such as Dr. No, Oddjob and [damn GameSpot 
 censoring] Galore) to take on.
  
  There is a variety of weapons, from miniguns to rocket launchers to plasma rifles. Nothing particularly 
 groundbreaking here, but the weapons are well balanced and the duel-wielding makes for some interesting 
 strategic combinations. Oh, theres a railgun too. Opja was most happy.
  
  As well as your guns, you can use your golden eye (You have a mechanical eye. It is golden. Thats 
 the reason for the title. The movie of the same name is completely unrelated to it.) as an offensive 
 or defensive weapon. Powers from your eye include x-ray vision, remote computer hacking, shields, 
 and something like a jedi power that enables you to throw enemies to their doom. You start the 
 game with no powers, and gradually work your way up from there.
  
  The single player campaign consists of 6 story missions and 6 virtual training missions. The story 
 missions are expansive and the levels are well made with plenty of variety. Here you can expect 
 lots of classic Bond style rooftop gunfights, infiltration of secret island bases and so on. Playing 
 through these levels at different difficulty levels unlocks various weapons, levels and bots that 
 can be used in multiplayer or singleplayer skirmishes. The virtual training missions are arena 
 deathmatch type affairs in which you must kill a certain number of bots within a set time limit. 
 These levels all have different themes to them, for example one level has you figting with instant-kill 
 weapons, in another level all the bots have shields which you must use your eyes hacking ability 
 on before you can shoot them. These levels will unlock new abilities for your eye and levels for 
 the skirmish mode.
  
  As well as the campaign, there is a mode for you to practice your multiplayer skills against bots. 
 This also goes by the name of 'virtual training', but is not to be confused with the virtual missions 
 in campaign mode. You start off with few options here, but as you play through the campaign you 
 unlock new weapons, bots, levels and gametypes.
  
  The graphics dont really push the DS to its limits, but they do look nice. Player models are slightly 
 blocky, but level models are well modeled and varied, with plenty of good looking textures so the 
 games look never gets monotonous. The game moves at a constant smooth 60fps. Best of all, theres 
 not a 2D sprite in sight.
  
  Rogue Agents sound is its weakest aspect. The gun sounds are decent, enemy grunts and shouts are 
 passable, but the music is just awful. The less said about it the better. Suffice to say, Ive heard 
 better tunes coming from a NES. Its a good job you can turn off the music completely, which you 
 will probably be doing almost immediately to save your sanity.
  
  This games multiplayer is a blast (no pun intended) , with up to eight players connecting wirelessly 
 from just a single cart. The single cart multiplayer is just a taster, with only the most basic 
 options available, but anything youve unlocked in singleplayer can be used in multi-cart mode. 
 Playing against real people is always better than playing bots, and the duel-wielding and recharging 
 health give this game an almost halo-like feel in multiplayer. i. e. its liquid awesome.
  
  Christ, that was a long review. Time for the scores:
  Graphics: Good graphics and a smooth framerate. 
 8/10
  Sound: Avarage at best. Turn the music OFF. 6/10
  Gameplay: Just plain fun. AI could be better. 8/10
  Longevity: Tough campaign, and plenty to 
 unlock. Multiplayer will keep you coming back. 8/10
  Overall: 7.5/10. Good, but couldve been so much better with a little more time. Still an excellent 
 title to pick up if you are a hardcore FPS fan, or are just looking for something to tide you over 
 untill all the great DS releases around autumn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cramer
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 28, 2005 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Dual handed weapons systems may have been this games shining moment but controlling it was a pain. 
 The whole point of buying a shooter for the DS is to use the touch screen, so I eliminated the 
 idea of using the control settings that let you use the d-pad so I had stylus and thumb mode left. 
 By using the stylus mode you have to change (by touching a small icon) what weapon is fired when 
 you hit the shoulder pad, this gets to be annoying. So I used the thumb setting which requires 
 that you stretch your thumb to the touch screen so this allows you to use both shoulder pads to 
 fire each gun separately. When doing this you should use the thumb strap to touch the screen with, 
 however I have a horrible time trying to keep it on my thumb straight. So I decided to forget that 
 and just use my bare thumb. To do that correctly you have to use your finger nail and make sure 
 not to touch it in two spots or it goes haywire. More problematic is trying to hit the ridiculously 
 small icons to use you golden eye powers also by doing this you smug up the screen .
  
  Once you get over the control problems the game play is really basic, which is not really a bad 
 thing. While you can go around gunning people down you can also run up to them hit them with your 
 gun then take them hostage. This gets you a bonus point. Once you have the hostage you can use 
 them as a shield, throw them into other enemies, or throw them to the ground which somehow kills 
 them automatically. This also gets you a bonus point. So my second time though the game I just 
 ran around hitting people with my gun then throwing them to the ground.
  
  The game itself is very short so dont expect more than an afternoon of playtime. The whole idea 
 of being a villain is ruined by the fact that during the campaign you never fight a good guy, you 
 spend the entire game hunting down Dr. No. On really odd thing used in the game is that you have 
 to play a Simon style game to unlock doors. Also I dont like the concept that in the game there 
 are two guns that can kill you in one shot. I find it very interesting that the game is an almost 
 exact port of the console versions.
  
  The multiplayer mode is fun and is the only reason to buy the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: volumebker
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great shooter game especially for the Nintendo DS. The graphics are decent but there 
 are some small glitches. The campaign mode is somewhat short, only 6 missions, but every mission 
 you earn virtual training, which will keep you busy if you get bored during campaign. The storyline 
 isn't that great, but it doesn't effect the gameplay. The handleing is very good. The sound is 
 like SNES music though, not as good as the DS could of done.
  
  There are several types of control, thumb mode, were you control with the thumb strap on the lower 
 screen and use R for right weapon and L for left weapon; Stylus mode is like Metroid Hunters, use 
 stylus on lower screen to rotate and L to shoot weapons and tap arrow to switch weapons; And last 
 but not least, left and right handed mode were the touch screen is involved very little and you 
 just use the directional pad and the ABXY buttons and the shoulder buttons of course.
  
  The multiplayer is great, but if you only have 1 game card than you can only play one level and 
 one mode, deathmatch. If you have 1 game card, you can have up to 8 players play one game. With 
 multiple cards, you can only have up to four players but there is more variety to levels and modes 
 and weapons. 
  
  The Virtual Training mode is pretty decent although there isn't much of anything exotic or new 
 about it. There are several modes for single player virtual training, deathmatch, goldengun, goldeneye, 
 license to kill, you only live twice and so on. There are six levels to choose from, but you have 
 to unlock five of them by winning the virtual training modes in the campaighn.
  
  Overall, this game is a great game for the Nintendo DS. Good graphics, good handleing, great gameplay, 
 good value but not so good in the sound department. But those that are good are what make yup a 
 great FPS. This game is addicting and will keep you busy in long car rides, plane flights, or just 
 when your at bored at home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdevlin77
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 27, 2005 1:19 am PT
Review:  Goldeneye: Rogue Agent is the first FPS on the DS (excluding the Metroid Prime Demo) , and you should 
 give it some slack just for that. Even though it isn't going to be considered a masterpeice any 
 time soon, it still offers a solid single player experience and some fun multiplayer too.
  
  The premise is the following: you're the bad guy this time, so you have to do bad stuff. It's 
 actually a bit more deep than that, about some kind of rediculous story where Goldfinger and Dr. 
 No have some kind of war, but due to the DS's limits, you're given the bare bones of the actual 
 plot. The story is generally told through boring scrolling text and short cutscenes. Yet, this 
 doesn't keep handicap the game very much.
  
  The one thing that really shines in Goldeneye DS is the gameplay. Like the Metroid Prime Hunters 
 Demo that shipped with the DS in North America, you use the touch screen to aim, which I find alot 
 more precise and fun than if one had to use the face buttons. Plus, the game offers different control 
 options, so if you prefer to use the thumb pad, the stylus or face buttons, that isn't much a problem. 
 These options unfortunatly are not too well covered in the manual though, so you'll have to do 
 alot of experimenting before you get really started with the game.
  
  The AI is quite impressive for the DS's first FPS outing. Enemies take cover and use traps against 
 you. They don't run into walls or seem to predict magically where you are. You will get shot at 
 alot, but the game gives you alot of health to consume. Also, in a nice move by the developers, 
 the game encourages you to aim for headshots, since you are rewarded sometimes with your enemy's 
 armor.
  
  Goldeneye offers several modes of play. The single player "campaign" mode offers 6 pretty big levels. 
 It also offers 4 difficulty modes, including "You Only Live Once", where you have to beat an entire 
 level without getting killed one time (near impossible, really) . Sometimes I got stuck on what 
 exactly I had to do to advance in the level, but generally you find out after a while. The levels 
 are quite fun, and are worth playing over and over again. The single player mode is a great way 
 to waste time during a train or plane voyage.
  
  There is also "Virtual Training", a deathmatch mode where you can unlock special powers that you 
 can use in the Campaign portion of the game or levels to the Multiplayer bit (more on that later) . 
 It's a good way of getting aquainted with the game and practicing. This is another great way to 
 spend time playing, as you can't really complete it 100% and it can be REALLY challenging.
  
  Goldeneye also gives us some great multiplayer action. You can play against eight of your friends 
 wirelessly with only one copy of the game, except you are limited to deathmatch on one rather average 
 map. On the other hand, if everybody has their copy of the game, you can enjoy a variety of different 
 game modes and several really fun multiplayer maps. The maps in this mode are really great, as 
 they vary from places like a Funhouse to the Golden Gate Bridge. I tried this last mode with my 
 friends and I can tell you it's worth the 30 bucks alone, possibly the best multiplayer action 
 on the DS I have ever played. However, many of the best maps and skins for the multi-player have 
 to be unlocked in the campaign mode first. So, before you go inviting your friends over for some 
 awesome wireless multiplayer, be sure you unlock the majority of the maps in single-player mode 
 first.
  
  Graphics-wise, this game is quite impressive on the DS. It's nice to see a DS game in full 3D once 
 in a while. The enviroments you can play in vary from inside secret labs to ziplining from rooftop 
 to rooftop in Hong Kong. You can use about a dozen different guns, such as pistols to lasers to 
 rocket launchers. It's nothing as impressive as say, visuals on the PSP, but hey, it's still quite 
 nice.
  
  The sound is the worst I've heard in a game ever. I'm serious. It will literally DRIVE YOU INSANE. 
 I find it really a slap in the face to the DS, because after hearing the sound in games like Mario 
 64 DS, whoever made the music for Goldeneye DS should be shot. Probably the developers ran out 
 of space on that tiny weeny DS cartridge and had to settle for music the caliber of NES games. 
 The sound effects arn't special or anything, but at least they'll give you some grace from that 
 painful music. I just turn the sound off.
  
  Even though the single player campaign is rather short, the game still has a pretty long replay 
 factor. Several difficulty modes encouraged me to keep on replaying the campaign, and there is 
 alot of stuff to unlock, such as levels for the Virtual Training or Multiplayer maps and options. 
 And the wireless deathmatch is definatly a keeper.
  
  So in conclusion, Goldeneye: Rogue Agent, even if it wasn't a remake of Goldeneye 007 on the N64 
 like many were hoping, is still really amusing. I strongly recommend this game for those who have 
 alot of friends that own the DS. The Wi-Fi multiplayer is loads of fun. As for those who just want 
 to play the single player mode, just rent it, it isn't worth the 30 bucks. The one thing this game 
 really proves though, is that FPS's are the way to go on the DS, and it should not be ignored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolio1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 24, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  With the Metroid Prime Hunters demo that was distributed with many DS systems, people got a glimpse 
 of how well the touch screen can really enhance the gameplay of an FPS on a handheld system. I 
 for one thought it showed great potential for future games and finally some shooters I could take 
 on the road. Unfortunately, Hunters is still a ways off (at the time I am writing this) , so Rogue 
 Agent could surely be a good substitution while I wait. The game is decent, but in the end feels 
 rushed and probably won't be able to stack up as well against Hunters.
  
  First off, if you want an FPS to play on your DS and don't want to wait, Rogue Agent is still a 
 good choice for a number of reasons. The graphics are some of the best I've seen thus far in terms 
 of the 3D environments that can only be rivaled by Super Mario 64 DS. Many of the levels are quite 
 expansive and have a decent amount of detail. Rogue Agent looks along like lines of Perfect Dark 
 or Goldeneye for 64. Not bad for a little handheld. The character models are pretty good and the 
 animations aren't half bad either.
  
  Unfortunately, the sound quality is rather poor. The music, sound effects, and voice clips are 
 of pretty low quality. Even though it is a portable platform, games like Super Mario 64 and Feel 
 the Magic show that the DS is capable of much better sound than what Rogue Agent puts out.
  
  Gameplay wise, Rogue Agent gets a little funky. There are a total of 4 control set-ups, two 
 with the touch-screen and two without. The button configurations involve using the D-pad and face 
 buttons for moving and looking. The difference between the two is that the two sides swith roles. 
 These are the hardest to use to aim at opponents. Using the touch-screen is far more effective. 
 In thumb mode you can use the thumbstrap for looking and either the D-pad or face buttons for movement. 
 Last is the sylus control. I find this to be the easiest to use. The D-pad is movement while you 
 can look with the stylus and shoot with L. In Rogue Agent you do dual wield, and since you only 
 have one fire button with this config, you can link the fire of your weapons. Not surprisingly, 
 this control setup I feel is the best is the same as Metroid Prime Hunters.
  
  The game itself a few different modes. The campaign, or story mode, follows the other versions 
 pretty well. However, the story isn't that great and you can probably finish this part of the game 
 in a day if you're that dedicated. There is also a few virtual training missions you can do to 
 unlock skins of weapons for the game's multiplayer modes. Multiplayer itself can be played alone 
 with bots, but isn't much fun because the AI is pretty stupid. There is single card and multi-card 
 play for up to 8 players. Single card is limited to only one arena and deathmatch only. Even still, 
 get three or more people and it can be a real blast. With multi-card, all of the other game modes 
 and levels are available to you.
  
  In all, Rogue Agent is good game, especially if you've got some friends to play with. Probably 
 the games biggest asset is multiplayer. Once you get used to the controls it plays pretty well 
 and looks good too. Pick it up if you can't stand waiting for Prime Hunters. But if you're pretty 
 patient, you can probably hold off on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 24, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  ok, so a remake of goldeneye 64 would be really cool, but this is good enough. GRA DS is a solid 
 fps for a the DS, featuring cool weapons, unique powers, and great multiplayer! Let me start by 
 saying, you can blow through the the single player of the game, in like, 2-3 hours maximum, so 
 its not the main appeal of this game. I'll talk about the good part after I say the music is crap. 
 It suck's !@#%. but the sound is pretty OK. the multiplayer is the main aspect of this game after 
 you beat the game, you can have up to 8 players in multiplayer. you can even play BOT matches. 
 The graphics are ok for DS. so overall, this is the Killer app for the DS in my opinion, if your 
 still wondering, wether to buy a DS or PSP though, the PSP is the obvious choice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mschemen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best portable FPS I have ever played. The control is great using the DS touch 
 screen to aim. The levels are large and can be challenging. The three difficulty levels allow you 
 to adjust the game to your skill or replay at a higher level once finished. The virtual training 
 allows you to have an instant battle against computer controlled characters. As you progress, you 
 unlock smarter enemies and more training rooms. The graphics are smooth and clear. I can't believe 
 the gamespot has reviewed this game so low. Comparing an portable to consoles is unacceptable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-bad
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  To start the game does have some problems with poor background music, and weak AI ..... but in 
 truth the sound can be turned off and the AI may not react in a real life way but they are out 
 to finish you off and after dealing with aload of them all firing automatic and having heavy body 
 armor it easy to see why they just stand there. Only a head shot or a few shots to the head can 
 take them down quickly. Now while I'm not a fan of the music the other sound in the game are good 
 there are even times when you here the AI say fire which is funny and a good clue to when they 
 are trying to surround you.
  
  Game play is this games strong point it really show that the nds is capable of handling a FPS action 
 game. The action is fast and really keeps you moving, the AI is really on a mission to stop you 
 and the Golden Eye abilities really come in handy, the extra shielding, the ability to hack and 
 remove the AI shielding, or take them down with a shot through the wall when the mag rail and vision 
 mode are on, or the power punch for close range attacks all come into play and are useful. The 
 game control especially with the thumb strip are great and this set up allow for dual wielding 
 and the best aiming, my only problem is that the Golden Eye abilities are just small icon that 
 are hard to get to in the heat of battle.
  
  The Graphic are good the only thing that stops it from being great are some poor collision detection 
 issues where the AI doesn't seem to react to your shots and the AI can shot through walls with 
 just handguns leading to cheap kills from AI that you dont even see. They really needed to do more 
 work on the level design but overall what's seen is good to look at .
  
  Value the game is a good buy it has a good amount of single player modes ( the campaign and training 
 modes) plus a load of multi-player modes to keep you in the game for some time. The Multi-player 
 maps have to be unlock by completing the training modes this also unlock extras character and weapons. 
 The game comes with four level of play to keep you on edge, there are also bots in the multi-player 
 mode so you can play it when alone. But when you are around others with the game then the full 
 multi-player experience can be had but if they dont have the game the single cart download mode 
 is a cool way to have a taste of some cool multi-player action. 
  
  Over all the good does out weight the bad and make Golden Eye Rogue Agent a solid game that has 
 been underrated by some, but to those to who own the game know it's worth having. It has great 
 control and game play loads of extras and a great multi-player mode that even takes advantage of 
 the single cart feature of the NDS. This really is a game worth owning and every NDS owner should 
 at least play it to see what it's like. While not prefect the first FPS game for the NDS is a solid 
 game that fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 23, 2005 4:10 am PT
Review:  now the first thing i thought when picking up the game was, "oh great, here we go again." , but 
 i must admit i was very wrong. when i booted up the game i thought it was difficult to control 
 and already gave it a bad rep., but after getting over the glory that was kirby i went back to 
 it and tried through all the controls to see which ones suited me best. All i know about my control 
 right now is that i dont use the stylus. Anyways, once i got started it was amazingly... fun. i 
 was very surprised. Sure I didnt get into it like kirby: cc, but it was one of the greatest games 
 on the ds! The levels are well designed, and the bad guys all have life like movements, ie. they 
 reload their guns, when they get shot in a certain area they react in a certain movement, so on 
 and so on. The only thing that really bothered me was the 2-d fire and the weird looking smoke 
 effects. The fire is basicly a 2d picture that moves when you and the smoke is just a big billow 
 of black and a little gray. i know i cant exspect much because the systems capabilitys cant probrably 
 make the best looking effects, but i thought they could have done better. The worst thing about 
 the game is the horrid music. it sounds like some kind of a crappy ring tone or something and it 
 repeats itself over and over! This is another very multiplayer focused game also though. it features 
 up to 8 player for one gamepack. this is a GREAT feature if you know friends who have ds's. i give 
 it an 8.3 because its probrably the 2nd best game out there right now!
  
  if you dont think this is the game for you check out these other great ds titles: kirby's: crystal 
 canvus and bomberman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox2892
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is great while it last but is very easy to beat. Its a nice little first person shooter 
 that is surprisingly good. The graphics are probabaly the best graphics we have seen on the ds 
 besides Super Mario DS. The music they play can get annoying but its not all that bad. They basicly 
 play that same song during the whole game. Note: It is not the cool song from the orginal James 
 Bond. The song from like the movies and the old games. The value wasnt all bad considering it coming 
 from EA you would think it would be $29.99. Multi-Player is lots of fun if you have freinds with 
 a ds. Not everyone needs this game to play multi-player. It only requires one cartrige for people 
 as high to 16 people can play at a time. This is with only one cartrige. That is proabably its 
 coolest feature. As to know I guess this game would be worth it to pick up if you had the money. 
 I have experienced with the game that most others were considering"kirby" and I have to say I like 
 this one better. That game is just so chillidish and colorful. Not for me. Uses the touch screen 
 which is boring to use because its so simple. Its also more money and there is now multi-player. 
 I consider this game over kirby anyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusedFable
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 17, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  I picked up Goldeneye: Rogue Agent because it was the only FPS on the DS and I was bored of waiting 
 for Metroid to come out. It was a total waste of time and money. I put the game in started it up 
 to hear the first of many bad sounds emitting from my DS (the game music) . No, nothing was wrong 
 with my DS except that Goldeneye was being played on it.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are horrible. Yes, horrible. I have played hours of the Metroid Prime: Hunters 
 demo, so I know that FPS's can be played on the DS. First the touch screen wasn't fast enough and 
 I had to slide my thumb across multiple times to even turn around. So, I increased the sensitivity. 
 This allowed me to turn around with one flick of the thumb, but now the cross-hairs twitched with 
 ever little movement of my thumb. Tiburon should have had a movement threshold that ignored touchpad 
 movement up to a specified amount. This made the game almost unplayable.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look like a crappy N64 game which isn't that absurd because the DS has roughly 
 the same graphical power as the N64. But that doesn't excuse the designers for making ever texture 
 the colors of either gray or brown. Everything was drab looking. The enemies ran very stiff and 
 worst of all they didn't react to gun fire. Yes, the enemies don't even flinch if you shoot them 
 right in the head. The same crappy spark animation pops of their head and they go on standing there 
 like a manikin.
  
  Sound: Bad does not describe the wretchedness of the sound in this game. Squealing midi music and 
 the sound effects out of an Atari 2600 game are all you will hear after you start playing this 
 game. No sound at all would have been an improvement.
  
  Value: This game will have a lifespan of now to when Metroid Prime Hunters is released. After that 
 the game will go in the bargain bin and hopefully never see the light of day again. This game will 
 be played this summer by bored DS owners looking for a game to hold them over until this fall, 
 but I suspect most would rather continue to be bored than play this game.
  
  Tilt: I hate this game. Its bad in every way. I cant play any of the game modes without hearing 
 ear bleeding music. I cant control my aim without being either unresponsive or shaky. The training 
 mode (which usually means Multiplayer with bots) is mind numbing because only a few enemies are 
 ever in the giant gray box that is the multiplayer levels. Multiplayer with only one cartridge 
 is useless because you can only play on one level (the aforementioned giant gray box) . Multiplayer 
 would be okay if the MP: Hunters demo wasnt already better than a $30 game.
  
  My final thought is: Dont buy this game. Its a piece of crap.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandra8118
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Well just like the rest of you waited sooooo long for something for us older ppl to play on the 
 DS. Rogue agent could have been great except for.. say it with me the stupid save system. How many 
 of you will still be playing late into the night like me (last night) because you didn't want to 
 have to start all over if you turn off the game stupid stupid stupid!!!. oh well what can we do 
 we do with soooo little to chose from with this system. I also have the PSP and am wiaiting for 
 Coded Arms to come out I hope and pray a little also that the save system for that game is better 
 than Golden Eye Rogue Agent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kumunga
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2005 10:37 pm PT
Review:  i picked up golden eye yesterday the 14th i had it on pre-order ...... anyways i think this game 
 is way under rated!!!! it has the best controls the weapons are sweet my fav is the rocket launcher 
 and the sniper rifle o yeah by the way you can easily tell when youve shot the a. i.. the story 
 is ok... you tell whats going on pretty much through the whole campaign..... the A. I can be quite 
 challenging you can put the game on three diffrent difficulties easy, medium, and hard.
  overall its a must have for DS owners the only thing thats bad is the music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 15, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-9 These are the most crisp, clean graphics so far on the DS, easily passing the N64. The 
 environments are nice, and pretty detailed.
  
  Gamplay-9 This is very fun. The enemie's A. I. is actually pretty good. You can play a mulitplayer-type 
 game with bots and the campaign for single player. The muliplayer is so awesome! 8 player muliplayer 
 is so fun!
  
  Sound-5 the tracks and music suck, but the sound effetcs are pretty good.
  
  Value-8 you have a bunch of modes in Multiplayer, and campaign and a simulater game for single 
 player
  
  Tilt-9 this is a very fun game, the killer app that DS needs! Get it, it is very fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 10:35 am PT
Review:  As most of you know, this is a conversion of the 2004 Goldeneye: Rogue Agent game that was on the 
 3 consoles. But the unique thing about this version, is that instead of a standard controller (which 
 is an option) you can use the touchscreen for much more accurate controls.
  
  Gameplay- 6 - There are a couple issues with the game seeming to jump from time to time, but that 
 appears to be more because I accidently hit the ABXy buttons during play. It'd be nice if you could 
 turn those off to prevent slips. Also, the game sometimes blocks your gunfire when your too close 
 to an object, even if the barrel is completely clear of the obstruction. But these are minor issues 
 and easily compensated for after playing the first level or two.
  
  Graphics- 7- The graphics are ok, still a nice looking game.
  
  Sound- 3- This is the other 
 issue, probably the biggest one of the game. The misic track sounds like something out of original 
 DOOM or old DOS games. While I grew up on these games and the music really doesn't bother me, I 
 know the tracks can & should be WAY better. EA once again cheaped out on the soundtrack (much like 
 in NFSU 2 for the DS) . The sound effects are pretty good though, which is the only reason the score 
 is above 1.
  
  Value- 6- The multiplayer is cool with friends, but the single player may bot hold you for terribly 
 long
  
  Tilt- 8- First full FPS on DS, I'll give it credit for that 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
