-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/grandtheftautochinatownwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Doesn't feel like a compromise compared to other GTA games.
 Improves upon previous games with new features.
 The massive Liberty City from GTAIV is instantly recognizable.
 Intuitive controls make great use of touch screen.
 Lengthy story, loads of optional activities, and fun multiplayer modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Multiplayer supports only two people.
 Camera doesn't always afford you a clear view of action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 17, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.4, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 999 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar Leeds
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Mar 17, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This isn't just a DS version of GTA; this is a fantastic game that advances the series by introducing 
 a number of great new features. 

  At first glance, Chinatown Wars could be mistaken for a return to the Grand Theft Auto series' 
 humble 2D beginnings. The action is viewed from a more or less top-down perspective, and of course 
 you still spend much of your time driving stolen cars and causing trouble with firearms. But the 
 similarities between this superb Nintendo DS game and its '90s progenitors pretty much end there. 
 Chinatown Wars actually has more in common with GTAs III and IV than it does with earlier games, 
 and, remarkably, it even adds to and improves on the formula that made those games so successful. 
 That's a bold statement for sure, but Chinatown Wars really is that good.  

           Liberty City is almost as impressive on the DS as it is in GTAIV.      

  Set in the 
 same instantly recognizable Liberty City as GTAIV (minus one island) , Chinatown Wars tells the 
 story of a power struggle within the Triad gangs from the perspective of Huang Lee, whose crime-boss 
 father has recently been murdered. Huang flies to Liberty from Hong Kong to avenge his father, 
 and predictably becomes embroiled in the war between those hoping to step into the dead man's shoes. 
 As Huang, you advance the story -- which should take you about nine hours to play through -- by undertaking 
 missions for a number of different characters within the Triad organization, as well as for one 
 or two people outside of it. Many of these missions involve the usual mix of driving fast, killing 
 people, and not getting caught by the cops, but there are plenty of varied and memorable missions 
 as well, a number of which put the touch screen to great use.  

  For the most part, Chinatown Wars plays just like any other GTA game, which is an achievement in 
 itself. Basic controls for movement and car-jacking are mapped to the same button positions that 
 they are on other platforms. The uncomplicated on-foot and vehicle controls are largely the same 
 (sprint becomes accelerate, shoot is still shoot) , so even those of you with no prior GTA experience 
 should have no trouble picking them up quickly. There are some great options to make the game even 
 more user-friendly as well, such as autotargeting for drive-by shootings and a subtle steering 
 assist that automatically straightens up your vehicle so that it's parallel with the road that 
 you're on. There's even an option to superimpose GPS directions directly onto the street, which 
 works a lot better than having to look down at the map on the bottom screen.  

  One downside to Chinatown Wars being so uncompromising in its attempt to replicate the GTA experience 
 is that, because the DS has fewer buttons than other systems, you're occasionally required to use 
 the touch screen at inopportune times. It's not a big problem, but despite the fact that it's implemented 
 well, having to use the touch screen to both switch between weapons and to throw projectile weapons 
 such as grenades, Molotov cocktails, and flashbangs is a little unwieldy. It's unfortunate, because 
 elsewhere in the game the touch screen really adds to the experience, with minigames that let you 
 take a more hands-on approach to tasks that otherwise wouldn't be interactive at all. For example, 
 when you attempt to steal a parked car, there's a good chance that you'll have to complete one 
 of three minigames to get it started: rotating a screwdriver in the ignition, entering an immobilizer 
 PIN, or unscrewing a panel on the steering column and hot-wiring. More imaginative touch-screen 
 minigames include making your own Molotov cocktails at the gas station, tattooing gang recruits, 
 searching Dumpsters for weapons and discarded food, and using a salvage boat's sonar to search 
 for drug shipments lost at sea, to name but a few. What all of these minigames have in common is 
 that they're quick, fun, rarely challenging enough to halt your progress, and are mandatory only 
 once.  

  Story missions are also mandatory only once, but Chinatown Wars is the first game in the series 
 to let you replay any mission that you've beaten previously in an attempt to achieve a higher score 
 or a faster time. Another great addition for missions is the "trip skip" option that, if you choose 
 to retry an eligible mission immediately after failing it, lets you bypass the road trip at the 
 start of the mission and get right back into the action that killed you on your last attempt. None 
 of the missions are so difficult that you should fail them more than once or twice, but this is 
 a welcome feature nonetheless, and one that will hopefully be implemented in other GTA games down 
 the road.  

           There are dozens of different vehicles, and they all handle differently.      

  When 
 you're not carrying out missions handed to you by central characters and by random pedestrians 
 that you encounter, there are an impressive number of other things to do in Liberty City, some 
 old, some new. For example, stealing a cop car, an ambulance, a cab (you can hail these by whistling 
 into the mic if you really want to) , a fire truck, or a noodle delivery van will give you the option 
 to make some money impersonating those vehicles' rightful owners. And if you successfully steal 
 a delivery van that's being used to transport drugs or weapons and get it back to one of your secluded 
 safe houses, you get to keep its contents. Weapons can be tricky to obtain this way because the 
 Ammu-Nation drivers are invariably well armed. But stealing drugs is far less challenging, and 
 if you get them for free then making a profit is inevitable when you meet with any of the 80 dealers 
 who, once you find them, can be traded with to make relatively easy money. That's provided that 
 there are no police in the immediate vicinity, because they'll either spook the dealer before you 
 can make the deal or wait for you to close it and then move in to make arrests. Interacting with 
 a dealer in any way adds him to your GPS system's database for future reference, so anytime you 
 see a telltale blue dot on your map, it's well worth a quick detour to check it out.  

  Other things to look out for in Liberty City include parked vehicles that initiate checkpoint races 
 and delivery missions when you climb into them, unique stunt jumps that are set up so that you 
 can crash through billboards, a go-kart race track, and 100 security cameras that can be destroyed 
 using grenades or Molotovs. Chinatown Wars also sees the welcome return of Rampage missions, which 
 are against-the-clock killing sprees that challenge you to kill a certain number of enemies using 
 a specific weapon, sometimes with an AI-controlled henchman or two at your side.  

  Incidentally, weapons are in plentiful supply, and can be ordered from Ammu-Nation's Web site using 
 your in-game PDA. There are more than 20 different weapons to play with in Chinatown Wars, including 
 everything from fists, flashbangs, and flamethrowers to swords, shotguns, and sniper rifles. Most 
 weapons fall into either the ranged (lock on and hit A) , melee (lock on and hit A) , or thrown (determine 
 range and direction with touch screen) classes as far as controls go, and all perform their jobs 
 admirably. The sniper rifle is unique in that it comes into play only in specific missions, must 
 be assembled via a touch-screen minigame before use, and turns the entire top screen into a crosshair. 
 Proximity mines that you drop at your feet are also a fun addition to the GTA arsenal, though they 
 remain armed for only a few seconds before they explode without provocation. The most powerful 
 weapons become readily available only toward the end of the game, which is just as well because 
 as soon as you get your hands on a flamethrower or an armful of flashbangs, they make subsequent 
 missions much easier.     

   

  With so many readily available weapons, the Liberty City Police Department is an ever-present danger, 
 and they're quick to give chase if they witness you doing anything untoward. Similarly to previous 
 GTA games, a rating of between one and six stars lets you know how badly the police want to get 
 their hands on you. The more trouble you cause the higher your rating, and the higher your rating 
 the more cops will come after you. With a one-star rating, you rarely have more than one or two 
 patrol cars on your case, but by the time you get up to the maximum six stars, you can expect roadblocks, 
 search helicopters, and riot vans.  

  Traditionally, getting away from the police in a GTA game has involved outrunning them, finding 
 a secluded spot to lay low, or ducking into a Pay 'n Spray auto shop to give your car a makeover. 
 You could fight the police if you really wanted to, but your aggression would generally just anger 
 them more. In Chinatown Wars, you have an additional option that turns the old system on its head 
 to some degree, and the resulting car chases are better than those in any previous game as a result. 
 The new system is simple but immensely satisfying; if you have a three-star wanted rating, destroying 
 three cop cars will knock it down to a two-star rating, and so on. You can destroy the cop cars 
 either by crashing into them at great speed or by racing around and narrowly missing environmental 
 obstacles in the hope that they'll make a mistake and crash themselves. The key thing to remember 
 is that you have to destroy the cop cars without actually killing the cops inside, so stepping 
 out of your vehicle with a rocket launcher isn't the way to play on this occasion.  

           Wrecking police cars to escape from them makes cop chases more fun than ever.      

 
  The in-game camera does a superb job of following you around for the most part, and you can reposition 
 it behind yourself at any time with a quick tap of the left shoulder button, but it seems unavoidable 
 that your view will still be obscured from time to time. There are a lot of tall buildings in some 
 neighborhoods that get in the way when the camera is slow to reposition itself, and good luck if 
 you're involved in a gunfight while surrounded by trees -- you won't be able to see much of anything. 
 The verticality of Liberty City's architecture adds to its already impressive sense of scale, but 
 occasionally it gets in the way of the gameplay.  

  On the subject of gameplay, taking advantage of the local multiplayer support for two people in 
 Chinatown Wars is arguably even more fun than playing through the story. Support for more players 
 or via Wi-Fi would be welcome, of course, but there's a great selection of modes here that are 
 a blast in spite of the low player count. There are races that almost always involve you destroying 
 one another's vehicles or ditching them when you find a faster vehicle, especially if you opt for 
 the Death Race variant and set the default vehicles as tanks. There's a Stash Dash mode in which 
 you rush across the city and fight for the controls of a delivery van, after which you attempt 
 to make deliveries while your opponent does anything they can to stop you. And there's a surprisingly 
 fun one-on-one deathmatch mode called Liberty City Survivor that's action-packed from start to 
 finish because police are watching your every move and are quick to join the fray the moment you 
 give them an excuse to. Defend the Base mode challenges you to work together and prevent a number 
 of targets that are coming under fire from being destroyed for a period of time, and Gang Bang 
 is an objective-based game in which you're each accompanied by a number of henchmen and take turns 
 to attack and defend your respective assets. Gang Bang games can take a long time because the winner 
 not only needs to destroy a series of objectives, but must also plant a bomb that takes several 
 seconds -- an eternity when you're unable to defend yourself -- to arm. There's a small problem in 
 Gang Bang mode that results in characters sometimes wearing the colors of the opposing team rather 
 than their own, but -- like all of the multiplayer modes -- it's still a lot of fun if players are 
 evenly matched.  

  In addition to local multiplayer support, Chinatown Wars offers Wi-Fi functionality that doesn't 
 involve head-to-head gameplay, but is still pretty neat in its own right. After exchanging friend 
 codes with other players, you can send messages to each other in-game, trade weapons and other 
 items, and even exchange GPS locations that you've marked as favorites. If you connect to the Rockstar 
 Social Club, you can also upload your in-game stats to the site's leaderboards and, purportedly, 
 unlock bonus missions that unfortunately were not available for us to check out at the time of 
 this review.  

           Hot-wiring cars is one of the many minigames you play on the touch screen.      

  
 It's hard to imagine anyone with even passing interest in Chinatown Wars not having a great time 
 with it, but what's even more impressive than the open-world gameplay is the quality of its presentation. 
 Technically, no other DS game even comes close to achieving what Chinatown Wars has by squeezing 
 GTAIV's Liberty City onto the system. And that feat is made all the more impressive by the clean, 
 black-outlined art style and staggering level of detail that's evident on every inch of the map. 
 Cutscenes are impressive in a different way; they're not animated or voiced, but the quality of 
 the stylized illustrations is uniformly high, and the series' dark and self-referential humor is 
 evident in practically every line of conversation.  

  Chinatown Wars' audio also does very little wrong. Five radio stations offer instrumental rock, 
 electronic, dub, hip-hop, and jazz tracks that either complement or serve as perfect counterpoints 
 to the action depending on which you listen to. Furthermore, every item in the city appears to 
 have a believable sound effect associated with it, whether it be the shattering of glass when you 
 destroy a bus stop, the squelch of a pedestrian becoming a roadkill statistic, the satisfying spin 
 of a minigun, or something as mundane as the thud of a traffic cone being displaced.  

  Perhaps what's most amazing about Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars is that it doesn't feel like 
 a scaled-down handheld version of a GTA game. Rather, it feels like a logical and somewhat experimental 
 progression for the series, introducing a handful of great new features that seem destined to become 
 standard in future iterations. And don't let the art style or the presence of simple minigames 
 fool you; Chinatown Wars is every bit as deserving of its mature rating as previous games. It's 
 also one of the best GTA games yet.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DistantStar11
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Overhead camera makes gameplay feel totally new 
  Missions are very diverse and have a great feel to them
  Drug-Dealing is extremely additive and 
 adds hours of gameplay
  Combat is easy
  New weapons are great
  Touch screen tasks are actually fun
  Other activities to do around the city besides missions
 
  
  The Bad:
  Weak muti-player aspect
  Taxis are rare and usually taken
  
  Despite GTA4's huge popularity, Grand Theft Auto Chinatown Wars is just as good or better than 
 Rockstar's last installment of the series. The overhead view is great, driving cars is fun, and 
 touch screen elements fit nicely in the experience. The combat is fun, easy to get use to and can't 
 be beat as far as the DS goes. The Drug-Dealing is also really fun and can add hours to gameplay. 
 So, overall this is a game that you shouldn't miss especially if you are a DS owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poorisaac
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:23 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto on DS. Most people hear that and are instantly turned off at the idea of a series 
 that relies so much on it's immersion and big world to run around in being scaled down to a handheld. 
 Well, those people will be pleasantly surprised when I tell them that Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown 
 Wars is quite possibly the best GTA yet.
  
  Everything you would ever want from Rockstar's flagship series is here, in tact, and running smoothly. 
 From the controls to the simplistic yet charming visuals, it is all there. How they got Liberty 
 City to look as great on those two small screens as they did is beyond me but they pulled it off. 
 From hot dog stands to places you definitely remember going to as Niko Bellic in GTA IV, minus 
 one island, the transition from blockbuster console title to DS masterpiece holds up. 
  
  I want to start with playability because that is probably where this game succeeds the most. From 
 the second you start playing the game you feel like you are playing any other Grand Theft Auto. 
 That may sound like a negative thing but I assure you that it is nothing but fantastic. They managed 
 to map all on foot controls to the D-Pad so there is no more worry about turning in the direction 
 you want to move in. Holding A to sprint, Y does a forward roll and hurdles obstacles, X enters 
 vehicles, and B makes your guns and fists and whatever other weapons you may cause senseless violence 
 with do the talking. All targeting is mapped to the R button which makes blowing a certain someone 
 away a matter of a tiny movement of the pointer finger. The driving is standard GTA affair, while 
 every car handles differently. The fact that you can set someone ablaze by burning rubber is nothing 
 short of hilarious. The implementation of the touch screen is where this game truly shines and 
 stands out as one of the best DS titles yet. Find yourself being driven off a dock into the ocean? 
 You will find yourself tapping a touch screen windshield until it shatters to make your escape. 
 Scratch tickets to win a fortune, sell drugs from your man bag, or assemble your sniper rifle on 
 a roof top. These are just a few of the ways you will find yourself using the touch screen for. 
 The DS brought more cards to the table and we were already playing with a full deck with GTA 4. 
 
  
  All of the seediness and foul humor typical of the franchise is here as well. Although the story 
 itself was a bit lacking due to it being one giant fetch quest it still holds up quite well through 
 its storyboard presentation. Huang Lee is not the coolest character the series has to offer and 
 you won't always care about his quest for a sword that was stolen from him. The supporting cast 
 is actually pretty stale and boring. This is probably one of the only components to the game that 
 I found lacking. Most of the people you meet throughout the story are stereotypical and very cliche. 
 As for the plot, well the twists that they have I don't really consider twists at all. Then again, 
 this game was not meant to show DS fans the power of narrative, it was to show that you can have 
 a fully functional GTA in such a small package. 
  
  One of my favorite and what I believed the funnest mechanic of the game was the police chases. 
 This is actually something I believe should be implemented in future GTA's. Rather than gaining 
 stars and just evading the police by getting out of sight or out of a certain radius, you must 
 wreck the other police cars. You can't just keep running because the police will still be on you. 
 In order to drop stars you have to destroy, non-lethally, a certain number of police vehicles. 
 This can generally be done by simply making them crash into buildings, traffic, or into the ocean. 
 It sounds easy but when you get into the 4+ star chases it becomes a real challenge when you have 
 to figure out how to take down tanks, all while dodging law enforcement gunfire. 
  
  I honestly can't recommend this game enough to the adult DS owners out there who are looking for 
 a very fun, very grown up game. Chinatown Wars succeeds in so many areas as a GTA as well as a 
 game that any shortcomings you might find with the game will be easily overshadowed simply by how 
 much fun you will find yourself having. If you could only play one DS title this year (assuming 
 you are old enough) look no further than Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brianfox1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:35 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto (GTA) Chinatown Wars comes from a long line of GTA games. It is the first GTA 
 game to be on the DS. It's the latest installment to the series and it's very close to the best 
 of the series. It is the only GTA game to have mission replay. In mission replay you can replay 
 your favorite mission while you are replaying the game times you and you have a record you can 
 try to beat whenever you want. Unlike most games in its series you can only store one car in each 
 garage. One thing I liked is how in other GTA games you have to do the vigilante the game gives 
 you in this one you are able to access the police computer and sometimes you have up to three choices 
 to choose from. It will also tell you on what kind of weapons they have, what kind of car they 
 are in, and how far away they are. At some points in the game you will have to buy and sell drugs 
 to dealers around the city but sometimes the cops will see you and you'll get an automatic two 
 star wanted level. Also in this game you are able to tattoo people in the tattoo parlor right behind 
 your first safehouse, and you are able to play scratch cards for weapons, money, and food.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tasty-man
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  For nintendo to be so kid friendly it was an odd approach to license a game with such mature values. 
 But surprisingly this game captured every single last value of GTA and then some. But amazingly 
 out of all the surprises of this game is how much there is to do. The list is endless, you can 
 not only go on a rampage but:
  -Have races
  -Play policeman -Play paremedic -Raid warehouses -Drug deal
  The list goes on. Rockstar even 
 made its up top view better, making on edges 3-D, a highly impressive adaption. The story of this 
 game is also very good. This game is amazing, simply amazing. I would have paid $50 for this game, 
 hell I'd pay $100 if I had to.
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Replay Value: 9
  Story: 10
  The perfect Ds game. There is nothing wrong with it. Nothing! How often does that 
 happen? All I can expect from Rockstar.
  If you don't have this game, go buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectHeadshot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto on the Nintendo Dual Screen.
  Many people, before the release of this game immediately saw this game as "just a DS game, nothing 
 much, nothing special". This game goes much farther than "just a DS game", it's the BEST DS game 
 of all time. 
  How had I come across this game? I was fooling around at the Gamefaqs board and I saw someone write 
 "GTA on the DS?". I was immediately intruiged, searching the thread "Grand Theft Auto" in the DS 
 section.
  Thus, finding this masterpiece. I ordered it immediately and got it shipped to my house about 2 
 or 3 days later, and was I surprised! From the first part, being abushed, to the final chapter 
 of the game *spoiler --------- *... killing your own uncle who helped find your way through the city 
 of hazards, A. K. A., Liberty City. I love the touch screen mechanisims, from hot-wiring a car, to 
 setting a bomb, inking, and searching in dumpsters. (Not as crazy as you think it might be, you 
 can find guns and things that I don't think i'm allowed to say in this review)
  Bottom line: This game is truly revolutionary, if you own a DS, you simply HAVE to have it. Are 
 you still pondering whether or not to get this game or Pokemon Platinum? I'm telling you, get this 
 game, you will regret it if you get Pokemon. Correct me if i'm mistaken, but this is the first 
 GTA game ever to allow players to drug-deal, and it is MARVELOUS fun! It keeps me entertained for 
 hours! Not to mention there is wi-fi, but it's social chatting and for unlocking a bonus mission. 
 But come on seriously, haven't I convinced you enough to buy this game? Smash your piggy bank, 
 go out and buy this game already before I go Kung-Fu on you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommy8930
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:39 pm PT
Review:  GTA chinatown wars is a very very exciting game to play. The graphics are like comic kind of graphics. 
 But it works with the game perfectly. It makes it one of the best gta's ive ever played. I got 
 to say this is better then Liberty city storys for psp. There is so much more to do in this game. 
 You could do drug deals and do some side missions. It really makes a GTA player like mine feel 
 right at home. As far as the missions go. They are alittle of the same just like any other gta 
 but there just as good and alittle tiny bit different.
  The only downside to this game is the gun selection. and few cars. This game does have wifi but 
 it is very dissapointing if you want a good wifi game get mario kart. Also i believed theres atleast 
 30 hours of gameplay which i think is great
  
  Overall Grand theft auto chinatown wars is a must buy for all ds owners. Trust me you wont regret 
 it. 
  
  Happy gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard of this game i wasnt sure, i mean im a huge Gta series fan but only the Gta's 
 from Gta 3 to previous Gta games. So i took a chance and got this game and it proved to be a very 
 good choice. It has everything that you would expect from a Gta game and a whole lot more new things 
 are added, for example that put the Ds's touch screen to use in this game which actually surprised 
 me because there are alot of Ds games and they hardly ever use the screen that much. But this game 
 they used the touch screen for alot of things and i also think that is why this game is so much 
 fun. This game has a great story mode to it with good graphics to be on the Ds. Rockstar really went 
 far out to make this a great Ds game. But when was the last time Rockstar didnt do a good job on 
 a GTA game?.
  To me Gta will always prevail over any other sandbox genre game. Simply because it was one of the 
 best of its kind and also the first. I mean sure saints row is good but it doesnt have that GTA 
 feel to it. The feeling where its just so adventurous and you just want to play and find out what 
 happens in the story.
  Im saying to me GTA Chinatown Wars is one of the best games for the Ds if not the best. It has more 
 than any other Ds game has to offer so if you like GTA then you should get this game.
  Hope this review was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:40 am PT
Review:  So this is my essay. It's titled "Why I hate the Nintendo DS sometimes", by me. The thesis to this 
 essay will be "games like Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars makes me hate the Nintendo DS sometimes." 
 Hopefully handing in this instead of an essay on Macbeth's greed will still net me a passing grade 
 from my English teacher. 
  
  I'm fully aware that there's no way to write an essay titled "Why I hate the Nintendo DS sometimes" 
 as your review for a Nintendo DS game without being labeled some kind of fanboy or hater so I'll 
 roll with it. Sure, I'm a DS hating fanboy. Granted, I lean favorably towards an assortment of 
 solid DS games that would be considered too small or old-fashioned to be released on a console, 
 and it's the handheld that I wound up not selling because it actually got new game releases that 
 weren't just Playstation 1 JRPG re-releases, but that doesn't mean I can't have a slight grudge 
 against a system I've invested so much of my life into. After all, while the DS lost the battle 
 with my approval, it won the war against the PSP, so I'll suck it up and force myself to accept 
 that the latest Castlevania side-scroller boasts the Nintendo Seal of Approval. 
  
  For it's not the games that I hate, it's the assorted bits of hardware that irrationally stray 
 from what would make sense in a normal, rational video game system. What's the point of the DS 
 having a microphone? So the game can force me to yell or blow into it while out in public, surrounded 
 by strangers in a society that shuns schizophrenics? I can't talk to people online with that microphone 
 either; players still needed to buy a headset adaptor for said purpose. Any game that has attempted 
 to use the presence of a second screen for anything but secondary information has neglected to 
 account that most gamers aren't Ozymandias and have a hard time computing date from two screens 
 at once. Finally, the touch-screen, the highly touted gameplay innovation! It's not that the touch 
 screen doesn't make sense when used in certain cases (point and click adventure games) or even 
 spawned new and unique ideas (Kirby's Canvas Curse, and. well.) , it's just that so many people 
 seemed so convinced that having a touch screen was going to change the way we play games that everyone 
 tried their hardest to force some kind of use out of it. Remember when the DS first came out, every 
 game tried to incorporate some kind of shoehorned touch screen gimmick, like the forced mini-game 
 segment or the unintuitive control layout with "virtual buttons" on the screen? I try to forget 
 those days, and thankfully so do most developers it seems, as most DS games nowadays comprise of 
 traditional, non-touch screen-based games. Even Nintendo has made the touch screen, at best, an 
 optional control method in its recent high-profile releases. 
  
  But games like Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars make me hate the Nintendo DS sometimes. 
  
 
  I thought that developers stopped trying to make games like this; games that think of a bevy of 
 illogical and inappropriate touch-screen mechanics for no reason other than the sake of bragging 
 about "innovative" touch-screen mechanics on the back of the box, but here's the highest-profile 
 DS release in quite some time, asking the player to poke and jab their bottom screen at the most 
 inopportune moments. Missions will constantly ask the player to go to the bottom screen and execute 
 some kind of trivial job; tap the screen to break a lock, turn a handle, open a wallet, assemble 
 a gun, and a bevy of other assorted games that are nothing short of pointless. The initial series 
 of missions exist as tutorials to explain possible optional mini-games that the player can elect 
 to use, like searching dumpsters or a really insipid mini-game where you pump gas at the station 
 to fill Molotov cocktails. 
  
  The game takes EVERY excuse to make you go down to the bottom screen and tap something; need to 
 pay a toll to cross a bridge? Look down. Need to move "supplies" from a bag in your apartment to 
 your suitcase? Look down. 
  
  One mission in particular filled me with fits of anger. I was asked to drive a boat to a remote 
 location, pick up some contraband and evade the Coast Guard while heading to a specific dock. However, 
 the entrance to the dock is surrounded by police boats and every minute or so, the boat will stop 
 and force me to play a nonsensical mini-game where I had to rev up the boat's engine. I can't even 
 fire my guns or control the character when the engine stalls; so if I'm surrounded by unfriendlies 
 firing at me, mission failed. The only solution I could come up for this was to take the long road 
 and travel all-around Liberty City and sneak into the dock from behind, taking a considerably longer 
 time (and still revving up the boat when prompted) to complete a terrible idea of a level.
  
  Changing pace from the pointless to the extremely unnecessary, car jacking! If you attempt 
 to break into a parked car, the game randomly asks you to play one of three touch-screen car jacking 
 sequences that take about 20-30 seconds each to accomplish. These are 20-30 seconds that I don't 
 have if I have a 3-star wanted level and the police are hunting my ass down. There are few more 
 incessant slaps in the face than trying to run from the 5-0 and scurrying into your getaway car, 
 only to be asked to pull out your PDA and hack into the car's computer while an officer throws 
 you down and to jail, confiscating all your weapons and drugs along the way. 
  
  Speaking of, there's a drug dealing mechanic in there too. The game has some eight different kinds 
 of drugs (based on a suburbanite's perception of real world drugs) and the player can buy and sell 
 them from a collection of dealers across Liberty City. The goal is to travel from a dealer selling 
 one product for cheap to another dealer buying the same for a high price. How a gamer is supposed 
 to keep track of the chemical free-trade market is a question in of itself, as players are often 
 asked to go to a part of town where there may be a potential client and search far and wide for 
 the dark alleyway that the buyer is hiding. The bigger problem is that this isn't entirely optional, 
 as your story missions offer little reward, and hijacking a taxi and collecting fares doesn't quite 
 pay the Crazy Money that it used to. The game has the tendency to occasionally (and begrudgingly) 
 halt your progress and demand that you bring X number of drugs or cash before you can start the 
 next mission. 
  
  Finally, there are a few awkward control choices; to throw a Molotov or grenade, you need to look 
 down at the touch screen and move the stylus around a circle to aim, all the while attempting to 
 dodge enemy fire on the top screen. Just above the "throw fire" button is the weapon select screen, 
 which may or may not respond to a press from you thumb. All of these, combined with the knowledge 
 in the back of your head that the game can throw an unlikely touch screen mini game at you at any 
 time, means that I found myself having to awkwardly hold the stylus in my hand as I played the 
 game and controlled my character. And keep in mind that this is a game that uses every button on 
 the DS as is.
  
  In conclusion, Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars makes me hate the Nintendo DS sometimes.
  
 
  Now that my essay is done, let me shift tone and get to the positive attributes of the game with 
 the rest of my review.
  
  You play as Huang, the spoiled rich son of a murdered Triad boss looking for revenge and a lost 
 sword of great value. Of course, this being a Grand Theft Auto game, Huang can elect to vent his 
 rage on the civilians of Liberty City by jacking someone's car and driving on the crowded sidewalk. 
 The game has a sort of cartoonish visual style, with all of the buildings adopting a cel-shaded 
 look and civilians presented as 2D sprites that break in two when you gun them down, adding a playful, 
 recess-time giddiness to your killing spree. The gunplay mechanics are generally simple; lock on 
 to something, shoot it while it shoots you and hope you have more health and a bigger gun than 
 your adversary. Of course there are a few basic strategies one needs apply (like not run into the 
 middle of a circle of angry gang members) , and the lock-on system has the tendency to occasionally 
 target inanimate objects that aren't pointing automatic weapons in your direction, but otherwise 
 the game gives a fun sense of slaughtering legions of cartoon fools. 
  
  Driving is wonky and unruly, but that's part of the fun. Unlike Grand Theft Auto 4's semi-realistic 
 driving physics, here your car has a habit of flying and swerving in and out of control, and I 
 loved it! To compliment your violent new driving style, the means of which you evade police officers 
 has changed, as you now you reduce your wanted star rating by causing cop cruisers to crash chaotically. 
 So as long as you're not caught driving in reverse when a cop is next to you opening your door, 
 suddenly having the authorities on your tail becomes a recklessly jolly good time! 
  
  And when Huang realizes that the old ladies he's been shooting at have nothing to do with his father's 
 death, he can begin to take the in-game missions. All of the cutscenes are presented in still pictures 
 and dialogue, and usually consist of your boss giving you an order and Huang responding with an 
 innuendo. Story isn't particularly deep and all of the characters combine one crime archetype with 
 another kink archetype, but the humor is solid enough at least. 
  
  Setting aside the "touch here to give your buddy a new tattoo" mini-game nonsense, the missions 
 are surprisingly varied and entertaining. The later in-game missions put the focus more on driving 
 and killing, despite the occasional contrived gimmick sequence. In particular, I enjoyed a series 
 of missions provided by an undercover cop working incognito amongst bikers, because they almost 
 always involved me on a motorcycle shooting other bikers at fast speeds. That terrible boat level 
 notwithstanding, most of the missions are about a couple minutes long, which mean that you can 
 play Chinatown Wars on the bus between stops, accomplish a mission or two and still feel like you're 
 making progress. In that sense, one could argue that Chinatown Wars is a better handheld game than, 
 say, Chrono Trigger, and that's high praise. 
  
  Despite how I spent a good two pages putting down the game and its hardware and thus terribly unbalancing 
 the tone of this review, buy Chinatown Wars. It's a great title that does what a handheld game 
 is supposed to, and that is occupy your mind so you don't have to pay attention to the snotty, 
 tight-jeaned high school kid on the phone next to you on the bus yapping on about who's spreading 
 gossip about her late-night antics. And if you're more tolerant of the DS hardware than me (or, 
 dare I say it, actually think highly of the DS as a whole) then you might enjoy it even moreso. 
 It's just that I dug the game in spite of its hardware, not because of it. 
  
  4 stars
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The story takes place after Huang had to leave japan with his familys sword which is very sacred. 
 When he lands into Liberty City he gets attacked by other gangs. They take you and drop you off 
 into the river and you brake out of the car and get on to shore and you find your uncle. The main 
 point of the game is taking out the other gangs and getting your sword back. 
  
  The gameplay is simple it just takes a few minutes to get used too. There is a bunch of weapons 
 in the game like flamethrowers, miniguns, chainsaws, and much more. The game also has really nice 
 cars that can go really fast. In the streets you will see alot of action like gangs attack each 
 other and police cars going after speeding cars. 
  
  In this game the minigames are really fun like you can hotwire a car and get it going. You can 
 also revive a person while you are getting chased by the police. You can hijack cars and put them 
 inside your garage so you can use them. You can also buy safe houses where you save your game at 
 and you will start back in that safehouse. In your safehouse you can also get on your computer 
 and you can look at your emails that you get in the game. You can also go to your whiteboard to 
 replay missions that you have done. You can also collect trophies for doing special stuff like 
 selling different types of drugs. The game has alot of things that you can do that has not been 
 in the other GTA games.
  
  The good of the game is there is plenty of action and adventure. Fun minigames. Plenty of guns 
 and weapons. Stealing and selling drugs is really fun. Easy to look at graphics.
  
  The bad is wifi is really terrible. Camera angle is not so good when you are in a car.
  
  Overall 
 this game is really fun for people who have played the other GTA series and it is really fun how 
 you sell drugs and hijack cars. I rate this game 9.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  Disclaimer: I'm a wuss... I admit it. I was horrid at GTA IV on the 360, never bonded with GTA 
 San Andreas, and hated the old 2d versions. Add that to the fact that I suck at action games on 
 the DS (hand cramp! hand cramp!) and you know this game isn't going to get a fair review from me... 
 So this review is aimed at old, stone-handed, PC gamers that love slow, plodding, adventure and 
 strategy games on the DS...
  
  Everything you've read in other reviews is true: There is a lot to like, if not love, in GTA: Chinatown 
 Wars. The artwork through the game is gorgeous, the musical scoring is fantastic and cinema-quality, 
 the story is deep, interesting, and fun. There is a ton to do, with a long main storyline, plus 
 a huge number of side-quests to enjoy along the way. The mechanics of the controls are very fluid 
 and smooth -- driving feels pretty natural, and there's "steering assist" for klutzes like me, 
 navigating on foot is easy and straightforward.
  
  For all intents and purposes, you should love this game.
  
  Now, I am first and foremost a 
 PC gamer. I do own, and love, my DS. But I play adventure games and strategy games -- things that 
 don't require a lot of button mashing, D-pad struggles, etc. So, GTA: CW breaks down for me in that 
 area.
  
  Several missions involve long cut-scenes, potentially more than one chained together with short 
 segments of walking in between. The mission may then climax with a long car chase. In the meantime, 
 you can't save -- you do these things, then if you are terrible at action sequences on the DS (ahem, 
 me) , you die, and you must replay the WHOLE mission. Yes, you can skip the cutscenes by pressing 
 Start, but that requires you to wait for the cutscene to load and start playing, then skip, the 
 do the short segment, then load a cutscene, it starts playing, you skip it... then you drive, and 
 fail again... After about 4 times of replaying a mission, I was annoyed with myself and my DS. 
 
  
  This routine repeated for me on several missions to the point that I realized I wasn't having fun: 
 I was defaulting to "tourist mode" -- playing annoying levels just to see the next movie, not enjoying 
 the levels. Yuck. I bailed.
  
  The moral: If you don't care for intense action on the DS because of the physical nature of the 
 device (small device == sore hands, squinting at tiny little figures as they fly around on your 
 tiny overhead map screen and you have to avoid them with your tiny car...) , then this game is not 
 for you. If you're young, love action on the DS, then this game is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGameSpotGuy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:16 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that, although I was excited, I was also was a worried when I had first got the 
 news about this game. I expected Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars to be, basically, a "not-very-well-done" 
 renderred version of the old 2-D-'top-down' versions of Grand Theft Auto I and 2, and Grand Theft 
 Auto: London. Also, that Rockstar would ultimately lose their highly presitgous reputation, which 
 they have worked so hard to achieve.
  
  However, Rockstar have completely outperformed themselves with the release of Grand Theft Auto: 
 Chinatown Wars. Even the from the quality of the graphics, and due to it being released on the 
 Nintendo DS platform that is not an easy feat to achieve, and also the game-play, and in a very 
 brief description here - Is AWESOME! You, the player, can actually see that Rockstar North, and 
 Rockstar Leeds, have put, what seems to be, an endless amount of dedication, time, love and other 
 factors to make this game be the best it can be! And, in my opinion, it actually did become the 
 best it could be!
  
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars open with you, the main character Huang Lee, being ambushed in 
 the all too familiar, Francis International Airport, and being shot in the head, the Frontal Lobe, 
 or "temple" to be exact! And then being left for dead in a "ditched" car, in the ocean no less! 
 Well, I think its the ocean! Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars immediately introduces the player 
 to an "unexpected" 'mini-game', in which the player must use the Nintendo DS stylus, on the bottom-screen, 
 of course! And proceed to smash the car's window before the actual car becomes "oxygen-deprived", 
 which is what happens if you don't break the window and it results in your DEATH! Anyway, the actual 
 game has these little "mini-games" thrown in a certain times, and are quite nice as they are not 
 too long or too short!
  
  The actual city of Liberty City, has been nicely detailed to a three-dimensional perspective and 
 is in every the identical twin of Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto IV, so a fan of the Grand Theft 
 Auto series feels "right-at-home". As I mentioned prior to this paragraph, the graphics for Grand 
 Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars are truly amazing, considering it is for the "DS" platform. It gives 
 the experience of being there! In Liberty City, as you can witness *VERY*-minor characters of the 
 street going at each other in an epic BRAWL! Or you can relax and have a..... Well, relaxing taxi 
 or train journey around Liberty City! 
  
  The "free-roaming" gameplay is pretty much identical to Grand Theft Auto games prior to this one. 
 However, the storyline missions are varied and are quite fun! For example, in a particular mission 
 entitled "Pimp His Ride", you must follow a street-race 'champion', or so he claims, until he exits 
 his vehicle. You then proceed to steal it and begin to "modify" his vehicle. You are given a choice 
 of three tools to use, they are:
  
  - A hammer...
  - A pliers...
  - A Screwdriver...
  
  When the player chooses a hammer and with the use of the "DS" stylus and, of couse, the bottom-screen 
 you must procced to smash the engine and air condtioning. Then if the player chooses the pliers, 
 he must cut certain wires, which ultimately results in the handling being affected. Then, the screwdriver 
 is next. The player must damage the coolant tank. Finally, a fish must be placed in the damaged 
 air conditioning, to "spoil" it! Then, finally you must return the car before a pick-up truck arrives! 
 It is a relatively easy mission, but it delivers something new and creative!
  
  The newest edition to the Grand Theft Auto series is the "Drug Trafficking/Trading System". Now, 
 the reason I use both terms is that I am unsure of which term to use. Anyway, this is a great new 
 feature, as you can buy and sell certain drugs, from "Powders" to "Hallucinogens", from and to 
 certain dealers you discover around Liberty City. You get to establish yourself as a "novice" drug 
 dealer relatively early in the game and this is good as it can earn you a large amount of money, 
 as early-on in the game's storyline missions - MONEY IS GIVEN IN A LOW SUM. : ( I know it sounds 
 terrible, but! With this great, and fun, new feature you'll, with some luck when you are trading, 
 be floating in twenty dollar bills before you know! (Not literally, of course!) But there are terms 
 and conditions. Well, only one! CAPITALISM! The price of drugs remain high because of he pleniful 
 supply of security cameras, which are located around the entire islands of Liberty City. But, they 
 are not indestuctible and you can get rid of them! However, I'll let you figure that out by yourself! 
 Sorry! Also, when dealing random police busts can occur which, in my opinion, is excellent as it 
 gives you a sense of paranoia when dealing. Police busts on drug transactions can ensure that you 
 are chased by the police which, in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars, is good thing! Hey, isn't 
 it a good thing in each Grand Theft Auto game?
  
  The only actual techincal problem *I* encountered while enjoying my playing experience of Grand 
 Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars was th "FR" slowing-down during very large police chases. This only 
 seemed to happen when was a lot of things happening at once, so it is definately not the actual 
 game "breaking", but I felt, personally, it was worth mentioning!
  
  All-in-all, *I* thought that this version of Grand Theft Auto was one of *THE* best in the series. 
 As it is evident that the developers, well... Rockstar, put effort, time, money and, of course, 
 love into this game. Now, if you are not a fan of the Grand Theft Auto series chances are you are 
 not going to actually like this game, but that is common sense. However, "Die-Hard" fans of the 
 series, *I THINK*, will be in favour of this game. Anyway, I hoped this review assisted you in 
 any way! 
  
  This EXTENSIVE review was brought to you by;
  
  - ThatGameSpotGuy
  
  :)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: louisfoxton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  went to my local video store to rent a ds game so I pick up Grand Theft Auto Chinatown wars to 
 see if it is good as the other I was shock I thought the graphics would been bad is it was in grand 
 theft auto advance but in chinatown wars the graphics are good the music you can get in to it doesn't 
 have a lot of radio stations the mini games you play with the touch screen awsome the older cars 
 you use your stylus to use the screw driver to start the car before the alram go's off the drive 
 it can take awhile to get use to the characters are not to bad I like the story the missions can 
 make you mad easly the wepons very cool I personaly like teasers you can buy and use now after 
 you use it up it recharges so you don't buy any more while you can't noneless you pick a wepon 
 like a baseball bat the replaces it then if you wanted can buy it again I like you can buy and 
 sell drugs 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cthulad
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I stayed away from all of the information leading up to this game from the time it was announced 
 to the day it was released. After heading out, opening it up, and playing it for a few hours I 
 finally decided to read the reviews, and see what everyone was thinking. I have to agree with almost 
 everything I have read, this is one load of fun. You can spend a lot of time in the game, and just 
 not touch the main story if you wanted to, but who would want to do just that? The controls work 
 great, I love the lock on from the right bumper on the DS (does make it a little too easy, but 
 that is needed.) The stylus controls are great, I don't know if I would actually not steal a car, 
 those 3 mini games are probably the best part of the game. 
  
  My only gripe about this game is that I have found it a little too difficult to pay attention to 
 both screens at the same time. Something I have to work on, but driving, and using the paddles 
 in the ambulance was a hard thing for myself. I still enjoyed it greatly thought, nothing could 
 really put a damper on the fun I have had. 
  
  I recommend this game if you are looking for a solid pickup, and play out of the box, or if you 
 do not have the time to play for more than 5 minutes, you can accomplish something somewhere in 
 the game. 
  
  Pick it up for the new DSi if you are waiting, or just pick it up, and have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkkaix17
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  I went to my local video store to rent a ds game so I pick up Grand Theft Auto Chinatown wars to 
 see if it is good as the other I was shock I thought the graphics would been bad is it was in grand 
 theft auto advance but in chinatown wars the graphics are good the music you can get in to it doesn't 
 have a lot of radio stations the mini games you play with the touch screen awsome the older cars 
 you use your stylus to use the screw driver to start the car before the alram go's off the drive 
 it can take awhile to get use to the characters are not to bad I like the story the missions can 
 make you mad easly the wepons very cool I personaly like teasers you can buy and use now after 
 you use it up it recharges so you don't buy any more while you can't noneless you pick a wepon 
 like a baseball bat the replaces it then if you wanted can buy it again I like you can buy and 
 sell drugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dgbleach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  It's quite incredible how a game can be good when it looks quite old. This is the perfect example 
 for that sentence. This game, the next installation on the GTA franchise, it's really a great step 
 for Rockstar.
  
  A lot of DS haters (or just PSP fans) will take a look at the game for two seconds, and they will 
 think it's 2D instead of 3D. They will say it sucks and it's horrible, but, they are all wrong. 
 This game deserves a 9/9.5, if not 10. It haves quite a lot of new features, and quite a fun gameplay 
 with a few minigames using the DS Touch Screen.
  
  Story: 8/10
  Spoiler free, Huang Lee goes to Liberty City to give his Uncle Kenny a sword called "Yu Jian" that 
 his father (which was murder, and was a crime lord back on Huang's hometown) won by gambling. However, 
 things go wrong for Lee, and a big story goes on. The plot further ahead is not really quite good, 
 but it's quite good from most missions. There are also missions that involve... Unorthodox ways 
 to escape the police. The story is good, but it could have been better.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Excellent! Almost perfect! These graphics are quite incredible! They have good 
 detail! It's good enough to make you feel you are always on a different place every time you change 
 the street you are driving on. For a DS game, the graphics are quite good, but PSP fanboys or console 
 trolls will always bash it saying "lol0lol not good as psn or gta4lol". However, they are amazing, 
 and it's a big place too. From an end of the map to another end, it took me 6 real life minutes 
 to get there.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Good, but could have been upgraded a lot, lot more. The game depends on looking at damn subtitles 
 all the time because it doesn't have VA. It gets tiring and boring after a while. There are some 
 "voices" (yells and random pedestrians saying stupid comments) but they suck. The sounds are not 
 that good.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  It's very fun to play this game! It haves lots of ways to enjoy it. From the good old GTA series, 
 taking a random weapon and creating a wreck over Liberty City and getting that 6th star to have 
 tanks following you is very, very entertaining. Add to that, lots of missions and the minigames 
 that involve the DS Touch Screen that involve from breaking a lock, disarming a bomb, plating a 
 bomb to hijacking cars or even throwing molotovs!
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  Aside from the great gameplay, this game can last you two months or more. You can play all the 
 side missions, the odd jobs, the races, buying cars, drug dealing, getting high scores on the firing 
 ranges, buying more safehouses, getting more money, play Vigilante/Ambulance/Taxi, make random 
 swim races (yeah, i do it, i check out how much time i take to swim from island to island!) and 
 many many many more things, or even getting... 100%!
  
  
  
  The DS is a lot of times reviewed as "family console", but this game broke that rule. This game, 
 rated M for Mature by the ESRB, is an awesome game that is A MUST!!! Such game cannot be passed 
 by. Doing this will make you feel bad. Buy it now! (And for those bad guys pirating the game with 
 your R4, buy it  : ( this game is awesome, please help Rockstar with your money to keep creating 
 awesome games!)
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioMAN827
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  i have got this game it is GREAT!!! this is the best game i have got
  this is not only a great DS game it is also a great GTA game to add on to the long running series,
 
  this DS version of GTA brings out all the best things in the GTA's on the PS2, PS3 and Xbox and 
 introduces some more great stuff in to the game for example when you break into a parked car you 
 have to hot wire the car instead of just getting in and the alarm going off
  also in the mission's when you have to attach a bomb onto your car,
  you can attach the bomb 
 on the touch screen below using the DS stylus there are also so much more new abilities you can 
 use with the DS touch screen,
  this DS version of GTA is just as good as all the different GTA's maybe even a little bit better 
 in my opinion it is the best GTA,
  i hope now they are drawing up plans for a another GTA's on the DS i would definitely buy a second 
 one on DS 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx1458
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Ill admit I was a little skeptical when I first heard about this game. I expected it to basically 
 be a redo of the old top down GTA games, boy was I wrong. 
  
  Rockstar has really outdone themselves with Chinatown Wars. From the graphics to the game play 
 you can really see that they put a ton of love and time into this game and it really payed off. 
 
  
  The game begins with you getting ambushed and left for dead in a sinking car. Immediately it introduces 
 you to the nice little touch mini games that are used on the bottom screen by making you "break" 
 through the windshield by tapping on the screen. The game is chock full of little moments like 
 this that really are a nice addition and dont feel tact on at all. 
  
  The city is fully 3d and taken directly from GTA 4 so any fan of that game will feel immediately 
 at home. The graphics really are amazing for DS and it does make you feel like that you are in 
 a living breathing city, from random people getting into fights on the street to having the metro 
 ride over you as you drive through the city. 
  
  The gameplay pretty much plays exactly like the old GTA top down games but the missions are actually 
 varied and interesting to do. One example is when you have to "rescue" another Yakuza who is dying 
 in an ambulance. When you steel the ambulance if you bump into things or the cops smack into you 
 he starts to go into cardiac arrest. This makes you have to tap on his heart on the bottom screen 
 repeatedly so he doesnt flat line. This turns a regular jack and chase mission into something new 
 and creative. 
  
  The newest edition to the GTA series is the drug trading system which is really fun to do. Youll 
 be able to buy all kinds of different drugs from one dealer and sell them to another for a profit. 
 Its a nice way to make money and with a large amount of property to purchase throughout the city 
 youll be urged to make as much loot as you can to buy it all. Having cop busts happen randomly 
 at the end of a deal adds a nice touch to it, making you actually feel like youre doing something 
 bad rather then just selling insurance or something:) . 
  
  The story is regular GTA fare with your father being killed and you struggling to find out the 
 killer while helping your uncle rise in the ranks of a criminal empire. You wont be wowed by it 
 but it does a good job of moving you along. 
  
  The only real technical problem I came across was the FR slowdown during large cop chases. This 
 really only seemed to happen when their was a ton of stuff going on so its definitely not game 
 breaking but I felt it was worth mentioning. 
  
  At the end of the day though if you didnt like previous GTA games chances are you wont dig this 
 one either since it plays basically the same. If you do love GTA though then you will be blown 
 away by this great game that the developers obviously put a lot of time into. So if youre still 
 on the fence about buying it hopefully this review might have helped you out a little.:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto has had many games in it's series. Most of them on home consoles. Then, when Rockstar 
 started to release their games on Nintendo portable consoles, people didn't even want to try them. 
 Sure, the GTA on the GameBoy Advance wasn't that good, but for Chinatown Wars, it's the complete 
 opposite!
  
  --Graphics --
  
  Liberty City looks amaing! I never knew a game could look this good on DS! The buildings are greatly 
 detailed and the game is on a slanted over-head sort of view which is new to GTA. The characters 
 are depicted in cel-shaded form, which works perfectly for the DS.
  
  9/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  This game is easy to pick up and play. Fighting and shooting enemies is easy 
 and fun. However it's a little annoying changing weapons or throwing explosives during a fight 
 because it's controlled on the Touch Screen and it might get you hit a couple times during a fight.
 
  
  Besides that tiny flaw, everything else is perfect. Controlling your character is great and driving 
 a car is as easy as on a home console. Now for missions, they are all fun! Some might be annoying 
 at times, but once you get the hang of it, you can beat them easily. There are many different characters 
 that give you missions, plus random people on the street. So there is a lot of stuff to do. Not 
 to mention all the side stuff like selling drugs, killing gangs, doing missions as cops, doctors, 
 taxi drivers and even noodle delivery guys. There is just so much to do!
  
  9/10
  
  --Music --
  
  The music is great in this game. While you're driving, there are 5 different radio 
 channels to chose from. So you can chose whichever is appropriate for the mission you're on or 
 just pick the one you like best. When you're out of the car, there isn't much music, but you don't 
 need it when you want to hear your gun shots and people's blood splattering on the floor.
  
  10/10
  
  --Story --
  
  You start off as a man fron Hong Kong named Huang Lee. You have 
 come to Liberty City to avenge your father's death. You also bring a sword with you. This sword 
 has been in your family for generations and it belonged to your father. However, once you get to 
 Liberty City, you are ambushed. The sword is taken away from you while you are left for dead in 
 a river. Once you get out, you begin your mission to find not only these people who stole the sword, 
 but also find your father's killers. You meet many interesting characters on the way like your 
 uncle, triad members and even an undercover detective.
  
  9/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars is one of the best games on the DS! With so many fun missions 
 to do, many side quests and even online play, there is no reason why any DS owner should not check 
 it out. Don't bash it just because it's a DS game! It's one of the best GTAs ever!
  
  9.25/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazamane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Well I must say like most people when Rockstar announced their DS GTA title I immediately thought 
 they had lost their minds not due to the title being on DS but how ambitious it was to attempt 
 to cram all the gameplay elements that GTA is renown for into such a unique console;
  
  Well I have great news - They did it and the end product is unbelievable.
  
  GTA Chinatown 
 Wars is quite simply a breath of fresh air in the series - It still incorporates everything we 
 love along with additional features that use the touchscreen to its full potential - From kicking 
 the windscreen out of a car to prevent yourself from driving when all the way to handling a Oxy 
 cutter to open the back of an ammunation truck;
  
  The graphical beauty is hard to show in screenshots which when released on Gamespot made us all 
 cringe a little as they don't show the constant movement that is associated with liberty city but 
 I assure people who are thinking of this title that everything from the blow up valve on a banshee 
 through to the neon under certain gang cars looks downright stunning.
  
  Pros;
  GTA on the DS
  Easy to learn controls
  Drug deals
  Brilliant use of the touch screen
  Fun 
 missions
  Buyable Safehouses
  Plenty of weapons
  
  Con (Singular not plural)
  Throwable weapon handling - This is not really a con as it work really well but can be hard to 
 use on the fly - which is no different from any other GTA title as you always had to switch between 
 weapons - In CW however you have to use the touch pad to adjust the range but putting it simply 
 not many people use grenades in combat unless the rare circumstance arises where you need to blow 
 a parked car up or something along those lines
  
  
  Through and through GTA: CW keeps the tradition of GTA alive on a hand held - It is funny addictive 
 and downright gruesome at times but hey that's why we play the games.
  
  Blazamane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoulReaperSam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:17 am PT
Review:  Good:
  
  * 2D/3D gives a great view of the game
  * Using the stylus to break into cars, put together guns, break locks, defuse bombs adds a new 
 in depth feature like no other in the series.
  * NEW drug dealer mini games, makes it really fun to earn more money and risky if cops are near 
 by!
  * Like able characters and characteristics.
  * Exclusive to the DS, scratch cards, tattoo parlour, and two player mini games.
  
  
  Bad:
 
  
  * Story mode has not got that umph like previous games.
  
  
  This truly is a great game, and for the first 18 rated game to come out on the DS, shows that the 
 DS can make adults a lot more interested in playing. 
  
  Right from the beginning you are engrossed in the gameplay and graphical content, its a complete 
 surprise with the 2D/3D gameplay, gives a new perspective on things and helps with driving, shooting, 
 fighting, and also makes many places recognisable from GTA IV.
  
  All that you need to know without spoiling it is that this could possibly be the best game on the 
 DS, and it will take a lot to beat it. 
  
  You won't be able to put it down, and you will spend a lot of the time playing mini games as they 
 can be very addictive. 
  
  So give it a go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I had second thoughts of creating a review for this game. First reason is because 
 I knew from the very beginning that there will be countless reviews out there in a very short period 
 of time and adding mine will probably not make much of a difference. And second, is because this 
 game ate all my spare time ... I couldn't generate a review even if I wanted to.
  
  In this version of GTA, you take the role of a Chinese guy named Huang Lee. Who to be honest in 
 my opinion doesn't really look like someone who will fit the main character of a game such as GTA, 
 but I got the hang of him quite quickly. Huang, like with any other previous GTA main characters 
 perform missions that pretty much drives you to progress to the story. I wouldn't go into detail 
 with the story, but its the "Avenge my Fathers Death" kinda story.
  
  Gameplay works pretty much the same way as what you'd expect with any GTA title. You perform missions 
 like stealing cars, burning down a store, killing gang members, planting bombs on cars, etc. Now 
 if you're only going to base the whole experience by the "looks" of the game, then you'll probably 
 immediately dismiss this game's chance of being one of the best GTA version. Because it will immediately 
 look like its a dumbed-down version of the newer titles. But that is where most of the guys who 
 only base everything on looks gets it wrong. 
  
  China Town Wars is all about gameplay. And that is not to say that it looks bad, it is actually 
 probably one of the best looking and most detailed game that has ever been released for the DS. 
 Not only are you placed in a city that is quite impressive in size, but everything else in this 
 game feels alive. In the morning, you'll see buildings casting their shadows on the streets. While 
 at night the vehicle headlights and street lights will start to kick-in. And when rain starts to 
 fall, people will walk around with umbrella's over their heads. 
  
  The vehicles here also have varying driving physics, and handle quite realistically. AI controlled 
 cars follow traffic lights and even use signal lights when taking a turn. They can get damaged 
 and even cause their headlight/s to fail. If you try and steal a parked car, you may end up having 
 to spend some time on any one of 3 touch-screen based minigames in an attempt to hot-wire the car. 
 Failure to do so will set the car's alarm system, and will alert any nearby cops. Speaking of cops, 
 here in this game ... cop chases is a bit different when compared with other GTA games. Here, you 
 can either escape by steering clear away from the police, or by crashing a certain amount of cop 
 cars to pull down your wanted level. Which brings some level of excitement to the cop chases.
 
  
  When you're not in the mood to perform missions you can do all other soft of stuff like sell drugs, 
 go to a gas station and create molotov cocktails, steal delivery trucks and grab their goods, tatoo 
 people for money, become a taxi driver, do rampage missions, etc. You will almost never run out 
 of things to do with this game unless you spend your entire day playing this every single day of 
 your life, this title will last you quite a long time.
  
  Moving around the city on the DS' small screen is quite a tough experience. Luckily, the game features 
 a GPRS that will generate a route at the bottom screen for you to follow which helps prevent you 
 from getting lost. And if that's not good enough for you, you can even have that placed directly 
 on the top screen on the road itself. Doing so has some effect the on game's frame rate (or at 
 least I think it did) . And might be the reason why it's disabled by default.
  
  The sound department here is really impressive. You'll get varying sound effects from tons of objects 
 that are scattered around the city. You also have radio stations in cars. People walking around 
 still throw a bunch of one-liners as well as those from the dirty kind of chicks like "you wanna 
 get a piece of my pie?". Guns have different sound attached to them. And you'll even hear a few 
 environmental effects. You name it, its all jammed in there.
  
  The controls is quite easy to master. But you'll immediately notice that they seem to have ran 
 out of buttons to config some of the moves in because buttons that are usually not used with other 
 games like "select", is actually being used on this game. The touch-screen is used to perform things 
 like swapping of weapons, throwing stuff like molotov cocktails, accessing your PDA/map/email etc. 
 
  
  As good as this game may sound, there were a few things that prevented it from being perfect. Like 
 the controls for example, it is quite awkward to have yourself scramble on the touch-screen to 
 do simple things like changing of weapons. The cops also gets ticked off quite easily when you 
 hit their car, but doesn't really care if you're mowing down innocent people on the sidewalk. Those 
 by no means ruin the experience, but could have been looked at and fixed before they released the 
 game.
  
  The addition of touch-screen controls and features that can only be experienced with this version 
 makes it a game that is really hard to put down. GTA China Town Wars in my opinion is a good contender 
 for receiving 2009's Game of the Year award, not only for the DS ... but for the "Best Portable 
 Game" category. Because yes, it is THAT good.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii_NDS_Master
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game, I thought it was probably just a remake of the GBA version on 
 the DS. It completely blew me away. It has a great story that takes you in very deeply into the 
 role of the main character. The controls may feel weird at first for most GTA fans but it actually 
 has some of the best control schemes on DS. The weapons and vehicles have many variety, so you 
 will find many new ways to play. You will have many interesting missions to complete so you won't 
 have to worry about being bored for a very long time. The map will be very familiar to GTA fans, 
 it is shaped similar to Liberty City. The graphics are not outstanding, you can see yourself and 
 everything around you, and that is enough. This game does not stick to the GTA formula completely 
 so you will find many differences. The name of the game may sound pretty corny, but you will get 
 more out of this game than a war in Chinatown. It is almost certain that DS owners should buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rekunta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 12:49 am PT
Review:  I kid you not. 
  
  It's a bit hard to believe that CW is running on a handheld. Not only is it a huge nod to the talent 
 and dedication of R* Leeds, it's a major compliment to Nintendo's hardware as well.
  
  Firstly, the presentation is astounding for a portable title. Leeds has created an entire city 
 teeming with activity, detail, all topped off with beautifully implemented cell shaded graphics. 
 It really is a looker. The audio is equally well done..... people on the street have fully voiced 
 dialogue, though cut scenes don't, which is understandable given the amount of text and format 
 limitations. There are five radio stations available, also sans voice and all having their own 
 original tracks, which are themselves surprisingly catchy (especially Jah, the reggae station) .
 
  
  Aside from the traditional GTA game play (go there, do that) , Leeds has made a few inclusions that 
 add a lot to the overall experience. Firstly there's a drug dealing mini-game, which I'm very surprised 
 Nintendo allowed. There are six types of drugs (pot, XTC, smack, downers, coke, and acid.) Scattered 
 all over the city are dealers, who tip you off via email (your main way to keep in contact with 
 everyone) about good deals or to let you know what they need and will pay out the nose for. You 
 can make massive profits by buying low and selling high between them, or simply by going around, 
 finding deals, and storing them at a safehouse until you get a call. As simple as this all sounds, 
 for some reason it's INCREDIBLY addictive (pun intended.) I've spent hours and hours simply doing 
 just this, to the point where I've got so much money that I really don't need anymore, and I still 
 continue. You've also got to be careful, as especially large deals can sometimes attract the police.
 
  
  Which brings me to the next added feature, and although it's not nearly as cool as the dealing 
 aspect, it's still fun nonetheless. During pursuits, you are able to force cop cars off the road 
 and crash them to lower your wanted level (think Spy Hunter.) It lends chases an element of strategy 
 and is a hell of a lot of fun to boot. Not only that, but there is a certain weapon (proximity 
 mines) that you are allowed to drop on the road later on that makes these pursuits all the more 
 enjoyable. To top it off, the driving itself is a blast. The cars handle just right. GTAIV may 
 have had realistic physics, but I found them tiresome and it dragged the car chases down and made 
 them feel a bit like molasses. Not here; you can fly down the streets while avoiding other traffic 
 with ease. It's a perfect example that fun does not always equal realism.
  
  Aside from the main missions, drug dealing and running from the po-po, there's many other activities 
 to be found around the city to do. You can hijack Ammunation trucks for someone, steal drug trucks 
 to search and score, become a taxi driver, vigilante, paramedic, play scratch cards for prizes, 
 compete in street races, raid warehouses..... there may be a few I'm missing. These are the reasons 
 I've poured in more than ten hours and have pretty much ignored the main missions.
  
  This game being on the DS, the touch screen is utilized to great effect. All of the action is shown 
 on the top screen whereas the bottom one allows for access to your PDA, GPS, email, and is used 
 in very clever fashion for all manner of criminal activity: dealing drugs, jacking cars, searching 
 dumpsters, plotting GPS routes, giving tattoos, breaking locks, assembling weapons..... the list 
 goes on and on. It really helps the feeling of immersion and makes tasks as pain free as possible. 
 If there's one downside to the touchscreen, it is a bit picky about selections which makes using 
 your finger an unreliable option, though using the stylus is definitely do-able once you get used 
 to it.
  
  There's one thing that really makes this game so great that I have not seen yet mentioned in any 
 other reviews: there's absolutely no load times whatsoever. It's great not to have to sit through 
 5-10 seconds of loading when entering or exiting my safe houses or taking a taxi somewhere. I know 
 this sounds a bit trivial, but it really streamlines the experience and keeps the pace of the action 
 constant.
  
  There are a few things that do frustrate occasionally. The camera, while adjustable, can become 
 stuck above a building or such obscuring the view, though it doesn't happen too often. Also, the 
 targeting can be a bit iffy at times. These are really only apparent and stick out like a sore 
 thumb because everything else is of such high quality.
  
  What else can I say? There's really no negatives aside from the above that I can think of. CW is 
 simply a hell of a lot of fun. It's a brilliantly crafted game that capitalizes on the best features 
 the DS has to offer, and is one of the better GTA games to be released so far. I think I only enjoyed 
 the original GTAIII more...... it's almost to the point that I'd prefer another handheld version 
 to a console one.
  
  If you own a DS, check this game out...... or at least try it, trust me. It is easily the best DS 
 game to come out, and holds its own against its older brothers and then some. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuwarudo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:31 am PT
Review:  From the start of the game, it will start to suck you in; it will be hard to put down this game.
 
  
  The storyline is good and would really surprise you, if you would actually listen to it. There 
 are a lot of odd bits and ends, here and there, but they all form into a good storyline.
  
  The gameplay is of course the pinnacle of any Grand Theft Auto game. You can play for hours and 
 hours, yet not even go into the storyline. You can go on a rampage, buy and sell drugs (if you 
 advance the game a little bit) , discover secret jumps, do random missions from people who just 
 appear at your GPS. There are so many things that you can do in Grand Theft Auto. Of course, this 
 is the Nintendo DS game, it has a lot of touch screen features, from stealing cars, breaking down 
 locks, transferring drugs (in a certain mission) , and from big to small, scratch cards. Yes, there 
 are scratch cards in this game using the touch screen function. 
  
  The graphics, ah yes, of course, the graphics... to put it technically the graphics for the Grand 
 Theft Auto of the Nintendo DS is in fully 3D, uses cel-shading, and the camera is almost like the 
 camera for GTA1 and GTA2.
  In my opinion, this sort of graphics fit well with the Nintendo DS and the game itself. The game's 
 framerate is smooth, the only time it will lag is if you are in hot pursuit of the police.
  
  This game for the Nintendo DS is a worthy addition to your collection of games, and you will 
 not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retroworld3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  After a perfect sequel of GTAIV for Xbox 360 and PS3. Rockstar finally now releases a another perfect 
 Grand Theft Auto game for the Nintendo system. Yet again, I find this much better than the PSP 
 versions of GTA: Vice City Stories and Liberty City Stories. It loads fast and no more waiting 
 for minutes or second for the UMD game to load means more GTA fun. This game has a simliar gameplay 
 than GTAII and the original GTA and damn, the graphics are pretty good. Let's review this in catgories:
 
  
  STORY:
  The story is almost perfect. It now focuses on the Triads now I guess.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Similar to GTA and GTAII. but the maps look just like GTAIV's map. But the car are 
 no longer 2D anymore.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  I love the element of use of the touchpad and the main controls. Especially you play the scratch 
 card games and yet. The rampages are back!!
  
  SOUND:
  While the car door sounds are ripped from GTA: Vice City. The sound and music are top notich.
 
  
  This game is a must have for any GTA fan or DS owner!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  When Chinatown Wars was announced the thought of putting a series that is known for its huge size 
 on a system that would certainly limit the developers capacity to create and expand felt like an 
 absurd for some narrow-minded fans of the series while others were excited yet fearful that Chinatown 
 Wars would be a step back for the series, even though it is supposed to be a spin-off, and take 
 GTA back to its 2-D era when it was a fun series but far from the amazing freedom the player has 
 on its latest installments.
  
  The final result shows that Rockstar knew what they were doing when they decided to bring the series 
 to the DS, and ended up delivering not only the finest DS game up to date but also what many will 
 consider to be the pinnacle of the series, surpassing even the highly acclaimed GTA IV. The game 
 starts as the protagonist's father, a triad boss, is murdered in Hong Kong and it is up to his 
 son to bring the Yu Jian sword to Liberty City in order to keep the inheritance of the bosses of 
 the gang.
  
  In a perfect world this simple plan would be executed in a few days, but we are talking about Liberty 
 City, a place where crime looms on every corner and gangs battle for supremacy in different areas 
 of the city, and so Huang Lee is drove into the water while in the back seat of a car and loses 
 possessions of the sword. From then on he will do missions and find himself in the middle of the 
 dispute of various gangs and gangsters for the power in the city.
  
  While some won't care much about the storyline and just rush through the dialogues to do the missions, 
 others will be pleased with the effort that was put into this complicated web of associates and 
 gangs, it is not the most brilliant plot ever written but it shows some effort, as it will nicely 
 develop as the game goes through, you just won't find yourself playing in order to discover who 
 is behind your father's death.
  
  For those who were worried about the isometric camera, it works very well as it spins around the 
 on-screen action, and it also allows you to automatically center it behind your character just 
 by pressing the L-button. Shooting, driving, beating down cops and other activities are still as 
 compelling as usual and are by no means affected by the camera. The only issue occurs when you 
 enter narrow alleys behind buildings as the camera can get lost and you will have to adjust it.
 
  
  Speaking of buildings and alleys, Liberty City is still full of tem as 3/4 of the GTA IV map are 
 being used in this game. The city is still as huge as it always was and the cell-shaded graphics 
 truly bring it to life, and while it may not be as impressive as what was seen on GTA IV you will 
 still be able to recognize buildings and their different locations as you drive through Chinatown 
 or Industrial areas of the city, as the art team did a perfect job with the scenarios and its main 
 characteristics.
  
  The sheer size of the game alone is enough to impress all frequent DS players but what will truly 
 amaze them is that everything runs smoothly, textures, character models, different cars, citizens 
 and policemen running, even though everything moves and has a certain degree of AI the system's 
 hardware keeps its pace even if there is a major shooting going on the screen. Shootings may look 
 a tad confusing in screenshots, but those do the game no justice and as you see things moving it 
 becomes easy to see who your partner is and who the enemies are.
  
  Perhaps due to the game's cartoony look developers felt comfortable coming up with some more over 
 the top missions than usual, the result is truly amusing as you will find your usual "break into 
 the warehouse" and "chase the gang in those red cars" missions, but you will also have to perform 
 rather unusual jobs such as making sure your associate wins a street race by bumping into his adversaries 
 and destroying their cars and many other cool missions I won't spoil. 
  
  The shooting sections of the game reveal the game's only real shortcoming, its locking system, 
 which should be no surprise to GTA aficionados. When you press the R-button to lock into an enemy 
 the system won't always aim at the closest enemy, so you may have to press the R-button a bunch 
 of times before you lock into the enemy you desire. This can be annoying especially because some 
 of the game's missions are truly challenging. 
  
  Fortunately on those tough missions you can simply press the select button after you failed them 
 and the game will skip a section of the mission, so that you don't have to drive once again to 
 the place you were supposed to execute your job. This is good because it drives away some of the 
 frustration players may have due to the high level of challenge you will encounter later in the 
 game.
  
  But as we all know the missions of the main quest are just the tip of the iceberg when it comes 
 to GTA games, in order to reach full completion you will have to truly explore Liberty City as 
 Chinatown Wars offers double the fun after you finish the main quest. You can take part on some 
 street races, do time trials on some areas of the city, destroy the 100 hidden security cameras 
 of Liberty City, do a couple of new missions only unlocked by logging into Wi-Fi, find the spots 
 where you can do unique jumps with cars or motorcycles, do another 20 raids, play some Crazy Taxi 
 as you steal a cab, be a police officer and stopping crime, being a Fire Fighter, an ambulance 
 driver and of course, a drug dealer.
  
  Money is hard to come across in Chinatown Wars as you gain little cash from missions so you will 
 have to deal drugs. It is by far the best and most addicting addition made to the game, and you 
 will often find yourself dealing drugs rather than doing the main quest missions. The system works 
 this way, drug dealers are spread across the City in a total of 80 you will often receive e-mails 
 from them telling you they either have a certain type of drug going for a really low price or that 
 they have some clients who want a certain type of drug for a really high price. By simply clicking 
 at the e-mail the path to the dealer will appear on your GPS on the lower screen and by following 
 it you will get some steps closer to being very rich.
  
  Later in the game you will also come across a turf map which will aid you in your drug dealing, 
 as it will show the areas of the city that are controlled by each gang and also display the type 
 of drug each of those gangs is best willing to buy or sell, therefore allowing you to do good business 
 without waiting for the e-mails you will constantly receive, which will make drug dealing much 
 more enjoyable and frequent on your virtual GTA life.
  
  Rockstar indeed took advantage of everything the DS had to offer, including its touch screen. During 
 the game you will come across some situations where mini-games will be presented on the lower screen 
 such as assembling a riffle, filling bottles with gas and preparing your own Molotov, hot wiring 
 a car, throwing grenades and others. They add a lot to the gameplay and don't feel unnecessary 
 or tacked on. But the biggest addition the lower touch screen allowed was the PDA.
  
  With the PDA all you need to do is simply touch the lower screen and you will have access to all 
 information you can, from the map of Liberty City, to the locations of your Safehouses, drug dealers, 
 special missions and many other things. It is so practical and brilliant you will eventually miss 
 such effectiveness once you return to the console GTA games.
  
  On the contrary the only thing Chinatown Wars lack when compared to other GTA games are both the 
 vocal tracks on the radio station and cinematic power of the consoles, as the missions are presented 
 on with static pictures and text balloons. The radio stations are still here and you can pick them 
 as you drive with your car but they lack the compelling licensed tunes of the other GTA games, 
 but when you take in consideration that this is a handheld game the music and sound effects are 
 glorious.
  
  With that being said Chinatown Wars not only successfully brings GTA to a handheld but it also 
 adds many things to it, features that you will surely miss when you go back to other GTA games. 
 The main quest may last only for 10 hours but the rest of the game will offer you many more hours 
 of astounding gameplay. Chinatown Wars is the best Nintendo DS game ever released and it will be 
 really hard to top it in the future of the platform, as it looks like the bar has been set as high 
 as possible.
  
  Actual Score: 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited seeing this game arrive a day early to my door; i've not read too much into 
 the pre-release hype so i've not known much of what to expect. Eventually i got to sneek in an 
 hour or two during my 4 day holiday. 
  
  The game takes place in the same liberty city as in GTA IV, and it's pretty amazing how the city 
 size (although condensed slightly) fits in the palm on your hand. You play Huang Lee, the son of 
 a murdered Triad boss. Whilst you arrive in Liberty City to delivery an invaluable sword to the 
 next Triad boss, you get ambushed and the sword taken. The story pretty much kicks in from there 
 with you trying to gain ranks in the Traid gangs whilst avenging your Fathers death. You soon begin 
 to realise corruption within the Traids with numerous people fighting for the rank of Boss.
  
  The story is shown in a slideshow on the bottom screen with text, whilst in real- time on the 
 stop screen in a top down view. There's no speech in this game which slightly loses the GTA humour 
 we've come to expect; but there's definately a lot of humour to hold it's own.
  
  As i mentioned, the top screen shows you the game in real-time whilst the bottom shows either the 
 story slides or is your GPS and menu in the game. Whilst i am correct in saying the game is in 
 top down view, it certainly is a revolution compared with GTA 1 & 2. The game is in 3D, with a 
 VERY impressive frame rate, damage mechanics and animations. Think of the game more of the likes 
 with GTA 3. The bottom is equally as impressive. The screen not only is a GPS, but acts as your 
 own in-game and VERY developed PDA. With this PDA you can scroll through your emails and plot points 
 on your GPS, you can access the online store to purchase guns which are delivered to your house. 
 You can even check how the exchange rates with drug prices are doing. These features are just to 
 name a few on a very impressive game mechanic.
  
  Now, the gameplay... the gameplay is fricking AMAZING! This is definately the craziness of the 
 old skool GTA'S 1-3. The game runs at a very fast pace with parts making you cause absolute mayhem 
 and destruction on police and civilians; something that was severly lacking in GTA 4. A new implementation 
 in this game is the fact that to get rid of police, you actually have to take them out! This causes 
 some really memorable car chases with you ramming police straight into walls or other cars, and 
 then your star has dropped. This is seriously something that Rockstar need to implement in future 
 GTA's. There's so many features in GTA that i'll be spending all night typing them on here (such 
 as the in-depth drug trading) but there's another impressive feature that i'd like to mention. 
 When breaking into a parked car, the game brings you into a quick minigame on the stylus screen 
 that has you using the stylus to fiddle a screwdriver in the keyhole, hotwiring the car or even 
 hacking into the alarm system. These are quick minigames that build tension if you have police 
 on your tail, and they never seem to get boring. This game has impressed me on many levels and 
 completely suprised me.
  
  The graphics look amazing also, probably the best i've seen on the DS. The art style is a cartoon, 
 cell shaded look which suits the game suprisingly well and all runs at a constant and fast paced 
 rate. The audio equally is a good. There's a few choices of stations to pick from, and the sound 
 effects implement the gunshots and explosions in the game very well.
  
  In a nutshell, this game ranks with the best games in the GTA series; it's that good! And it's 
 a DS game! Rockstar really went out of their way to make a large, lengthy and incredibly fun GTA 
 that implements the best of the old and brings in a lot of the new in the palm of your hand. I 
 hope we'll see on future console releases. Get this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  when i first saw chinatown wars i thought it would be really crappy because its a remake of a great 
 game into a ds game. the assassins creed version was awful so i thought this would be awful but 
 it turned out to be the best ds game ive ever played. i was going to sell my ds for a psp untill 
 i played this now the psp will have to wait a year or two cause this is pure genis. the only thing 
 bad about the game is that cops are annoying and pesdtriens run super fast that you can catch up 
 with. other wise everything else is good the camra view is really helpful because you can see on 
 coming cars. though it gets annoying sometimes when you get under something like a bridge well 
 no not really its overall perfect. rockstar is probably the smartest video game compony ever to 
 create this game. rockstar plus ds= success 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Long story, lots of fun ways to make money, a few new game mechanics, adult themes and language.
 
  
  The Bad:
  A few missions are, as usual for GTA, extremely frustrating. Driving fast can be difficult at times.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  No, the developers did not pay off the reviewers. It really is as good as everyone is saying. 
 
  
  The stills do not do the graphics justice: this is a big interactive city with lots to do, lots 
 of missions to tackle, and many cars to drive. The taxi, ambulance, firetruck and police car missions 
 are still here, the town is laid out as you remember it, there are many drug dealers to make money 
 buying and selling drugs with... it has it all.
  
  The perspective is turning purists off, who feel that it is reversing direction back to GBA days, 
 which is false. The perspective is NOT top down, it's more of an over the shoulder from far away. 
 There is still a great deal of detail in the world, and you do have some control over the camera 
 placement, and once you get into it, the game becomes GTA through and through.
  
  I admit, I got fed up with the PSP iterations of GTA, mostly due to the later missions requiring 
 many many repeated attempts, requiring a great deal of waiting around for them to load. This is 
 not an issue here, as the entire city seems at your fingertips in a flash. I see games like Galactrix, 
 that require a load screen every time you blink, and wonder whether they purposely included delay 
 screens to increase the game life; GTA never requires you wait more than a second to see the next 
 cutscene, and going from the game to your inventory to the game again is virtually instantaneous.
 
  
  In short, believe the hype. This is well worth adding to your library of DS titles, if only for 
 the fact that it is aimed squarely at a more mature audience, a testament to the fact that there 
 are some of us who do NOT want to play My Little Pony.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zobi123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  GTA: CW comes out guns blazing. Very ambitious title to put on the DS. It has nostalgic feel of 
 GTA I & II with its top down view while introducing elements we have come to expect from GTA: IV.
 
  
  things you'll love:
  - driving around town is great.
  - engaging story.
  - exploring the city.
  - missions are fun and varied.
  - most touch screen mini games are actually 
 fun to do.
  
  things you'll hate:
  - throwing grenades and others can be a pain w/ the touch screen.
  - bad guys are a bit too easy 
 to shoot and they have poor aim.
  - too many cops! They are everywhere in this game.
  
  *Have not tried multi-player yet.
  
  Overall the game is a great addition to the gta series, 
 and it even adds elements I would like to see in the console versions (option to replay any mission, 
 scratch-off tickets, drug dealing is a fun version of the stock market, and using the PDA instead 
 of the cell phone for missions) .
  
  While not perfect, GTA: CW is a great addition to any gamers library. I just wish Rockstar would 
 make some games of this caliber that aren't rated M. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godfather_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Since getting the Nintendo DS, I have only bought a couple for games for it and I never have thought 
 of the DS as a type of the system that you can play games for days on. I had the DS lying there 
 and I knew about the great catalogue of games the DS system but never actually properly played 
 it. Until the release of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars.
  
  I though it would never be possible to implement the same experience of the GTA francise on the 
 DS with the same experiences on the consoles such as the Playstation and Xbox. I was also a bit 
 skeptical with it being a slightly slanted bird-eye view as I have never been a fan on top-down 
 view games. 
  
  How was I mistaken.
  
  I have been a big fan of the GTA francise since GTA 3 to GTA 4 and I have to say the developers 
 from Rockstar Leeds have given me a reason to pick up my DS once again. As written in this classification 
 of this review, it is a sure masterpiece from the get-go. 
  I will even agree with some people that the fun factor of GTA: CW is better than that of GTA 4.
 
  
  Rockstar Leeds has managed to create a great representation of Liberty City onto the DS which is 
 kind of hard to believe. The devs have manages to make good use of the touch-screen with great 
 little minigames from car hacking to grenade and molotov throwing.
  
  I just hope the DS developers out there can put more games like GTA: CW with the same quality onto 
 the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 3:18 am PT
Review:  Less than a year after Grand Theft Auto IV's monumental release, fans of Liberty City have yet 
 another entry in the series to sink their teeth into; and while it isn't as large or beautiful 
 as other games in the series, Chinatown Wars is a legendary portable title that has obliterated 
 nearly all preconceptions of the limitations of the DS. Not only has Leeds proven mastery over 
 the hardware, however; they've proven mastery on how to make a compelling experience.
  
  Chinatown Wars tells the tale of a Chinese gang war, which manages to be wacky yet somber simultaneously. 
 Huang Lee's father is murdered, and it is his job to deliver an ancient sword to his Uncle to garner 
 favor from Chinese gangs. Upon landing in the United States, Lee is jumped and left for dead in 
 Liberty City's port. He now sets out on a mission to do whatever he can in order to gain as much 
 of his father's power back from the psychopaths in charge of the Chinese gang Triads.
  
  Bizarre characters and even odder dialogue try to mask the lack of voice acting and cinematic storytelling, 
 and the approach is a success -- Chinatown Wars' script is entertaining, although a few of the 
 one-liners are hit or miss. Leeds' writers are not on par with, say, the Ace Attorney localization 
 team, but compared to most other games in the system's library the narrative is quite good. There 
 are some serious moments that stand out in a crowd of inane dialogue and characters (inane in a 
 good way) , but for the most part the peculiar narrative fits the DS' fatuous image well.
  
  Series appeal appeal largely rests on the incredible scope and wonderful sandbox design, however 
 -- both are which have received a masterful translation to DS.
  
  Nearly all of Liberty City was squeezed onto a cartridge, with an incredible level of detail crammed 
 into each distinctive environment and a comic book art style that fits the goofy narrative. Excellent 
 physics and sound design aid in immersing the player, as well as a decent soundtrack with five 
 different radio stations available. The isometric perspective gives the player a good view of the 
 action and makes outrunning the cops especially enjoyable -- flying along Liberty City in a Sabre 
 GT with police vans, patrol cars and helicopters blasting after you is an exhilarating feeling.
 
  
  Chinatown Wars' single player experience is compelling and boasts an impressive level of variety 
 rarely seen in action titles these days; some missions utilize the DS' unique hardware in riveting 
 ways, producing an experience only the DS could provide. You'll be shooting down rival gangs, winning 
 races, protecting hospital patients from heart failure and more -- all the while completing enjoyable 
 mini-games on the bottom screen. Despite the enormous waves of skepticism surrounding Leeds' decision 
 to include mini-games (often associated with casual shovelware) in a Grand Theft Auto game, they 
 work very well for the most part.
  
  Chinatown Wars also boasts a "pharmaceutical"-oriented economy. Players can still massacre gangs, 
 complete missions, etc for cash, but the most efficient method of earning dough is by trading drugs. 
 Drug dealers are scattered around the city; desperate drug traffickers will pay more for drugs 
 than your average junkie, so buying from the well-stocked and selling to the poor (in spirit) nets 
 players a ton of money. It is a nice addition to an already fantastic game.
  
  In fact, Chinatown Wars' design is so incredible that there's far too much to do and see in a mere 
 10-20 hours. The story mode doesn't last very long (although you can go back and complete your 
 favorite missions at any time you choose) , but the enormous world, wide variety of vehicles and 
 weapons, and variety of game options ensures Chinatown Wars will last players a long, long time. 
 It literally feels like a giant playground in the palm of your hand -- who wouldn't want to take 
 advantage of such a treat?
  
  The cop AI is noticeably lenient, which is a good or bad thing depending on your taste -- crashing 
 into cars or bumping a cop never gets them riled enough to initiate a chase. They will notice if 
 you are in the process of grand theft auto, crash into them hard, are in the middle of a drug deal 
 or are killing pedestrians/gangs. If they notice too much, in fact, there will be cops on every 
 street corner in Liberty City with vans, choppers, barricades, etc. -- fortunately, the method 
 of lowering your wanted level (obliterating cop cars by making them crash) is nothing short of 
 fantastic.
  
  The sexy presentation is yet another stunning victory for Leeds. The PDA (START) is home to a wealth 
 of options, including many different gameplay options and settings to customize the experience 
 and mold it around the player's personal preferences. There's also a helpful brightness setting 
 to help out players who may be playing on an original DS, which does not have the same advantages 
 as the DS Lite. Chinatown Wars also has auto-saving, a rare occurrence on the platform.
  
  Every aspect in the entire package works so harmoniously and is so finely tuned that, frankly, 
 it is overwhelming to attempt to describe it in words. All you need know is that Chinatown Wars 
 is an incredibly piece of software, portable or not. This will not only be one of the year's best, 
 but one of the finest titles on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam619jones
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  A lot of people when they first knew this was coming out of ds they probably said "well this is 
 going to be just like GTA 1 / 2."
  
  Let me tell you now, its not!!
  
  Its a kind of mix between 3D and 2D, and uses the Dual Screen perfectly, like hot-wiring a car, 
 damaging the oppositions engine, putting a sniper rifle together, using the gps, emails etc and 
 selling drugs.
  
  
  Graphically, its like no other game, and the map is massive, its exactly like GTA IV 90% of the 
 time, I know where I am going because of playing GTA IV. 
  
  The story line is very smart and cut scenes in cartoon is brilliant, car noises, gun shots everything 
 seems pretty realistic.
  
  And its not a hard game to master, once you have learned something thats it, your set.
  
  A 
 vast amount of cars, and gang members, when it rains you will see people put up umbrellas.
  
  Now to the missions, they are extremly versatile, from racing to saving people from being killed. 
 There are loads of missions, and you will probably spend more time on this then any other ds game 
 due to the large amount of mini games and sub missions.
  
  The only bad thing is you can only have two saves.... thats it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:42 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto us one of the most revered and loved series as of now. Apart from being the epitome 
 of sandbox style gameplay, which many games have tried to recreate (but none stand against the 
 might of GTA) , the games also have innumerable layers of polish, innovation and fun. 
  
  Rockstar has already ported their ultra-famous series to a handheld system, and quite successfully, 
 I must say, with GTA LCS and VCS. And when GTA CW was announced, there was skepticism everywhere. 
 People thought this was going to be another poor attempt at their beloved series like GTA Advance 
 was. Even though there were many people who knew that R* was not going to mess up this time, Anti-Nintendo 
 people differed.
  
  Though Rockstar Leeds was not going to give up. They said that they would do what no one has never 
 done before. They promised to bring a game on a Nintendo platform that was better than any other 
 Nintendo game on it. They promised to keep the basic spirit of the GTA series alive and do everything 
 they could to make this a different and compelling experience. And they succeeded. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars is here. And it just isn't any other GTA game. Its is the most 
 compelling, most different and most addictive GTA game ever. Not only that. GTA: CW is also the 
 best DS game till date. 
  
  I will start with the best aspect of the game: the gameplay. The gameplay of this game is so spectacular, 
 so addictive that you just don't want to put your DS down. This game manages to feel like a typical 
 GTA game, yet still is so different from each and every one of them, that you'll be completely 
 awe-struck. You have your typical missions in which you have to pick people up and drop them to 
 a place, run from the police, take out targets and the usual missions that all of us have come 
 to love. You can still hijack police cars and taxis, ambulances, fire trucks, noodle vans and do 
 the vigilante, taxi, paramedic etc missions. Rampage mini-games also make a return. 
  
  You still have the ultimate sandbox experience that you would expect from a GTA game. You are in 
 a living- breathing city, which has narrow alleyways with dumpsters, trash. A city with some really 
 great highways and bridges, and some equally irritating broken roads. You have your train service. 
 There are planes and helicopter. Everything that you could see in the Liberty City from GTA IV 
 is there in CW. 
  
  Yet, the game still is very different. First of all, the touch screen has been utilized very well. 
 In other GTA games, all you had to do to hijack a car was get in and drive (with the possible exception 
 of GTA IV) . But in this game, there are several techniques (all using a touch screen) that have 
 to be put into use to hijack a car. There are several ways to do it- you can hot-wire a car. You 
 can use a screw-driver instead of a key. You can use a pin code to start a car. And if you don't 
 do it in a certain period of time, then the car will start screaming wildly, which will attract 
 the police, in turn raising the wanted level. 
  
  You can use the touch screen to search the dumpsters for weapons, money, food and other stuff that 
 I can't mention here. You can use it to make molotovs. You use the touch screen to throw molotovs, 
 grenades etc. You also use your touch screen for drug mixing, for making tattoos on newly recruited 
 gang members and other people. You can use it to scratch cars and win several things. If you fall 
 into a water body while in a car, you use the touch screen to break one of the windows and get 
 out of it. The touch screen controls, in short, are very well done. 
  
  Drug trading also has been done spectacularly. You have to search for people all around the city- 
 in parks, alleyways, basketball courts etc. But you always have to be careful about the police. 
 If they see you trading drugs, then your wanted level shoots up and the police chases you like 
 hell. 
  
  This reminds me of the upgraded wanted system. If your wanted star raises then you gotta take out 
 a certain number of police cars to decrease wanted stars. It's greatly done and fun to do.
  
  The missions in this game also are different from the other games. They are small and different 
 and really addictive and innovative. For the first time, you really want to do the missions and 
 not roam around (at least that was the case with me) . 
  
  There are many other things to do in this game apart from the missions. You can trade your drugs. 
 You can do the street races, or the vigilante, fire truck, taxi and paramedic missions. You can 
 search the dumpsters for things. You can do scratch card gambling, or tattoo people, or destroy 
 security cameras. There are innumerable things to do.
  
  If you've played GTA IV before, then Liberty City is almost immediately recognizable (minus one 
 island) . The same alleyways, billboards, brodges etc are instantly recognizable.
  
  The story of the game, though not very deep, is kinda okay. It can somewhat support the game and 
 manage not to get boring. The presentations is also good. It would have been much better though, 
 if there was proper voice acting and animated cut scenes. 
  
  And even though the sound in this game is good, it would have been better if there were lyrics 
 in the songs and if proper licensed sound-tracks were used. But for a DS, the game is technically 
 very pro-efficient. Keeping in mind the technical limitations of a DS, Rockstar did everything 
 it could to successfully port the series to the DS. It kept the spirit of a true GTA game and added 
 aspects to the series which will possibly be used for forthcoming GTA games.
  
  Ultimately, Rockstar have given us what is probably one of their best works yet. GTA CW is the 
 best DS game till date and you would have to be crazy to miss this game. Go and get it now.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinConklin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  When you think that this entire game is packed all onto a tiny chip, it is simply unbelievable! 
 This time around, GTA has gone back to the top down view, but with a twist. The camera is tipped 
 a tiny bit back, rather than completely top down, and everything is rendered in beautiful 3D graphics. 
 If you are a fan of GTA, GET THIS GAME.
  
  At first, the controls need some getting used to. But once you get the hang of them, this game 
 is outstanding. The utilization of the touch screen is not too much, and alot of elements you only 
 HAVE to do once, so if you dont like it, simply dont do it again.
  
  Graphics -9.5- absolutely beautiful. by far the best on the platform.
  Gameplay -10- no complaints 
 here. it takes you in and never lets go!
  Sound -8- my only complaint is the radio. no words : ( and i wish the cutscenes had spoken dialogue.
 
  Value -10- you simply never run out of things to do!
  
  overall - 9.5
  
  BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haylien
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  this is basically GTA with stupid craud (XD) that has touchscreen. Everything you have done before 
 on previous GTA's. The new features aren't that fun. Doing the touchscreen stuff for the first 
 time feels good but after the next 20th time. It got annoying. It's also fairly short for a $35 
 game, unless you fool around, that is. Graphics are really pretty, i have to admit that.
  
  The story isn't that funny too. I don't know why, but it's not funny. maybe becuz i hate reading 
 or something. 
  
  Conclusion: This is the same gta with some added stuff that gets boring after awhile.
  If you 
 want to waste 35 bucks on a gta game you've already played on your console, then go ahead. 
  
  P. S. another thing that sucks is that there's no actual good music when your driving a car. 
 i know the ds's cartridges only allow like 128 mb, but cmon! You can use a 2gb chip then. 
  
  Also, there's not that many people around here, which also sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deltaforce2665
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  GTA: Chinatown wars is much better then GTA: Advance , in fact it might be one of the greatest GTA's 
 ever. Now before you go reading this I have to say the game is NOT in a 2-D top down view like 
 the older ones. This is more like a 2.5-D, though that isn't enough to make it a good game. You 
 start off the game by coming into liberty city on a plane so you can deliver a sword to your uncle. 
 But once you get off the plane you get jumped and ditched into a river. I don't want to tell you 
 a lot about the story but its worth mentioning that all the cut scenes are shown in a "comic book" 
 style with no voice acting. Now the game it self is Visually amazing by DS standards. It has a 
 large 3-D world that is always running at a steady frame rate. Although, the music (good in its 
 own right) has no vocal parts in the songs. Now some people might be thinking about the new touch 
 screen Mini games and if they are very gimmicky. No they aren't , in fact they add a lot to the 
 experience, because when you start up a car by hot wiring it, it feels awesome. Another thing that 
 is great about this game is that the controls are the exact same mapping as on the console versions 
 of GTA 4. The game also has a very in depth drug trading economics part to it. But it does seem 
 to give you easy money early on in the game thus making the game a bit easier then its console 
 cousins. Even though I speak highly of Chinatown wars that doesn't mean it doesn't have problems. 
 Like if your driving fast down the city streets, you might see the ground be all grey then it has 
 to load that area (about takes 2 seconds ) . Maybe that's just me that happens to. Also sometimes 
 the game seems to be too easy, only about a few missions I actually had to restart. But subtract 
 the bad from the good and you have an amazing game on the DS that is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 6:22 am PT
Review:  Disclaimer: I don't condone or recommend this game for folks under the legal age. Just because 
 I play and enjoy certain M-rated games doesn't mean I approve of them for everyone or look down 
 upon parents who try to keep this stuff from their kids until the time is ripe. So, if you're not 
 quite 17 (or whatever the legal age is in your area)  and that's probably about 90-percent of 
 you  just know you're not missing out on anything. There are plenty of other great games on DS.
 
  
  That said, Chinatown Wars is, indeed, a great game  an awesome game! Having played the trilogy 
 on PS2, as well as a bit of both GTA I & II, I can tell you there isn't a ton new here in terms 
 of missions and the general premise. However, this is one of the tightest GTA experiences I've 
 ever had. They've taken all that was good about past games in the series, left behind pretty much 
 everything that didn't quite work, and added some truly innovative mechanics to make this easily 
 one of the best GTA games ever, console or otherwise.
  
  You play as Huang Lee, the son of a fallen Triad higher-up, and when your family's "sacred" sword, 
 the Yu Jian, is stolen and you're left for dead, the thrust of the story becomes retrieving the 
 sword, as well as finding your father's killers. Though the cutscenes are presented through hand-drawn 
 art stills, Huang, in my opinion, is perhaps the most likeable character in the series so far (having 
 not played GTA IV) . Unlike Tony from VC, he's not overbearing, and unlike CJ (SA) , Huang isn't 
 quite as apathetic. Huang is a bit beaten down yet cocky; he's honest and sincere, but he's also 
 willing to use a chainsaw to slice dudes in pieces. The conversations are often funny and smartly 
 written, though they can also be way over the top with unnecessary uses of profanity.
  
  The missions are a lot of the same things we've done in other GTA games, but there's a tightness 
 here that, along with really great controls, makes for some of the best missions I've played in 
 any of the other games. Driving is fantastic fun. You start out with an option called Steer Assist 
 turned on, and it guides whatever vehicle you're driving into a straight line when not actually 
 steering. It works great, but it's equally enjoyable to drive without it. You'll likely find yourself 
 using both options.
  
  All of the mechanics are very much the same as other GTA games. Control Huang and steer vehicles 
 with the D-pad; B button to accelerate or run; Y to break, reverse, or roll/jump when on foot; 
 A is your attack button; and X lets you hop in vehicles. You jack cars same as before, though many 
 of the parked vehicles in the game require you to play through a touch-screen mini-game, such as 
 hotwiring, cracking a security system, or more crudely, using a screwdriver to force the ignition. 
 All three minis are good fun, though hotwiring is easily my favorite; I could do that all the live-long 
 day.
  
  Other uses of the touch screen include defibrillating patients when transporting them to the hospital 
 during ambulance missions, lobbing grenade-type explosives, using your PDA/GPS, as well as sniping 
 dudes. I don't have a single complaint about any of it. To me, it all works great and is fun. But 
 the PDA/GPS system in this game is simply amazing! I mean amazing! It makes everything so much 
 more convenient, and takes pretty much all of the unnecessary minutiae out of the GTA experience. 
 If I need to get somewhere, I simply plot a course on my GPS, and finding my way is easy as pie. 
 Want to find a good deal on heroin? I just consult my trusty turf map, and I can plot a course 
 to the closest dealer selling smack.
  
  Oh, did I not yet mention the drug dealing? It's addictive! (Sorry for the pun.) After the first 
 few missions, I must have stopped playing missions for a good five hours once I discovered drug 
 dealing. I couldn't help it. It was too much fun and there was too much incentive to make tons 
 of cash. Dudes will email you when they're either buying or selling something at a really good 
 price, and then you can find other dealers to offload your stuff onto for a stack of money. Of 
 course, once you notice your first surveillance camera and discover that there are 99 others just 
 like it around the city waiting to be destroyed, you'll be distracted by yet one more thing to 
 do.
  
  And that's where GTA games always become an all-consuming guilty pleasure. I haven't even completed 
 all of the main missions yet, though I've already put in well over 20 hours with the game. You 
 can meet random people on the streets who will enlist you for some seriously oddball missions, 
 or you can do noodle runs for extra cash. There are scratch-off lottery cards  I won a safe house 
 off one (true story)  and there are also tattoo parlors where you can put your artistry to work 
 for a little extra on the side. As is the case with any GTA game  and Chinatown Wars is no exception 
  there's almost an endless amount of stuff to talk about and praise with this game. But this is 
 a reader review, so I'll cut it short for now. I'm still discovering tons of stuff and having a 
 great time doing it.
  
  It also doesn't hurt that this is easily one of the best-looking DS games you're ever going to 
 see. I've played my share of pretty games on this system  Phantom Hourglass, Ninja Gaiden: Dragon 
 Sword, any Square Enix game  but CW is up there with the very best DS has to offer. This ain't 
 no Transformers game where you have these huge patches of barren nothingness. CW is so insanely 
 detailed and massive for a handheld game, it's really kind of mind boggling. 
  
  If there is one thing I could be critical about with respect to the game's presentation, it's the 
 radio stations and song selection. The instrumentals are good, and I enjoy the music, but boy, 
 it grows old quick. Now, they say it's because of the DS' limitations and card size, but if you 
 consider that Rockstar used a 64 megabyte card (Google it) and the largest DS cards available are 
 256 megs, well, it's obvious they cut some costs on the card size. Rockstar Leeds (who developed 
 this game) obviously didn't cut a single corner in making Chinatown Wars; this thing has as much 
 love and care put into it as the Mona-friggin' Lisa. But Rockstar corporate probably put a cap 
 on the card size they could use. That's a shame, because as good as the music is without voice 
 tracks, there just isn't enough variety here. 
  
  Still, the random-pedestrian voice work is excellent, and the sound effects are amazing. Run into 
 a bus stop, and you'll hear shattered glass. Run someone over, and you'll hear a nice squish. Guns 
 sound great, as does everything else in this game. It feels like a living, breathing city.
  
  GTA: Chinatown Wars: should you buy it? No question about it. If you're reading this review, 
 then you likely already know the score with respect to what GTA is all about. You just want to 
 know if it's up to par with the series' stamp of quality. It's not only up to specs, it improves 
 upon the GTA "thing" in many fun ways. Forget your reservations about the pseudo-top-down perspective; 
 it works amazingly well, and there are a slew of options that allow you to customize the experience 
 to your liking. Buy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrillkr
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Im a big fan of the GTA series and now im so happy that the series came to the DS its a proof of 
 that the DS is a great handheld.
  
  Story: well not all that original but the story has a lot of twists and turns and has a lot of charcters 
 so i won't spoil anything
  
  Graphics: AWESOME!!! very detailed and nicely made the never slows down even on a huge chase and 
 being shooted by all sides 
  its still plays smooth
  
  Sound: no voice acting in cutscenes but there are funny voices of people like one is screaming "Im 
 still a virgin" lol many good sound effects also the music is great but not known artists and no 
 lyrics on any song but still its very good music but there are no DJ's and no talkshows
  
  Gameplay: this is very important and a lot too tell but all i can say is that this game does a combination 
 of all of gta's great features and puts it all in one and adds even more to it like touchscreen 
 mini-games and drug dealing which is very important most money will come from there
  
  Controls: Very spot on and easy to pick up and start killing some people and stealling cars
  
 
  Value: alot of missions and alot of sidemissions i play this game none stop and i still havent 
 saw everything its amazing and there is also a nice multiplayer mode to try with other 3 people 
 this is a complete GTA expirience
  
  Overall i think this is more then just a handheld port i think that this is a real GTA expirience 
 that you take with you and this game is trully better then the PSP versions and im a big sony fan 
 so if read this entire review when you know what is going to be a game which you will buy for your 
 DS or DSi
  STOP READING AND GO GET THIS GAME ALREADY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: condelirios
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  I want to start out with... I love this game. It is a great game for the Nintendo DS and shows 
 the limits for better and worse of the DS hardware. 
  
  Gameplay: Excellent storyline. The shooting on this version is great, and I love having a touchscreen 
 PDA just like I do in real life. I love the ability to restart on each mission and autosave is 
 also nice. The driving is surprisingly fun even from the top down view. 
  
  Graphics: Way better than expected, not even in the same sport with PSP or PS3 graphics... but it 
 was an inspired effort and as good a graphics as you will find on this platform.
  
  Audio: Sorely lacking. The music track is kind of annoying, it has no lyrics.. and there are no 
 voices during the cut scenes. This makes you have to read the dialog and it takes away from the 
 game. I think this could have been done and should have.
  
  Although this game does make me quite happy, It makes me CRAVE a GTA IV for PSP! 
  
  Updated: 
 After more playing time... I truly love this game. I have turned off the Radio by default as the 
 music is SOOO annoying and endless... but after that and using my PSP for Music.. it is awesome! 
 I love the unstructured missions... and money making illegal enterprises. It is just so much fun!!!!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uwlbpwnd
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  I've had a DS since it came out. I've played just about every well-reviewed game available, and 
 many of the poorly reviewed ones as well. Never have I found one that I'm enjoying as much as GTA: 
 CW. I'm not sure if its because of the gameplay, which is phenomenal, or because I'm a sick, evil 
 little man who revels in the gratuitous carnage/language, but I've fallen in love with this game.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Obviously the DS is not built for 3D graphics. I've seen games try and fail miserably. It can output 
 slightly worse than N64. Therefore, Rockstar made the right choice by not attempting a 3D presentation 
 of its flagship series. Instead they presented a 2.5D top down perspective on a cel-shaded cartoony 
 action shooter. Of course, that cartoon element allows for over the top blood and gore, such as 
 heads laying half a screen away from the body your chainsaw just removed it from. I understand 
 how some would criticize the cartoon nature of the presentation, but I think for the platform its 
 on, there was no better way to animate this game and bring Liberty City to life.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Audio:
  I play most of my games on mute, not because I don't like the music, 
 but because MIDI just can't compare to the full stereo sound on my MP3 player. But I always try 
 to give a listen for a little while before I turn it off, and I was most impressed here. From the 
 accurate sound effects in explosions, crashes, and murders, to the variety on the 5 different radio 
 stations (not gonna lie, I only listen to the rock station) , to the crowd reactions when you run 
 through with a shotgun blasting peoples chests away, the audio is perfectly married to the action. 
 Also, this is the only DS game in which I've ever been called a f***ing c***. (I'm sure you can 
 figure out what that means if you've played the game) .
  
  Audio 10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Amazing. That's all that needs to be said. But I have verbal diarrhea, so I'll say more. When you 
 first start the game, you are thrown into the ocean while trapped in a car. This introduces you 
 to the first of the touch screen challenges, namely bashing the crap out of a window so you can 
 escape. The city contains many more little challenges, including, but not limited to three ways 
 of hotwiring cars, pouring your own Molotovs, and slicing open door panels to get at the drugs 
 inside. As you travel the city you will find many dealers with whom you will buy and sell drugs. 
 Starting with weed and downers, you'll soon have enough money to start dealing acid and ecstasy, 
 before finally moving into the big leagues and dealing heroin and coke. Of course there is driving, 
 you can hijack and even purchase a great variety of vehicles, all of which are named similarly 
 to real automobile models, for instance the Saber (Cutlass) . You can also steal cop cars, ambulances, 
 taxis, and fire trucks and go on missions for the less scummy side of the populace. Of course, 
 if you actually run over any of said populace, even in a cop car, your wanted level will immediately 
 jump 2 stars. Finally, the gunplay is excellent, with a large variety from single shot pistols, 
 to pellet-spraying shotguns, to rapid fire, if inaccurate SMGs, to heavy weaponry which I haven't 
 unlocked yet :P. Of course there are handheld weapons too, but it is often difficult to kill people 
 with them, as they tend to run away pretty fast before you can finish them. The exception is the 
 chainsaw, which can cut them in half before they even know you're there. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  So there you have it, this game is absolutely phenomenal, and a must have 
 for any DS owner. Of age 17 or above. 
  . 
  Buy it.
  
  Final rating 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somedude812
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  The new GTA will not disappoint friends. If you are a fan of the more recent GTA's (San Andreas 
 or GTA IV) the idea of bringing back the old-school birds-eye view may seem slightly outdated but 
 fear not Rockstar managed to make it work.
  
  People may wonder whether the touch-screen mini games will get in the way of the game play (tapping 
 your way out of a sinking car or starting a car with a screwdriver) but by the good placing and 
 simplicity of them it manages to intensify the overall experience.
  
  But hands down the best new feature is dealing. The easiest way to make money is to drug deal. 
 Buy at low price and sell at high price and escape the police in the new chase system trying to 
 reach your trusty merchants.
  
  With the new camera style you may think that good old fashion gang fights may become awkward, think 
 again, the aiming system still remains the same, there are new combat moves such as round house 
 kicks and flying kicks and the game introduces a new throwing system using the touch pad. 
  
  I have been playing this game non-stop since I bought it yesterday and sincerely hope that 
 you do yourself a favor and buy it.
  
  9.7 instant favorite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedikevin2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  If you grew up on the true GTA games then this game is for you. All the classic elements of GTA 
 can be found in this small package for your ds. Add in some extras such as doing drug deals to 
 planned cop bust on your deals, Hopping fences (Wish I could have done that years ago on gta 1-2) 
 etc etc. Don't know how Rockstar got this game onto the ds in such a amazing fashion but it has 
 not disappointed. Kinda wish online was at least 3 players. 2 players is fun but 3 + makes a party. 
 A must have for any "older" DS owner. Any people considering this game must also know that GTA 
 games do have considerable violence, language that some may find distasteful, and a gambit of things 
 that are considered unlawful in our society. Make sure you are of age or indifferent on these discretions 
 in the GTA universe. Also game is RATED M.
  
  Graphics 9 Amazing quality of details considering how big the City is 
  and the gambit of objects 
 on screen
  
  Sound 9 Each radio station in the car has 5-6 songs that rotate 
  through. There is about 5-6 stations so you should enjoy 
  that music as you play the game
 
  
  Value 10 In true GTA fashion you'll lose alot of excess time playing 
  this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynastysamurai9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:11 am PT
Review:  An amazing game for the DS! The first game on DS that really made me very proud to be a DS owner. 
 Its just as good as console versions only a little weak in the graphics department
  
  Graphics : 9/10 
  Great graphics, its full 3D. And plus the top-down view makes it look even 
 better. And the character designs are good too, the art used is very nice.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  If you liked any of the GTAs from any consoles, be it Playstation, Xbox or PC 
 you should give a go at this. Incredibly well-made DS exclusive. Its got all the basic foundations 
 that make a GTA game.
  Stealing a car, outrunning cops, causing havoc in the middle of City Hall and Chainsawing and Flamethrowering 
 random people and cops on the road! Plus the Touch screen implementation and the GPS and other 
 new functions are great. Plus the button controls are simple and easy with short learning curve.
 
  
  Replay Value: 9/10
  Any game that plays out like a GTA game is worth replaying, because GTA is about massacre and mayhem. 
 Plus in this game, there is drug dealing which is addictive if you like earning a lot of profit 
 quickly! Plus there is a replay missions feature where you try to beat your scores and times of 
 completed missions; worth challenging
  
  Connection Gameplay: 8/10
  You can connect with friends ! Play death matches! Race against each other! Co-op to kill enemies! 
 This are all excellent games and are fun. Though the Wi-Fi is somewhat disapointing where you can 
 only compare stats and send messages to friends (for now)
  
  Variety of In-Game Stuff: 10/10
  A lot of things are crammed into this small game card. Plenty 
 of weapons, ranging from molotovs to chainsaws. All kinds of weapons to use in your carnage sessions! 
 Exciting isn't it? Plus there are more than 50 drug dealers to trade with! And the cars are not 
 bad either, we get many cars in the game ranging from quick cars like Resolution X and Sabre GT 
 to the omnipotent tank of destruction: Rhino.
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  Good graphics, an exclusive for DS. Awesome gameplay that is just like console versions. Great 
 game for DS users- a must own! If you are new to the DS (but are of legal age) don't crack your 
 brain about questions like: "GTA or Pokemon?" Buy GTA; its awesome!!!!! 
  
  This is my first review :) so don't get offended and think "WT* is wrong with this guy? His review 
 S***s!" Its purely my opinion
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreah_sky
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I never thought GTA China Town Wars will be this good, i played a GTA once i think its part three, 
 the driving, guns, taxi's, etc. are all here.
  
  Story is just fine.
  
  Touch screen mini games are fine and i enjoy hot wiring cars.
  
  Good controls:
  A - punch
 
  B - accelerate
  X - ride/steal car, interact
  Y - drive backwards
  L - camera
  R - (i forgot what this does)
  
  I think it is cell-shaded graphics if i'm not mistaken... 
 (correct me if i'm wrong)
  
  I also like how you drive to pass the police and the way camera angles are made...
  
  Street 
 and gun fights are OK too...
  
  The radio also can be turned off if you don't like the music that is playin' (when you're drivin')
 
  
  If you played GTA before and the mobile game Gangstar, it has the same formula of doing missions 
 and everything. Its really worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minczgamers
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Well... Chinatown Wars is just as fun as the other GTAs. In fact, I think I might like it more. 
 See, I always wanted to play IV, but I could never get a PS3 or Xbox... CTW implements many of 
 the things I was hoping to see. the GPS system, hailing taxis, more realistic environment damage.... 
 although it's just a game on the DS, it's a dream come true. The story is fairly simple and GTA-typical. 
 Blah blah, dead father, revenge, your friends dying all the time... yeah yeah, It's just enough 
 to get you blasting into the streets of Liberty. Though, of course, since it is a DS game the physics 
 have been toned down a bit, they seem to keep the style of what I saw in IV. I mean, I like being 
 able to just punch some trash cans down and watch the junk fall all over the sidewalk. But of course, 
 there are limitations... sometimes the vehicles are too hard to control and whip around the corner. 
 I still have to get used the controls, too... I keep freakin exiting my vehicle when I'm in the 
 middle of a brawl with the cops. But, despite this all, the game certainly deserves a place in 
 the GTA line. It adds something new to the series- well, at least it puts the new stuff on a system 
 I have. But the touch screen and new features also add a nice whiff of freshness to the overall 
 package. You know, Mario Kart DS is the same price as this. Compare those two games for a sec. 
 Well, see the good deal you have hear? I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of things missing from this game but no one really cares. First I have to say I 
 like this game better than gta vice city, a lot better than san andreas, and i havent played gta 
 4. Well anyway this game is missing helicopters. Thats right you cant ride helicopters at least 
 I dont think so. And the next bad thing is to move a card you press the b button and to go back 
 you press the y button. That is pretty hard controls for me but thats the only control problem. 
 The second thing is the chracters and people are too small to see so you cant see their faces or 
 features. You also cant see the cars from their back to their front or at least in my opinion. 
 Everything els is perfect. The thing that make up for this missing things are the cops are a little 
 aggresive and their is a new way to kill them which is more better or funner. Dont think funner 
 is a word but ill use it anyways. The next best thing is the gameplay. The gameplay is same as 
 gta but their is this feeling which makes the gameplay a lot better than other gta games. Dont 
 know what but if i were you i would get it. While the game play is scored 12 the sound is scored 
 10. The missions are just right and too hard or easy. The next best thing is drug dealing. Drug 
 dealing is the only way to make a lot of money. Another thing is the stylus minigames which is 
 soo much better. And the casual gun stop. You dont go to the gun shop the gun shop comes to you. 
 Get the game and see what i mean. The map is as big as always. There are other new thing i dont 
 know what but i am not done with this game and so far this game has pulled me in the most since 
 jump ultimate stars and zelda. You know what just go get this game. and thanks for reading my review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunBladeHero
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  First I would like to say to you why is GTA: CW worth buying:
  
  1- The same open-ended gameplay that has made the series a sucess,
  
  2- Don't let looks fool 
 you, even with an isometric camera this game has the same feel as the console conterparts that its 
 hard to describe!
  
  3- A wide variety of things to do like, trading drugs, buying lottery tickets and hot-dogs, robbing 
 the truck loaded with weapons from ammunation (yeah! You can rob ammunation in this game!!) , the classic 
 missions of firefighter, police patrol, taxi driver, street races and many more other activities!
 
  
  4- Huge map of Liberty city that in fact is only missing one island from GTA IV!
  
  5- Addictive gameplay thanks to the well done missions and PDA that let you know if any drug merchant 
 is needing of, or selling any drugs for a cheap price and buying high, and receiving messages of 
 sales offers from ammunation and more!
  
  6- Makes great use of the DS's touch screen and mic in a really creative way, for example to call 
 a taxi you can whistle near one, you can use the touch screen to scratch cards at the lotttery and 
 fill a bottle with gasoline to make molotov cocktails.
  
  There's just to much to do in GTA: CW that you might be surprised that it is a portable game, and 
 for that I can say for sure that it deserves the GTA name, the only thing that fans or players in 
 general may dislike is the new wanted system which is a little annoying at first. It goes like this, if 
 you get 1 wanted star you have to destroy one police car,2 stars = 2 police cars and so on. But 
 that shouldnt detract from the gameplay and with time you get used to this new wanted system.
 
  In the end GTA Chinatown wars is game that is well worth your money! And you might get surprised 
 to see how well it works! With a variety of things to do in the game, you won't want to stop playing 
 it, but don't leave dinner waiting or it will get cold! See yas!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: awssk8er716
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  - Great graphics
  - Amazing storyline / missions
  - Many safehouses (That can be purchased throughout the game) .
  - Drug dealing investments (And 
 the thrill of running from the cops when "It's a bust!") .
  - Awesome use of the touch screen (Hotwiring, GPS, Defusing bombs... ect) .
  - Many guns/weapons 
 and cars.
  - Huge island.
  - Many settings. (Auto allign for roads and Top screen GPS are musts!) .
  - You can order things 
 off the Ammu-Nation website, and pick up your package at a safehouse.
  
  Cons:
  - Motorcycles (Sanchez/Angel/Chopper Ect.) go a little too fast.
  - Bumping in to cop cars automatically 
 gives one star (When you have zero stars) .
  - Toll paying. - It's Grand Theft Auto! We don't pay no tolls!
  - Safehouses are almost all the 
 same. 
  
  Conclusion: One of the best games for the DS. It can please old GTA I and II fans with the older 
 view, and later GTA fans with the drug dealing, and newer features.
  
  Review made: 15% Completed with GTA: Chinatown Wars.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc1ent1st
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  I really dont have much to say about this game. Its like when something is soo amazing, you barely 
 have any words to say about it. Its simply the best game ive ever played until now for the ds. 
 The gameplay is nothing compared to the screen shots and stuff posted on websites. The only way 
 you can understand how the game truly is, is only if you own the game. Even though it has the birds 
 eye view, there is still so much fun in killing and shooting as well as driving. The story line 
 seems to be well made as well. 
  
  This game includes everything from the previous grand theft auto games such as buying houses, buying 
 ammunition, and much more. The missions are not extremely hard but you need to have skill inorder 
 to complete them and it challenges you and makes you think. I have only been playing for a while 
 now and therefore do not know a lot about the game but im sure that as i keep playing, there will 
 be more surprises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molitorious
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  GTA: CW comes out guns blazing. Very ambitious title to put on the DS. It has nostalgic feel of 
 GTA I & II with its top down view while introducing elements we have come to expect from GTA: IV.
 
  
  things you'll love:
  - driving around town is great.
  - engaging story.
  - exploring the city.
  - missions are fun and varied.
  - most touch screen mini games are actually 
 fun to do.
  
  things you'll hate:
  - throwing grenades and others can be a pain w/ the touch screen.
  - bad guys are a bit too easy 
 to shoot and they have poor aim.
  - too many cops! They are everywhere in this game.
  
  *Have not tried multi-player yet.
  
  Overall the game is a great addition to the gta series, 
 and it even adds elements I would like to see in the console versions (option to replay any mission, 
 scratch-off tickets, drug dealing is a fun version of the stock market, and using the PDA instead 
 of the cell phone for missions) .
  
  While not perfect, GTA: CW is a great addition to any gamers library. I just wish Rockstar would 
 make some games of this caliber that aren't rated MA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onthe_dl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:59 am PT
Review:  The new GTA is an amazing addition to the series. Great artwork, a nice camera system that uses 
 the top down perspective from GTA and GTA 2. But this time it is actually 3d, as you turn corners, 
 the camera follows you and shows the 3d perspective nicely.
  
  Cars do not act like they normally would in a top down game, these cars will tip over and act like 
 you would see a car in GTA 4. The game boasts many features that we've come to love in previous 
 GTA games and adds some very clever touch screen mini games.
  
  The story is surprisingly good. Although the starting comes off cheesy and all the dialogue text 
 has ever other word being the F*** word, it turns out to be a deep and rewarding story just like 
 those found in other previous GTA games.
  
  Don't let the cartoon look fool you into thinking this isn't a real GTA experience. There is plenty 
 to do in a very very large city. This game will suck you in for hours and you'll love every moment 
 of it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
