-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Greg Hastings' Tournament Paintball Max'd
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/greghastingsmaxd/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Six different control schemes to choose from.
 Authentic paintball gear from companies like Tippmann and Kingman.
 Three different game types and dozens of courses and tournaments offer plenty of variety.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Buggy collision detection.
 The few licensed songs get repeated way too often.
 At least one game-breaking bug.
 No quick-play option.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 4.1, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 89 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Nightlight Studios
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Jan 31, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Max'd gets the basic mechanics right, but it's marred by game-stopping bugs and a generally sloppy 
 execution. 

  It was only a matter of time before Greg Hastings' brand of extremely hardcore paintball would 
 find its way to the Nintendo DS. Following last year's Xbox release, Greg Hastings' Tournament 
 Paintball Max'd for the DS puts you behind the visor of a tournament paintballer and lets you compete 
 with celebrity athletes on courses around the world. For the most part, the DS version of the game 
 does a respectable job of capturing everything that made the Xbox version enjoyable. Unfortunately, 
 some nasty bugs and general sloppiness have surfaced in the translation from console to handheld. 

          It's the first paintball game on the Nintendo DS, so it's got that going for it.     

 
  Max'd lets you play through the career of a paintballer, competing in tournaments and moving up 
 the ranks from rookie to professional. The game is speedball, and as the name implies, it moves 
 quickly, often taking less than 30 seconds to complete a round. The matches all take place on specially 
 designed courses between teams of three or five players. There are three types of matches: elimination, 
 single flag, and capture the flag. In elimination the goal is simply to eliminate the opposing 
 team by shooting them with paintballs. Single-flag matches have a flag in the center of the course 
 and the objective is to grab that flag and take it to the opposing team's start box. Capture the 
 flag is similar except you have to grab a flag from the opposing team's start box and take it back 
 to your own. Both types of flag matches usually end up turning into elimination matches anyway, 
 since it's much easier to move the flag when there are no opposing players to stop you.  

  The tournaments consist of three matches in which the team that either has the highest score or 
 most wins out of five rounds moves on. The courses vary from fairly large outdoor areas to extremely 
 small indoor arenas. Each course is filled with symmetrically arranged bunkers, and the strategy 
 is to move from cover to cover until you get into position to pick off your opponents. You can 
 sprint, crouch, go prone, and lean out from behind cover as you attempt to keep yourself covered 
 while still taking the offensive. The default control scheme requires you to use the touch screen 
 to aim, and the R button to fire. It takes some getting used to, but once you work your way through 
 the spastic hand cramps, the control style actually works fairly well. It's not always easy to 
 aim with pinpoint accuracy, but the game is pretty forgiving when it comes to aiming. As long as 
 you point your marker in the general direction of your target you can easily score a hit, even 
 if you're on the opposite end of the course. Still, if you can't deal with the default control 
 scheme there are five other layouts to choose from, including options for playing left-handed. 

  The artificial intelligence in Max'd is predictable, but you'll still come to rely on your teammates 
 to back you up and provide cover as you advance your position on the field. The opponent AI seems 
 to be fairly inept until you get to the highest-level tournaments. Often you can stand out in the 
 open as an opposing player fires at you, missing repeatedly. Your opponents also tend to use the 
 same tactics each round, so you always know which bunkers they're going for and can anticipate 
 each move. Sometimes the AI-controlled characters get stuck on bunkers and just kind of twitch 
 for a while, and other times they'll just stand there trying to shove past you if you're in their 
 path. Several times we experienced a bug where one of our AI-controlled teammates grabbed the flag 
 and refused to take it to the start box for the score. The only option in that case is to quit 
 the match and take a loss, which makes the bug especially aggravating. You can avoid the buggy 
 AI problem altogether by playing multiplayer with up to five of your friends, but the catch there 
 is that each player has to have a copy of the game.  

  Other general bugginess is apparent as well. The collision detection is the most noticeable problem. 
 When moving close to a bunker you'll often get stuck or even get pushed backward for some reason. 
 Occasionally you'll get hung up on a bunker and seize for several seconds. Unless they've recently 
 decided to electrify paintball bunkers (which would be awesome, though unlikely) , this just feels 
 sloppy and it constantly disrupts the game.  

  The presentation in Max'd is about average for a DS game. There courses all look fairly good, and 
 the colors are clear enough that it's usually easy to spot other players on the field. The textures 
 are blurry and undefined, but for all intents and purposes the graphics in Max'd are functional. 

          B-Real says, 'Play at yo own risk.'     

  The sound, on the other hand, is somewhat annoying. The same announcer returns to spout off sharp 
 commentary like, "Get in the dead box, fool!" Your teammates will also constantly grunt and shout 
 warnings like "Right fifty!" The music is composed of licensed tracks by artists like Puddle of 
 Mudd and B-Real, of Cypress Hill fame. The songs are pretty generic, but that isn't what makes 
 them bad. What makes these songs bad is that you'll hear them repeated so many times. There are 
 only half a dozen or so tracks, so you'll hear every song in the game by the end of your first 
 tournament. Luckily you can turn the music off, but then you're just stuck with a bunch of shouting 
 players and an annoying announcer.  

  Greg Hastings' Tournament Paintball Max'd gets the basics of the sport down, but the execution 
 is spotty. Glaring bugs and all-too-evident rough spots ruin what could have been a simple and 
 enjoyable game of paintball.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: unksea
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  this game is very easy it's a cakewalk. it has no replay value at all. even the die hard paint 
 ball fans will not like this. this would be better if it had online multiplayer. you'll be interested 
 at first but when you finish the short campaign it's all just rookie levels from there. It's not 
 really that fun if you really think about it. It's really stupid you don't even have to use the 
 cover mechanic. There a lot of glitches. nothing really works well here. you can find some fun 
 here but you'll have to search for it. the ai sucks some times they will out in the open. The gear 
 has no effect what so ever. your team mates will just stand in front of you. The hit detection 
 sucks even at nine bucks this is a waste of money. the controls are clunky the ai sucks the gameplay 
 is horriable never get this game never ever get this game if you do your a sucker don't get it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me89me89
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  If i could give this game a -10 i would in a heartbeat. Don't waste your time with this one! The 
 console versions were decent but this is ridiculous. What were they thinking!! They almost had 
 it even but the gameplay and replay value aren't there! Maybe i'd like to think that they would 
 have had something if they just used the touch screen to aim up and down and turn left and right 
 instead of leaving it useless!!! They could have at least let you aim up and down and turn left 
 and right rather than having you rely completely on strafing! This game had opportunities that 
 were never explored!!! For the 5 minutes I played it i new it was a complete and utter disappointment!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceDAK
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  Greg Hasting's Tournament Paintball Max'd isn't the best idea for the DS: it makes a poor use of 
 the touch screen and doesn't take advantage of the good quality graphics the DS is capable of producing 
 (Metroid Prime... anyone?) . It has slightly addicting tournaments and well drawn markers, jerseys, 
 and players. The game falls apart with the sad graphics that look old school PS1 and the uninspired 
 gameplay.
  
  I wish I could dish out more compliments to this game, but they are all covered by the disgusting 
 overall execution. New players will find it difficult to play, as their character will be slow 
 and very boring, confusing the player even more with its not-so-user-friendly environment.
  
  If you are into paintball with a deep passion, I suppose I could recommend this game to you. 
 Otherwise, steer clear of Paintball Max'd, it's not what its cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akuko2
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  My little brother wanted me to buy him a paintball game for him so considering the fact that he 
 had a ds and this was one of the only paintball games on the market i bought it. Two days later 
 I found him with a spoon were his left eyball used to be he told me I can still taste the SUCK 
 so i played it and was so bored i started enjoying watching the paint on the side of my house dry 
 and also all you people who game it a 6 0r 7 STOP rating games without playing them because if 
 you did all the games that deserved to suck would get a sucky rating and thats what i think about 
 greg hampstrings paintball Maxed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homsar13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I always read game reviews before I buy games (except Driver: Parallel Lines, love it!) , and I 
 was waiting for this game to get reviewed and it got a 4.7. So... i bought it... after reading 
 the review... and I was thinking... a 4.7?! This game doesn't deserve a 4.7!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay formula is almost the same to that of Metroid Prime Hunters, identical control 
 schemes (adding 2 to Max'd) , touch screen controls, d-pad to move, ABXY to look, same stuff here! 
 Max'd has 6 control schemes: Thumb Left, Thumb Right (using the wrist strap with the DS) , Button 
 Left, Button Right (D-Pad, ABXY, sound familiar to MP: H?) , and Stylus Left and Stylus Right (pretty 
 self-explanitory) . Controls are nailed down tight to make it easy to play. Some glitches and collision 
 detection problems are within the game, so be aware when bumping into obstacles.
  
  Graphics: Graphics aren't as best as they could've been, very pixelated when you see things up 
 close. The intro movie has good graphics.
  
  Sound: Sound is pretty good, you have licesensed music, your teamates and opponents shouting commands, 
 but the licesensed songs get repeated waaaay too often, not enough of songs are put in the game.
 
  
  Break it down GS style:
  The Good: Actual markers and clothes to choose from, tight controls, 6 control schemes to choose 
 from, the DS needs more FPS games.
  
  The Bad: Glitches, bugs, and bad collision detection, licesensed songs get repeated too often, 
 graphics aren't the best they could've been.
  
  Score: 8.3 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  When this game was first announced, I immediately became excited. As much as I prefer platformers 
 and RPGs, a shooter is great to play once in a while. And right now, I am pretty satisfied with 
 my purchase. The graphics might not be as nice as a Metroid Prime: Hunters or any other shooter 
 on the PSP, but the gameplay puts the icing on the cake. 
  
  Paintball Max'd puts the touch screen to good use in order to move your character and aim. The 
 controls are very simple and fun to play with. You can even change the controls the way it suits 
 your gaming style. The music is pretty good as well. I don't really like hip hop but the few metal 
 tunes makes up for it.
  
  Overall, I think it's a very appealing, underrated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperScott3000
Rating: 1.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  If you have three arms thus giving you three hands PLAY THIS GAME!
  
  if not.
  
  then dont.
  
  i'm sorry but i have no clue what the hell they were thinking when they came 
 to the controls of this game.
  
  any game where i'm required to use my pinky I'M OUT.
  
  i have no pinky skills what can i say.
  
  it looks bad too. just save up some money and 
 go play real paintball or something. just dont buy this.
  
  crap i have to have 100 words to post this review. um. well. this game is still horrible. you know 
 too i actually love the xbox version that came out too but the controls on DS just make this game 
 broke broke broke!!
  
  this should be 100 words now.
  
  and i orignally wrote this for the GBA review thinking it was the DS review but i actually played 
 the DS version. It's still bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tl-X
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in this game are pretty bad. Its hard to tell who's 
  who. The guns look bad, and when you shoot alot of balls once it just looks like a ball sitting 
 there.
  
  Gameplay: The games pretty fun, with lots of differnt gun and jerseys to customize your team with. 
 although there are differant fields they all feel the same. Your gun is to accurate, real markers 
 aren't like that. 
  
  Sound: Gun noises get annoying after awhile but your team communicating with is good and sounds 
 good to. There are only a few differnt tracks in the game but they sound good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I got this game it's got it's ups and downs:
  
  ups:
  this games sound is great but it doesn't make up for the cubersume gameplay it's gameplay isn't 
 that bad but it isn't great. Tons of markers (guns) and uniforms. Graphics are pretty good too. 
 
  
  downs:
  this game can be glitchy for the computer for example they can sometimes walk through obsticales. 
 Gameplay is pretty annoying sometimes I shoot and hit somebody with out trying.
  
  Overall:
  good but not a must buy. Pretty much it disapointed me I thought it was gonna be better. 
 Oh well always MP: H to look forward to! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
