-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: GRID
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/racedriverone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good variety of races and events.
 Robust track creator lets you easily make tracks and share them with friends.
 Internal damage system encourages precise driving.
 Plenty of great-looking licensed cars.
 Dedicated friends and rivals list.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some odd car animations.
 Sense of speed is lacking.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 171 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Aug 5, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Grid offers a great balance of arcade and simulation racing with enough extras to keep you entertained 
 for hours. 

  A few months after the release of the console version, Grid comes to the DS with the same mix of 
 simulation and arcade driving that made the original so fun. Fans of the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions 
 will notice that some features, such as rewinding time, have been cut, but replacement features, 
 such as the track creator, make up for it. That's because Grid does everything a handheld port 
 of a console game should do. Instead of trying to force the DS to do things it isn't capable of, 
 developer Codemasters uses the system's strengths to deliver a game that resembles the console 
 iteration, but feels like a fresh experience of its own.  

           With a good draw distance, you won't have to worry about turns, cars, or landmarks sneaking 
 up on you.      

  Much like in the console version, you'll spend your time in Grid hopping around the globe completing 
 races and events in an effort to increase your reputation and become the best driver in the world. 
 You build your reputation by earning medals. Each event offers three medals, though you only need 
 one to move on. Events include a wide variety of activities: races, braking tests, steering and 
 drift challenges, time trials, survival races, blueprint challenges, and more. Winning medals unlocks 
 more events, cars, part upgrades, and track pieces. The CPU drivers start out easy but gradually 
 get tougher as you move on, making it increasingly difficult to snag three medals from every event. 
 The steady stream of unlockables and plethora of events will keep you busy for hours.  

  The driving in Grid smoothly blends arcade and simulation racing. From bulky American muscle cars 
 to sporty Japanese coupes, Grid offers a nice variety of licensed vehicles to drive, each of them 
 handling a bit differently. The cars don't drive with as much realism as pure simulation racers 
 do, but the damage system requires you to drive with more precision than the average arcade racer. 
 Cautious breaking and smooth drifting are the keys to success in Grid.  

  Despite the chunks of metal that flake off your car when you hit a wall, cosmetic damage isn't 
 something you have to worry about. It's the inside of your car that you'll need to keep an eye 
 on. Icons representing different parts of your car sit on the bottom screen and change from yellow 
 to red depending on the level of damage. Mess up your steering and your car might pull to one side; 
 damage your engine and you'll lose top speed. Rough up your car too much and you might just be 
 taken out of the race. You can stop in the pit to repair your damage, but it takes up so much time 
 that you're better off just learning to drive carefully. Fortunately, as you progress through the 
 game you'll earn various upgrades for your car that make precise driving a little easier.  

  Upgrades aren't the only thing you'll earn. Successfully beating events will also earn you new 
 track pieces and scenery for the track creator, which is worked into the single-player game in 
 the form of blueprint challenges. In a blueprint challenge, you are given a budget and a checklist 
 of track features, and set loose in the robust track creator. These challenges are never particularly 
 hard, but they do a great job of showing you how to create dynamic tracks. Using the stylus, you 
 simply draw the track out and then add in any special turns, track pieces, or scenery. You can 
 add subtle slopes or sharp inclines, choose the time of day and overall color shade of your track, 
 and even add custom billboards and advertisements. The best part is that after completing your 
 track of terror, you can share it with friends online. Grid already has an impressive number of 
 licensed tracks, so even if you don't take advantage of the superb track creator, you'll still 
 have plenty of challenging courses to keep you busy.  

  In addition to online track sharing, Grid also offers a number of multiplayer options, in single-card, 
 multicard, and online varieties. Most of the single-player events are also available in multiplayer. 
 You can race with up to three other people, and after doing so you can add them to your friends 
 or rivals list, making the whole friend code thing less of a hassle.  

           The deep track creator makes it easy to produce high-quality courses.      

  Visually, 
 Grid pushes the DS to its limits. The cars sport plenty of detail, cutting down on the pixelated, 
 muddy textures that plague so many 3D DS games. Your car won't show any cosmetic damage, but if 
 you smash it up enough it will start smoking. The tracks are smartly designed, and the ever-present 
 minimap on the lower screen means you'll always see a turn coming. Backgrounds aren't groundbreaking, 
 but all of the tracks have just enough detail and landmarks to feel unique. You'll race across 
 the hills of San Francisco, the neon lights of Tokyo, the claustrophobic streets of Milan, and 
 more. The only visual hiccups come in the form of a few frame rate hitches, and strange swiveling 
 animations of the CPU cars when you touch them. Like the visuals, the sounds are as about as good 
 as the DS will allow. Roaring engines and screeching tires make up the bulk of the sound effects, 
 while thumping techno music plays in the background.  

  The single-player game takes six to eight hours to complete, depending on how hard you chase after 
 the medals. The track creator extends the replay value exponentially, giving you plenty to do after 
 you've had your fun with the licensed tracks of the single-player game. With tons of variety, great 
 multiplayer, and hours of replay value, Grid is a handheld port worthy of any racing fan's time. 

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Natderaj
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I thought it would be pretty bad when I first saw it because most DS racing games are not great, 
 but I decided to get it after I saw the high Gamespot rating. It's not like other racing games 
 where you have your nitros and your super jumps but it's great all around. 
  
  Firstly, the graphics are great. Most DS games that try to be realistic turn out childish and animated 
 but GRID was made perfectly. The only graphic problems I would point out would be the fact that 
 backgrounds appear out of nowhere at times and if two parts of a track are right beside each other, 
 you will never be able to see the other side until you get there. But in terms of realism, it's 
 amazing.
  
  Second, the driving is not great. Speeds are completely unrealistic and drifts are very difficult. 
 With one car, you can seem to be moving at 90 km/h but with another 150 km/h. That feature or unfeature 
 in this case really bugged me. 
  
  Another thing that this game is lacking is a regular quickplay race. I would love to drive just 
 one race in any course with any choice of car but the designers must have missed it. 
  
  To round out this review, the makeshift course builder is extremely good. You can make intense 
 courses and give them to friends easily with wifi and wireless connection. You can choose any car 
 for a custom race but all the cars are EXACTLY the same when you do. 
  
  This game had a lot of potential and I would love to see a sequel with more creativity in the Course 
 Builder and without nearly as many bugs but for a first try and a quick realistic race that's fun, 
 GRID is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteLion130
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  So you start playing GRID and there is this story line kind of thing were there you have to race 
 on all these venues... it gets so boring.
  
  
  why not just play free race what because you unlock like 2 cars, the computers as normal have much 
 better cars (as normal) the selection of cars isnt as big as other ds car games i have played/own.
 
  
  
  GRID is a disappointment, but that dosent mean it`s a bad game. what im trying to write is that 
 with a game like ssbb (i know its on a different consell) you could read the hype get excited and 
 then when the game came you were really amazed about it. this game isent bad i would even recomend 
 getting it because it is the type of game that you dont finish in 2 hours, this game you just keep 
 coming back to. but personally i prefer mario kart almost the same expierience different cars/karts 
 but if you want a racing car game then this is the one for you my friend, but if you get bored 
 by that kind of game then you are better off saving up untill you see a better game
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric11harris
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what I suspected, but what the hell, it is a great game the lets you do something 
 on the ds, that is rare, you can just drive.
  
  Before I continue, let me get something straight, GRID is not an easy game, meaning that the hard 
 difficulty, will get you angry in the first few moments of the game. However, it just takes a matter 
 of getting used to, because once you get used to the hard difficulty, you will love this game.
 
  
  The game is set in three countries, Europe, America, and Japan, where you compete in different 
 races in a variety of cities. These races range from drifts to grand prixs, and when finished, 
 will enable you to unlock cars or upgrades. 
  
  The game has multiplayer, that is single card, multi card, or online multiplayer. Multiplayer is 
 much more of an intense experience than the single player, because of the difference between an 
 AI player, and a real player. AI players tend to never crash and rarely sustain damage, while real 
 players will sustain as much damage as you, adding more variety to each game.
  
  Another feature worth mentioning is, the track creator, which allows you to create and share tracks. 
 This adds more replayability and enables you to download other players maps, giving you new content.
 
  
  Problems that I found with this game are flaws that knock it down a few pegs, giving it a 8.0. 
 The thing that I found bad, was the lack of your choice of vehicles and the lack of upgrades. Another 
 thing would be the frustrating pitt stops, that are really slow and painfull.
  
  Overall, many people will like this game, but beware, this is not an immersive or addicting experience 
 that is really special. It's just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9
  Sounds: 9
  Gameplay: 8
  Multiplayer: 8
  Storyline: -
  Impression: 8
  
  Score: 8.5 (8.4 real)
  
  Last year's Race Driver: Create & Race showed that the DS could 
 handle a much more thorough and serious driving game than we'd ever thought possible, and without 
 resorting to nasty steering wheels on the touch screen. With online multiplayer, smooth graphics 
 and the option to draw your own tracks, it was in a class of its own on DS. So it's no surprise 
 to find there's a sequel, although we didn't expect it to arrive a mere nine months after the original. 
 Surely that's not enough time to make a full-blown follow-up to such an impressively full-featured 
 racer? In fact, so little has changed, we're honestly not sure if the tiny differences we've noticed 
 are all in our imagination.
  
  Anyway, just in case you missed it the first time around, GRID - as it's now known - features a 
 variety of expensive cars and loads of tracks from all over the world to test them on. There are 
 time trials, drift challenges and smaller bits and bobs, some of which are a bit like the Gran 
 Turismo license tests, and Grand Prix races against a bunch of AI opponents. The handling is tight 
 and very responsive, using the D-pad and buttons. While it's by no means so simmy that new or casual 
 racers won't be able to get to grips with it, you do have to stick to the racing line and use the 
 brakes, particularly when you're using one of the more powerful cars. You certainly can't treat 
 it like Mario Kart.
  
  Multiplayer caters for single-cart gaming, so you can get a limited race going without multiple 
 copies of the game. And with more carts, the full selection of tracks and cars becomes available. 
 There's also Wi-Fi, which is where you're more likely to find an ongoing and regular supply of 
 opponents. As for the tiny differences we thought we noticed, the steering seems maybe a little 
 bit tighter. And, erm, the track editor - which is still brilliant - now lets you draw your own 
 billboards as well as create full-featured courses to share and race with your mates. Essentially, 
 it's the same game, and probably not worth an upgrade unless you totally maxed out the last one. 
 If you're new to the series though, what are you waiting for? It's highly recommended.
  
  The Good:
  -as good as the PC version in a way
  
  The Bad:
  -sometimes, you will feel that 
 it could've been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zee2009
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  After spending quiet some time, reading review of both GRID and GT4. I finally decided to save 
 my money for the full version of Gt4 and buy GRID as my first PS3 racing game. 
  I am a huge fan of racing games, and quiet happy with my saga of racing game experience on PS2. 
 I am happy to write in my review that i have no regret buying GRID. GRID may not pass as a simulation 
 game as GT4, but when it comes to crashes, it is very realistic. The actual game is arcade style, 
 it has a small learning curve, which can be master very easily. 
  The best is online play. Online play rock. the most frustrating thing about online play is that 
 rookies crashing into you, which will either totaled your car or will impaired it in may ways. 
 but once you get a hang of it, you will soon prepare your self for many crashes and will be able 
 to minimize the crash impact. 
  As for the actual arcade, man it is a little tough. but it is very enjoyable. Graphics are amazing. 
 
  
  Over all, i may have not played GT4, but i think any racing game fan will not regret buying this 
 game. The only people i have seen complaining about this game, are the kind that get frustrated 
 wit the learning curve and give up. They want game that they can master in 15 min of playing. This 
 game require skill. Thrill is their when u r trying not to crash. if you want a game which is smooth 
 riding or in other words kid's game, try nfs most wanted, when u can hit wall after wall and no 
 severe impact
  
  Hope you guys like my review, critics are welcome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game overall is great, but it has a little problem with steering at first, until you unlock 
 better traction. Although, this game has a lot of real cars, but some look a little off. Although, the 
 games great graphics make up for it. I think that it is cool to have a pitstop, but it takes so damn 
 long, that normally it bumps you to last place*. This game has cool cars such as the Viper, and more. A 
 great game overall. I would recommend it, just be very precise with your turning in the beggining. This 
 has a huge ammount of cars and tracks, plus an amazing track designer! It has a lot of ways to make 
 each track unique, but you can only have four tracks, but you can always change it, so you can alter 
 when you feel like it. It would be nice to have loops in the track designer, but they have a cool 
 tunnel thingy. Great game, I would reccomend it to my friends (and complete strangers) .
  
  -Sk8more67
  
  *if you're not already in last place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake64444
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Tsch Tsch Tsch....
  the first game in this series was a DS exclusive, "DTM race driver create and race" who remebers 
 that game that was brilliant. the difficulty settings had just enough variation to keep it fresh 
 and the tracks where more believable then the new tracks in GRID.
  
  GRID has you racing around the world ALL the time... but the only problem is that you arent racing 
 most of the time. let us not forget this is a racing game... so why are we doing time trials and 
 speed tests more then we are actually racing??
  
  the first game was better as it had a solid racing part of the game and track designer part of 
 the game wasnt esentially the best part of the game but it was a nice bonus. also the computer 
 AI from the first game where like professional race drivers where as in the GRID i swear your racing 
 against a bunch of chimps forcivly shouved into race cars and made to race. i swear you are the 
 only intelligent person on the track, as soon as the race starts you accelrate right past them 
 and dont see your opponents for the rest of the race im serious there so stupid!
  
  also in the first instalment the tracks had no edges so if you conered badly you where practically 
 screwed for the rest of the race and that really was a racing experience to last. but in GRID most 
 of the tracks have edges on all the corners and the whole track basically so you can use them to 
 turn corners alot easier.
  
  im serious this game is so terrible im tired of getting racing games where the AI is terrible and 
 tracks are all designed so if you corner terrible you will bounce back into the track like a pinball! 
 
  
  if your looking at this game i would get it for the XBOX and not the DS if you want this game for 
 the DS i suggest you get the first one!!
  
  Ohh last point... in GRID everything is unlocked as soon as you start more or less leaving nothing 
 to be unlocked with the points you earn killing all replay value. but in DTM there is actually 
 things to spend your money on like decals for your car and more pieces for your custom track, it 
 adds so much more replay value as you just keep pressing on to earn more money to finish the game... 
 i really gets you glued into the game!!!
  
  so seriously guys get DTM racedriver create and race! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Nice graphics | Great sound effects | Awesome track editor | Lots of licensed tracks | Progressively 
 challenging AI | Great replay value
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Bad:
  
  No sense of speed 
 whatsoever | Plays a "slow down or crash when turning" repetitive style with most cars which makes 
 for sloppy controls
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  
  I'm not really a fan of racing games on a handheld, except for the classic series Mario Kart, which 
 we all came to know and love for their quality and fondness. However, when it comes to real simulators/arcade 
 racers, then things start to get a little more serious. Can GRID prove itself as a good, enticing 
 racer or does it sink?
  
  Graphics: Ok, I'm gonna be honest here: they're not awesome, but detailed nonetheless. As any racing 
 game on the DS, GRID does indeed offer some great visuals of real cars, but the scenery backgrounds 
 aren't that amazing and it's something that's repetitive, as I've seen most of them in NFS Pro 
 Street before.
  
  Plus, when you hit obstacles, you don't see the car get damaged (although you hear and eventually 
 feel it) , which is quite a shame. 
  
  Graphics Score: 8/10
  
  
  Sound: The effects are very good, especially when hitting a corner. You really feel that the car 
 has taken a blow. The techno music is subtle, which is a good thing since you need to focus on 
 driving and the less distractions, the better. 
  
  Sound Score: 9/10
  
  
  Gameplay: GRID offers a good pick up and go racing game, that you can feel as soon as you hit the 
 track. It's damage system ensures that you pay the price for the carelessness that you put your 
 car through (such as being reckless around corners, crashing into other cars, etc...) , and more 
 parts damaged mean more consequences, like the lack of speed, turning difficulties, gradual loss 
 of control, etc.
  
  The deep track editor makes it really easy to create your own tracks, be it for personal fun or 
 when the game really obliges you to create one in order to then race and complete a challenge. 
 They can also be shared online, which is a great feature.
  
  However, not all is good. You don't really have the sense or feel that you're racing at high speeds 
 (around   100 MPH) , even with the rumble on (which is a nifty feature for sound effects) , so going 
 at 100 or 200 MPH provides literally the same feel, except for the visuals which pass you much 
 faster.
  
  The controls aren't that great when turning, since if you don't slow down a lot, you'll most likely 
 be facing a wall with some added damage to your car, especially in tight tracks like Milan's. I 
 feel that NFS had better and smoother controls while turning, which is a shame since I have to 
 look down to the bottom screen to see when a corner is coming up so I can start slowing down in 
 order not to crash and lose my position, and can mess up my race in a few seconds if I'm not careful. 
 
  
  Gameplay Score: 7/10
  
  
  Replay Value: With over 8 hours for the 1 Player mode, you'll find tons of other options like playing 
 online randomly or with friends, sharing custom tracks, and more. 
  
  Replay Value Score: 9/10
  
  Overall, GRID is great arcade/simulator racing game for the DS. 
 It shows just what a good port from the 360 and PS3 versions can produce, and it delivers. Despite 
 some minor quirks, I can surely say that its one of the best racing games for this handheld.
  
  Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Great variety of tracks and cars. Serviceable graphics. Deep track editor. Decent difficulty level. 
 Good variety of handling, all of it intuitive.
  
  The Bad:
  Not much in the way of customization compared to other racing franchises. Doesn't feel like you're 
 doing 100 MPH.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  My wife *hates* it when a new racer is released for a system I own, with good reason. First, I'm 
 not very good at them, so I get fantastically frustrated and angry while playing them. Second, 
 I still spend weeks beating my head against walls trying to master them. So, she knows she's in 
 for a few weeks of grumbling expletives as I mash cars into walls and ultimately trade in the offensive 
 cartridge for a less aneurism-inducing game. Pokemon, or something. Not to say all racers are my 
 bane. Driver 1 and 2 (GBA) were great, Stuntman was fun for a while, and some of the Need For Speeds 
 are pretty good. But those are arcade-style. When it comes to the more serious sim-style of TOCA/Race 
 Driver, I'm the first to admit I suck. Weird, since I'm a very good driver in real life. Really. 
 
  
  So what do I think of GRID? 
  
  Handling:
  Well, the fact that I can play it at all means it at least starts out easier to handle than last 
 year's Race Driver, but not by much. The wide array of vehicles to unlock and try vary greatly 
 in their handling, but are not impossible to negotiate around a track. A few tries to get the feel 
 for a given car and you're competitive. That's not to say this is 'easy'. No, GRID is true to the 
 TOCA form, and the tracks can be quite a challenge without feeling unfair, or like the competition 
 is cheating. Just what I like to see in a racer.
  
  Graphics:
  Considering the power of the DS, the graphics aren't spectacular, but are quite crisp and clean, 
 allowing a decent enough draw distance that you can see the curves well in advance. Close to zero 
 pixilation means you can really see everything properly, although don't expect PSP graphic quality. 
 Gets the job done with little muddiness. Four different perspectives allow you to select whatever 
 your most comfortable with. I venture to say this game probably has some of the best graphics in 
 a DS racer to date, but others will argue that. At least they don't have cheesy blurs to fake the 
 feeling of speed.
  
  Opponents:
  The AI is good, as expected from this series. The 1 & 2 cars are pretty good at finding the lines, 
 but make enough 'mistakes' to allow you a fighting chance, unless you're way behind. Luckily, a 
 re-try is a start-button away.
  
  Gameplay:
  With a dozen different event-types and a full career mode, there is plenty to do here. Also, when 
 you hit walls your car takes damage, which affects the performance in a number of different ways 
 depending on how you collided (steering, acceleration, top speed, etc) . Again, no surprise in a 
 sim-style racer. 
  
  The two best features (in my opinion) this game offers are the track editor and the replay.
  
 The track editor is nearly full-featured, right down to you drawing what posters will appear on 
 walls, and five menus each of various types of turns, and straightaways, and a few assorted 'flash' 
 selections (background scenery, sky, lakes, grandstands, lighting) . Suffice it to say you can pretty 
 much create anything you can dream up given the assortment of choices. The only gripe I had was 
 there appeared no way to insert chevrons to warn drivers of iimpending turns, something that really 
 should have been automatic.
  
  "Replay" is simply the fact that immediately following a race you can watch your performance in 
 'TV broadcast' form, so you can see every collision and wall-slam from multiple perspectives. Always 
 fun to watch your stellar (or crap) run-through from the grandstands.
  
  The only thing I really missed was a set of customization options a la NFS. Granted, GRID is about 
 the racing, not the pimping. But a few more options to personalize (besides paint and decals) would 
 have been nice.
  
  In summary, I am surprised at how much they managed to pack into this teeny little wafer-thin cartridge. 
 You are getting what appears to be nearly a console's worth of content at a DS-cartridge price. 
 Graphics aside, you can't go wrong.
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
