-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guilty Gear Dust Strikers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/guiltygearduststrikers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good-looking character sprites and attack animations.
 More than 20 great Guilty Gear characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Four-character battle system is a confusing mess.
 Most of the minigames are terrible.
 Poor directional controls will often leave you facing away from your opponents.
 Multilevel stages add nothing but frustration to the fights.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 217 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Arc System Works
Genre: 2D Fighting
Date: Apr 25, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dust Strikers defies convention for the worse, resulting in an awkward and frustrating fighting 
 game. 

  Guilty Gear Dust Strikers makes a strong case for sticking to a proven formula, because that's 
 exactly what it refuses to do. Instead of bringing the great cast of outrageous characters and 
 flashy moves to the Nintendo DS in the form of a standard 2D fighter, Dust Strikers mixes up the 
 Guilty Gear formula with four-character battles, multilevel stages, power-ups, and touch-screen 
 minigames. The result is a shallow, confused mess of a fighting game that's far more frustrating 
 than it is fun.  

          The familiar faces are here, but the familiar gameplay is painfully absent.     

  The 
 best part of Guilty Gear Dust Strikers is by far its great cast of more than 20 characters. There 
 are no new characters to speak of, other than one extremely lame boss, but all the favorites -- like 
 Ky Kiske, the holy knight; Bridget the transvestite nun; Venom, the billiards-playing assassin; 
 I-No, the rock-star witch; May, the pirate; and many more -- are on hand to do battle. The character 
 sprites all look great and the attack animations are fantastic. It's expectedly not quite up to 
 the standard of the console Guilty Gear games, but Dust Strikers still looks sharp and colorful 
 on the DS  

  The problem is that there's often so much going on that you don't actually get to see most of the 
 action. Most of the battles are four-player, free-for-all matches, which makes Dust Strikers much 
 more akin to Guilty Gear Isuka than the original games in the series. The result is a jumbled mess 
 of overlapping attacks that always seem to pile up in one corner of the screen. Because the characters 
 can all occupy the same space, you'll often find yourself stuck in a corner with three stacked 
 opponents doing everything from summoning dolphins to swinging guitars, all at lightning speed. 
 Likewise, you can pull off your own special moves with a simple press of a button, which takes 
 all the skill out of the game. In previous Guilty Gear games it was challenging to pull off super 
 moves and lengthy combos, which made the fighting that much more satisfying. In Dust Strikers you 
 simply have to mash buttons and wait for an opponent get in the way of your attack. Also, some 
 of the moves are extremely cheap, and it makes the game feel unbalanced.  

  The only real challenge is staying oriented as people move about the screen. The stages in Dust 
 Strikers are vertically designed and take up both the bottom and top screen on the DS. There are 
 a series of platforms on each stage, so instead of fighting enemies to the left or to the right, 
 you have to fight up and down as well. This added dimension results in some confusing and awkward 
 moments, because your fighter doesn't automatically turn to face his or her opponents. Instead, 
 you have to tap the direction you want to face to manually turn your character around. When there 
 are four characters onscreen and the battle is moving quickly, you'll often find yourself completely 
 turned around, and it isn't odd to end up launching a string of attacks at an empty space while 
 your opponents whale on you from behind.  

  As if fighting four characters on four levels simultaneously wasn't hectic enough, there are also 
 items that you can pick up and use during the fights. These items range from lightning bolts to 
 extra health, and once you pick one up you have to touch the bottom corner of the screen to use 
 it. Some of the items can be helpful, but others are useless. One item in particular swaps the 
 location of all the fighters onscreen except for the one who used the item. You'll be fighting 
 on the lower screen and all of a sudden you'll appear on the top screen. It breaks up the action, 
 as is probably the intention, but it's more annoying than anything else. What's also annoying is 
 that after you beat the tar out of an enemy, he or she will go pick up some health and take the 
 lead in the final few seconds of the match. In fact, on the default settings you rarely have time 
 to actually knock out all your opponents, and instead you just have to hope that you have the most 
 health remaining when the clock runs out. Thankfully there is an option to turn off the items and 
 increase the round timer. However, if you set the round time to infinite, you can expect to have 
 matches last several minutes, which isn't a good thing when the fighting is as tedious as it is 
 here. If you can manage to avoid getting cornered and ganged up on, it's fairly easy to beat the 
 game on the default difficulty setting. You can max out the difficulty setting, but rather than 
 getting better, the enemies just get three times as much health as normal, which makes for a longer, 
 even more tiresome match.  

  In addition to story and arcade mode, there are a variety of ancillary modes in Dust Strikers. 
 You can play the game with up to three other players, provided that each player has his or her 
 own copy of the game. In challenge mode, you can set up an arena and play against computer opponents 
 until someone decides to jump in and play, just as it works in an arcade. This mode keeps track 
 of your wins and losses and assigns you a ranking based on your record. Challenge mode is for human 
 players only, so if you only have one friend to play against, you'll simply be playing a two-character 
 battle. The other multiplayer mode is versus mode, which again is for up to four players. The difference 
 is that versus fights always have four characters, with AI-controlled opponents filling in the 
 spaces when there are fewer than four live opponents. The multiplayer battles are lag-free and 
 move just as fast as the single-player battles.  

  In keeping with DS standards, Dust Strikers features a selection of touch-screen minigames that 
 have nothing to do with fighting. There are seven games in all, and most of them are terrible. 
 You can play a game of nine-ball billiards with Venom, but the aiming is imprecise and the ball 
 physics are broken. You can tap and rub the screen to clean off Bridget's yo-yo as quickly as possible, 
 play a whack-a-mole game with Faust, cut bushels of hay as they fall from above, and guide dolphins 
 through hoops. None of the games offer anything fun or original, and you can finish all of them 
 within about 10 minutes. Your rewards for getting high scores on the minigames are unlockable move 
 sets that you can assign to Robo-Ky to create a custom fighter. It's a great concept, but it's 
 hardly worth playing a bunch of lame minigames for.  

          The minigames provide very little diversion from the tiresome fighting.     

  Part 
 of what makes the original Guilty Gear games so great is that sense of controlled chaos derived 
 from the bizarre characters and exaggerated moves. Dust Strikers removes that sense of control 
 that gave the original games their depth and challenge and kept people coming back for more. Instead, 
 Dust Strikers just throws together some components that have worked in other games, and hopes for 
 the best. The result is a game that lacks the focus, depth, and challenge to be a competent 2D 
 fighter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zakozako666
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  The only other guilty gear I've played is Guilty Gear Isuka (Which I greatly enjoyed) . With that 
 in the past I went into this game. Didn't get to try the multiplayer.
  
  Positives:
  1. Each character has a.. let's say, "unique" fighting style. From a female that uses her hair as 
 her main weapon (my fav.) to a ghost dude that summons other-worldly means of attack.
  2. The game looks quite nice with both character models and backgrounds.
  3. Mini-games get the 
 job done when on a car ride. Simply get a score, pass it on to someone else and see who pulls a 
 victory.
  4. Unlike in Isuka there is a story mode which I enjoyed. More character development, woot!
  
 5. Easy to pick up and play. Such as dynasty warriors (which I enjoy) .
  
  Negatives:
  1. Story mode script is far from adequate. Some scenarios were funny but alas the negatives overcome 
 the positives.
  2. Difficulty is simply easy when on single player, even on maniac with three lives (of course) . 
 
  3. Unlike Isuka I can't find myself going back for more for the simply act of fighting. I was content 
 with passing the story mode of each character.
  4. Data may be recorded for multiplayer battles but I would have liked to see how many single player 
 battles I did and whatnot.
  5. AI is is not as energetic when vs. three other opponents compared to one.
  
  Conclusion:
 
  A quick fix of guilty gear mayhem is all this game got out of me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkcomments
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of fighting games, but this one didn't go to well as expected. The graphics are great. 
 The sound is ok. The music was great too. The control isn't that good. The first time you play 
 this, you could get frustrated, the you would end up fighting away from your opponent. Or you could 
 get confused. When you pick up an item, that item will appear on the touch screen on the right 
 side. In other words, the touch screen acts like another button, which is cool, if you're right 
 handed, either way, it's only for items. You, and your opponent automatically defend, because of 
 that, I can't pull of combos, I don't know, or I don't think there is way you can get them unguard, 
 so you have to strike when they drop it, which I have no idea how. It's fun if you have someone 
 to play on local wireless battle. The game have mini-games for you to play if you get bored or 
 if you're tired of fighting, OR if you WANT to take a BREAK (which I don't know why, not because 
 I'm a fan of fighting games. Couldn't you take a break, I don't know why people are saying this, 
 but your hand does get hurt, so why would you want to take a break by playing a mini game after 
 your match? If you ask me, you're just asking for a carpel syndrome, So omit when I said, "OR if 
 you WANT to take a BREAK") .
  Now This game is good once you get used to it, that if you've got an interest in this game, you 
 would get into to it, and guess what? You probably beat the game. This game is short. Sure you 
 can go ahead and unlock moves for your customizable fighter, but there's no fun at the end. The 
 boss is pretty hard, I don't know how to beat it. And you can switch the game from the 4 options 
 to: easy, medium, hard, mania (or whatever it's called) , but you would be repeating the same thing, 
 unless you want a challenge.
  
  So this game is ok, but it's short. I wish I have the option to make a second classification, but 
 calling it "too short" isn't what I'm aiming for.
  This game would've been good if it had wifi battle, but with the control difficult, I guess not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freedom_Link
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  The Good -
  1- Nice animations
  2- Able to customize own character
  
  The Baaad -
  1- Super Moves are WAY to easy to do
  2- The screen looks like a mess when fighting
  3- All 
 Characters are Given to you at the start
  4- Mini-games Suck
  5- Many platforms on levels is a clever Idea but doesn't work
  
  The Ugly -
  You could buy 
 it and get home and realize you could have got something far better... EBA perhaps?
  
  Now Im off back to the shop with a recept... Im getting My Sims Me thinks!
  
  Hope you enjoyed 
 the review! I need 100 words sorry about this.
  The Meaning of life is Power!!
  Fear is Beef!
  Legs are in my old little coffee
  HUG ME GUW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora250
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Looks like Majesco is at it again with Guilty Gear Dust Strikers for the Nintendo DS but can this 
 game rival Guilty Gear X2 or is it just a another quick cash in.
  
  graphics 6/10
  
  The graphics feature a more anime style in these games but it seems limited by the ds real power 
 to get good graphics. The stages are colorful but again feel limited. Overall here, the graphics 
 are just not the same compare to other games on the ds
  
  Music and sound 6/10
  
  Most of the music in this game is hardcore rock and that about it. Since there only rock music 
 in this game, it get old after a while. The sounds the character make are sometimes good to listen 
 to. Here, the music and sound is not really good to be seen listing to it everyday while playing 
 the game.
  
  Game play: 5/10
  
  You have your normal Arcade mode in which you start fighting against one person then up to three. 
 Also, you have a story mode, this is just like arcade mode expect you get treated to a little story 
 that you might not understand for some reason. You have your VS mode to play against a friend (sorry, 
 no wi fi) and challenge mode which is just playing against com until your friend join in. Then 
 there a mode just for this game, Mini games and RK- Factory. In Rk- Factory, you get to make your 
 own move set for Ro bo Ky to use in arcade mode but in order to get these moves, you need to play 
 mini games. These games use the touch feature of the DS. The mini games are just a fun thing to 
 mess around with and get the moves but after you get the moves from the mini games, you may not 
 want to try it again. Once your ro bo Ky is done, you can take it into arcade mode or Vs mode. 
 Ok Majesco, here the big problem, if you are trying to make this game like the past Guilty Gear 
 games then don't put four people in one area because soon it become a Super smash bros rip off. 
 You have four people fighting at once, it just get really tired some. If you are trying to make 
 it like Guilty Gear Isuka, then stick to the party game format, mixing them together is does not 
 make the game better.
  
  Here, the four player battle make the game play seem limited to only that most of the time because 
 you won't be able to pull off your moves sometimes.
  
  Controls: 5/10
  
  You use A button to use your special move, B to use your strong attack, Y for Weak attack and X 
 for the move Dust Strike and the L and R button to do Psych burst and Roman Cancel. That about 
 it, not much here and the control feel bad and not really good respond to the button. That about 
 all I have to stay here.
  
  In the end is it worth it: No, It just not that fun to play over and over again. You can beat in 
 within 3 to 5 hours and your done. You are better off with the Guilty Gear X2 #Reload for the Xbox 
 with online play, the psp version of Guilty Gear X2 or if you have a wii or PS2, get Guilty Gear 
 XX Accent Core which is the newest GG game as of right now.
  
  Next time Majesco, leave the GG games to Arc System Works to make.
  
  Overall Score: 5.1/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  I've had to completely re-think my review of Dust Strikers... I found a couple of copies for really 
 cheap ($8 each) and grabbed up a few for my family members. We have 4 DS systems in the house and 
 this is the best way to play. The single player story mode can be completed in about 15 - 20 minutes, 
 but it's the multiplayer that makes it worth buying. Buut even then, make sure you get a good price. 
 There are a few interesting touch screen mini-games, but nothing that will rival Mario Party DS. 
 Bleach is a beter DS fighter and Guilty Gear: Judgement (PSP) is a better hand-held GG title, but 
 Dust Strikers can still offer some mindless hack-n-slash fun for a road trip... or if you just have 
 nothing better to play. So to those fanboys (and girls) whom I may have offended with my previous 
 review, I appologize. I was wrong in my review and I have adjusted my score accordingly to take 
 into account that the multiplayer does have it's merits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nocturnefoxx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Despite a multitude of reviews that rated GG: DS anywhere from 'Mediocre' to 'Kill it with Fire', 
 I picked the game up because I was DESPERATE for a DS fighter. Perhaps it is because of that desperation 
 that I wound up enjoying the game.
  
  The meat of the game, the fighting, isn't terribly deep. Now, I've only ever played one portable 
 fighter before so I don't have much to compare it too, but it is better than said fighter (Mortal 
 Kombat: Tournament Edition) . There's specials and combos and all sorts of your typical fighter 
 fare.
  
  The game plays a LOT like Super Smash Brothers Melee, which is a good and a bad thing. While I'd 
 much rather play a traditional 2D fighter, the 4 player, multi-tiered formula certainly lends itself 
 to some fun matches.
  
  Perhaps the biggest goof on the part of the developers was not putting in a single-card multiplayer 
 mode. Fighters are about vs. matches, and not being able to play even a limited match with one 
 card pretty much nixes the chance of... well, probably most people to get a 2 player game going.
 
  
  The rest of the game, the mini-games and whatnot, are really forgettable. They're nothing more 
 than ways to unlock new moves for Robot-Ky, but with 21 other characters to choose from, I'm not 
 terribly worried about unlocking moves for one particular fighter.
  
  Being my first experience with the Gulity Gear franchise, I'm sure that this isn't the best representation 
 of it, but it's enough to pique my interest in the rest of the series, as well as to hold me over 
 until someone does a proper fighter for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elcolto
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  While it is not a bad game either it is no Mario Kart. A solid decent game to play with your friends. I'm 
 not gonna lie to you The story mode is crap but the gameplay is fun. You can play arcade mode and 
 have some fun. It isn't like the other Guilty Gear games there can be up to four people on the 
 screens. There are a few entertaing mini games but they aren't really worth playing exept the slashing 
 of haystacks. When you win it up in a mini game you will be awarded with moves you can use to customize 
 your very own charater but you cant customize the appearence. They is some sweet music in it but 
 there should be more. All in al it is proably not worth a full 35$ buy off ebay for 20$ if you 
 really want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Guilty gear dust strikers is a good concept and good addition to the DS, the closest thing to super 
 smash bros that the DS has (I noticed nobody else pointed this out) And I must apologize to this 
 game, for the low grade i've given it through the rating system. There is more to a game than just 
 the obvious features on the rating scale, and dust strikers gets just about a medal in catagory 
 "other". While the SFX are repetative and annoying- a good three-quarters of the music track is 
 awesome. It's the only game of it's type for DS and does a good job of it. Each character is unique, 
 and it is fun to follow them through story mode and listen to what they have to say. The story 
 mode, even though not all of that engaging, is not entirely short compared to fighting game standards. 
 And when you spread it out over all of the characters, it becomes alittle massive.
  The problem with this game is, there is nothing to work for or keep you interested. You can unlock 
 moves for robo-ky by playing mini-games, but aquiring all of these moves is not a difficult task 
 and lasts about 45 minutes to an hour. To make this game last longer, they should have you start 
 off with 8 or 10 characters, and you have to unlock the rest.
  It's a good game to play on the go and with friends, but even with these features it doesn't last 
 very long. But then again, what party game is? Except for the infamous mario parties.
  If given a rating scale not using factors, this game would receive about an 8.0- and I reccomend 
 at least trying this game acouple times with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoPirate
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I honestly don't see why people are complaining so much about this game. It is truly a very very 
 fun game. At first, I was very angry because it could've been much more. The DS has four buttons, 
 why not make it the same as the PS2 controls? But, once you overlook that and get used to them, 
 the controls for this game are good too. Though the story doesn't have much substance, neither 
 do most of the Guilty Gear games. I haven't tried it yet, but I'm sure this game would be LOADS 
 of fun if you link up with three of your friends. The only downside is that there aren't very many 
 songs. The songs that are in it are quite good, but there just isn't the great variety that we've 
 come to love from Guilty Gear. The graphics are sprites, you can't really go wrong with sprites, 
 and these are especially good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodydragoon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I've got some great things to say about this game and some bad things.
  
  First off let's go with the gameplay. The fact that your fighting with 1-3 other characters is 
 just fun and crazy. It's almost like a Super Smash Bros. clone with a guilty gear lable slapped 
 onto it. It's easy to pull off combos and super moves which won't frustrate gamers who just want 
 to have fun. If you don't like what the items do you can just turn them off if you don't like it. 
 There's a good character selection and easy to pull off anyone's abilities. The bad side, ya sure 
 you may get caught at the side of the screen and won't see what your doing at all, getting caught 
 in the middle of the fray and can't see a thing. The most annoying part is when your trying to 
 attack someone and your facing the wrong way. (personally I don't have a problem but everyone says 
 that! stop your attack, turn around, and stop the complaining!) . Sadly for the guilty gear fans, 
 the fun of pulling off the difficult combos ruins there fun. But this game is more for the people 
 just looking to have fun.
  
  Graphic wise, this game is darn near perfect! The animation is sweet and keeps up with the gameplay. 
 All of the special effects are just beautiful with the attacks and the dust that rises up when 
 you jump. (sniff) .
  
  The sound is just the right quality with the DS. The music, Heavy Metal, is alright but without 
 it, just wouldn't be Guilty Gear. The sounds of characters clashing is pretty well but can get 
 a little annoying after a while.
  
  What the game really needs is some unlockable characters because the robo-ky moves just don't cut 
 it at all. The mini games may be fun at first but are just pointless. New modes wouldn't hurt either 
 because it's just all arcade all the way. Sure, Story mode is fun but it just isn't any different 
 from the arcade mode. Multiplayer mode with other friends is downright fun! Facing the computer 
 all the time is fun at first but can leave a player lonely after a while. The replay value is......... well.......... 
 ok I don't know the word for it. Once you beat arcade and story modes, it just isn't the same. 
 Only the multiplayer will keep you going.
  
  Everyone might call me generous for the score but I know it deserves more than a 5.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wankese
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Guilty Gear Dust Strikers was a rather pathetic game, all in all. They just tried a little too 
 hard to come up with something new and innovative, but what they ended up with was a mismatch of 
 features just slapped together.
  
  Sound:
  The music in this game really wasn't bad, but it just didn't have the same feel as the console 
 versions. Then again, that could be due more to the speakers in the DS. The fact of the matter 
 is, the music in the game was lacking. I have to say though, the sound quality in this game is 
 better than previous portable Guilty Gears. (ie Guilty Gear X Advance, and Guilty Gear Petite 1 
 & 2)
  
  Graphics:
  Though a noticeable step below that of the console versions, the fluid movements of the characters 
 were well captured in this game. The biggest problem is the fact that it's hard to keep focus on 
 your character while looking at both screens. The sprites for the characters seem to have been 
 ripped directly from Guilty Gear X Advance, which was quite a disappointment to me. It really doesn't 
 look like they tried to improve on them at all since GGX Advance.
  
  Controls:
  The controls on the DS really aren't suited for a fighting game, especially one of such caliber 
 as Guilty Gear. The controls are a step up from the GBA, but they still have a little ways to go 
 before they can really compare. Still, they do seem to be making improvements.
  
  New Features:
  There were alot of new additions to this one, but none of them really seemed to 
 cut it. They added in a set of platforms to each stage, allowing you to battle on multiple levels, 
 but this ended up just detracting from the game, making it harder to land combos and big attacks. 
 There was also the addition of some touch screen related mini-games, but these really can't entertain 
 you for more than a few minutes before they get old. The only feature I was really excited about 
 was the wireless multi-player, but because of the stages in this game, that too was rather shot. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this seemed alot like Isuka in the sense that, while entertaining at first, it 
 get's rather frustrating very quickly. A daredevil match with you against three AI controlled opponents 
 sounds fun at first, then you do it three or more times, and you just want to quit playing games 
 altogether. Granted, if the controls were tweaked a bit, this could be remedied but it's just not 
 working on the DS.
  
  Overall:
  Overall, I'd have to say Guilty Gear Dust Strikers really isn't worth more than $10. If you really 
 want this game, pick it up used or on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornissues111
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  My first reveiw so srry in advance 
  This game is Really underatted gamespot kinda hit this game hard. But personally i enjoyed it very 
 much.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are perfect they arent block or anything its just right if they looked any 
 better than the game would lose its fast pace.
  
  Gameplay- If your a GG fan and like super smash Bros then welcome to heaven cause thats exactly 
 wat this is. and GG pulls this off to it can be a little confusing sometimes but all in all the 
 gameplay is fast paced just wat u would want in a GG game
  
  Sound- All i can say is theres not enough music for this game i beleive this is the only place 
 the game falls short
  
  Ending- If your a GG fan then Buy this game its enjoyable and prbly wont get old for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  well its your standerd super smash rip-off all of the stages are multi platformed and its not much 
 of a change in the charecter roster the gameplay is sad but ok you have to manualy turn around 
 because of the 4 player battles there is no unlockables except for more moves for Robo Ky
  it is practicly Guilty Gear Isuka but worst the sound track is ok mainly foucusing on rock but 
 for the most part its average. The graphics arent gonna be wining any awards probably the best 
 graphics in the game is probably the final boss and the mini games which i might at are repetitive 
 and boring (except for sword master thats cool) anyway the story is not.... how can i say "Fire 
 Emblemmaterial its actually quite bland.
  I recommend (if you buy a guilty gear game) getting anything besides this even Isuka the Value 
 of this game is CRAP. If you are a complets and utter Dedicted Guilty Gear Fanatic by all means 
 buy it it will keep you busy for about hmmmm.. what 3 hours at best but for everyone else avoid 
 this game at all cost i bought it (and that $30 im not getting back) If you come into contact with 
 this game RUN RUN FOR YOUR FREAKING LIFE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash_and_Pikachu
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 4, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  When you first pick your character and start to fight for the first time, the presentation brings 
 nostalgia to that Guilty Gear feeling, with the rock-n-roll music getting it on, and with the whole 
 thing with the announcer saying, "Heaven or Hell" as you're about to let loose a hectic moment 
 of sheer mayhem. However, I'm afraid to admit that the charm of playing this fighter on the DS 
 will wear off rather quickly after a few bouts since the content of the game is very lacking on 
 what it could've been.
  
  A few notable things to mention about this game is that it consists of the entire character roster. 
 Also, every level that is represented from the console counterparts is also in Dust Strikers. The 
 gameplay is fast and furious but it's more like Super Smash Bros. rather than the traditional one-on-one 
 fighting. And it's also unlike Guilty Gear Isuka since the battles use up both screens of the DS 
 where the action takes place on platforms. I think the import, Jump Super Stars, is a better comparison 
 than Super Smash Bros. in the case with Guilty Gears Dust Strikers. All the moves and combos are 
 available, although it's a drastic change from the console versions as it is dumbed-down a little 
 to make the battles less hampered. And the animation sprites, sound, and game-play isn't too bad, 
 not below average, but just slightly above it, at least good enough to be playable and somewhat 
 enjoyable. Plus it has voice-over work, which is a nice addition to any fighting game.
  
  However, this game is far from perfect and playing it makes me wonder why Majesco just didn't try 
 and make a 1-on-1 Guilty Gear fighter for the DS instead of this four-player battle system? Seeing 
 how good Bleach DS is, I think it's quite possible to port a solid Guilty Gear game to the DS. 
 Anyway, other thoughts that I should bring into a negative light is the fact that it's on the DS 
 so some things are sacrificed. The four-player battle is a little difficult to manage meaning that 
 the battles that take place on the smaller screen is quite a challenge in getting used to. The 
 smaller sprites and the action taking place on both screens makes it difficult and very frustrating 
 to pull off combos or special moves successfully. The action also gets tiring pretty quickly after 
 a couple of play throughs. So like any four-player brawler, I recommend that you take advantage 
 of the multi-player feature, since you'll get the most out of this game playing with a group of 
 friends. Other than that, the single player doesn't have too much to offer. Yet, it's still a decent 
 portable fighter for the DS that is easy to pick up for brief moments of brawl-time, best played 
 on long car rides or on plane trips. And lastly, the game doesn't have any Wi-Fi, but I don't see 
 if adding that feature would help to make the game better than it could be. 
  
  Like I said, although it's suitable for short, bursts of play on the get-go, otherwise, I have 
 to regrettably say that if you don't like Guilty Gear or fighting games, you surely won't like 
 this at all. Even fighting fans or Guilty Gear veterans will most likely be disappointed with this 
 as well. Perhaps this game is left for the ultra hard-core Guilty Gear/fighting fans, or anyone 
 who loves fighting games that are looking for a game of this genre for their DS. Other then that, 
 the title should be re-considered as "Dust-Shakers," since you will be shaking the dust off the 
 cart after letting it sit idle on your book shelf where it's left forgotten from sheer indifference 
 and boredom. 
  
  So as a warning, you should re-consider when you're thinking about buying this game the next time 
 you're at a game store. Sure the box-art looks attractive and the presentation looks like it has 
 potential, but looks can be deceiving. And in this case, the game is "Guilty" for looking nice, 
 but I fear that a few "Gears" are missing in what could have been a "Striking" fighting game for 
 the DS. (Sorry for the puns) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 3, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  First off I haven't wrote a reveiw in ages. This game has a wide varity of different fighters with 
 their own unquie fighting styles. This games story 
  mode was pretty pathetic but I guess the game wasn't made for the story 
  but the smooth action 
 packed fighting. Although you cannot unlock any bonus but you can unlock different moves for Robo 
 Ky. I say this game is worth getting but just in case you don't want to pay $35 for it wait for 
 the prices to drop or rent it. It's your money not mine, if you like fighting games
  you'll like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalfantasy94
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I love this game I know a psp one is coming out but all that is really is just a port this game 
 delivers something different and new. The game play is kind of like isuka since it has 4 players 
 at a time but the way the boards are done they are great and fun to play in. There are little power 
 ups in the game like health gain and stuff like that but if you think its cheap you could just 
 easily take them off. I honestly think the graphics are great the sprites look detailed and clean 
 there just a little smaller thats all. the gameplay is still fast and fun there is ds to ds play 
 I just wish they had wifi it would have been more fun to fight online with people because after 
 you beat it with everyone there is very little to do afterwards like doing the mini games which 
 are changeling and fun but thats just to get robo ky moves. Having saying that there should have 
 been more to unlock also the story mode is pretty good since all the characters do connect in someway. 
 So in conclusion its a fun fast game it wont hurt your eyes since it looks great and if youre 
 dieing for a fighting game for your ds this is one you should not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Guilty Gear: Dust Strikers is another yet another game to revolve around the Guilty Gear X2 timeline 
 (its quickly turning into the SF2 syndrome where the game maker cant seem to count past 2, a 
 la Street Fighter 2) . All the now standard characters are those that were featured in a Guilty 
 Gear X2 game pre-Isuka (basically, no A. B. A., but there is a Robo-Ky) . But instead of the classic 
 2D fighter gameplay that we are all used to from Guilty Gear, the gritty & frantic fighter has 
 been transformed with its new gaming home on the NDS. This time around, you fight battles on 4-tiered 
 playing fields, giving the game a taller Super Smash Bros. feel. Really, at the core, that is exactly 
 what the game is; SSB meets GG. But how well did series the game make the transition?
  
  Gameplay- 7/10- Unfortunately, this score should be much higher. The actual game style really works 
 well for this game. The game is now 4-tiered, as said before, with various different floor set 
 ups. You can easily traverse between the two different levels by jumping up to them or jumping 
 down to other levels. Having enemies on the left & right doesnt deter the way you face much (there 
 is no look left/right button set up like in Isuka, thank goodness) , and the moves have been effectively 
 remapped. Everyone now has their moves mapped out into a new style of moves, where you now do special 
 & super attacks though a simple directional hit & a action button press, nothing more. But with 
 this style of game, that is exactly what you need; quick to execute moves that enable you to pull 
 off moves in a way not cumbersome to having 3 other characters moving around you. Also, you have 
 standard GG gameplay maneuvers, such as Psych Burst & Roman Cancel placed on their own buttons, 
 which is very convenient. The Dust Strike has also taken on a new form in this game. Whereas in 
 past GG games, it allowed you to launch opponents into the air for large aerial beat combos, the 
 Dust Strike allows you to knock opponents up or down a level. This is a nice use of a standing 
 maneuver redone for the new game style. Also, items that are picked up are used by hitting the 
 corner of the touch screen with your thumb, which feels amazingly natural.
  
  Though the basic gameplay is very strong, the gameplay does suffer from ups & downs. The arcade 
 mode is great, having various battles with different numbers of opponents & at the end, a battle 
 with what appears to be a strange Gear. There is also story modes, which help to show a little 
 more into the characters & who they are. The disappointing parts are the last two modes. Versus 
 Mode allows you to connect with others that have a GG: DS game cart & set up a game. Challenge 
 mode is more of an instant battle where you play against/with friends to progress through the arcade 
 mode. The problem is, those are the last of the game modes. This game REALLY needed to have a way 
 to be able to play solo battles that you could set up what type of level, BG music, items, difficulty, 
 souls (life bars) , all that kind of stuff. You dont always have friends around with the game cart 
 to play, so it kind of hurts the overall gameplay score, always being at the mercy of the levels 
 & characters generated to fight you. You CAN go into Challenge & do a lot of the arcade stuff without 
 anyone there but your DS will be searching for a WiFi signal from another DS the whole time, which 
 just drains the battery.
  
  A saving grace from that though, are the mini-games, which are very fun. There are seven mini-games, 
 all of which open up moves for Robo-Ky customization, with getting a Top 3 high score unlocking 
 moves (3 moves per game, getting a #1 score unlocks all, #2 as highest getting 2, and #3 as highest 
 only getting one move from the set) There is a May themed game where you have to moves hoops for 
 dolphins to jump through, a Johnny one where you slice at targets, a Faust whack-a-Mole type 
 game, a Kuradoberi Jam tray balancing game, a Venom 9-ball pool game, a Bridget Yo-Yo cleaning 
 game, and an I-no note catching game. The I-no mini game could have used a little programming to 
 allow for the timing difference in the jump in screens (because it isnt there, there may be more 
 of a learning curve than most people would expect) and the Venom 9-ball game is just missing key 
 functions to make it work. But the I-no one just takes some getting used to, the Venom one is broken, 
 so really, 6 of them are total fun & will keep that stylus busy.
  
  Graphics- 7/10- By moving this game onto a smaller party style field some of the great things about 
 Guilty Gear had to be sacrificed, namely, the large & detailed character sprites. What you get 
 in this game are smaller versions of the same characters, BUT even with the smaller sprites, you 
 can still easily tell who your character is & the animations of moves are fluid. The detailing 
 on the foreground & background of the levels though, is very nicely done, all very fitting of the 
 GG series.
  
  Sound- 7/10- Yet another case of good, but not great for this game. The voices & sound effects 
 of the game are intact & sound great. Anyone that may have experience with the other portable Guilty 
 Gear game that exist (for the GBA) may remember just how many sounds went missing in the transfer 
 over, among other things. In this game though, the sounds gives a full experience. The background 
 music is also very nice, featuring many of the soundtracks that GG fans have come to expect. There 
 does, though, appear to be a lower number of songs in the game, which could bother some, especially 
 those that are fanatics of the series.
  
  Value- 5/10- Here is where the lack of a true single player vs. bots mode really gets effected. 
 Had there simply been the addition of that mode, so that you could choose the battle, who is in 
 it, what, where, etcetera, this game would have been much more fun to just pick up & play. In fact, 
 Id have been inclined to raise the score of gameplay and value just from that simple addition. 
 Without it though, you are at the mercy of either arcade or story mode. Not that it is all that 
 horrible, but such a simple oversight which probably would have only required a short delay, which 
 considering the benefits is just disappointing.
  
  Overall- 7/10- Even without an extra single player selection mode, the game still deserves an overall 
 score of 7. The game still has yet to come out in the EU sector, which has a release in Q3 2006 
 as of right now, so it is possible you guys may see such a mode (and if you do, itll be first 
 on my list of MUST IMPORT) . Arc Systems took a chance to move their game over to this style of 
 gaming and were more than not successful. The game definitely deserves a follow-up release on the 
 DS in a year or two to add a character or two, maybe another mode or two, and expand the Robo-Ky 
 options. But there is no doubt that this game is definitely worth looking into and a follow up 
 by Arc Systems (you best deliver, Arc!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_Man1
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 1, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  This game at first i thought it was gonna suck. but i played it at the store and it plays just 
 like jump superstars. and jump superstars was and is a cool game. i havent bought this game yet 
 but i am trying to buy it asap. my friend got this game and when i played it i was like DAMN I 
 SHOULD OF RESERVED IT!!!!!!!! 
  at first i was saying this is a kool game but then said to myself it a good game but i wouldnt 
 buy it. after i got the hang of it i learned to really like it. now i do want to buy it. i'm thinkin 
 of sellin animal crossing and some of my other stuff. i was playin as my boy Johnny!!!!!!!!! he 
 reeks of total awesomeness!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  When guilty gear dust strikers for the DS was announced sometime ago, everyone was exited about 
 the intruging 4-player super smash bros. battle style. But it turns out that the style just doesnt 
 work for guilty gear. The game tries to put together the normal side scrolling guilty gear with 
 a a 4 player free-for-all type of play. The amount of things that this game attempts is overwhleming, 
 and that ends up being its biggest downfall.
  
  Gameplay
  Guilty gear has 4 player all out bouts that ends up making the game unbelivably hard, and at the 
 same time fun -- in a way. Although the free for all element is good, the way it was implemented 
 into the game wanst. There are alot of problems with the gameplay system, the first being that 
 the game tries to have the side scrolling movement in a not-side scrolling enviorment. The game 
 hevaliy relies on button mashing, although it tries not to. When you try to do something tactical, 
 it cannot work because of the overly long amount of time it takes for your character to turn around. 
 The game only features a few fighting moves, which dont work well because they take a while to 
 use, and are incredibley easy to dodge. The story mode is a good touch to the game, but besides 
 that, there isnt much else besides cruddy mini-games, and a not-so-good multi-pak gameplay.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are well animated and textured, and resemble the other guilty gear 
 games quite nicely. The backdrops are also good, and well as the incredible special move animations.
 
  
  Sound
  The music is good. It matches the concept of the game, and the games moments. The sound effects 
 are done well, and the addition of the commentator is a nice touch.
  
  Value
  Other than the story mode, there isnt much else in the game, unless you can find someone else that 
 has the same game as you, you wont be able to enjoy any intense multi-player battles. Its sad that 
 they did not include Nintendo wifi connection into the game.
  
  Overall
  Overall, Guilty gear dust strikers is a fairly avreage fighter that tries too much at once, and 
 makes the game overly hard, and frustrating. It was a good attempt at the 4 way playing style, 
 but you couldnt help but think that if they took sometime for perfect things, that the game could 
 have been alot better. Maybe in the next guilty gear game for DS, they can fix these problems. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Well first of all puting a fighter on a handheld with 3.5 inch screens is very tough hard to see 
 but then throw 4 fighters in the mix and oh my god my eyes hurt but all in all its not a bad game
 
  
  The minigames are fun but there is nothing to unlock and it just seems like a waste of time i dont 
 know maybe thats just me.
  
  the controls and graphics are good but if i were to play a fighter it would be on a console there 
 is just to much going on at once.
  
  each character has thier own story but they all suck and there is no point to beating them what 
 a waste. 
  
  all in all a good fighter but it just seems like there isnt anything to do but fight level after 
 level and not get anything in return.
  
  WHY WASNT THIS GAME WIFI
  
   
 Oh i just won a fight how boring a monkey can play this game and still come out a champ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doesetsu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Ive been a fan of the Guilty gear series since its beginnings.
  Ive enjoyed its stories and its characters. 
  Its wild zany characters are the most important 
 to me and keeping with that I score this game relatively high.
  If you are a fan of the series this is a must buy!
  
  The game play itself is very simple having 
 virtually no learning curve. All the characters moves are simple to execute. This allows me to 
 pick it up and play against other people of any skill level. I find it rather satisfying that after 
 20 or so rounds my 8 year old cousin actually beat me. So with the ease of play and quick learning 
 curve aside, this isnt your typical fighter.
  Hardcore fighter fans may find the button combinations used for special moves disappointing; for 
 a DS game though I would have to say that is expected. I find it more important to pick up the 
 game and be able to play with anyone.
  
  The graphics are mostly, what looks like, compressed versions from previous games. They arent 
 sharp or flashy, they just are. There isnt too much to say about it. 
  
  The sound however as with all the guilty gear series is great.
  The music and SFX blend well 
 together and some of the sound effects are awesome.
  No complaints!
  
  The value of this title is high, It has a dozen or so story modes to play through. There A bunch 
 of really fun mini-games. Four player multiplayer is what makes this title value so high for me, 
 I really enjoy busting up my friends with Bridget! HA HA!
  
  My tilt rating is perfect on this one. Playing Bakiens sword mini-game is my guilty pleasure. 
 (Pun intended) I really enjoy ALL the mini-games! But my favorite part of the game most of all 
 is customizing Robo-KY into a dangerous fighter. Going through the mini-games earning different 
 moves for my little pet Robo-KY to maximize his destructive potential is down right addictive.
 
  
  Overall the game is real good fun! Grab some friends and play or customize your Robo-KY and destroy 
 them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krazy_duck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Lets get this out of the way right now..... I have never played a Guilty Gear game before Dust 
 Strikers. Maybe thats why my score is mych better than the score you will see review sites giving 
 it...
  Anyways, the best thing about Dust Strikers is that it almost has a Jump Superstars/SSB feel to 
 it... Apparently, thats what IGN doesn't like about it...
  It doesn't stick to the Guilty Gear formula..
  If the game is this good, but doesn't stick to 
 the orignial formula, the original must have sucked!
  Game is very addictive, especially againstfriends
  It is a very good game, but there is a bit 
 of button mashing involved
  but, heck that doesnt ruin the experience at all.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
