-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero: On Tour Decades
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/guitarherodecades/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Every single song is a master track.
 Multiplayer song sharing makes previous game's tracklist available.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mechanical and ergonomic issues remain.
 Sound quality is still tinny.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.2, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Nov 16, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Guitar Hero On Tour: Decades improves minimally upon its predecessor, but not in the areas that 
 matter most. 

  A few months ago, Activision did the seemingly impossible and brought Guitar Hero to the Nintendo 
 DS. With its unique Guitar Grip peripheral and touch-screen strumming, Guitar Hero: On Tour was 
 a competent representation of the fretting and picking experience found on the consoles. However, 
 mechanical and ergonomic issues hampered the game from being as fun as it could have been. Guitar 
 Hero On Tour: Decades, the newest Guitar Hero game for the Nintendo DS, adds song sharing in multiplayer 
 mode -- but ultimately leads to the same disappointing, hand-crippling experience as before.  

           This crazy "recycle" guitar can be yours if you can withstand hand cramps long enough 
 to unlock it.      

  For anyone who isn't familiar with how the portable Guitar Hero games are played, the DS is held 
 like a book, with your strumming area and interface items (star power, score, note streak) on the 
 touch screen and the note highways up top. The Guitar Grip peripheral slides into the Game Boy 
 Advance port of the Nintendo DS and the Nintendo DS Lite. It features four fret buttons, down from 
 the console's five, and you'll wrap your left hand (or right hand for Lefty Flip players) around 
 the back so that your fingertips press the buttons. To strum, you use the included pick-shaped 
 stylus to swipe anywhere on the touch screen. As with other Guitar Hero games, you play notes by 
 strumming while holding down the correct fret button as the scrolling notes come in contact with 
 the fret icons at the bottom of the screen.  

  It's still impressive that the fretting and strumming experience is able to mimic the console guitar 
 experience, and when it works, pulling off crazy solos feels really good. Several annoyances conspire 
 to make sure that it doesn't always work, though, and for On Tour veterans it wouldn't be the first 
 time. The peripheral hasn't been improved with any type of anchor and remains prone to sliding 
 out of the DS midsong, prompting a reboot. Rapid strumming still doesnt always register properly, 
 and the included pick slides around in your hand and ultimately isnt as good to play with as the 
 regular stylus. Anyone who experienced discomfort with the Guitar Grip the first time around can 
 expect continued discomfort here, and if you're new to the franchise on a handheld, be prepared 
 for forearm tightness or hope that you're one of the lucky ones who don't experience the pain. 

  Should you adapt to its ergonomic and mechanical issues, On Tour: Decades at least provides original 
 versions of each of its songs, with no covers whatsoever. The tracklist spans five decades of music 
 from the '70s up until today, with several songs taken from the recently released console version 
 of Guitar Hero: World Tour. The songs are charted fairly well and can be fun to play, from the 
 deliciously '80s "Any Way You Want It" by Journey to the intense triplets in "Tarantula" by the 
 Smashing Pumpkins. On Expert, the satisfying, finger-twisting solos from Lynyrd Skynyrd's live 
 version of "Sweet Home Alabama" are as faithful as they can be to World Tour's version. As with 
 On Tour, there is some pop rock present, with such songs as Paramore's "Crushcrushcrush," The All-American 
 Rejects' "Dirty Little Secret," and Jimmy Eat World's "The Middle" representing the more modern 
 decades.  

  Even with the variety of songs and the fact that they're all original versions, you can still expect 
 the same crackly audio quality that plagued On Tour's set list. It's not entirely surprising, and 
 not every song sounds as bad as those in the previous game. But it's still a downer when almost 
 every song lyric that starts with an "s" comes out fuzzy, and distorted guitars sound a just little 
 too distorted.  

           The regular stylus feels much better than this awkward pick-stylus.      

  On Tour: 
 Decades, then, feels more like an expansion pack. The issues from the previous game remain, and 
 the same career mode and (admittedly impressive) duel mode are present. It's not as if the game 
 is completely devoid of improvement, however, as it adds both a bass/rhythm career path as well 
 as song sharing with the original On Tour. Many of the bass and rhythm note charts tend to be a 
 bit boring, and so song sharing is the more intriguing improvement. If you play with someone who 
 owns On Tour but not On Tour: Decades, the song lists from both games open up for you. This is 
 a nice touch that at least saves you the aggravation of having to switch out games to play the 
 full list of portable Guitar Hero songs, and it also gives owners of only one of the games a taste 
 of what the other has to offer.  

  The simple truth is that Guitar Hero On Tour: Decades doesn't do enough to improve the flawed experience 
 from its predecessor. Song sharing is nice, and simply offering new tracks would be fine if some 
 of the portable franchise's more standout problems were fixed. If you were able to enjoy the first 
 game, you'd do well to add 28 more songs to your catalog. But until Activision and Vicarious Visions 
 work to improve the fundamental flaws, it's best to keep your distance -- unless your idea of a guitar 
 hero is someone with cramped hands, a guitar pick that doesn't strum, and a guitar that keeps getting 
 unplugged midsong.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: acfjosh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  Since last summer ive moved from my DS to the PSP. I got this game off my girl for christmas and 
 kinda thought 'oooooh god a DS game!'
  But i was brave enough to load it up and have a good hour first play, and by god is it impressive. 
 The time flies with a wonderfull variety of old and new rock songs from Eye of the Tiger to Bon 
 Jovis You give love a bad name AND modernists like Foo fighters and Fall out boy.
  I blame DS for the rubbishy sound on this game but dont be put of it's still unoticable to an extent
 
  There's character customisation, multiplayer, Quick play, Guitar duels and autograph signing.
 
  
  This is a signature game to the DS and would of scored a perfect 10 if it werent for lack of FIZZ 
 and glamour like the other guitar heros.
  Still go and buy this if you like your periphials 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evansgazz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I was very impressed with this game .The song library is a vast improvement to the origianl guitar 
 hero with much more popular and well known titles.
  There are 25 songs and additional unlockable ones, far less than the console versions but this is 
 after all a game for a heldheld system with less memory space.
  The graphics I would say are about average for the ds. Though the more detailed sprites look a 
 little rough around the edges like on many ds games. The quality of the sound is a bit of a disapointment 
 but it would be unfair to blame the game developers as this is down more to the ds' speakers which 
 are fairly tinny .The whole experience is much better when you are playing through headphones ,which 
 the game actually states at the beginning.
  If you like the guitar hero games on the wii ,ps3, ps2 or 360 then I dont think this version will 
 let you down. It definitley does them justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simscheater
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good & highly addictive. It has few flaws including low sound quality, a set 
 list with a few songs already on Guitar Hero - World Tour,& the risk of getting carpal tunnel syndrome, but 
 other than that, it's awesome! The set list (besides the songs on GH WT) is genious! And the idea 
 to count down decades is awesome! I could of thought of that exept the other way around. Plus, some 
 songs they put on it, such as "No Rain","Free Ride","Smooth Criminal","The Takeover, The Breaks Over",& 
 "Any Way You Want It", are songs I have only dreamed of putting on a Guitar Hero. Also, this means 
 when the PS2 finally goes out of style, the DS can replace it Guitar Hero. How awesome is that!?!? Usuallly, I 
 only give reviews to games with a 10 on my rating scale, but I thought this one diserved a reveiw. And 
 also,"Satch Boogie"? HARD AS HELL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbez
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This is very much like the other Guitar Hero game for the DS, except for the songs of course. The 
 gameplay is the same, the graphics are a little better but everything else is the same. It's not 
 bad but it's not that great either. The music playlist is not that horrendous, sure fall out boy 
 is there, but overall the songs are decent. I'm not much into the whole guitar hero world, ie. 
 I don't even attempt the expert level, but I finished the medium level with a fair number of 5 
 stars with less than 3 hours of guitar hero knowledge. Needless to say, this game is not just geared 
 towards the guitar hero connoisseurs but to average players as well. 
  
  The guitar grip is horrible. At best I can play 3 songs straight without having to rest my wrist. 
 I've learned that it's better for me to not insert my whole hand through the loop and just hold 
 the ds like how I regularly hold it. 
  
  Anyway, If you like the first one, chances are you'll like this one too because... they're the 
 same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallir
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  So first off just to tell everyone I have a rating system (If you're wondering why I only gave 
 it a 5) . This does not mean it's bad, in fact I probably like it more than gamepot does. Well basically 
 my rating is based on replay value... 100% on replay value... u ask "how about graphics, sound 
 gameplay". Well I answer "Those all add up to hoe much you will play the game (replay value) ". 
 Anyway here's my harsh rating list:
  1/10: Less than 1 hour
  2/10: 1 hour
  3/10: 5 hours
  4/10: 15 hours
  5/10: 30 hours
  6/10: 50 hours
  7/10: 100 hours
  8/10: 
 300 hours
  9/10: 1000 hours
  10/10: 10000 hours
  
  As you can see by my list I believe this game's replayability is about 30 hours which is pretty 
 good. But I know everyone wants a breakdown of the different stats so I'll put it in anyway (But 
 just tell u even if graphics are say 5/10 for example and gameplay is 10/10, for me that doesnt 
 make the whole game 7.5/10 or something, it's all about how long the game keeps u entertained for) .
 
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  
  Looks good enough, u can see the notes clearly... what more can u ask for. I think it's cool that 
 depending on the guitar u wish to use u get to strum on it. Um the characters look decent enough 
 (I don't pay much attention to them) .
  
  Controls: 6/10
  I agree with gamespot a bit but not entirely. First off sometimes I do get cramps but not all the 
 time. I think it depends on the person and the ay u hold your hand. Also it's a DS, u don't need 
 to play it for 2 hours straight. I play like maybe an hour at a time and 4 hours later I'd probably 
 be good to go for another hour. Gamespot said something about the grip coming out midsong... This 
 has never happended to me. I have no idea what they're doing, I guess they're just noobs at it 
 (no offense, but sounds kinda pathetic that the grip came out, they must've been raggin' out while 
 get wrecked on a solo or something) . As for the stylus being awkward... it's less awkward then 
 the normal pick... i mean it's just like a guitar pick. As for the strums not being picked up properly 
 plz explain to me how the hardest song in the game *Spoiler*
  Satch Boogie
  *End of Spoiler*
  was perfected... I've got a few perfects myself on Hard and Expert modes and 
 90% of the time it's my fault... I mean the stylus isn't perfect but as u get better at the game 
 u find ways to imrpove the stylus' accuracy.
  
  Music: 8/10
  All master recordings. I like most of the songs. Only bad thing is if u play Guitar Hero a lot 
 of have other guitar hero's or Rock Band you'll notice half the songs have been in other rythm 
 games before. Also only having 28 songs brings the rating down, but w/e 2 songs better than last 
 time, and u can also play bass/rythm guitar too them.
  
  Gameplay: 5.5/10
  Sorry GH: OTD but I'm harsh w/ my gameplay ratings and I have certain difficulty expectations. First 
 off a game should start off pretty easy for beginners and get progressivly harder w/ peaks and 
 end up quite difficult. Well GH: OTD does kinda do that since there are 4 dificulties... but song 
 by song the order is random and w/e they feel like making it. First off to add more replay value 
 I started on Hard instead of Expert. I played through the main setlist (25 songs) and played 1 
 unlockable one. I ended up 5 starring all except for the 5th song. wth the encore to the first 
 song was like as hard as the final song in the setlist. But many ppl won't care too much about 
 this they just like to play... I like challenges though, I like when a song takes me many tries 
 (like TTFAF in GH3) . I think I'll pass all of expert first try every song (actually i tried last 
 song in setlist once and 5 starred it) .
  
  How to get most replay value out of GH: OTD
  If you're a noob:
  Start a career on easy, beat all of bass/rythm, then all of guitar duel and 
 end w/ guitar (since it's the most fun) .
  If u can 4 or 5 star most songs in easy move to medium.
  Then go through medium in same order 
 (bass/rythm, duel, guitar) . If u can get lots of 4 stars in medium go to hard.
  So on and so forth till you beat Expert. I think this'll take about 20 hours in all if u have natural 
 talent. Then if u want to challenge yourself try beating the hardest song on Expert (it's an unlockable) . 
 The reason I give this game 30 hours of replayability is after u do that u can always play songs 
 u like over again, try to improve scores, try to get ll the guitars (if u haven't already) . U can 
 convince a friend to get the game to duke it out, etc.
  
  If you're a pro:
  Start on hard... I know everyone wants to start on Expert but that uses up the replayabilty faster. 
 If u u can pass every song on hard try 5 starring every song on hard maybe. Maybe try to gold star 
 some bass ones. Again I'd go through all 3 modes in hard and Expert. That'll give u about 9 hours 
 of play and if you were a GH pro before I suspect u like GH and are gonna play it a lot more anyways. 
 O and if u get really good u should *hint hint* join scorehero. com. You can compare to others... 
 and trust me you will find someone better than u. I mean I can 5 star every song if I play a bit 
 more I think (though there is 1 song that may be too hard for me) ... yet there are ppl getting 
 twice my score in certain songs.
  
  Overall:
  If u liked GH: OT you'll like this.
  If u like GH in general and want to play it on the go. Get this.
  If u can handle taking a break 
 once or twice in a lifetime (since u may get cramps) . And if u can ahndle controls that work 90% 
 as good as the console versions... get this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The guitar hero series has managed to collect a very large number of fans over the years. Because 
 of the huge success of it's console games, it was a big surprise when guitar hero decided to traverse 
 the portable frontier. Will Guitar Hero On Tour: Decades disappoint, or will it forge a new frontier 
 for portable music games? GHOTD has 3 options to choose from on the title screen. Single player, 
 Multiplayer, and Training. Options and Credits can remain unmentioned. The Single player game has 
 a career mode and a quickplay mode. The quickplay mode is just what you'd expect. Picking a character, 
 and playing a song. The Career mode is the main highlight of the game, and it even introduces something 
 new for guitar hero veterans. Guitar Duels. It is basically guitar hero meets mario kart. Playing 
 a sequence of spiky notes gives you an item to unleash on your foe, such as, setting their guitar 
 on fire (the fire can be put out by blowing into your microphone, which may raise a few eyebrows 
 if you are playing with people in the room) or raising the difficulty on the other players song. 
 The guitar duels are challenging, even if your playing against the computer, but they are always 
 fun. You can even play a whole career of guitar duels. The career mode also allows players to play 
 through a career with bass guitar and lead guitar. You can select the difficulty level for each 
 of these instruments. There is easy, medium, hard, and expert. The challenge remains surprisingly 
 intact for each of the difficulties. When you start your career, you can customize your character, 
 buy clothes or guitars from the store, or play a live show at one of the six venues. Each venue 
 consists of five songs, including the encore after the last song. The complete list of songs comes 
 to a grand total of....28! This is nothing compared to the expansive song selections in some of 
 the more recent games. This doesn't ruin the experience, but it is the biggest flaw of the game. 
 The songs in the game are at least stellar choices that everyone will enjoy. Playing the songs 
 works surprisingly well. There is a new guitar grip that you have to put into the gba slot to start 
 playing. There is one less fret key, which might disapoint guitar hero fans, but it's a minor sacrifice. 
 The grip (if held incorrectly) can cause hand cramps after a short period of time as well. Gamespot. com 
 decided that this setback completely ruins the game. I disagree, since there are proper and improper 
 ways to hold the grip, and the game even shows you the proper way to hold the grip. The next option 
 is multiplayer. If you have a friend who is willing to play, then this mode is a blast. You can 
 do a face-off, and a pro-face-off, which guitar hero fans are familiar with, and gutiar duels. 
 All of the modes are fun to play for hours on end. The next option is training, which lets you 
 play a certain song repeatedly to get better at it. One drawback is that you will have to play 
 the song or section at top speed. Overall, Guitar Hero On Tour: Decades is a solid buy for fans 
 of the series, but some will be disapointed by the short tracklist and the new guitar grip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour Decades is the second installment in the On Tour series of Guitar Hero, which 
 is exclusively made for the Nintendo DS. The story starts as your new band manager named Sal arranges 
 you a gig in the modern day stage. Then you go back in time music wise with the early 2000's, 1990's, 
 1980's, and 1970's.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it does bring a good Guitar Hero experience, even with the 
 Guitar Clip and Touch Screen. Cool new guitars you'll unlock. Graphically looks great. Familiar 
 characters, such as Axel Steel and Judy Nails are in as well. Some awesome songs, like The Pretender 
 by Foo Fighters and Tarantula by Smashing Pumpkins. A very addictive experience.
  
  What I dislike about this game is that the music setlist isn't very long. Some not so good songs. 
 Hypnotic gameplay (as with the other Guitar Heroes) .
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero: On Tour Decades brings a great Guitar Hero experience and keeps you playing, 
 but you may get hypnotized like you did other Guitar Hero games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenLives
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Rocking the DeLorean
  
  First off, it's definitely worth noting that Guitar Hero: On Tour Decades isn't just an expansion, 
 but an entirely new game from its predecessor. Decade sports five innovative new venues, each representing 
 a different period in music history, not to mention a beefy track-list of 28 era-specific tunes 
 -- all original master tracks, to boot. Fan favorite characters from Pandora to Midori all return 
 in handheld style, sporting customizable new clothes and a wide array of unlockable guitars - my 
 personal favorite being the pixilated 8-bit axe.
  
  Decades uses the same four-button controller as On Tour, and ultimately suffers from the same issues. 
 Extended playing is bound to cause cramps, and it's very easy for your fingers to slide off of 
 certain frets in Expert mode, but these are minor complaints when you take into account everything 
 that Decades does right. Decades' interface is virtually identical to On Tour for the most part, 
 with the player using their stylus-pick to strum on the touch-pad as they meet the designated notes 
 on screen. One of Decades' most notable new features is the ability to choose how you progress 
 through career mode: playing lead guitar, grooving on the bass/rhythm guitar, or taking the rock-world 
 by storm with various Guitar Duels. While the Duels play identical to the head-to-head multiplayer 
 featured in On Tour, it's still a treat to be able to go up against the CPU on any song from across 
 the ages.
  
  Doing the Time Warp
  
  While Decades isn't revolutionary by any means, it's still an absolute blast to play. With a stellar 
 track-list ranging over five decades to a fantastic amount of character customization, Guitar Hero: 
 On Tour Decades is an improvement over the original in every aspect, and I can't help but recommend 
 it to any and every on-the-go rocker.
  
  Overall
  
  The Good: Great track-list; Innovative venues and character designs.
  The Bad: Controls can take 
 a toll on your wrist and hands; A bit short at 28 songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this is a good game, every GH game is... but really. This sequal certainly doesn't 
 have enough new features to justify its existance as opposed to a song pack. Not that the first 
 game was comparable to the second coming, but whatever. Decades has a few new things: for example, 
 you can play bass and rhythm guitar along with the regular lead. Ok, this is fine, but I don't 
 really get the relevance. I mean, you could already do that in the other games, but just in practice 
 mode *shudders*. Among other things, we have a new fantastic songlist featuring... No Rain... and 
 the irresistable Satch Boogie.......... and Boston and Journey... oh. Don't judge me by my heavy 
 musical bias, but you have to admit. You have to be totally stoned to like No rain. *Sigh*. Whatever. 
 If you like the games, buy it. If you weren't crazy about On Tour (it did the best it could) , then 
 by all means don't buy this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven1983
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I like this one a lot though. I like the variety of songs, the era variety, and specially love 
 the options of guitars you get to play. Though honestly I couldn't play the extreme level to save 
 my life and I always end up downloading a lot of the songs I hear on the game.
  
  I find it hard to put down and stop playing despite the fact that it's hard to keep your wrist 
 straight so it ultmately ends up feeling like it's gonna fall off. Cla$$ic case of GuitarHero-itis 
 though.
  
  anyway I recommend this game for anyone whose into music and just wants to have fun.
  
  Hmm 
 ok... so apparently I need to add more to this......
  
  ummm, I'm happy that I didn't have to buy a new guitar grip, that's always a plus if you already 
 on GH: On Tour. I would also recommend investing in a wrist brace too (which I've yet to do myself) 
 
  
  I also like the fact that with this game you can unlock songs. THose songs are also really good 
 and who doesn't like coming up with your own band name? 
  
  yeah, now stop reading and go buy the game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play the notes when they come down at the right moment. The game has alot of songs 
 espicially when you can trade them from On Tour to On Tour Decades. The game has songs from the 
 80's to present time. Some of the songs are CrushCrush, The Pretenders, and other songs. There 
 are alot more gameplay and items that has been added. Like you can get more outfits and more guitars. 
 The game is easy. There are also two new charcters that you start off with. The game should have 
 more characters that you should buy and unlock them. When you play and complete some of the songs 
 really good you could get a guitar that you don't even have to buy you get it when you beat the 
 song really well. So you might think the game is just like the first Guitar Hero On Tour game. 
 Well it kinda is. But it is better. The sound is not the best it is alittle tiny sound that you 
 can only hear if you are up close. The Multiplayer is really amazing to play with friends.
  
  The good of the game is that there are plenty of songs to play. The Multiplayer is really amazing. 
 There is plenty of stuff to buy.
  
  The bad of the game is that the sound is tiny. It is kinda just like the first Guitar Hero On Tour 
 game.
  
  Overall this game gets a 9.5 outta 10. I think people who like Guitar Hero should get this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobster-man44
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  For me, the first Guitar Hero On Tour was good. It had everything that I expected for a Guitar 
 Hero game on the DS. But only a few months later, Activision pulls together a sequal, Guitar Hero 
 On Tour: Decades. Decades was surprisingly better than the first. The 28 songs in the game (wish 
 there were more) were some of the best songs out there like: "Can't Stop", "The Pretender", "Sweet 
 Home Alabama", and "Satch Boogie". And I hear everyone talking about "wrist cramps". Well, I don't 
 get those. I have never gotten them from playing Guitar Hero On Tour or Decades. But everyone else 
 says they get them, so that would be something to look out for. And the "Eye of the Tiger" (for 
 all the European lucky ones) is in there. Dang I wish it were in the American one.
  Well Decades is very much better than the first, and I recomend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  I've never had the first one back in July but I had a little go on it anyway. It seems that Activision, 
 Neversoft and Red Octane have really improved it this time by adding a small collection of tracks 
 from Modern, 2000's, 1990's, 1980's and the 1970's.
  
  So far only 2 or 3 songs are already on Guitar Hero: World Tour and they are:
  
  Some Might 
 Say - Oasis
  Eye of the Tiger - Survivor
  
  Some of my favourite songs are:
  
  I beleive in a thing called Love - The Darkness
  Can't Stop - The Red Hot Chilli Peppers
  Eye 
 of the Tiger - Survivor
  All Right Now - Free
  We are the Champions - Queen (Unlockable song)
  
  Playing Guitar Hero on the Nintendo DS is 
 really fun and addictive and with the Guitar Grip with the Guitar Pick, it makes it easy to strum 
 like a real Guitar.
  
  On the Quickplay and Career modes, you can play by using 3 types:
  
  Lead Guitar
  Bass Rythym Guitar
  Duel Mode
  
  The Duel mode is very fun and challenging 
 and this will keep you going for ages.
  
  I wish you can play online on this sequel but it's still an essential purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dax-360
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  When Guitar Hero On Tour came out and I had puchesed it, I beat it and then got bored. It didn't 
 have that feeling that the other GH gaames have. I thought that this would be the case for Decades 
 and thankfully im wrong. GH OT Decades is the 2nd installment on the DSwith some improvments. They 
 have now gotten songs from Modern, 2000's, 90's, 80's, and 70's. That way theres something for 
 everyone. It also includes hits like "Dirty Little Secret","One Step Closer", I Can't Drive 55", 
 and "Sweet Home Alabama" just to name a few. The carrer has now been spilt into 3 diffrent gameplay 
 options."Lead Guitar", "Base Guitar", and "Guitar Duels" This wasn't really necessary but it was 
 a nice touch. 
  
  Decades may be good, but it isnt flawless. The charictar styles and animations are still the same. 
 Another thing is that the guitar grip still is uncomfertable. Other then that, Decades is a good 
 game.
  
  PROS:
  -New Setlist with songs for everyone
  -More Charictars
  -New Venues
  -More Features
  -Song Sharing feature is cool
  
  CONS:
  -A little to easy
 
  -Guitar Grip Still hurts
  -No Wi-Fi
  _Still feels like On Tour
  
  OVERALL: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YOJIMBO_X
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero On Tour: Decades is the game we should have been given to begin with, not that it's 
 improved visually, but the developers have at least cleaned it up a bit and put in songs people 
 would actually want to play.
  
  The set list contains some pretty good songs from the 70's to 2007, of course this depends on your 
 tastes, but you're more likely to find a song you like on Decades than the original. There's a 
 wide variety of costumes to dress the characters in but the game is missing licensed guitars, not 
 that that hinders the gameplay, you'll be spending far too much time looking at the top screen 
 trying to hit notes.
  
  Visually the game still has the same clunky 3D animations of the first game just on flashier backgrounds, 
 but the layout of the menu system has been improved and no longer do you have to beat every song 
 on every difficulty, beat a song on expert and it checks it off for all other difficulties as well. 
 Difficulty wise, it's challenging but not to the point of frustration.
  A nice addition is the option to play either rhythm or bass guitar which adds a whole lot more 
 gameplay value for your money.
  
  The multiplayer option of song sharing is a pretty good idea, i just haven't had a chance to test 
 it out yet.
  
  Overall it's a pretty solid game, and to be honest you already know if this game is for you or 
 not so I'm not going to try and make it out to be anything other than a much improved Guitar Hero 
 title for the DS, that is just plain fun!
  
  Oh and yeah the guitar grip still makes your hand cramp up like a &$%*@ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
