-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero: On Tour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/guitarhero/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Most of the songs are master tracks.
 Multiplayer modes are pretty good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Grip attachment can be extremely uncomfortable.
 Music fidelity is poor.
 A total of 26 songs won't last you very long.
 Guitar Hero without a larger, fake guitar isn't much fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.2, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,058 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Jun 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Cumbersome controls and several other shortcomings make this guitar permanently out of tune. 
 

  Guitar Hero has made the rounds, appearing on all of the current consoles. However, the series' 
 use of licensed music and reliance on large plastic guitars made it seem like you'd never be able 
 party like a rock star on a handheld -- especially the cartridge-based Nintendo DS. But never underestimate 
 the lure of making money when it comes to innovation. Vicarious Visions has found a way to bring 
 the Guitar Hero experience to the DS in the form of Guitar Hero: On Tour. Although this accomplishment 
 is impressive from a technical standpoint, a small setlist, a cumbersome fret attachment, and a 
 high price tag ($50 USD) make it seem as if the focus was on whether Guitar Hero: World Tour  could 
  be made, and not if it  should  be made.  

           On Tour's fret attachment looks cool but has some functionality problems.      

  On 
 Tour's most unique aspect is how it is played. Rather than a plastic guitar, the game comes with 
 a four-button "guitar grip" that plugs into the Game Boy Advance slot. The game works on both the 
 DS Lite and the original DS as well, with the help of an included small plastic adapter. If you're 
 right-handed (there is a lefty flip mode) , you'll slide your left hand through the adjustable wrist 
 strap, cradling the DS in your palm like an open book. Notes scroll downward on the left screen 
 and you push down on the corresponding fret buttons with your fingertips. There's no physical strum 
 bar; instead you use the included guitar pick-like stylus to strum across the guitar that is displayed 
 on the right screen. It takes a little bit of practice to get the strumming motion down, and even 
 when you do, the game doesn't always register your input. This can be frustrating when you're trying 
 to improve your high scores, but it isn't an issue that renders the game unplayable.  

  As in other Guitar Hero games, there are four difficulty settings: easy, medium, hard, and expert. 
 The game gets harder by throwing more notes and more complicated note patterns your way. The more 
 correct notes you hit, the higher your score will be. If you miss too many notes, you'll deplete 
 your rock meter and fail the song. Hitting all of the notes in a highlighted section gives you 
 star power, which once activated will multiply your score by up to eight times. Star power can 
 be deployed by yelling into the microphone, but the microphone is so sensitive that if you're on 
 the train or bus, the ambient noise is typically enough to activate it. If your surroundings are 
 quieter and you're not in the mood to look completely insane yelling "rock it!" in public, you 
 can hit any of the face buttons or the D pad -- you can't use the shoulder button (s) , which is curious 
 because doing so wouldn't have required you to stop strumming the way that hitting the other buttons 
 does.  

  According to the game's developer, it took more than 20 prototypes to get On Tour's unique controller 
 attachment right. Unfortunately, whether or not they got it right is a point of contention. The 
 unit at first seems to fit snuggly into the GBA slot, but it's possible for it to work itself out 
 in midsong. This brings up an error screen that tells you that you're rocking too hard. Unfortunately, 
 you can't just push the unit back in and continue; you've got to turn the system off and start 
 the song over. Playing for any length of time can be extremely uncomfortable, and don't be surprised 
 if you experience lingering pain in your wrist or elbow after the shortest of play sessions. Even 
 playing a single song can be enough to cause discomfort. While the size of your hands is certainly 
 a consideration, the attachment is functional at best. Given that the game actually begins with 
 two screens that instruct you to keep your wrist straight, take frequent breaks to avoid cramping, 
 try different play styles to find one that's comfortable, and even visit the game's Web site "for 
 more play comfort suggestions," it's apparent that someone was aware that the game could present 
 physical problems for people. It would have been nice to be able to play the game with some sort 
 of alternate control scheme, but such an option isn't available.  

           Notes are displayed on the left, and you strum the guitar on the right.      

  Guitar 
 Hero: On Tour's tracklist consists of 26 songs, most of which are new to the series. Most of On 
 Tour's songs are performed by the original artists. In fact, "Pride and Joy," which appeared as 
 a terrible cover in Guitar Hero 3, is performed by Stevie Ray Vaughan in On Tour. There are a few 
 songs, such as ZZ Top's "La Grange" and Steve Miller Band's "Jet Airliner," that are covers, but 
 all of the new versions are well-done. The soundtrack ranges across a wide swath of the rock-and-roll 
 timeline, but seems to be more focused on music from the last 10 years than previous games; the 
 inclusion of Daughtry and Los Lonely Boys could be good or bad based on your rock-and-roll upbringing. 
 A few of the songs, such as Smash Mouth's "All Star," and "This Love" from Maroon 5, would be better 
 described as pop than rock, so their inclusion may be off-putting to series fans used to nothing 
 but rock. There aren't many older tunes, but classic rock is represented with songs such as the 
 Doobie Brothers' "China Grove," Lynyrd Skynyrd's "I Know a Little," and Santana's "Black Magic 
 Woman." Songs from the '80s include the Stray Cats' "Stray Cat Strut," Rick Springfield's "Jessie's 
 Girl," Pat Benatar's "Hit Me With Your Best Shot," and Twisted Sister's "We're Not Gonna Take It." 

  Of course, opinions on the setlist will vary by taste, but there are some aspects of the actual 
 sound that clearly could have been improved. The audio quality of the songs is downright poor, 
 especially if you're listening through the DS's speakers. A pair of headphones will make the songs 
 listenable, but will also highlight the low fidelity of the tracks; voices sound tinny and guitars 
 lack "oomph." Obviously, space was an issue when trying to cram everything onto a cartridge, but 
 the music has been compressed to the point that it sounds like an AM radio. With only 26 songs 
 in the game, it's disappointing that some of the longer songs weren't trimmed to make room for 
 either the inclusion of more songs, improved sound quality, or at the very least, to make them 
 more interesting. Disregarding the obvious benefit that a shorter song is easier on the hands, 
 cutting 60 seconds from songs such as "China Grove" or "Spiderwebs" would not only have freed up 
 some space, but would also have made those songs less repetitive, less painful, and more fun to 
 play.  

  The career mode is very no-frills. You select a guitarist and then play five songs in each of the 
 five levels: a subway, a rooftop, a parade, a Greek arena, and on a battleship. The game can be 
 beaten in less than two hours, and you can find some replay value by replaying songs to earn more 
 money, which can then be used to unlock new outfits, guitars, and guitar designs. The presentation 
 is merely adequate, but the frame rate is steady, which is the most important thing.  

           Guitar duels have some new features but still aren't much fun.      

  There are no 
 boss battles in career mode, but there is a guitar-duel option available from the main menu that 
 offers a similar experience. This mode is playable against either the CPU or another person who 
 has a copy of the game via local Wi-Fi (there is no online play) . There's all sorts of nonsense 
 to distract you from your main goal of playing notes: You might have to blow on the DS to put out 
 a flaming guitar, or scribble down your name to get rid of an obnoxious autograph hound. Though 
 creative, these uses of the touch screen don't make for a very fun experience. Other multiplayer 
 modes include faceoff (players alternate riffs) , pro faceoff (play the same notes) , and co-op play, 
 in which one person plays lead guitar and the other plays rhythm or bass guitar depending on the 
 song. These modes offer a healthy amount of replay value, though the uncomfortable controls may 
 limit the length of your play sessions to just a few songs.  

  Guitar Hero: On Tour lacks many of the characteristics of the console versions of Guitar Hero, 
 but the main ingredient that's missing is fun. It's simply not enjoyable to contort your hand around 
 the DS and listen to 26 low-fi songs while you strum the touch screen and fight the pain in your 
 hand.  

    Editor's Note: This review previously stated -- as the game's packaging does -- that Guitar Hero: 
 On Tour features only 25 songs when in fact there are 26. GameSpot regrets the error.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (127 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: adventstrike
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed it as a whole, the music is alright, but not The World Ends with You quality though, 
 most songs are recognizable, but if you have played the Guitar Hero game constantly on the PS2, 
 PS3 etc. Then STEER CLEAR! You will be disappointed by the comparison. But the game is entertaining 
 if you had friends who owned it, and had not spent too long playing it and enjoyed it, but not 
 enough to pay the money for it. This is a cheaper version, no. It doesn't fill GH boots, but still 
 managed to entertain you nonetheless.
  
  The graphics are decent, but you tend to find that you don't spend all too much time looking at 
 them because you are concentrating on the game.
  
  People complain about the wrist thing, but that is only if you play it for a long time, I managed 
 to find that if you rested it on your knee (sitting down of cause) , then it would be quite some 
 time before it began to be stressful.
  
  Overall, decent game, but only for GH virgins.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Let it never be said that developer Vicarious Visions lacks innovation and ambition: These folks 
 have often tried to push the limit of portable hardware, first with Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 on 
 the Gameboy Advance and then in trying to craft a 60-frames-per-second 3D graphics engine for Spider 
 Man 2 DS on the handheld's launch day.
  
  With the new guitar grip, Vicarious Visions has made the unthinkable happen. Guitar Hero: On Tour 
 IS Guitar Hero on your DS. It's not some cut-down version where you play it with your thumbs, like 
 on a mobile phone, or with the face buttons and d-pad. It's Guitar Hero, in the flesh, with one 
 hand curled up as if its fingers were getting ready to dance across a fretboard, and your other 
 hand ready to pick and strum at a moment's notice.
  
  There are problems, sadly. The issues with this game are largely mechanical, as opposed to with 
 the content. The guitar grip is prone to slipping out of the Gameboy Advance slot during intense 
 play, forcing players to reboot the entire system. It's also quite unwieldy -- and even more prone 
 to slipping out -- for those with large hands. It takes longer to get to a comfortable angle with 
 this peripheral, since your hand is tied down by the unit's strap.
  
  Furthermore, though the strumming "feels" somewhat like strumming thanks to the pick-shaped stylus, 
 the touch screen lacks the tactile "click" feel that comes from either flipping the strum bar on 
 the console versions or actually picking a real string. It's easy to pick at the wrong area when 
 you're not looking, causing alt-strummers to gape in disbelief as they mysteriously miss a series 
 of eighth-notes because their first touch didn't take.
  
  These are two large problems that are severe enough to hamper the fluidity of the gameplay. It 
 is in this sense that the game doesn't always "work." Neither of these problems are necessarily 
 anyone's "fault", instead being due to the nature of the hardware, but surely improvements can 
 be made for the next go round. (How about an anchoring mechanism to keep the grip in place, and 
 less finnicky strumming code?)
  
  The other gripe you might have is hand cramps. Holding your hand in this new awkward position will 
 definitely introduce some pain, and while "omg hand cramp" is a flippant complaint often used by 
 Nintendo DS detractors, it actually does hold true here.
  
  If you can tolerate these issues, then Guitar Hero: On Tour can be just as fun as the console versions 
 if you come in expecting lower-quality sound files and a reduced tracklist. Hammering a tricky 
 solo flat-out works here, and is just as satisfying to your fingers as it is on the console guitars. 
 Shouting at the mic (I prefer clearing my throat) is a serviceable way of activating star power 
 for the score junkie in you, and even though you don't quite feel like you're playing a fake guitar, 
 you still feel like you're pulling off some mean feats when you play on Expert.
  
  All told, Guitar Hero: On Tour is a viable option if you really want Guitar Hero in the car. It 
 plays and feels enough like its console cousin, and is a commendable effort by the developer. Its 
 mechanical issues simply cannot be ignored, however, and you need to be ready to handle them if 
 you're going to plug in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:44 am PT
Review:  this game is just alright.... the game itself is for the most hardcore guitar hero players... the 
 songs rang from blink 182, alice cooper, foghat and throw in some of the songs from gh 2 and 3... 
 the game uses a 5 button system that u attach to the ds.... in some cases the game is easy on the 
 harder difficulty doing 3-- 4 button combos is a pain and can cause cramps because it is poorly 
 designed and small.... this game is really for little kids and go pick up gh2-3- or on tour and 
 get the big guitar controller to play this game because the ds has better mario, pokemon, and other 
 games and gh is not really made for the ds... I can understand what they were trying to do... but 
 it is not really that great of a game and is really tedious and boring even for a GH game.... the 
 graphics are bad and bland and the sound does not even sound that clear.... it looks like they 
 took the graphics from the tony hawk series and used it for this game.... they also have less customization 
 and online play is really not that great... overall its medicore and only buy it if it is less 
 than 10 dollars at a store.... other than that skip this one indefinitly.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceGamer01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  In the past millions of people enjoyed playing guitar hero 1,2,3 rock the 80s and others in big, huge 
 game consoles. Alot of people want to bring it with them while they are going to a different place 
 and the solution is:
  GUITAR HERO ON TOUR.
  
  The features n it is awesome all thought it only has 4 fret buttons making it a little easy, but 
 the guitar duels are fun because u can get weapons against another player like:
  
  Burning guitar-blow on the mic
  Autograph stun- scribble on the mic Broken guitar-point the pic 
 like connect the dots
  And more!
  
  that is why i give this game a 7.5
  now, why i didn't give it a 9.0 plus also has it's reasons.
  
  The four fret buttons i was 
 talking about needed 1 more to make the game challenging, because if you play the hardest song 
 on expert (to pros of guitar hero) it won't seem much like the original one because it is 2 EASY, 
 well for myself it is quite easy because i own guitar hero on the ps2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero craze took root and grew and grew and grew and grew. People all around the world 
 could now live their dreams of being rock stars with their plastic guitar with five colorful buttons 
 and a whammy bar to boot. Well they decided that some people would rather rock out with their electric 
 guitars, or should I say, electric handgrips, any where, anytime, even in the back of their mom's 
 mini-van. 
  
  Enter Guitar Hero: On Tour. A mini rock show with 25 tracks with rockin artist such as Maroon 5, 
 Chris Daughtry, and Blink 182. Yep, once again the track listing isn't very pretty overall. There 
 had to be some mainstream pop songs for the Nintendo DS version of Guitar Hero however. Especially 
 since the system is touted as a force in the casual market. All those 15 year old girls who voted 
 Daughtry as an American Idol finalist need something to rock out too as well. Even though I have 
 never been fond of most of the Guitar Hero series track listings, the songs have always been fun 
 to play, and that's what counts. So is the game fun to play? If you're a Guitar Hero vet you may 
 remember or still experience times where you get pains in your upper arm while playing an insanely 
 difficult songs on expert on the console versions of Guitar Hero. Well.... be ready for some serious 
 finger crampage. No pain no fun I always say. While hitting the buttons you are also forced to 
 "strum" (I just poke my screen really) the right side of the DS where your virtual guitar is at. 
 People with extremely tiny hands and people with giant hands both have positives and negatives 
 when it comes to playing this game. If your hands are large you'll be bending your large or long 
 fingers more to hit the buttons, but you can hold the DS with your left hand up easier. If your 
 hands are tiny, you will be able to hit the buttons better, but holding your DS up is more difficult 
 for you. So bottom line is you'll be in some pain when playing this game. No pain no fun! 
  
  25 tracks is squat compared to On Tour's grandpaw "World Tour" which boasts 80 tracks. But 
 this is a DS cartridge, and 25 tracks is actually pretty impressive. The game has training mode, 
 career mode, and multiplayer mode/ It isn't very hefty really. I haven't tried the multiplayer, 
 and probably won't ever try it because the multiplayer is local only. Why didn't they put the Wi-Fo 
 capabilities to use? Oh wait.... that makes too much sense I guess, sorry. Guitar Hero nuts..... if 
 you really are Guitar Hero nuts, you will buy and enjoy this game, like I have. But other people 
 who already suffer from hand pain should stay away. It's simple really...."Guitar Hero on the DS, 
 without an actual guitar, but with a rocking handgrip instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hi0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  I think that Guitar Hero was very creative and put a lot of work into this. They made it have something 
 to attach to the DS and play like a Guitar Hero guitar (they could have just made it where you 
 tap the notes as they come) ! This game is a little harder than playing on a guitar controller because 
 of the position, so they made is so there are not as many notes everywhere, making the diffuculty 
 "Just Right" after the adjustment. This game features a song list of mostly rock and soft rock. 
 Some of the songs you might recognize from previous Guitar Hero games. You might want to rent this 
 game first because it might cause you hand and finger cramps. It is recommended that you take breaks 
 every 15 minutes. If it doesn't cause cramps for you then I think that you should rent this game 
 and try it out and see what you think! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Over the summer I was excited about this game, I thought it would be really cool and the only problem 
 would be getting the hang of the game.
  
  Well getting the hang of the game wouldn't be too bad if it were comfortable to play it! This game 
 isn't a really bad game so don't think off the bat that is plains sucks. It's just not great, not 
 the best, but some of the songs are good (based on my opinion)
  
  Well wait, there's only 25 songs... idk how many are in On Tour Decades, but realllllly... 25 songs 
 is the best they could do? Some of the songs are crap while others are already playable on other 
 Guitar Heroes or maybe even Rock Band I don't keep track any more. This game is pretty unique because 
 it is a lot like strumming a guitar. But only if it didn't feel so wierd. And the hand cramps? 
 Yeah read any other freakin review on here I bet almost every single one at least mentions it. 
 Most people do experience these cramps and discomforts.
  
  More about the game... you have your standard easy, medium, hard, and expert difficulties. The 
 graphics aren't that great but all you need to see is the notes which are clear enough. I do have 
 to say that playing this game can be an eye sore, literally, all the notes going down on a small 
 screen can easily make you lose track of where you are. Also activating star power is kinda dumb 
 because you have to make sound so the Mic picks it up and that's it. The whammy bar is decent though.
 
  
  I'll go ahead and wrap this up by rating Guitar Hero: On Tour in seperate categories.
  
  graphics: 6\10
  
  gameplay: 6.6\10 (too short, not many features)
  
  controls: 4\10 
 for obvious reasons
  
  multiplayer: 6\10
  
  sound: 8.5\10 forgot to mention, the sound is pretty good
  
  Overall: 6.5\10
  
  I would 
 say to just skip these Guitar Hero on the DS games unless you really think it will be worth it 
 for you. They have already made a sequal to this game after not even 6 months so I would anticipate 
 even more of them, which meens more more money to spend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: appleipod23
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour in a word is "awkward". When I first saw it, I thought it would crash and 
 burn. It's suprisingly not a bad game. It isn't worth the price however and the controls take getting 
 used to. 
  
  You play the game by pushing the four buttons and strum the screen with your stylus. Its an innovative 
 idea. It's perhaps one of the 5 worst music games ever ( Among Guitar Hero: Rock the 80s, Beatmania, 
 DDR Mario Mix, and Ultimate band) . The sound track seems to be set for begginers, the hardest song 
 being called "I Am Not Your Gameboy". I mean, Heaven? China Grove?? WHAT I WANT???? What has the 
 DS done to guitar hero??? Perhaps it's not time for Guitar hero to be handheld.
  
  Despite the messups, this really isnt that bad of a game. Don't buy it for its box price. Buy it 
 used at gamestop. If you are a guitar hero fan, you should at least borrow it from a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucario234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  When I frst heard about this game witch was in nintendo power I was pumped. Suddenly I went on the 
 internent and found everything I could find out about the game. I even reserved it when You reserved 
 the game you got free cool heasdhphones. But when I got the game I starte playing instantly it was 
 very fun. But unfourtanatly it only had 25 songs witch some songs were very dissapointing but some 
 songs I really enjoyed. The only other problem I had was some handcramps witch some people overeacted 
 abouted they really only happened every two hours or one hour. Most of the sond sounded pretty good 
 for being on the DS. Usually when you used headphones I thought it sounded loder and more well it 
 just sounded much better then without the head phones most of the time. Either way this game had 
 its uos butt it also had its miner downs but either way this ame is good and I would suggest it.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve5555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Goods: -It is portable
  -It its inexpensive compared to other GH games, like if you wouldn't want to spend almost $100 
 on the game plus another $300-500 on the game system.
  -The sound quality is good, considering it's a ds.
  
  Bads:
  -Only 26 songs, compared to 
 the 75+/- songs on the other Guitar Hero games.
  -You get wrist pain from time to time. It really hurts.
  -The sound quality isn't as good compared 
 to other games, but like I said, considering it's a ds, it's good.
  -Ther is only 4 frets, so it's not as fun as other games.
  -it ispretty expensive compared to 
 other ds games, but not as expensive compared to other GH games, We're talkin' about $50 for the 
 bundle, $35 for the software only.
  
  I really liked this game, considering I didn't have any of the bigger systems like Wii or PS3 or 
 something. I just have a DS lite. So I thought it was pretty fun, for a ds game. I spent a lot 
 of time on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkvenom13
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I AM NOT EVEN GOING TO BOTHER WRITING A REVIEW, THAT'S HOW BAD THIS GAME  
 : ( IT SUCKED END OF DISCUSSION, A EIGHT YEAR OLD COULD HAVE BEATEN IT ON HARD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! RIDICULOUS, 
 ABSURD, SUCKISH, HORRIBLE, WASTE OF MONEY, RETARDED, WASTE OF TIME, NOT CHALLENGING, LACKING IN 
 AN AMOUNT OF SONGS, EVERY OTHER GUITAR GAME IS 50 TIMES BETTER THAN THIS HEEP OF CRAP!!!!!!! DO 
 YOU ALL BEGIN TO COMPREHEND WHAT IM TRYING TO POINT OUT???? CAUSES AUTHRITIS, I AM ASHAMED AT THE 
 GUITAR HERO CREATORS FOR CREATING GUITAR HERO FOR MENTALLY CHALLENGED 5 YEAR OLD'S!!!!! HOW CAN 
 YOU EVEN MAKE GUITAR HERO RATED E????!!!!!?????
  THAT'S LIKE ME SAYING LETS MAKE LEFT FOR DEAD FOR THE Wii, AND MAKING IT RATED T AND TAKING OUT 
 ALL THE BLOOD AND VIOLENCE, MAKING IT UTTERLY POINTLESS WITHOUT ANY SUBSTANCE 2 IT!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red0584
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour for DS review by red0584
  
  PROS
  -Fun for very few days
  
  CONS
  -Takes the whole point out of Guitar Hero
  -Hand pains
  -not loud enough
  -no orange 
 button
  -hard to hold
  -Button grip becomes loose
  -if the grip falls out you must shut the game off
  -sound is a bit crackly
  -bad graphics even 
 for a DS game
  -not-so-good song selection
  -pick stylus is too big
  
  SOUND/MUSIC
  
  Well, this is a Guitar Hero game, so of course it would have good music, but GH: On Tour has 
 a very poor song selection. The songs are not as rock as the real Guitar Hero games. The sound 
 gets very crackly and is partly hard to hear the song. The music isn't loud enough, and not everyone 
 has headphones.
  
  COMFORT
  
  Comfort gets 1 out of 10. You have to strap the grip on, turn your wrist sideways, and hold up 
 the DS itself. In most manuals, it says if you experience wrist pains to stop playing. Doing that 
 would give you good minute or two. The grip gets loose and falls off VERY easily. If it falls off, 
 you have to SHUT THE GAME OFF! Yes, it's true. You have to shut it off. Not put the grip back in, 
 shut it off. Who came up with that idea? Buying the grip costs you a few extra dollars, that itself 
 is a rip-off.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  There is no orange button! To strum, you use a very large pick stylus. Sure, it's clever, but it's 
 just too big! You can use a real guitar pick, but just like headphones, not everyone has a guitar 
 pick.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  This is a DS game, so the graphics wouldn't be that good. But this, this is horrible. The whole 
 time the singer is just opening and closing his/her mouth not to the tune of the song, and the 
 guitarist is just strumming up and down. It looks like this game was put together in a month.
 
  
  OVERALL
  
  Overall, this game is a waist of time. I liked it for a few days, but then it was just collecting 
 dust. I wouldn't reccomend this to anyone, not even for a prank.
  
  Guitar Hero: On Tour for DS review by red0584
  
  -red0584
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FJHrunner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is very simple but not very easy! Sure it's fun but it's not that easy... the creators 
 won't give you something just to beat in 3 hours! That would be a child's game!! Guitar Hero On 
 Tour would be for kids who are now just turning 9 to 12! Me... I'm thirteen and do not really care 
 for it that much as GH3 or GH4!! Me... I'm not a rock band dude! Sorry guys but I've always been 
 with GH for most of the GH years!! Sorry but rock band is just not my thing! Sure I'll play Rock 
 Band but I'm just a huge fan as for GH!! But it was so easy a ten kept on asking me help!! Oh my 
 God, it's so simple!! Though anyway, just rent it first and see if you'd like it then! Me, I did 
 rent it but did not like it but my parents still got it for me for a gift! Though from overall 
 rating I'd rate Guitar Hero On Tour... ***... 3 stars! Thanks for reading this review!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The characters are a bit flicky in some ways, and the CD things on the song menu's should be more 
 detailed, but the lines where you strum are plain fine.
  
  Gameplay:
  For newcomers, it isn't really great at rocking unless you have headphones. For fans, you will 
 feel both the same classic strumming in a good way and a bad way.
  
  Audio:
  The audio is still like what you see in the games, which is a good thing.
  
  Lifespan:
  It 
 really depends whether you like the series or not, but it will probaly be good for only a month's 
 purchase.
  
  Final Words:
  Depending on being a fan or a newcomer of rock to the game, you should be better of with Guitar 
 Hero III, but it still fits if you want it anywhere at anytime. You can play it more easily now, 
 and it's still a good edition in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTDansoh
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On tour is the first from the franchise to be on a handheld and proves to be very 
 solid on its own, but its problems are a lot more evident when compared to the console versions.
 
  
  But before we get to the actual game, let's talk about what has the fans interested in the first 
 place: the all-new Guitar Grip. This is what you will be using to rock out on the DS. The way it 
 works is basically the same as the larger guitar with two minor differences: the frets are smaller 
 and the orange fret is missing, meaning you only get four buttons to use. It comes with a velcro 
 strap you put your hand into.
  
  Most likely, you have heard that the Grip has some major problems, like the fact that it is uncomfortable, 
 which is not entirely true; it is all about how you are playing (Resting your hand on something 
 soft is the best way I found to avoid discomfort) . Also, another problem with the Grip, which may 
 not be a problem yet is the fact that it is inserted into the Game Boy Advance slot, meaning that 
 players looking to getting the upcoming DSi will miss out on On Tour.
  
  Now on to the game. The core gameplay is basically unchanged from the series: hold down the fret 
 buttons and strum the guitar while rocking out to a handful of songs. To play, you tilt the DS 
 sideways. The notes appear on the top screen and you strum with the Touch Screen. Strumming holds 
 up okay but at times, and especially in Guitar Duels, strumming is unreliable. Star Power is activated 
 though many ways: blowing into the mic, and pressing either Select, A, B, X, Y, or and D-pad button, 
 but not L or R (which would have mad a lot more sense) .
  
  The first problem with the actual game is that you only get a total of 26 songs, which is a HUGE 
 drop when compared to Guitar Hero III's 70+ songs and World Tour's 80+ songs plus music studio. 
 This wouldn't be as big a problem if the songs stood out, but they don't. The thing is that there 
 isn't enough rock and some of the songs I liked more came from previous GH games (e. x. Hit Me With 
 Your Best Shot, Helicopter, etc.)
  
  There is also the "new" Guitar Duel mode, which is basically Battle Mode renamed. I like battle 
 mode in GH III, but in this game it kind of sucks. Rather than using powers to make your opponent 
 fail, you must simply keep them from scoring points. One of the biggest annoyances I had was the 
 notes in Expert mode. Most of the time the notes don't really match the song and you are given 
 notes intended to trip you up. This makes the game harder than it needs to be. There is also multiplayer, 
 but no Wi-Fi, which would have given this game a much higher score.
  
  But all problems aside, this is still a good game for music fans, and to the best of my knowledge 
 it is by far the best rhythm game on the DS market. Like I said before it is good on the road, 
 but don't expect to be playing this more than the console version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mi2k3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, but could've been better. When you get the game, it comes with a Guitar 
 Grip which you can plug into the GBA slot in your DS or Lite. Once you start, on the left screen, 
 it shows the notes and fair graphics; on the touch screen, you see a guitar and score meter and 
 multiplier. After about two songs, it will make your hands hurt. The soundtrack is pretty good. 
 It spans a bunch of genres of music, from Kiss's Rock and Roll All Nite, to Rick Springfield's 
 Jessie's Girl, to I Don't Wanna Stop by Ozzy Osbourne, there's something here for everyone. Sometimes, 
 it goes into the pop rock area with All Star by Smashmouth and This Love by Maroon 5. It's good 
 or bad depending on your musical tastes. All in all this is a darn good game if you don't have 
 the systems to play the console versions. But if you do have the console versions, you should either 
 1: don't buy it or 2: wait for Guitar Hero On Tour Decades. Still, it's at least worth a look, 
 then move on to something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nozizaki
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  This game was insanely fun and well worth the retail price! With Activision going portable, this 
 was a huge revolution! Altough it only has 26 songs the game rocks! The difficulties were just 
 right, I played through Easy and Medium pretty well, Hard I only had trouble with I know a little, 
 and Expert took alot of retries. but through all that I still had fun! I played for atleast 10 
 hours before I beat all four Difficulties, let alone five star them all. And I maybe the only one 
 doing this, but I actually like all but 2 or 3 songs on the song list! I plan on buying Decades 
 within a month of release. I would recommend this game to anyone. I know $50 dollars sounds like 
 alot but even if you have the Guitar it would cost $50-$60 to get a console GAME! With a guitar 
 it costs around $100. So for portable gaming, this is one of the best you can buy! Maybe Rock Band 
 will make their own portable game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven1983
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is great. It's got a great variety of songs from Santana to Blink 182. I've even downloaded 
 a few songs off this game. I even like the cute little headphones that come with the game, though 
 they start to hurt my ears after a little bit.
  
  Extreme is definitely.... well extreme and crazy hard, but doesn't make the game any less amusing.
 
  
  The only complaint I really have about the game is that after a while it starts to hurt my wrist 
 and hand cause it's hard to keep my wrist straight enough to play. I thought by now i'd need a 
 wrist brace and thankfully I don't.... yet. Also if you play long enough the strap on the grip breaks.... well 
 mine did and I'm sure it's happened to others, and mine is being held together with a friendship 
 bracelet and velcro: P. 
  
  Anyway, I still recommend this game for anyone with a DS. It's worth the pain.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARSPORTS
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Im a big guitar hero fan and i loved this small ds version it was easyer having 4 buttons. Graphics 
 wernt all that but it is guitar hero and it is a ds lol bascially the only it i didnt like was 
 i had a orginal ds and it made my hand ache qwuite a bit then when i played it on my friends ds 
 lite it was so much easyer. ill rekon mend it to eney body. it also has many new songs in which 
 i love lol including blink 182 all the small thing blink was my favoute band ever.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  i also loved the guitar battle they where hours 
 of fun jsut overlaoding your opintons amp it was great unfortunalty it dosnt have the song maker 
 thing liek other but who care fun game 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  i tihnk that guitar hero 
 world tour wil be est in series to be honest and it cheaper then rockband
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  Playstation 3 = ARSPORTS
  Xbox Live = Basshunter123
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kier12345
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  ok, this is a good game when being played on hard or expert but with only 25 songs it lacks depth 
 and has a few flaws and problems. The songs are good but could do with a few more modern day ones 
 as they are all from mid 80's to mid 90's. As well as this, it can be easily completed within 24 
 hours on all game modes. The hardest song on the game is probably the ozzy osbourne one as it is 
 fast with plenty of double and triple notes to be played at once. All in all it is a good portable 
 guitar hero and works great with the DS. If people have thirty five pounds and are looking for 
 a fun and easy game to pick up and play whenever they feel like i would definitely recommend buying 
 this game. On the other hand, they are better games available out there for either the ds or the 
 psp. This game also comes with a special edition ds hand grip and some very nice guitar hero stickers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is a very well known game series, and above all else is known for the songs. One, Cowboys 
 From Hell, Bark at the Moon, TtFaF? Awesome! Maroon 5... Smash Mouth... STEVE MILLER!?!? What is 
 going on here???? Sure, some of that is good (except for Maroon 5) , but where does any of that 
 have a place in this game? Seriously??? Anyhow, a lot of people like to whine about the attachment. 
 Trust me, it isn't that bad... I mean, what else could they have done anyway? So, as you may see, 
 there is no orange button. Does this impact the challenge? In some cases, yes, in others, no. There 
 are only about 2 songs that are really that hard you fail them: I Know a Little, and I Don't Wanna 
 Stop (both on expert) . Otherwise, you shouldn't have very much difficulty. Anyhow, I would recommend 
 this game for the sole purpose of saying you have it. Thats about it. I don't HATE it as much as 
 I may sound like a do, but seriously. THIS LOVE BY MAROON 5???????? Is this Guitar Queer-O or Guitar 
 Hero? I would forgive it if it had like ONE metal song, but seriously. Lets just hope On Tour: 
 Decades delivers a WAY better soundtrack........ MAROON ) (*^% (*&%_) (^ 5????????????????????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forumdog123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Good! its okay, and short. They got rid of the orange because you couldnt move your hand down to 
 the orange cause of the hand strap. dont say They are stupid to get rid of the orange. We need 
 more buttons, not less! Well, if you want more buttons, get I can play Guitar. God. We dont need 
 these kind of things. Harmonix, at least some years ago, put in five buttons because they didnt 
 want it to be too hard. Now its activision in charge. They kept it up. Till now. Four Buttons. 
 Its just as difficult with four. They should have made you play blues in hard.... Oh well. Its 
 a totally new playing style. You put the thing with the buttons in the gba slot, put your hand 
 that plays the buttons in the hand strap, get out the pick stylus, and strum with the pick stylus 
 with your strumming hand on the touch screen. For lefty's, the screen will look upside down. Go 
 into options and look for Lefty Flip. Touch it. If you want the colors to be flipped too (you can 
 only turn them on in Lefty Flip) Touch the skull that says next to it Color Flip. Thats for leftys! 
 Bye!!! lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shecra_Namenca
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  hmmm.... where do I start?
  on the one hand, GH for the DS seemed like a genius idea- taking GH wherever I went appealed to 
 me. 
  on the downside, it's only a track list of 25 songs, and you replay them in each difficulty level, 
 which gets a little repetitive. most of the tracks chosen on here seem to be aimed at more 'mainstream' 
 music fans rather than die-hard GH players, and the songs don't actually seem to follow a pattern: 
 it's more as if they've been chosen for rhythm rather than amazing guitar riffs. 
  The only songs i was impressed with were Daughtry's 'what I want' and Blink-182's 'all the small 
 things'. other than that, there were no other songs that really stood out for me. I mean, maroon 
 5? on a Guitar hero game?! what were they thinking? 
  
  With the track listing out of the way, theres the controls..
  I wasn't expecting much seeings 
 as you can't really get the whole GH experience without the actual guitar, but even so, I must 
 say I was impressed with how the guitar grip included was set up. even the stylus was shaped like 
 a pick, which was pretty cool. The strumming was pretty accurate, and like the GH games for PS2 
 etc, you can choose your guitar and character, although there are some limitations to this, as 
 obviously they had to downsize it for the DS. 
  The graphics are good, and the screen set up was true to the original. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty 
 fun, but I found even the hard levels too easy. And you have to take breaks in between 5 minutes 
 of play as you have to hold your DS with the grip in such a way that your wrist starts to really 
 hurt after a while.
  
  As with all games, it has its bad points, but overall, GH: on tour is a good attempt at bringing 
 GH to DS, but I think it's gonna need a little work before it's an amazing follow up to the PS2/wii/Xbox 
 versions. I Think people who've never played the other versions of GH will probably enjoy this, 
 but people who are obsessed with the original guitar hero series won't really benifit and will 
 probably, as I did, complete the game in about a day or so. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  GH finally comes to the DS. I thought it was gonna suck. I saw more of it. Heard more good things. 
 Everyone told me to run down and try it at the local toys r us. I got drove down there and found 
 it. I played and and laughed the whole time. I loved it. I bought a copy and went home. I have 
 a normal DS and had to switch the peripheral extender thing and i played it nonstop. 
  
  Good- Outrageously fun. Turned out the best it possibly could (Peripheral) . Good graphics. Amazing 
 song choice.
  
  Bad- Not enough songs. Wrist may be sore. Too short. Too easy even on expert. Grainy sound quality. 
 Not too mobile..
  
  The peripheral seems fine and comfortable, until you take it off. Then your wrist hurts. So it 
 hurts after you play. The game only has 25 songs (plus the bonus song) and the game is easy to 
 beat. However it took me a while to unlock everything. This song could not have picked better songs. 
 I knew all of them. I have downloaded almost every song.
  
  If you have a DS and want GH. Get this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13ALUCARD13
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  when you play this in the companie of others youll look like a total idiot... tho they did this 
 game surprisingly good it still had songs that to me would of never touched a guitar hero game 
 since its a game of rock music and metal not stuff like all stars and stuff i mean you have few 
 songs in thios game that is good also the fact you only have 4 buttons makes this game kind of 
 like a lame attemps but i tell you whoever worked on this game knew what they were doing tho would 
 of been nice to of see more carectors from the begining..... that is if there is more the 4 carectors
 
  
  tho that the story like is well isnt normal if you ask me its the first time we see the singer 
 actuly being of a use beside making the person playing laugh so much and how he does stupid moves 
 and makes ya miss notes and the thing that they didnt have any whole bonus songs kinda makes this 
 game a could be on the ps2, wii,360, ps3 as an expantion pack of guitar hero 3 or a like pre guitar 
 hero 4 thingthe guitar grip will slide off the gameboy advance slot alot so will cause you to turn 
 off your ds to like put it back in...... so if you were just at the last note of a boring so.... SPLENDID 
 now you have to play that same boring song all over again..... to me this game i would only recomend 
 it for huge fans of the game.... even tho the bigest fans would get the same problems i had but 
 got to aplaud the companie for their eforts of playing guitar hero on a handheld 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tydi2
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  When i heard there was going to be a guitar hero for the ds i was actually excited thinking it 
 would be pretty fun to play on the go. and guitar hero for a portable system like how cool is that! 
 well turns out i am wrong = (. i bought this game and played it for one day and i got bored. the 
 graphics are poor, not great songs, gets boring very quick, only like 20 songs. this is a bad game 
 and they rushed it should have taken more time into it. I really recomend not purchasing this game 
 it is a big waste of money and time just stick with guitar hero 2 and 3 this game is not worth 
 it... but if you are planning on buying it i would watch some videos on it first just to show you 
 if its really worth spending like 40$ on a game like this. = ( i really do love guitar hero but 
 this was pathetic enough said... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBadMatty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I would have believed that this game would be much better what with all the hype that surrounds 
 the franchise. The controls are OK but the fact that you strum with the stylus makes the touch 
 screen extremely crammed and you don't really see what you are doing. Compared to the other Guitar 
 Hero games the song choice is mediocre. A few classics litter the stage but no incredible songs 
 are playable. The game is pretty cool besides these facts but a drawback that I find is cumbersome 
 is the uncustomizable character, you choose from Axel Steel, Gunner Jaxon, Johnny Napalm, Judy 
 Nails, Pandora,... Being able to create your own was wwhat makes the franchise so awesome, YOU 
 were the lead guitarist; YOU were the superstar. Anyways, I really wouldn't recommend this game 
 unless you are a die hard fan of the series... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invictuslemming
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  My initial impression of on tour was positive as I unraveled it from the packaging, the guitar 
 attachment is solid, and fits into the Ninteno DS well. The buttons are solid, and look like they'll 
 last well into the future...
  
  OUCH!
  
  Playing the game, however, sheds a different light on the control scheme. Simply put, this game 
 is just plain painful to play. You'll probably get through the first song fine, maybe the second, 
 but beyond that it'll be hard to not notice that this game wasn't designed with ergonomics or comfort 
 in mind.
  
  With less than 10 minutes of game play my hand was cramped to a point where I had to stop playing, 
 a constant pain down the side of my wrist made the game just too uncomfortable to play. I checked 
 the On Tour website and took a look at the various playing styles they suggest could make the game 
 more enjoyable. I've tried all of these since then and can't in good faith recommend any to anyone.
 
  
  Sound Track:
  The saving grace of On Tour is its wonderful sound track, the majority of the songs are notable 
 songs from the past which will click with you when you play them, and its a great enjoyment to 
 be able to play them... Well one at a time, that is. I can only play a single song before I put 
 my DS down and do something else, like writing this review, in order to allow my hand to recoup 
 from trauma the game has subjected it do.
  
  Conclusion:
  Try it first! That's all I can tell you, some people may not have the issues I have had with the 
 controls, but trust me, you'll want to pick it up and try it to make sure it will work for you. 
 The game itself is good, the songs are great, but if you can't use the controller, its just not 
 worth the suffering.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi081
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero DS is best for people who are not the best and the Guitar Hero, but with 25 songs it 
 gets the same quickly. I used to be bad at Guitar hero until i began to play the DS it helps you 
 a little, but because you get cramp all the time after 3-4 songs, so it does limit the play time. 
 The star power bar is well placed with 2 commands either saying 'Rock On!!!' or touching the blue 
 bar, which is just as good because you can do it with strumming during a song. The games has many 
 well known songs like 'Do What You Want' by Ok Go and 'All The Small Things' by Blink 182, but 
 also some really unknown songs because I can't remember any of them :) . The game is well priced 
 as you get the Guitar grip and a Plectrum Stylus. I would recommend it to people who like the series 
 but are no good, rather than masters of Guitar Hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moca92
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  At first I liked this game, and just couldn't stop playing it, but after some sessions I kinda 
 of wished the game was harder, because even in expert it was too damn easy! maybe I just got used 
 to the painful difficulty of GH3 but I want harder songs!.
  Other than that its a good game, the graphics are a bit ugly, but that doesn't really matter in 
 a rhythm game, another problem is that using power-ups in the battle mode is almost impossible! 
 so be prepared to fail a lot of notes trying to activate one of those damn power ups.
  Its a great game in multiplayer mode, but you will need two guitar hero game cards and two guitar 
 grips to play with another person, so its a little improbable that you'll be able to play with 
 a lot of people, but if you do find another person with the game hold on to him/her! because its 
 a really great multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistahtom
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Check out my video review @ http://www. revver. com/video/1174758/guitar-hero-on-tour-review/
  
  This game is GREAT... if you're 6! Geeze man my hand hurts so much after just playing one track.
 
  
  If you want specs, there are 4 buttons, each 1.2cm big and separated by .3 cm. Total fretboard 
 is 5.7CM across. It's THAT SMALL.
  
  While there is a hand strap, it doesn't seem to work well if you have normal sized hands. On top 
 of that, you have to hold the DS in your hands with this button device at a weird angle. Your wrist 
 WILL hurt. Additionally, if you put pressure in the wrong spot, the button device will pop out 
 and you have to RESET your game.
  
  The tracks aren't fresh, most of them are recycled from GH3. The new tracks aren't very great.
 
  
  The only cool feature of this game, and I hope they put it into the future GH games is the pause 
 feature. When you unpause, the song backs up about 2-3 seconds and leads you into the notes you 
 haven't played yet. It's good because you can pause inbetween streaks and probably get the streak.
 
  
  I say skip it. Don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmackabuto23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Before i played this game i thought it would suck. I played it and i just got addicted to it. Everyone 
 says there is not enough songs and its easy because there is only four fret buttons. Well i say 
 they are wrong. There is a lot of good songs and its harder than regular guitar hero because your 
 hand gets cramps and you get tired very easy because it takes more energy to strum than on the 
 guitar. There is not that many characters in this game and you cant buy any more (what a bummer) . 
 My favorite songs in this game is Rock n Roll All Night (Kiss) , I Don't Wanna Stop (Ozzy Osbourne) , 
 and Were Not Gonna Take It (Twisted Sister) . Other great songs are Jessie's Girl, All Star, Breed, 
 Hit Me With Your Best Shot, and Stray Cat Strut. There is a lot of guitars, finishes, and styles 
 for your characters in this game. All difficulty levels use all four fret buttons, but there is 
 more harder notes and the song gets faster as you advance through difficulties. No matter if your 
 a newcomer to the Guitar Hero world or your an old time fan, definitely get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch1251
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Info on the game: Guitar Hero: On Tour is a music video game for the Nintendo DS system, based on 
 the Guitar Hero series of video games. The game is developed by Vicarious Visions and published 
 by RedOctane and Activision, and was released in North America and Australia in June 2008, and 
 in Europe in July 2008. Two versions were released in Europe, one for primarily English-speaking 
 countries, and one for the rest of Europe, with some changes in the song list.
  
  As with other Guitar Hero games, the player attempts to follow the lead guitar portion of a rock 
 song as note patterns scroll by on the game's screens. Instead of the normal guitar peripheral 
 used in other game console versions, On Tour is packaged with the "Guitar Grip", a unique four-fret 
 controller that fits into the Game Boy Advance slot on either the Nintendo DS or DS Lite hardware. 
 The player strums each note by dragging the stylus across the touchscreen while holding down the 
 fret buttons. The design of the Guitar Grip and other gameplay mechanics went through many iterations 
 by Vicarious Visions before the final design was reached. A special Guitar Duel mode against the 
 computer or human opponent over local wifi incorporates other features of the Nintendo DS in order 
 to remove distractions created by the opponent in order to keep playing the song.
  
  On Tour received mixed reviews from critics. Many reviews cited problems with holding the Guitar 
 Grip in place and cramping by holding the Grip too long. While some felt the game captured the 
 spirit of the Guitar Hero series, others felt it was more an experiment than a successful game. 
 The game broke Activision's sales records for the DS the week of its release, and it has been announced 
 that a sequel, Guitar Hero: On Tour Decades, will be produced.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour takes the fun-loving "Guitar Hero" console games and makes it portable. With 
 a fancy new Guitar Grip and new features, the reactions that I agree with for Guitar Hero on the 
 DS is.... it was good.
  
  --Graphics --
  
  Obviously, with Guitar Hero games, the main thing you look at are the notes streaming down the 
 screen. But, when you do get a chance to look at the band in the background, you can see that it 
 is actually pretty good. For the DS, it is greatly detailed and really resembles the console versions.
 
  
  9/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  This is the aspect that most people complained about. The new Guitar Grip was a very intresting 
 feature for the game, however some people disliked it (because it cramped up your hand) while others 
 thought it was comfortbale and fun. For me, I enjoy the Guitar Grip, but everyone has their own 
 way to play that is comfortable for them. Even at the beginning of the game, a screen gives you 
 tips on how to hold it right and even tells you to go to the Guitar Hero: On Tour site for tips. 
 Those tips are useful and make it easier to play. For me, when I'm at home, I sit up, with my back 
 against something, put my feet up on a table or chair and lay the DS on my stomach. I haven't gotten 
 one cramp yet and I love playing. Another tip that I have is that after you finish a song, take 
 your hand out of the Guitar Grip and move it around and such before starting another song. Overall, 
 I enjoy the Guitar Grip. Now, for the strumming, the new Stylus Pick is a cool idea and it works 
 nice. Some people say it doesn't respond, but it's worked well for me so far. Finally, for the 
 big problem of the Guitar Grip coming out of the DS, it never happens! Unless you're going crazy 
 rocking on your DS or you pull it out purposely, it should not come out.
  
  8/10
  
  --Music --
  
  Another huge aspect for Guitar Hero games is the music. This game comes with a 
 track of 25 songs (20 of them being new) along with 1 bonus song. Some of the songs are real rock 
 like Nirvana while others aren't really hard rock (like Maroon 5 and Smash Mouth) but that doesn't 
 mean those songs aren't fun to play. I personally, love the song list, but everyone has their own 
 opinion.
  
  9/10
  
  --Story --
  
  In Guitar Hero: On Tour, there is a career mode which has a small story to it. First off you chose 
 your character and guitar and you start off as a simple band playing in a Subway. Once you beat 
 a certain number of songs, a manager notices your talent and makes you do shows on a Rooftop. The 
 same thing continues as you unlock new areas, songs, guitars, clothes, etc... The story is plain 
 and simple and it's what you would expect.
  
  8/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  Guitar Hero: On Tour is a great game and any DS owner should check it out. The graphics are nice, 
 the song list is great and the Guitar Grip's uncomfortability can be fixed by simple adjustments. 
 A great game and a great addittion to the series.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copp62
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  guitar hero one of the best music games out there now makes it's way portable with guitar hero 
 on tour. which has five color frets instead of five but it was a smart move cause the game is hard 
 with just four frets but if you play on expert levels then you'll get used to it. you strum by 
 using a guitar pick that comes with the game but i rented this game at blockbuster and they didn't 
 give me a pick so i had to use the stylus which worked out pretty good! the game consists of 26 
 songs which most of the songs are pretty good! the unlock shop is pretty sad in the game though 
 with few guitars and all of them you have to unlock it gives you more to do but they're not great 
 guitars! okay now the HUGE SETBACK in the game is that you're hands starts to hurt after like 15 
 minutes which really really sucks! but that doesn't ruin the game because if you can last the pain 
 which really isn't that much then the game will rock! the game can be beaten in about 4 or 5 hours 
 maybe not really sure but if you like the songs then you will come back to this one especially 
 on the road. the graphics are pretty good for the ds but you're not really looking at the graphics. 
 and one other setback that this game has is that it kinda makes you want to play guitar hero with 
 the guitar. and another thing is you have to think of it as more of a rhythm game then a guitar 
 hero game. so as guitar hero keeps on rockin and keeps on sellin then they're going to make more 
 guitar hero games especially this one. which they already announced a sequel called guitar hero 
 on tour decades but i'm not going to get into that right now 
  
  so i give guitar hero on tour an 8.5 out of ten because it's still guitar hero except for in a 
 smaller size but for a couple of minor and one huge setback it's still manages to be a good game 
 and makes our dream come true of guitar hero on the road 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MINI-SLASH
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Back in the year of 2004, we heard of this new revolutionary rhythm game called "Guitar Hero", 
 where you could play like a "real" rockstar. You got this plastic controller you plugged into your 
 PS2 and you could play popular songs from 5 decades of music almost. ('50s-Today) All that you 
 had to do was hit the notes on the screen with the buttons on the controller, which played the 
 guitar track. It was pretty realistic, and addicting. I haven't played the first one so I can't 
 say a whole lot about that. Anyway, there was a second and a third one, with better features and 
 more songs. Today, Guitar Hero is one of the best selling video game franchises of all time. They're 
 going to release no. 4 real soon. They're also doing individual bands now.
  
  When I heard of a portable Guitar Hero, I was actually pretty skeptical until I started getting 
 really addicted to Guitar Hero. Then I started to get excited. However, it was actually a little 
 disappointing.
  
  First, I'll start with the guitar grip. It's small, and sometimes is a little weird since it doesn't 
 pick up some of the hits, which is a more rare occurrence. You can get new faceplates for it, which 
 is pretty cool. It comes with a pick stylus, so that you feel like a rockstar. So the grip is okay. 
 It's pretty cool that they could do that. Although, would it have killed them to make it slightly 
 wider? My hand will cramp as I'm playing since it's a tight squeeze. Honestly, the only comfortable 
 position to play it in is if you put your back against something, and the most comfortable position 
 is to lie down, really, and when you're traveling, the size of the DS and the grip, plus if you 
 want earphones/buds, it can't really fit in your pocket too well, so you should carry either a 
 carrying case, or a backpack even to carry it. As I said before, the controls are a little unresponsive 
 from touchscreen to grip, and it will get annoying when you get a big point/note streak. 
  
  Now let's view the game itself. Okay, first off, I'm gonna come out and say right now, the 
 track list is a little disappointing. 26 songs. Now I know I'm sounding a little greedy by asking 
 for more songs, but hear me out. We are used to about 30 songs, and maybe 20 bonus ones. But we 
 are greeted with 4 songs then you play an encore, which is a bonus song you get. You do this about 
 five times, and that's the game. It ends rather abruptly. I mean, you play the last encore "I Know 
 A Little", and then that's it, but you can go back and play to get high scores and stuff like that. 
 There's this new mode called guitar duels, which allows you to have guitar duels like in GH3 with 
 the computer. They added lots of new attacks such as "camera flash" or "screen flip". Most of the 
 attacks are easy to get around, though, so it's pretty simple. At the end, you get to unlock "I 
 Am Not Your Gameboy" by Freezepop. This is a techno song, but they just added a guitar track to 
 it, and made it near impossible to complete because sometimes you need to strum up and down, or 
 in this case side to side, but for some reason, it just doesn't pick up the side to side most of 
 the time, so you absolutely have try to do really fast things in one direction. I mean I just don't 
 get it. Why is it so unresponsive? "Cumbersome" is the word that would best describe the controls. 
 Sometimes if you're playing, the grip will slide out of the GBA slot a slight bit, and As I said 
 before, 26 songs by artists like "Skid Row", "Ozzy Osbourne", "Twisted Sister", but there are others 
 like "Smash Mouth", "Maroon 5", "Ok Go", "Blink 182", and others that just don't seem like Guitar 
 Hero type songs like the ones in the others we have enjoyed for the past five years. Now the gameplay 
 itself, I know I've talked a little about, but I'm gonna talk some more. Now there are only four 
 fret buttons because your thumb has to support the DS, but it's still pretty uncomfortable, so 
 it's likely that you'll need to stop to crack your hands since it's a little cramped. As I said, 
 it's a little unresponsive, so you'll probably miss a bunch of notes. Now the strum space is pretty 
 small, too. So you might be playing and not realize you've went out of the small space because 
 it's so small, therefore, wrecking your streak, so you might get back to a x2 star power in the 
 middle of a solo. Which brings me to the embarrassment that is "star power". Now if you don't want 
 to look like a complete idiot yelling "ROCK OUT!!!!" into your DS, you can press one of the shoulder 
 buttons, or one of the ABYX buttons, which can get really cumbersome, and difficult to do, especially 
 in the middle of the solo. When you activate it, your character has a seizure while activated, 
 and then returns to normal. Also, when you attack during a guitar duel, you have to touch an icon 
 representing an attack, but if have a "steal" you have to play the song, and select your steal 
 icon, and steal an icon off of your opponent, which takes a long time, considering that your opponent 
 may just attack you. Another thing is that when you're attacked, it's really unfair because some 
 attacks like "pyrotechnics" make you blow into the microphone to blow out the fires on your guitar, 
 and takes a ridiculous amount of time. Another one where you have to sign something, you can take 
 the time to sign it, or just scribble everywhere until it's off your screen. I would just sign 
 it. Scribbling takes too long.
  
  Overall, it's a cool idea, however, the awkward, cumbersome controls, and a songlist that's a little 
 odd for a Guitar Hero game, plus a controlling system that's a little unresponsive make for a slightly 
 poor execution. It's not very exciting. However, if you actually play it, you can see its good 
 points. I mean, its Guitar Hero. What else can you do besides just have fun? I also will give it 
 credit since it's the first portable Guitar Hero. There is more coming out soon. It's like the 
 first Guitar Hero. It's like new things they need to improve on. Some people will understand, and 
 others won't, but it's still a hell of a lot of fun if you love Rock music!
  
  
  And remember: "ROCK OUT!!!!!"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has finally arrived on the Nintendo DS and inevitably this game will sell like crazy 
 but does it deserve it, the answer is Yes just.
  
  Now before I get into the negatives let me say that I enjoyed Guitar Hero, I thought that the guitar 
 grip was a clever way of incorporating the Guitar Hero feel into the game, that the track selection 
 although certainly more mainstream was more than acceptable and that the multiplayer mode was well 
 thought out and a great improvement over the guitar duels of Guitar Hero 3.
  
  That been said there are a lot of problems with Guitar Hero on Tour the main one been that the 
 guitar grip itself is really uncomfortable to hold over prolonged gaming sessions and eventually 
 your hand will start to cramp up into some sort of freakish claw. The best solution therefore would 
 be to rest your hand on something soft to ease the pain but that only causes a pain in your neck 
 as you stretch to see the top screen making you resemble the Hunchback of Notre Dam. You will however 
 eventually find a position that suits you mine was laying down on my back, propping my head against 
 something soft and resting my hand on my stomach. Unfortunately if I was to do this on the bus 
 or a public place people would look at me funny and then my self confidence would take a beating 
 so it's a lose-lose situation really.
  
  Now onto the music, since you are reading this review I assume you know the track list and some 
 of you more die hard Guitar Hero fans probably saw 'All Star' and 'This Love' and ran off crying 
 "Activison doesn't love me anymore" whilst clutching your Iron Maiden T-Shirt muttering as you 
 went. Well as with most Guitar Hero songs it doesn't matter what the song is as they always are 
 still fun to play and you more hardened rockers will be glad to here that Ozzy Osbourne, Nirvana 
 and others have been included so there is a good mix.
  
  Another one of the worries from fans was that the loss of the orange button would make it too easy 
 and while I'll admit the difficulty has been toned down a little bit but unless your one of those 
 freaks who can complete 'Through the Fire and the Flames' on expert than a challenge will still 
 be posed here. One of the things that made the game difficult for all the wrong reasons was that 
 the touch screen sometimes doesn't pick up your strokes (and they HAVE to be strokes as apparently 
 tapping the screen was beneath the developers) and when this occurs in a tricky solo it can have 
 you screaming with frustration, which then activates star power which just adds to your misery.
 
  
  The multiplayer mode consists of guitar battles and considering how bad these were in Guitar Hero 
 3 I approached them with some apprehension. Thankfully they have been greatly improved to the point 
 were it's actually fun to play. The main reason for this is because you don't have to fail your 
 opponent anymore you just have to outscore them. The power-ups make use of the DS' features for 
 example blowing out the fires on your guitar, signing an autograph on a fish and attaching a broken 
 string again. They are all clever power-ups and make the battles more intense. My biggest gripe 
 with them is that they are activated by tapping a marker which causes you to lose your combo and 
 sometimes your rhythm. I don't know why I couldn't just scream into the microphone like you do 
 activate star power, just imagine it you could shout 'Take That!' to use your item, but then your 
 opponent could counter with 'Hold It!' to fire his but then you could retaliate with 'Objection!' 
 Ah maybe next time eh?
  
  Additional points of note should be that the plectrum stylus is awesome and a great idea, the game 
 comes with some nifty stickers so if your under 7 or have the mental age of one you might enjoy 
 that and there is one unlockable song although I won't spoil that for you but it rhymes with 'I 
 am not your Gameboy' by Freezepop.
  
  So that's Guitar Hero on Tour a game that despite many flaws I actually enjoyed so if you are a 
 fan of the series, don't mind only having 26 songs to play and have a high tolerance for pain I 
 would advise picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak4400
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  it's a pretty good game if your into guitar hero. i bet it's better on the wii but if you don't 
 have the kind of money you should start off with this. there's 25 songs. it's pretty cool to pick 
 a guitar, guitarist and band name. you can't customize your own guitarist but that's fine. i mean 
 it doesn't have the best graphics but at least they aren't like the old mario graphics. it comes 
 with an attachment for the buttons and a pick for the game. the buttons only have 4 buttons though. 
 it's got some pretty good songs like "all the small things" or "all star". so i would say to the 
 reader to get this game. it's hard to play in a car sometimes. but if you have this guitar hero 
 and guitar hero for wii you can play any where. other good guitar hero games i recommend are "guitar 
 hero 3" or "guitar hero aerosmith" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmorice
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Obviously, it is not 'traditional' Guitar Hero. The Hard mode with only four keys is a bit of a 
 departure, and not an unwelcome one. As the difficulty increases the controller becomes awkward 
 as it bouncing around in your hand, even with the little strap that is included. I did find myself 
 constantly fidgeting with the palm controller.
  
  The pick stylus worked well, and was easy to get used to. The voice activated Star Power was cool, 
 although you should be prepared to get some strange looks from people around you. You can also 
 trigger Star Power with the stylus pick, but this often results in missing a note and losing your 
 multiplier. That was very frustrating, especially at the higher difficulties.
  
  The set list is OK. There are some decent new songs and some Hero re-runs. All in all, it was worth 
 playing, but I also sold it online after playing through everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  26 tracks makes for a fine number for a portable Guitar Hero. I've never owned a Guitar Hero previously 
 because I go to music college for guitar. So if I'm a console is within reach, so is a real guitar. 
 Not always so at work or on the road.
  
  First of all if you master this game strumming with the right hand and playing the frets with the 
 right switch it up. This game will give you a pretty good value for the money if you do this.
 
  
  Like any Guitar Hero on one screen colored notes roll down what looks like a fret board and you 
 press the colored button that coordinates with the color on screen when it crosses a certain line 
 on the screen and strum the touch screen (with the provided pick) . You blow in the mic when the 
 special meter is high enough which can be tripped off too easily and is too hard to do sometimes 
 but you can adjust the mic so at least it won't get set off by accident when you want to save it 
 up.
  
  The touch screen houses a guitar as well as your score, string bends, combo meter and audience satisfaction 
 meter. The combo meter isn't placed well imo it ends up hiding behind your hand when picking. Also 
 when alternate picking or picking "back and forth" you need to be very accurate and without any 
 tactile feel as to where you're strumming it' tough sometimes.
  
  Aside from the two screens the DS Guitar Controller is a comfortable piece of hardware. Although 
 it can disembody itself from the DS a bit easily it's generally not that bad of a problem. At least 
 for me. One last sidenote is that sometimes my fingers get pinched between the plastic buttons 
 and the Guitar Controller casing, but that's fixed by adjusting hand the strap on the back of it.
 
  
  In terms of Single Player content there's plenty. you can go through the career mode on all difficulty 
 levels and try to unlock everything. You're performances are awarded 3-5 star ratings if you complete 
 them. The higher the rating the more money you get to buy unlockables.
  Then there's Guitar Duel where again you can try to beat the computer player on all skill levels 
 but you battle them directly sending weapons that'll cur strings (which you reattach on the touch 
 screen) , set the guitar on fire (which you would blow out through the mic) , make you sign a T-Shirt 
 before you continue playing, and a bunch of other power-ups. It's more involved than career mode 
 and you can only play the songs you've unlocked in that mode. So go through the career at least 
 once before you take on Guitar Duel.
  There's also the typical Quickplay and Practice. Quickplay is what it sounds like and Practice 
 is pretty much too. Though it takes a little too long to start up and re-start up the section of 
 the song you're practicing. Finally the Tutorial mode walks you through everything in the game 
 and when you start career mode you are given the option to take a tutorial. So it's good for all 
 beginners.
  
  Multiplayer is basically Guitar Duel but each player can pick the difficulty they play on which 
 works as a nice handicap to level any field.
  
  The typical Guitar Hero humor and presentation and sound effects are all in check. The game looks 
 good though the characters don't usually sync up with what's going on in the song at least the 
 surroundings and the character models themselves look the part. The sound is fine too. You hear 
 what needs to be heard, the songs are all enjoyable, and the fidelity really doesn't matter that 
 much it works more than well enough especially with headphones.
  
  I'm having a fun time with this game. I liked the other Guitar Hero games and playing those at 
 friend's houses and Rock Band.... I like all music games. But in short this game works as a very 
 serviceable portable Guitar Hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The existence of this game in its current incarnation is something to marvel at, and it plays enough 
 like GH to be fun. The Guitar Grip is clumsy at first but after about half the setlist on Easy 
 you will find a position that's comfortable and strumming is as easy as you want to make it. Vicarious 
 Visions obviously really wanted to make this game work well and while it doesn't feel anything 
 like playing a real guitar, it does feel remarkably like Guitar Hero (and that's all it needs to 
 do) . Having a portable version of the most addictive game on the market is a genius and when it's 
 done this well, recommending it is very easy.
  
  The setlist is eclectic and good enough. The high points are "Breed", "Jet Airliner", "What I Want", 
 "I Don't Wanna Stop", "Anna Molly", "China Grove" and "Jessie's Girl". The inclusion of songs from 
 previous GH games seems silly and a waste of memory space. Also, outside of "Hit Me With You Best 
 Shot", the returning songs are pretty weak. The only songs tha feel out of place are "All-Star", 
 "Helicopter", "Heaven" and "All the Small Things" The songs are obviously dumbed down for the DS 
 but you will get used to the sound quality pretty quickly since it's not horrid. 
  
  Those of you who are worried that the lack of an orange button will render the game "too easy" 
 can calm down. "I Know a Little" and "Knock Me Down" are two of the hardest songs I've played on 
 ANY Guitar Hero game. There are more triple notes and a few quadruple notes. 
  
  Overall, I am hugely impressed with how On Tour turned out. I'm bummed by the short setlist, but 
 that's due to the DS cart's limits not the game itself. Also, keeping a multiplier on the higher 
 levels is pretty tough, due to the strumming, ad the rapidness of the notes, but if you own a DS 
 and you love Guitar Hero, buying On Tour is a no friggin brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 16tony16
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour has the same basic game play elements that the last tree had in the past, 
 you press the colour of the note coming down the highway and when it reaches the bottom you strum. 
 In the past though, games had a plastic guitar peripheral, On Tour has a peripheral as well, but 
 you use the DS touch screen to do the strumming. In this guitar hero, the "Guitar-Grip" only has 
 four buttons, but don't let that confuse you, It still has a pretty challenging difficulty. The 
 song selection ranges from the 80's to the present. The track list though, could have been better, 
 and also a little longer. Many songs like "All Star" from Disney's Shrek and "This Love" by Maroon 
 5 were songs that were put in (even though they shouldn't have) . Also a few songs like "Rock and 
 Roll all Night" were put in as seen in previous Guitar Hero's. The bottom line is that 1. It's 
 Guitar Hero, and 2. It's Portable. Finally, i have heard many complaints, saying the the Guitar-Grip 
 hurts your arm after a while, I have found a way to play it without the burning sensation in your 
 hand. If you play with just your thumb in and the rest of your fingers out, it gives you control 
 over the guitar-grip and freedom for the rest of your fingers.
  
  Good: 1. Its Portable 
  2. most of the songs are fun to play
  
  Bad: 1. Short track list
  2. Only four buttons
 
  3. Not the best guitar hero as far as track list selection goes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zvan92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  i love the whole concept of the new guitar grip controller... its very well made, and handles great. 
 and, fortunately, i like most of the songs they selected on this game, so thats a bonus as well.
 
  
  on the negative side, the guitar grip controller can be hard to handle for more than an hour at 
 a time, and there are some minor glitches throughout the game; for example, people have complained 
 that the score keeping engine has some flaws in trying to keep the "5 gold stars" score acquired 
 on certain songs.
  
  aside from minor coding flaws and slight physical discomfort while playing, this game delivers 
 the roots of guitar hero gaming to a handheld gaming system almost seamlessly. the visuals are 
 vibrant and colourful, and the audio quality is impressive for what the machine can really handle.
 
  
  now im just wondering if theyll end up making a sequel to the game for DS, and if theyll end up 
 making a new controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark5tar1
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  This game may seem good at first but it is pretty good with a short setlist and a crappy bonus 
 song the guitar grip peripheral hurts if you play too much. The levels could have been better but 
 some of the picked songs were pointless! I like it because i am a hardcore GH fan. And for the 
 first time a four note chord. WOW! The multiplayer is the same as the past Guitar Hero games except 
 with the Guitar Battle introduced in Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock. It is pretty satisfying with 
 the difficulty but some of the songs are frustrating. The guitar battles now can be played with 
 any song but some of the enemys made you mad. When you strum the touch screen gets messed up but 
 on the other hand, it CAN entertain you on the go.
  The game has all right audio with some songs from Guitar Hero 3 like Pride and Joy or Helicopter 
 and even Black Magic Woman. This game should be at least 7.0 out of 10
  
  Only for the hardcore GH player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game and probably alot of people are going to enjoy this game, but not 
 me. I'm a very big fan of the GH series and without the fifth fret button, the controls just feel 
 broken, like some cheap knockoff. The tracklist is a joke, Los Lonley Boys?, and most of the songs 
 you've played before on either a previous GH game or Rock Band. I took me less than 2 hours to 
 beat it on hard and that's about it. I never tried the multiplayer even though I had the chance 
 to and I'm probably not missing anything. For $50, you could spend $10 more and get Rock Band or 
 GH3 which has tons of better songs and it actually feels like your playing a musical instrument. 
 At my local gamestore, there's already quite a few GH: OT games piling up from buyers like me that 
 thoguht it could be worth it. The graphics are what you would expect from the DS and the sound 
 is... okay. If Activision would've gave a more solid soundtrack with new songs and took the time 
 to create a controller that had 5 buttons, they might've persuaded me in keeping mine. Just like 
 the Tony Hawk series, you can only push it so far until it's time to give up and take a few years 
 off. It looks as though GH is coming to that, let's hope GH: WT will prove us otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigermanty
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  I am a massive fan of the guitar hero games and play the real guitar and all. After playing gh3 
 i thought i would try this game. When i started playing the game it was fun but it was too short 
 i have already completed easy and medium. The extra feature of the game is guitar duel career it 
 is addictive and very fun to play. But there's 2 main problems i have found in the game. Number 
 1 you play and the guitar grip comes out and you have to restart the game. This is bad because 
 if u were the person on expert that had tried age's to complete this song but kept getting stuck 
 you was almost there and bam! The message pops up, you are rocking too hard restart the game. I 
 would be furious. 2. You play for more than 15 minutes it does your wrist and arm in and are forced 
 to put it down. Believe me i want to play a game that isn't going to hurt otherwise i will just 
 go back to my pokemon diamond. What possesed vicarious visions to make the game so darn uncomforble, 
 beats me. Otherwise from that pretty good game could of had wifi and to be able to download songs 
 off it though because i don't like to play the same songs all the time . I hope you have enjoyed 
 my review if i have made any spelling or grammer mistakes i have checked it through but I am rubbish 
 at english.
  
  tigerman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex41790
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  As it appears, the makes of guitar hero decided to slack off a little when they made Guitar Hero: 
 On Tour for the Nintendo DS. After 3 successful console game releases with killer track lists and 
 much harder game play, GHoT just doesn't seem to compare. The track list is lacking the numbers 
 and the classic songs we are used to playing and the career leaves you with a empty feeling on 
 the inside and the realization that you just payed $50 dollars to play an hour and half of mediocre 
 music.
  
  For those that have played all of the Guitar heroes (1-3) on the PlayStation and XBox you all know 
 that Red Octane makes sure that the music you are playing consists of the newest hits or the classics 
 oldies rock. So you will obviously be able to see where my disappointment is coming from when I 
 saw the track list. I was pleased to see a Kiss song as well as a Ozzy Ozbourne song however I 
 as extremely downtrodden to see that Blink 182, Smash Mouth, and Maroon 5 made it on the set list. 
 I mean I have been a fan of Blink 182 all of my life and have never hated the other two bands mentioned 
 but they don't belong on a guitar hero game. All the small things consists of the same couple chords 
 repeated over and over again and when I play Guitar Hero I want to SHRED!
  
  However I did like the fact that you used a pick stylus to play on the bottom screen (even though 
 any stylus would do the pick added an overall feel. I actually enjoyed the method of strumming 
 on the DS more than on the Guitar controller. However the button controller was not so intelligently 
 created. The hand-strap positioned your hand in such an awkward manner that in a matter of minutes 
 your hand possessed a painful cramp (I couldn't even make it though a song without getting a cramp.) 
 This caused people to search for a proper way to hold the DS so you could play without knowing 
 it was a matter of seconds until you couldn't move your fingers anymore. For me that consisted 
 of disregarding the hand-strap and attempting to just grip the DS (usually it would start to slip 
 with I got to the "solos") or the thumb strap methods which I normally use. 
  
  So even though the track list was quite disappointing and the fact that I felt that Red Octane 
 just didn't put much effort into GHoT as compared to their other games, I still enjoyed the game. 
 I had a fun time playing the game, for the time that I did. So in the end, if you want to play 
 a music game and don't own the XBox or the PS but you do own a DS, this is not a bad game if your 
 willing to spend the $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txarod
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Great game thats innovative and well designed. The guitar grip is not the best i think they could 
 have come up with due to frequent hand cramps but none the less great. Strumming is good and this 
 time you can choose to play battles. My other problem is lack of content if they could have shorten 
 some repetitive songs to make room for more songs. I dont like some of the songs they have but 
 it still good it just depends on what you like. You can play wirelessly with your friends in guitar 
 battles. Theirs no online but we can hope for it in the next one. The game is as hard as all the 
 console versions even though it only has 4 frets instead of the usual 5. The second i bought it 
 I thought I could play on expert and was suprised by the difficulty its not insanelly hard as gh3 
 but still challenging. Theirs plenty of guitars and clothes for you to choose from and with all 
 ive said guitar hero on tour is a great addition to your DS collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhii_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Having never played Guitar Hero before, I didn't know what to expect when I purchased Guitaer Hero: 
 On Tour. However, I was pleasently surprised.
  
  The Graphics are pretty good for the DS, they are clear and sharp and you can clearly see what 
 is going on. While they may not be anywhere near as good as the console games, graphics aren't 
 the main feature of a Guitar Hero game.
  
  The Playing takes a while to get used to, at first the strap didn't hold my hand in properly and 
 I couldn't hit the buttons and strum at the same time, but after a while I got used to it and it 
 felt natural. At first it did cramp my hands a little, but once you get used to it, they aren't 
 really an issue.
  
  While there are only 25 songs, this isn't too bad as there is a lot of replay value and most of 
 them are master tracks. While the set list may not appeal to everybody, there are a variety of 
 songs that means at least a few will appeal to most people.
  
  Overall I am glad that I decided to buy Guitar Hero: On Tour, it has good presentation, it is natural 
 to play and has good replay value. Although the set list and hand cramps may be too much of an 
 issue for some people, I found them easy to deal with, and didn't ruin my gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatblade12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  OK so i just brought guitar hero on my ds for 34.99 and i have got to say it is good for the money. 
 The good side:
  The songs are ones that i know, so i have more fun playing the game. the guitar grip feels really 
 good, also i has a hidden pick underneath the grip which is to act as your stylus to strum on your 
 guitar and even better as you can change the skin inside it. ( i have a mgs4 one :) ) . But my favioute 
 part has got to be the gameplay it all feels good and i feel like i have more freedom compared 
 to the console versions. Also i like the battle modes as you can play any song you want from the 
 list you have unlocked and have battles in which you can set fire to your enemys guitar, break 
 a guitar string and so on.
  
  The bad side:
  Well really there is none but i would say there is a lack of songs and if you have big fingers 
 you could accidently press the wrong colour as the colours are so small.
  
  So from what ive played i give i a 9.0 / 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myviewing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  When Guitar Hero debuted for the Playstation 2, it became a smash hit with critics everywhere, 
 and gamers who had an ear for music. Guitar Hero became famous for its multiplayer fun, its awesome 
 soundtrack, and what quickly became one of the greatest game peripherals in history, the guitar 
 controller that allowed gamers to feel like they were actually rocking out to the song. Guitar 
 Hero was a financial success despite its higher than average price for a PS2 game, and Activision 
 reacted by beginning its new franchise. Guitar Hero II was met with the same praise, and in this 
 day in age Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is a multiplatform game for all current-gen consoles. 
 While Guitar Hero is known for being a console experience, the last thing many would have expected 
 was a handheld version of the Guitar Hero series. Amazingly enough though, Activision has managed 
 to make a handheld Guitar experience for players everywhere in the form of the DS game: "Guitar 
 Hero: On Tour".
  
  There is still not story to be found in Guitar Hero, and it has thankfully stayed that way since 
 it's safe to say none of them would be too interesting. The single player mode is simply there 
 to allow people who want to play Guitar Hero by themselves the option of doing so. Fear not if 
 you didn't want to dive into Pandora's past and learn how she scared her fellow Girl Scout troop 
 with an uber scary ghost story, all of the character's profiles explain how they got into rocking 
 in the first place.
  
  One thing players might wonder about the DS version is if the graphics are well done enough to 
 convey the feeling of an actual concert like the console versions. While the graphics are on caliber 
 with the original Playstation, the graphics do a decent job of creating a crowed for players to 
 rock out to. Everything else looks familiar, the same note board, the same gages, outrageous stages, 
 the cast of band players. In a nutshell, it's titled Guitar Hero for a reason, everything else 
 that defines the game series is all here to be found.
  
  In terms of sound, most of the sound is music themed, with selections being "twang" and "chug", 
 the audience cheering and booing, and of course the songs. The sound effects play a minor role 
 as they always have in the Guitar Hero series, and that fact hasn't changed here, though they do 
 add to the rock atmosphere. Where most of the sound truly shines is in the soundtrack, Guitar Hero 
 has always provided players with a fantastic soundtrack to rock to, and On Tour fulfills that task. 
 There are songs from Smash Mouth, Twisted Sister, and many other bands that offer some great tunes 
 to rock out to and instill a great rocking experience. Though the soundtrack is well done, the 
 downside is that the soundtrack is not as high in number as its console counterparts, the console 
 versions having at least 60 or more, while this game has 25. Despite the low number, 25 songs is 
 a fairly decent number of songs for a handheld version of Guitar Hero.
  
  So "On Tour" might sound like it offers a decent handheld version of the great rhythm series, but 
 one thing many might wonder is how would it play? The game is set up like this, you plug the guitar 
 peripheral into the DS's GBA cartridge slot, hold the DS like a book and hold on to the peripheral 
 while holding the guitar pick depending on which hand you normally use. Now that you know how to 
 hold the handheld guitar, are you going to have fun playing her?
  
  Guitar Hero: On Tour's control scheme might turn off some people, but those willing to try it out 
 will find that the DS guitar strap fits pretty snuggly and can be adjusted to the players preferences. 
 To play through songs, you play the songs like you would the console versions by pressing the buttons 
 and twanging in time with the rhythm of the song. Twanging is done by picking the touch screen 
 like you would an actual guitar, and this control scheme works very responsively. Playing with 
 these controls at first might feel a bit clunky, but gradual practice can let players have a very 
 fun handheld rocking experience.
  
  As for the rest of the game, there is also the multiplayer that you can play by having another 
 person with the game play and either rock out to songs or battle in battler mode, where players 
 use various power ups (Bombs, groupies, scissors, and flash cameras) on one another to keep each 
 other from getting any more points. This multiplayer function can be fun with friends and truly 
 justifies a purchase with such long lasting appeal. Overall, Guitar Hero: On Tour is light on the 
 console versions, but being taken as a handheld game, allows players to rock out whenever and wherever.
 
  
  Overall, paying $50 for Guitar Hero: On Tour is like paying $2 per song with a new way of playing 
 Guitar Hero. The peripheral will either be a hit or miss for most people depending on how well 
 they're able to play them. If you want to play Guitar Hero on the go, there's really no other officially 
 released way for you to do so. If you're willing to fork over the additional money for the new 
 DS peripheral and get used to the controls, Guitar Hero: On Tour may feel like "Guitar Hero Lite", 
 but the fact that its Guitar Hero can make up for it. The fact that there are initially going to 
 be many people who will buy this game for the name and the DS popularity alone will also help if 
 your looking for someone to play Guitar Hero with on a plane or in some other secluded area. Let 
 me just say that personally with this game, "I wanna rock and roll all night!" with DS power like 
 this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMartinLee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour is a surprisingly good portable version of the Guitar Hero franchise.
  
  The guitar grip is perfectly functional, although it takes a little while to get comfortable 
 with it. It also takes a bit of practice to get used to "strumming" on the touch screen, but overall 
 the design of gameplay on the DS is pretty cleverly implemented.
  
  There are not a lot of songs, and it's true that some songs are not exactly rocking... but the 
 fast-shredding style doesn't work as well on the DS, so "All Star" and "Heaven" actually work pretty 
 well in the game. It's funny that some songs that were covers in GH3 are here as original recordings. 
 Was Pat Benatar waiting for the portable version to give her official approval?
  
  I actually enjoy being able to play the entire setlist as one Duel after another, vs. CPU opponents. 
 It adds a lot of replay value, and offers a new incentive to play through the career. I'll explain:
 
  
  My main complaint about On Tour is that the DS doesn't recognize all of my strums, especially in 
 fast sections. This can be remedied somewhat by keeping the pick or stylus on the screen at all 
 times and moving it back and forth to play notes, but as a guitarist in real-life, this takes away 
 from the rhythm and fun of the game for me. I like to play mostly with downstrokes or only occasionally 
 alternate picking for rhythm purposes, so "scribbling" on the touch-screen doesn't really feel 
 natural or musical to me. This is probably why On Tour includes such midtempo pop nuggets as "All 
 Star" and "This Love" and fewer shredding tracks. So when playing Duel mode through the career, 
 the goal is no longer to play flawlessly or get a high score... the goal becomes simply to survive 
 the duel based on the level of challenge. No stars, no star power, just a meter that shows whether 
 you're beating your opponent. Duel mode assumes that you are going to miss notes, so it's much 
 less frustrating to break a streak.
  
  I'll give this a better overall score than Gamespot did, realizing that it's a portable version 
 of a megahit console game. It's far from perfect, but with a little bit of patience it can be a 
 lot of fun. Future installments will increase the value of the Guitar Grip as an initial investment, 
 with more playable songs and a better chance to find opponents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshiman411
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has done it again they made the best hanheld music game I have ever played, great master 
 tracks, great graphics for the ds, Simple gameplay ,
  and finnally a music accesory for hanhelds ....... The Guitar Grip! The sound Quality isnt the 
 best, but thats why we invented headphones! You cant play for long because then you start getting 
 cramps on your wrist ,and fat people cant play very well because of the small buttons ,but other 
 than than this game is a must buy for DS fans and Guitar Hero  
 So go to your nearest gamestop or any other gamestore and buy this very very very very awsome game 
 that I just wasted my time telling you and there is a 100 word minimum so i just writing this sentence 
 for no reason!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshFantastic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  After listening to rumours pro-release to Guitar Hero On Tour, it sounded, well, crap. But I decided 
 to push those thoughts aside and buy it anyway.
  
  Guitar Hero On Tour is 40 from the UK, and comes with the fret board and plectrum you'll need 
 for game play, it also comes with two sheets of stickers to pimp up your DS.
  
  The fret board fits into the GBA slot on your DS and clips around the back of your console. By 
 default, it is made to fit the DS lite, however, it does have a replacement slot for the old DS, 
 that you can change by screwing out the old one :)
  
  You might notice the fret board is missing a button? Yep, they dropped the orange button because 
 there is no way you can move your hand with that strap around it, but still, I'm not complaining, 
 I guess I'll just use it for... practice?
  
  There are only five stages on GHOT, with 25 cool tracks. You may not have heard them all, but I 
 found myself bopping along to them anyway, they're really easy going songs most people will get 
 on with.
  
  There's still the shop, this time you can only buy guitars, guitar faces and outfits. You have 
 to unlock most of them anyway.
  
  There is also a new feature, battle mode. A lot like battle mode in GHIII, but this time you can 
 play it with any song against the CP. This also helps you unlock certain things in the shop :)
 
  
  There is also a multiplayer mode, I haven't tried it yet, none of my friends are cool enough to 
 own this xD -brick'd-
  
  Have you seen the trailer for this game? With the kids playing in the yard? You don't look as stupid 
 as that during gameplay, relax. xD
  
  In a nutshell, no, it's not the most advanced GH game ever, but did you expect it to be? Personally 
 I think the designers of the game put a lot of thought into the DS version and made it as good 
 as possible, and I do hope they bring out more GH games for my DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taybo93
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Like i said, i totally disagree with the gamespot review. I thought the grip is in very good position 
 and it is not uncomfortable at all (if you play the right way, or your style) . Until you get to 
 the hard songs, then it starts getting uncomfortable, but then i just loosen the strap and keep 
 my fingers on the buttons to keep it comfy. it can be uncomfortable at times, but you fix that 
 by moving around. The sound is not really stereo, but only what you can expect from a ds lite. 
 It's no Bose but when you install headphones, the sound gets better. The 26 songs (for me) are 
 enough to hold me over. I'm actually surprised that they put that much on the game. they get kind 
 of old, but when you hear them for the third time, you are playing on hard, then it gets fun because 
 you are trying to keep up with the beat. True it is not as fun with out the guitar, but it is a 
 really neat design, and without the orange button it makes it easier. But the 4 buttons still kik 
 some butt in the songs.
  
  Great game, and i recommend getting it to any person who has the ds already and is a fan of guitar 
 hero/ rhythm games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Phantom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour is the latest installment in the Guitar Hero franchise, but this time the 
 developers decided to go portable. This game offers you the same old Guitar Hero you love but you 
 now have the choice to take wherever you wish. This game comes with the new Guitar Grip it acts 
 like the fret buttons but it is very uncomfortable to use because it stiffens your wrist, but all 
 in all it is a great peripheral and makes the game feel just like you are using a plastic guitar. 
 The notes come at you on the LCD screen while you strum on the touch screen by using a nice comfortable 
 plastic guitar pick on the virtual guitar. The graphics are not the best but it does not really 
 bother you when you are playing. In conclusion this game is perfect for all the you Guitar Hero 
 fanatics and it's worth the money of $50.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxShadowTongyxX
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Considering this is still a Guitar Hero game, it does not excuse it from its extremely uncomfortable 
 position. Yes its fun, and it has some very good songs on it, with more that can be unlocked, though 
 those games are not listed anywhere that I know of. But the fact that your hand is forced to be 
 cramped, in order to play the game, and long hours of play results in large amounts of pain, though 
 I only did this once. I generally rest the DS on my belly, and play, but still, my neck gets a 
 cramp in it. A lot of people say the screen is to small to support a guitar hero game,. But I would 
 have to disagree with this, I am so uncomfortable in the first place, that the size of the screen 
 really does not matter. 
  
  There are four fret buttons on the controller, though most people say that it does make the game 
 easier to play, I would have to disagree. Because I noticed when playing on a console, my fingers 
 move differently to hit the buttons. So when I try to hit the buttons I would on a console version 
 of the game, there is no room for it, resulting in me missing a whole lot of notes. See, you use 
 four fingers to hit the four buttons, and the fingers can generally only go up and down, with little 
 wiggle room. The versus mode is awesome, and adds a good element of fun, from the typical guitar 
 hero game play. Plus, every time you beat versus mode you unlock a new song. I beat it on medium, 
 and unlocked "I am not your game boy" by "Freezepop" Another thing that I have a problem with is 
 the expert difficulty has me going so fast that I think I am going to break my system, so I try 
 not to play on extreme. Hard is a little slower, but you really have to concentrate on how firm 
 your holding the system, and how hard you are sliding the stylus on your screen, to make sure you 
 are not using a bunch of pressure and break your system. 
  
  This is a good game I suppose, if you are waiting to get the new guitar hero 4 that is releasing, 
 or if you are a die hard fan of the series. Other than I would not have to recommend this game 
 to anyone. The controls are just crap, everything hurts after playing for an hour or some, the 
 only real compelling thing of the game is the track list, and the versus mode. It would have been 
 nice if they added an online feature, but I suppose we will have to wait for the next guitar hero 
 port to hit the portable systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavisDUDE333
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Barely a month or two on the shelves and Guitar Hero: On Tour has received plenty of hype, and 
 mixed feelings about the game. How does it turn out? Why don't I get to the point? Why do I keep 
 using question marks?
  
  Guitar Hero: On Tour is a nice chunk of money, $50 dollars, which is crazy, of course. Most games 
 are about $35 and under on the DS, and this game should be about $40 or less. Considering, you 
 get the handsome "guitar grip," a nice pick (smaller than the stylus but gives you a nice cramp 
 after three songs) , an adapter (for the suckers who hang on to their old DS's) , some instructions 
 (who reads those anyway?) , stickers (YES!) , and the game cartridge. Not worth $50. It all comes 
 in a cute package, which is smaller than it looks. Seriously. 
  
  Once you are all set up, you turn the DS like a book and get to it. Single player, Multiplayer, 
 Options, Credits... blah, blah. Your fingers fit pretty well over the fret buttons. I can complain 
 though, holding chords with Red and Blue buttons and Blue and Yellow squeeze your pinky a little, 
 and it is tough to jump from notes to notes. I haven't played the Wii and PS2 versions long enough 
 to be comparing the two versions, go somewhere else for that. 
  
  The meat and beans is the Career mode, make money, spend it, and unlock some songs. There are plenty 
 customization options, with six characters including Axel Steel and newbie Gunner Jackson. Plus 
 25 songs (not including the bonus one) . You will go through five stages and you will unlock four 
 songs plus an encore for each stage.
  
  The chips and salsa are (are, or is?) pretty much the Practice and Quickplay. You eat some chips 
 and salsa, and then go for the meat. Haa, haa.
  
  The tacos are the Guitar Duels. You can play with the computer, or some other person who owns the 
 game. You and an opponent will play a song and through items back and forth. Reminds me of Mario 
 Kart. I haven't had a chance to play Multiplayer, sorry. No Wi-Fi here, but what can you expect? 
 The game crams a lot in anyway.
  
  Gameplay is pretty sweet. You press your four fret buttons (orange button is gone) while strumming 
 on the touch screen. On the top screen, notes slide down the note highway while rockers rock in 
 the background. Graphics are pretty and all, not as good as the console, of course. However, you 
 will be so involved with the notes speeding down the highway you will only glance up occasionally. 
 
  
  Most of the stuff from the other Guitar Hero is here. Star Power is activated (I am sure you know 
 already) by yelling "ROCK OUT!" into the mike. But what idiot is going to do that? The mike is 
 too stupid to pick it up, and you will likely just get spit on the screen. The best way is to make 
 an extra long stroke on the Star Power meter, or to blow in the mike. Yelling "Rock out" is cute 
 and all, but no thanks, Activision. 
  
  Many reviews complain about cramping, but SUCK IT UP! Taking a break after three songs will keep 
 you from any serious cramping, don't worry.
  
  Sound is great, and if you are rockin' on the go, your iPod headphones plug in and will not screw 
 up the sound. There are only 25 songs, some you will hate, and some you will love. There aren't 
 too many from the console version, too bad for me (I never get tired of playing Slow Ride and Barracuda) . 
 
  
  Overall, this a great game, but if you're cheap like me, slow down and wait a while for the price 
 to drop, because it's great Guitar Hero, just not worth 50 dollars. If you like Guitar Hero and 
 want a DS version, On Tour is best for long car / airplane rides. If you sit around all day, keep 
 playing Slow Ride folks.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  MUSIC: 9/10
  
  PRESENTATION: 9/10
  
  GUITAR HERO: ON TOUR: 9/10 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 16, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Ok so guitar hero on tour.... isnt exactly how i expected. First of all, my friend and i tried 
 plugging the ds to a stereo, but sound quality is too bad, so it sounds pretty bad, even though, 
 when u play with earphones it almost sounds normal, and the game brings earphones so its ok... 
 Also... you can easily get phisically tired of it, it really gets you tired... well anyway, lets 
 start with the review:
  Pros: You can play it on the bus. The setlist's good.
  Contras: Star power is automatic if you're in a car. Sound quality sucks. Gets u phisically tired 
 in a very easy way. The notes go slow even in expert.
  Graphics: The graphics aren't great but they're OK for ds:
  7/10
  Difficulty: Lets explain 
 like this... I bet many people could play expert in their first try, even when theyve never played 
 the game before:
  3/10
  Addiction: You get to tired to play much time...:
  2/10
  Gameplay: At least it does look like guitar hero, but it gets you tired:
  6/10
  Replay Value: 
 Unfortunately theres no Wi-Fi, and not much songs, but still ok for a ds game:
  8/10
  Variety: Ummm not much characters and guitar, but is still good variety for DS game:
  9/10
 
  Sound: Songs are good, but sound quality is pretty bad:
  6.5/10
  Story: No bosses... so its just about becoming a rock star, at leats they did include story LOL:
 
  8/10
  Multiplayer: Ok so... theres no Wi-Fi, and to play multiplayer, you need another person with the 
 game, first of all, i dont knwo many people with this game, and second, even if there were too 
 people with the game, theyd get tired to fast:
  5/10
  Conclusion: Beleive me, this game isnt just worth the prize... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyKoeffler
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, you might be thinking this is one awesome game, I mean rocking out while walking down the 
 street. Well, I'm here to prove you wrong. First of all, even for the DS it doesn't have THAT good 
 of graphics, so people can stop raving about the "awesome" graphics. Second of all, it only has 
 20-30 songs on the list, and with four buttons, it's very easy to beat. Third of all, since you 
 have to yell "Rock On" into the microphone to activate Star Power, it doesn't always work, and 
 when competing close to each other, can sometimes activate there Star Power instead. Next, insted 
 of strumming, you have a "guitar pick" (kind of) and just go up and down using the touch screen, 
 and a lot of the time, it doesn't even pick up the signal. Then after all those problems, we have 
 the fact that the buttons/strap thing that you get goes loose a lot and then you have to restart 
 not only the game, but the WHOLE DS. It would suck if your almost done with a song and then it 
 goes loose. And for $49.99 it's not worth it. Then there's the special edition Guitar Hero On Tour 
 DS Lite bundle. The DS with the silver and the sticker are cool, but it's $179.99. A rip-off. I 
 don't get the big hype. Oh, and one last thing, it makes your hands really, really sore, I had 
 to learn the hard way after playing for about a half hour.
  
  All-in-all I still have to give Guitar Hero On Tour for the Nintendo DS a 6.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supertrunks25
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and entertaining to say the least. Youve got 25 songs to choose from. If you werent 
 familar to some of the songs in the other Guitar Hero games because they were old. This game has 
 a lot of more modern songs with some oldies in there to. But this game is great, not the most chalenging 
 but very entertaining while it lasts. It shouldnt take you that long to make it through easy and 
 medium, but hard and expert are a little bit chalenging. Their is no online play but there is local 
 over wi-fi which is great. This game i recemend to evryone who loves Guitar Hero. The controls 
 are a little akward at first, but you get used to them very quickly, and it does not hurt your 
 hand as much as they say it does. This game is great! I would recemend it to evryone who has played 
 Guitar Hero before or even if you havent it will still be awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelOfAlliance
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  i was excited to see guitar hero on the DS, infact its the reason i bought my DS. i was exited 
 to power it up although holding it is akward and puts plenty of stain on the wrist. its fun and 
 looks good, but the track list is TERRIBLE, i mean comon no doubt? smash mouth? and stray cat strut?! 
 what is that?! and also only 24 or so songs makes it short-lived, and until expert its way too 
 easy, i started on hard my first playthrough, and blew through it in about 2 hours. there are some 
 good songs like what i want from daughtry and I dont wanna stop from ozzy osbourne, and no heavy 
 guitar songs like trivium or shadows fall, plus returns from guitar hero III like pride and joy, 
 the kiss song, and hit me with your best shot, but for the most part the track list is disappointing, 
 and for $50 i really expected more. the touch screen works well although i find myself hitting 
 the star power meter while strumming and accidentally activating star power when i dont want to. 
 they definately leave plenty of ways to activate star power, by yelling or blowing into the mic, 
 hitting the meter on the touchpad or hitting the buttons and hammerons and pulloffs are hard for 
 me to pull off like in the solo for i dont wanna stop, because of the weird position of the buttons. 
 for me its hard to hit the note buttons and the strap only hinders the movement of my fingers and 
 hand. well the moral of this review is the game is fun if your on the go or on a plane. but if 
 you want a true guitar hero experiance, stick with the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkjak95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game im just thinking, no way, guitar hero on a portable? how will 
 this be possible. Getting the full excitement of a guitar while bringing it to the Nintendo DS 
 platform. Thanks to the neat "Guitar Grip" peripheral Guitar hero fans can now take their show 
 on the road. This game is opening new windows for gaming on Nintendo DS. I am personally one of 
 the biggest guitar hero fans and i just love being able to play on the go and compete against other 
 friends with this game is an enjoyment. The good about this game: Guitar hero is now portable, more 
 games for the DS, now more guitar hero merchandise can hit the handheald, a magnificent mix of 
 80's 90's and today hit songs. The Bad: after about 3-6 songs your hand probably will cramp, aswell 
 as about 25 songs wont entertain you for very long. In my opinion this game is, a masterpiece, revolutionary, a 
 new face on gaming but because of hand pains and minimal songs this game stops in its tracks of 
 perfection. An easy 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otanikun
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Like the above text says, the game falls too short of glory; it could have been a killer game but 
 the idea was there, but didn't translate very well for hardcore fans of the series such as myself.
 
  
  There are a select few songs I could have gotten excited about but nearly every song on the game 
 was a filler title, I mean seriously Daughtry doesn't belong on Guitar Hero, great artist, my favorite 
 idol, but not GH material.
  
  But getting to the heart of the matter is the control scheme, oh boy was this difficult to grasp 
 in concept, but like a natural with mastering Expert on the console GH games, I actually took to 
 this pretty well; it's just that when you start to play a song and have to "strum" with the stylus, 
 it maybe a little awkward, if not a turn off for fans of the series.
  Keeping the rhythm is somewhat difficult and hitting the frets and strumming can be cumbersome 
 and over the course of maybe a few songs on the higher difficulty, you can get quite the hand cramp, 
 because you lack freedom of movement like you have on the console versions and your hand will strain; 
 mine started hurting after only 2 songs on expert.
  
  I suggest on getting this game either purely for novelties sake or if your just a geeky fan whom 
 can't think of anything better to do with his DS, it's a nice game with a great idea but ultimately, 
 it falls a little short in the execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiaperRash89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero + the Nintendo DS = Perfect Fit.. right? Or does it slump into one of those "gimmicks."
 
  
  Guitar Hero: On Tour has all the elements of a Guitar Hero game. Fret buttons, great music, and 
 an overall fun experience. We're all used to having a guitar with 5 fret buttons on the neck, and 
 a pick with a normal guitar hero game. Well, this is essentially what you get with on tour, minus 
 one fret button and you use the touch screen as the guitar strings. It may take some time to get 
 the timing right on when you have to strum the notes, but once you get used to it, it feels really 
 like your playing Guitar Hero on a console. The game is really responsive and it feels really good.
 
  
  Guitar Hero games have never really been about the graphics, but gameplay. And the DS isn't really 
 a graphical powerhouse either. But, the DS puts on some solid animations that really can get repetitive, 
 but you don't have much to work with here. 
  
  Now its time for the meat of the game, the music. Most of the songs are master tracks. We see some 
 returning track from GH3, Rock and Roll All Night, La Grange, Black Magic Woman, etc.. We also 
 get plenty of new songs to play. All in all, this game comes packed with 25 songs. Seems light 
 for a guitar hero setlist, but I think its impressive coming for a DS game. 
  
  Multiplayer adds life to this game also. With guitar duels, face off, pro face off, and co op, 
 there are plenty of options to have some fun with a couple friends.
  
  All in all, this game is great. Its name says guitar hero, and the gameplay says guitar hero. This 
 is a overall great game, and I highly suggest it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicpower451
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero On Tour is a new guitar hero game for the Nintendo DS. Now. When I heared about it, 
 I was like "How can a Guitar hero game go on DS?" Then. Red Octane answered my question. Behold! 
 The guitar grip! The guitar grip is an add on for the DS. It has 4 fret buttons instead of five. 
 But you can still feel the same guitar hero experience. The only complaint I have is that the guitar 
 grip can easily be pulled off. And once that happens, you will have to turn your DS on and off. 
 Even if you are close to a 100% on a song! Speaking of songs, the set list is only 25. I don't 
 have a problem with that actually! It's not like the DS can hold OVER 9000 songs! XD! Now. The 
 gameplay is exactly like every guitar hero game. But with 4 buttons. And strumming is used to the 
 stylus. The game comes with a stylus guitar pick! Pretty cool! To activate star power, you just 
 yell into the microphone, blow (If your too afraid to yell) , press any button, or touch the star 
 power gauge. There is 2 player guitar duels and in those guitar duels, there are special power 
 up items that you need to use to win! Just touch the power item's icon on the touch screen and 
 say bye bye to your opponent! By the way about the strumming. There is a slight chance you will 
 make a mistake when you slide the stylus back and forward while playing notes. Another thing I 
 don't like is that there isn't wifi! Now on to the songs. I like almost all of the song! But even 
 if I don't like a song, it is still fun to play! There are great bands and singers like Kiss, Smash 
 mouth, Pat Benetar, etc. Well. Thats the end of my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumbee101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first for DS in the sereis and well you can sort of tell. The grip that it comes 
 with is pretty neat because you can take out the original faceplate and make you own which I have 
 done. Short Songlist of 26 songs the 26th being one you have to unlock through Battle mode. If 
 you are like me then you will not be to crazy about the song list because it is a lot of pop and 
 old stuff. Found 3 or 4 good songs that I liked and you will find that mabey some of them will 
 grow on you. They still have hard and expert but no orange button but that is a good thing because 
 there is no way you could slide you hand up the grip thing and still hold your DS. Mabey they can 
 find a way to add one if they create another one which I would buy in a heart beat. All in all 
 a pretty good game not great though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Guitar Hero on my XBox 360 for some time now. Having played both GH2 & GH3 
 I was really looking forward to this coming out on the Nintendo DS Lite. It was one of the reasons 
 I purchased a Nintendo DS Lite.
  
  First of all... it is portable. That is a plus for anyone who needs to get their fix of Guitar 
 Hero on the road. Small enough and so portable... makes it very easy to take with you anywhere. 
 THe Grip comes with it's own guitar pick (Stylus) that you use as you play. I personally really 
 like the pick because it is alot more like playing a real guitar than just tapping a strum bar. 
 The Grip fits into your GBA (Game Boy Advance) slot on the front of you Nintendo DS Lite (and if 
 you have an older Nintendo DS it also comes with an adaptor to make it fit into that as well) . 
 There is a small technical problem with how it fits into the GBA slot but I will discuss that later. 
 It has a velcro strap that you tighten up around your hand to help you hold it more secure. Put 
 in the cartridge and your Nintendo DS Lite (or Nintendo DS) is ready to rock out.
  
  Graphics.... they are actually quite good on this game. I must say I too was quite curiuos about 
 how well they would be... but was actually quite impressed by them. Holding your Nintendo DS Lite 
 like a book in your hand (left hand for this example) your left screen becomes the note highway 
 where you see the notes streaming down that you need to play. In the background is your character 
 that you get to both choose and accessorize with clothes and Guitar of your style and color playing 
 with his or her band. On the right screen (touch pad) is your guitar that you choose. The guitar 
 on the touch screen actually looks very nice and as you play it the strings actually vibrate in 
 unison for chords and independantly for notes. If you use the whammy bar... they also will vibrage 
 just like on a real guitar. I was equally impressed with the left screen with your band too. The 
 note highway is very basic... but your band playing in the background is quite cool to watch as 
 is all of the other grahic stuff going on around them. In the subway (which is one of the Venues 
 you play) you actually have a crowd cheering you on and dancing as subway cars go racing by as 
 you play. They really put alot of extras into this game to really make it look very nice.
  
  Gameplay - As the notes come down the note highway... you then press the buttons that are on 
 the grip to corrospode with that color and use the guitar pick (stylus) to strum the guitar on 
 the touch screen to play the notes. It is pretty sensitive too... if you actually strum to many 
 times or miss... you will know by it reducing your score multiplier down to zero again. You also 
 have your whammy bar on your guitar that is very fun to play with. If you get notes that have hold 
 bars on them you can strum the note... and then take your guitar pick stylus and scratch it back 
 and forth on the screen to vibrate the notes! Very cool! It also is very sensitive in that you 
 can drag the whammy bar very slowly one direction and it will actually just lower the sound of 
 the note slowly as you drag it. Very responsive! Also to activate star power... you can pretty 
 much yell what ever you want into the Nintendo DS Lite microphone. I actually found that just blowing 
 into it worked very well. That way if you are somewhere and want to play but not be distracting 
 to others... you can put on your headphones and play quietly to yourself and still rock out.
  
  NOTE: There is a lefty flip in this game so if you are left handed... you can enable that to 
 make the game work for you as well. It not only has that... but you can actually flip the colors 
 too if you like to make it more playable in that mode. Very nice of them to think of that so the 
 game is playable by both left and right handed players.
  
  Now don't be fooled and think this is an easy game because it is on the Nintendo DS LIte... because 
 it is not that easy. There are four modes (Easy, Medium, Hard, and Expert) . I currently am in Medium 
 mode and sometimes it can be quite tough for me... but I think it is more of a learning curve. 
 In time I will probably look back and laugh at how I thought it was tough just like I did GH2 which 
 I finally beat on Expert. I did try a song on Expert and made it about 1/4 of the way in and then 
 was just floored at how tough it got.
  
  Sound seems to be the part that everybody is concerned with this game... and let me tell you... 
 you will not be disappointed at all. They really did a nice job on the music and effects in this 
 game. Most of the songs are covered by the company that made the game... but there are some songs 
 that were actual songs from the orignial bands. I personally found me plugging in my headphones 
 and then WOW... it was really nice sounding. It is kinda quiet if you just use the speakers on 
 the Nintendo DS Lite... but it still sounds very nice. As you play you will hear sounds from around 
 the area you are playing in the background too.,.. and that to me adds character to the game. I 
 really liked that when you enable star power... the crowd starts clapping to the beat of the song. 
 That was very cool!
  
  The song list is a very interesting one I must say. I pretty much knew most of the songs but there 
 were a few I had never heard before. Ranging from the early 80's (Jessie's Girl - Rick Springfield) 
 to the more modern day songs (I Don't Wanna Stop - Ozzy Osbourne) and everything in between. They 
 actually have a great range of songs in there for most people. I really liked China Grove by the 
 Doobie Brothers and Pride and Joy by Stevie Ray Vaughan. There is a total of 25 songs on the cartidge 
 with one bonus song if you beat the Guitar Duels Mode.
  
  Guitar Duels Mode is alot like GH3 duel mode where you get to play against other characters in 
 the game and if you win you get money to be able to purchase items from the store. (Guitars, Finishes, 
 Outfits) In guitar Duel Mode... you obtain different things to make it more difficult for your 
 opponent to play as well as they can too. From breaking a string (requiring you to drag the two 
 ends together on your tough pad to fix it) to setting your guitar on fire (requiring you to blow 
 into the mic to put out the flames) or have a crazed fan ask for your autograph on something llke 
 a T-Shirt or their purse! It gets crazy but it is alot of fun. You can also battle out with any 
 one of your friends too in this mode.
  
  There are some things that do make it difficult to play at first... but that like I said earlier 
 is a learning curve. One of the common things that happens to most is that they get too crazy with 
 the game when they are playing and the grip slides out of the GBA slot. At that point the game 
 will stop and let you know on the screen that you are Rockin out just a little to hard and you 
 then have to restart the game. I personally found that if you play it sitting down and cradle it 
 against your body... you get much better response and control over the gameplay. This also helps 
 with the other problem others are having is that your left hand wrist can get sore after playing 
 too much holding it the wrong way. If you cradle it like I said... I found that I can actually 
 play for a long time and not see any side effects from my wrist hurting. The buttons on the Grip 
 are also quite small but I found that actually not having the velcro strap tight on my hand helped 
 with this in that I was able to reach the buttons quite easitly. I have medium to small hands and 
 it is just right for me. I have heard of people with larger hands having a difficult time playing 
 this. You may want to check it out at your local Gamestop if you think this might be a problem 
 for you.
  
  I also highly recommend that if you purchase this game... you spend the extra couple of dollars 
 on screen protectors.... you will be glad that you did. You will be strumming alot on this game 
 and most players have a tendancy to use a striking of the match method to play instead of just 
 putting the pick on the screen and strumming that way. Either way this game can be harsh on your 
 touch pad and they will help to keep it scratch free.
  
  In conclusion... I personally think this game is quite a great package for all it delivers. With 
 a nice song list, awesome graphics, and sound... plus having all of the extras like battle mode, 
 lefty flip, and even the store to purchase new guitars and outfits... it really has alot to offer. 
 If you are into Guitar Hero... you would probably love this game. I also heard that they will probably 
 release a new cartridge soon that will have more songs on it. It sounds like this game is just 
 going to keep getting better. Go and get your Guitar Hero : On Tour today and start rocking out 
 on the road! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuaibh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero on tour for the ds, is fun, portable, and is guitar hero. Yes this game feutures 26 (+bonus) 
 songs ranging from "Do What You Want" and "Youth Gone Wild". The question is how did this get a 
 lower rating than the ps2 guitar hero rockin 80s?
  
  Story: None, the only thing thats close to a story is when you complete 5 songs in career or guitar 
 duels you will get a message from your manager telling you that you ROCK!
  
  Gameplay: Whole new way of playing guitar hero. The fret buttons are on a guitar grip that connect 
 to the gba slot, although there is two little cons. One is that the guitar grip does not connect 
 into your gba slot meaning that you can easily take out the guitar hero grip in a midddle of the 
 song, and then having to start over. Another is your hand. I can last 20 songs before i have to 
 even put down guitar hero down for a bit. My hand doesnt really even hurt from play Guitar hero 
 On tour but I guess my hands arnt as big as other peoples are. Strumming is done by taking out 
 a pic in your guitar grip and then tapping the touch screen/guitar, you can even just strum back 
 and forth instead of tapping every note. There is one con and one con only that makes me stick 
 with tapping rather than strumming back and forth, The reading of the strumming. consistantley 
 i have myself strumming and fail a song becuase i was strumming back and forth and it just happen 
 not to read my strrumming. Although this problem stopped when I started tapping and i did much 
 better (i do expert) . So i say that there really is only one con from the gameplay.
  
  Star POWER!: This is activated by saying anything into your mic, Even blowing into your mic will 
 activate it. Or you can activate alternitiveley by pressing any button on the DS if your in public. 
 I do not have problems when i bring this to go only becuase i just put my mic setting on low and 
 i just press a button rather than saying ROCK IT!
  
  Feutures. This where i start thinking why guitar hero rocking 80s got a beter score than this game. 
 The game feutures everything that you expect from guitar hero except that there is no online. Although 
 multiplayer is really smooth and fiun to play with friends WHO have the game. The guitar hero 3 
 duel mode is back with more power ups but i find it hard to activate them if i have to stop strumming 
 and tap the power up to use it. This game feutures much more value than guitar hero rocking 80s. 
 It has one more feuture than guitar hero rockin 80s and its on the ds, wich means you can take 
 it anywhere!
  
  Songs: Acouple of them are from guitar hero 3 but other than that, the ds's tiny cartridge boasts 
 up to 26 songs, which in my opinion has a greater songs than any of the previous guitar heros. 
 This game is not as rockin as other guitar hero games, but that does not matter becuase i still 
 think that it is a blast to just play memorable songs like all-star.
  
  conclusion: This game is more kids oriented guitar hero game. I say this only becuase the level 
 of rock i n the songs in guitar hero has been dropped, its now E10+, and the guitar grip maybe 
 smaller than you think. That doesnt mean that adults cant enjoy this to. I think this is a great 
 family game. This song has 4 less songs then guitar hero rocking 80s and yet it manages to make 
 a huge acomplishment of making guitar hero portable. I say the cons are really just your hands 
 might hurt after a while, and that strumming back and forth is a real pain.
  
  Side Note: Do not be fooled when the game does not have a orange not, the game racks up the challenge 
 really good, and whats guitar hero without a almost impossible guitar solo eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Pros: game play is very addicting, great for on the road, most of the songs are masters, and multi 
 player is fun.
  Cons: songs are alright (nothing awesome) , 26 songs aren't that many songs, value isn't that great, 
 and only four buttons.
  
  The famous guitar hero series makes its way onto the DS (how is this possible?) . So I bought the 
 game and found it to be not all that bad. The game is almost successful and good on its own, but 
 a few cons make it not as nothing as you hope. The game will come with a new peripheral called 
 the guitar grip. The guitar grip goes into the GBA slot and works like the guitar hero controller. 
 This rhythm game is all right.
  
  This game is for the DS and is basically a portable version of guitar hero. If you travel a lot 
 or on the road a lot you might like this game because its good for on the travel. Loyal guitar 
 hero fans may find this enjoyable also and can now play guitar hero anywhere (literally) . DS owners 
 may find this fun if they liked the sound track. For the rest of you this review will help determine 
 (I hope) .
  
  Controls are very hard to explain so I'll try my best. The game comes with a DS game card, a guitar 
 grip, a pick type stylus, and an instruction book. The guitar grip is like the neck of the guitar 
 hero where the buttons, but smaller (even the buttons) . The grip goes into the GBA slot and you 
 put the strap on so it doesn't fall out. The game also comes with an adapter that makes it work 
 on the original DS (thank god or this review wouldn't be here) . The game also supports lefty flip.
 
  
  Now lets check out game play and graphics. The game play uses the DS touch screen (it gives the 
 game a neat new thing) . You strum by strumming any where on the touch screen. Your attention mainly 
 goes to the note high way on the left. To activate star power you can push any button (except select 
 and power) , Tapping the star power bar, blow gently into the mic (yes it even uses the mic) , my 
 favorite is yelling something into the DS (may scare people) . The other game play elements are 
 no different (you hit the notes and get a score) . The graphics are not all that good (decent on 
 DS standards) . 
  
  Guitar duels are back and are actually pretty fun. Guitar duels are the same as guitar hero 3. 
 You tap the weapon on the screen to attack but also get attacked. You might have to blow out the 
 fire on the guitar or sign an autograph and much more. It also has two-player mode and the same 
 three modes (face off, Pro face off, and co op) , and this is the best thing in the game. It also 
 has a mode where you do guitar battles on each level and you must win to advance. If you beat it 
 then you get the 26th song. Some things I forgot to mention are that there are only four buttons 
 (sucks, but still a good game) . There are still four difficulties (easy, medium, hard, and expert) . 
 Hard is just about as hard as the average expert level on guitar hero (but only with four buttons) , 
 and expert being way too over charted.
  
  Some last things about game play I would like to say. The games learning curve is easy and takes 
 a couple of hours before you get used to it. Use the regular stylus because it works better (the 
 pick sucks) . Now I still need to mention sound (important) . The majority of songs are master tracks 
 so we don't need to worry about crappy covers that much. The songs themselves aren't awful, but 
 not great rock music. The audio sound actually isn't all that bad (better with head phones) .
  
  Some comments I will say about my purchase. I got the game because of two reasons: the guitar 
 grip is certainly adds the most twist to the DS version, and it's a guitar hero game (I like the 
 guitar hero games and many other rhythm type games) . The game cost $50 or the edition that comes 
 with the DS is $170 (which isn't good value) . I think the game is something you should consider 
 and do a little research on before you buy. I bought it because it offers a lot of songs I like 
 (like all star) . I admit the game is very fun and addicting like every guitar hero game has been. 
 So even with not so great set list, lame graphics, and bad value I really enjoyed this game.
  
  
  
  
  -Robby S.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTpcwarrior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I still don't see what the big issue is. Your hand does't hurt that much, you can suck it up! and 
 if your having problems with screeming into the mic or pressing the button. you can just blox into 
 the mic! you don't have to make a big scene in public that way.
  
  Graphics- 7.0
  
  The band doesn't really dance to the beat, but there are alot of moving parts and moving people
 
  
  Sound- 9.0
  
  Again, I don't see the big issue the music is great and it has great tunes. I would not mind if 
 all the music on my Ipod sounded like that.
  
  gameplay- 8.0
  
  The only problem I see is that it's hard to find the right level to play at. But that might just 
 be me because I am a master at guitar hero 3. Other than that I play it any where I go.
  
  
  
  Now If I hear any more complaints about how thier hands hurt...
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  I WILL BE BACK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estkill
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  this game has its learning curves but give it a try. if you do not like it then, do not play it. 
 it has a tendency of slipping out of the GBA slot. but if you rock not too hard but definitely 
 not too little, it could be a good game. the lack of music and songs on it is a little frantic, 
 but worth a try at most. graphics and sound are outstanding for a portable, especially the DS, 
 although i have seen better on the DS. GH has been a very good franchise, but not yet good enough 
 for a portable. Activision should just keep its place on the Console kingdom and when the time 
 is right and the portables have enough power to support its full potential, then that is when Activision 
 [or Harmonix] should makes its music game [s] into the portable world. This game had a very nice 
 concept to it, but did not stand in the portable world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starf0x999
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Wow. I never thought it was possible. When I heard that they were making GH for DS, I thought, 
 "Oh, how are they gonna do that? Attach a small, dinky stupid guitar to the DS?" But now, I am 
 amazed. Red Octane has created one of the most genius ideas ever: the guitar grip. Sure, it doesn't 
 feel anything like real guitar, but it sure feels like Guitar Hero. And even though there's only 
 like 20 songs, the songs still rock. Also, the battle mode rocks. And the best part: it's portable. 
 Enjoy GH whenever, wherever. But it isn' t perfect. The graphics aren't the best they could be, 
 neither is the sound. Also, it is pretty easy on expert, due to the fact there's only four fret 
 buttons. The single player can be beat in just a few hours. But these problems should not stop 
 you from getting GH: OT. Buy it. It rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Acid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that a Guitar Hero game was in development for the DS I was worried that it 
 might not live up to the hype and and most importantly the Guitar Hero name. 
  
  I didn't need to worry at all the game is simply amazing and its quite possibly the greatest DS 
 game ever made. The look and feel of the Guitar Hero is nailed perfectly and the graphics are stellar 
 and very impressive for the little handheld.
  
  The song list is very good indeed and to fit 25 songs on a DS Game Card is beyond awesome. Yes 
 I know the song list may not suit everyones tastes, but who really cares when you have a portable 
 version of Guitar Hero in your hot little hands.
  
  The Guitar Grip and Pick Stylus are very nice to use (if you hold the DS perfectly) because if 
 you hold the DS in the wrong way it seems to give you instant cramps and so which can hurt big 
 time, but overall its a fun piece of gear to use and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I remember reading the previews for On Tour a few weeks ago, and thought it was an interesting 
 concept. Well, here it is, and while I played it, I wondered; "They proved it COULD be done, but 
 SHOULD they have done it?"
  
  Obviously, the big draw to Guitar Hero is grabbing the guitar controller and looking like a complete 
 jackass while having a good time, but a Guitar Hero without the special controller isn't true to 
 the idea at all. Instead of the trusty SG, X-Plorer, or Les Pauls of the other GH games, On Tour 
 comes with a strange, unwieldy, and plain uncomfortable "Guitar Grip" that's supposed to mimic 
 the guitar, and it fails miserably. I don't know about you, but having my hand strapped to a DS 
 that wobbles uncontrollably as you try to strum across a touch screen that doesn't always register 
 them. Seriously, the only way I could play was by wedging the DS against one of my legs to keep 
 the thing from shaking while I fiddled with the tiny fret buttons that were way to small for my 
 23 year-old fingers. I'm no scrub on GH, I've done my fair share of 5-stars on Expert, but the 
 setup that Vicarious Visions is proposing here just doesn't work, and when your hand cramps up 
 within twenty minutes, you'll understand.
  
  This is a really short review, but with a good reason. A Guitar Hero without the guitar totally 
 misses the point, and loses all the fun in the process. The developers really tried to make it 
 work, but at the end of the day, the formula just doesn't work. Nice try, but all for nothing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bit7055
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Amazing! I never would've ever expected anything like this the minute I took a liking to Guitar 
 Hero! It is now portable! AWESOME! I don't see why this game is getting a lousy 6.0! That's just 
 cruel! Sure... it's kinda short, and it may wind up giving you cramps, but there are a lot in this, 
 sure $60 is a lot for just this... but it's worth it. Easy difficulty is even easier than the other 
 versions of this game, and medium is like hard; you already have all the buttons! Expert really 
 takes a challenge, but that shouldn't be too hard if you're a true veteran/aficianado to get through. 
 Wasn't any problem for me!
  
  Fun Facts: For the first time ever, you have to play all the notes at once during the last part 
 of Stevie Ray Vaughn's "Pride & Joy".
  
  There is a hammer-on of the same color in the beginning of Santana's "Black Magic Woman". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdlee05
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero series has been selling in mass quantities for years now, captivating gamers and 
 non-gamers alike. It's intuitive and addictive gameplay has always been its strongest feature. 
 Who hasn't spent at least some part of their lives wishing they were a rock star? Guitar Hero gives 
 everyone the opportunity to live out their rock 'n' roll fantasies in the comfort of their own 
 living rooms. With Guitar Hero On Tour, Activision is branching out into the hand held market with 
 a unique experience that still maintains the look and feel of the console versions of the series. 
 The result is something that has a few quirks and inconveniences, but still manages to present 
 a decent game overall.
  
  Of course, the most intriguing part of Guitar Hero On Tour is the newly-designed guitar grip, a 
 clever peripheral that recreates the feel of the Guitar Hero fret buttons in a relatively compact 
 package. The peripheral plugs into the GBA slot of your Nintendo DS and has a strap that allows 
 you to strap in while playing. The fret buttons themselves are about half the size of your standard 
 Guitar Hero controller, and Red Octane and Vicarious Visions have smartly chosen to shrink the 
 number of buttons down from 5 to 4. Because of the relatively small size of the bottons, it can 
 be tough to get your fingers to hit the buttons that you want them to sometimes. My fingers are 
 in no way fat, yet I still find that I could hit two buttons with one finger easily. A lot of missed 
 notes ensue if I don't stay on my game.
  
  
  In addition to this complaint, I've also had a tough time getting used to the grip. My hands are 
 slightly larger than normal and try as I might, I just can't find a "normal" way to hold the grip 
 that doesn't result in a painful hand cramp. Personally, I've started playing with a 1-inch rubber 
 ball in my palm to complement the natural curve of my hand. I've also learned that if I don't have 
 the bottom of the DS pressed up against my abdomen, that my accuracy drops due to furious shaking 
 of the DS that can occur when tackling a particularly rocking part of a song. It's definitely not 
 the most convenient way to play a video game, but I've learned to make it work. On a positive note, 
 Guitar Hero On Tour also comes with a special pick-shaped stylus that works perfectly. I literally 
 could not imagine playing this game with a regular DS stylus.
  
  The song list on the game is not my favorite collection of tunes, but for the casual crowd that 
 the Ninendo DS seems to attract, I can see how it would be a smart move for the developers. The 
 better tracks on the game include "Anna Molly" by Incubus, "Helicopter" by Bloc Party, and Stevie 
 Ray Vaughn's "Pride and Joy." The balance things out (or cater to the casual folks) , there's also 
 Smash Mouth's "Rock Star" and Blink 182's "All the Small Things." It's not a terrible collection 
 of songs by any means, but not nearly as challenging as its console brethren. Of course, this is 
 also probably related to the guitar grip, which limits your ability to "rock out" as fluidly as 
 you would normally. In addition, the songs have been compressed to fit them all on the DS cartridge. 
 That results in less than stellar sound quality obviously, and headphones don't really fix the 
 problem at all. Still, with 25 songs (most of them master tracks, most of them unique to this version 
 of Guitar Hero) , there's not a whole lot to complain about with the songs.
  
  Looking at Vicarious Visions' past games, I was a little skeptical of how the development team 
 could do with the Guitar Hero franchise on a hand held. But they have far surpassed my expectations 
 with this game! Over a year of development, testing, and tweaking have resulted in a hand held 
 game that almost does feel like Guitar Hero! All the staple features of the game are there: career 
 mode, the shop, quick play, and co-op multi-player via local wireless. This version also introduces 
 the guitar duel feature which is similar to battle mode on Guitar Hero 3. Players can play in this 
 mode against the CPU or against other players using local wireless connection. Unfortunately, there 
 is no option for online play, but that's not entirely surprising considering the lag problems with 
 Nintendo's Wif-Fi Connect service.
  
  The strumming motion that players are required to make over the DS touch screen feels a bit awkward 
 at times and can detract from the overall guitar experience. To whammy, players simply hold out 
 the note with the fret keys and move the pick back and forth over the screen. I've run into the 
 problem a few times where the note will end in mid-whammy, which then turns my fast whammy into 
 a frantic strum and a whole lot of missed notes. A small oversight, but players should be able 
 to adapt and correct themselves in no time! I was also a bit disappointed that the game doesn't 
 come with its own standard-sized DS box, only a small case about the size of the cartridge itself. 
 Considering how often I lose things, and how small the cartridge is, this can't bode well.
  
  But for the most part, Guitar Hero On Tour is still a fun hand held version of an incredibly 
 addictive game. The console versions of Guitar Hero focus on recreating the feel of playing a guitar. 
 This version focuses more on recreating the feel of playing Guitar Hero, rather than the guitar. 
 There is a bit of a learning curve, even for seasoned Guitar Heroes. Personally, I hopped right 
 into Expert and was able to get 4 or 5 star scores by the the 5th song or so. There are a few hurdles 
 to jump over, and a few quirks to deal with, but Guitar Hero On Tour is a great way to get your 
 Guitar Hero fix no matter where you are! The price tag may be a bit steep for so few tracks but, 
 for me, it was worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Applepie565
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I have to say when I saw gamespot acually giving this thing a 6/10. They must have there hands 
 dipped in barbed wire and broken glass when playing. Ok on to the review. When I first started 
 I played expert and did the song from Ok Go and I failed about 3 times. If you dont know guitar 
 hero well theres a bunch of notes coming down the screen so you hold that note and strum, simple 
 like that. Soon I finally got the hang and got a 3 star. The game is fun just like guitar hero. 
 People should all ready know but theres only four buttons, this cause you can't really slide your 
 fingers so it was a good choice. Even without that button it still feels like guitar hero. The 
 strumming may seem hard a first but soon as you get the hang, it's easy. There 25 songs in the 
 game which to me is low, it would be better if there were 30 or 40 songs but you can't really pack 
 alot in such a little game. Artist like Nirvana, The Doobie Brothers, Skid Row, and Ozzy Osbourne 
 have been in the game but why is This Love from Maroon 5 and All Star from Smash Mouth in the game? 
 Don't worry there are other good songs in the game. There 2 modes you can do, Career and Guitar 
 Duels. In career you follow 5 venues of songs and buy new guitars and outfits for your character. 
 In guitar dual you do those venues and battle aganist the computer so theres alot to do. Since 
 I started on expert the game was short but if you start on easy theres alot you can do then. Also 
 to fix some problems, if your left handed there IS a lefty mode. Also theres an attachment so you 
 can even uses an old DS. Also when in a load place, since star power is activaded by voice you 
 can lower or even raise the sensitivity of the game. 1 of the best parts of the game is playing 
 against a friend in a face off or the new battle mode. In battle mode it's now who can get the 
 highest score, not who can fail the other person. the new abilitys you can use are fun and some 
 may cause challange. The bad side of the game is the songlist is a little small and this game costs 
 50 bucks. A little price as well, so heres the over view.
  
  Good
  Good songlist, good gameplay that feels like guitar hero, 2 modes makes you do more things in the 
 game, fun with friends, and Playable for the old DS
  Bad
  25 songs is a little bit small, 50 bucks for the game
  
  Well all and all, this game ROCKS!!! 
 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour was one of those games that a lot of people thought couldn't be done. Well, 
 it has been, and the end result is something is very fun, and surprisingly challenging.
  
  Gameplay
  What's different about Guitar Hero: On Tour from the other Guitar Hero games is that 
 there is no guitar. There is no strum bar, instead you'll be strumming with a "stylus pick" on 
 the touch screen. The buttons that you'll be pressing are equipped on a genius peripheral called 
 the Guitar Grip, which conveniently slides into you GBA slot of your DS. Clever, right?
  
  This is all fine and dandy, except for one sacrifice. There are only four buttons: green, red, 
 yellow, and blue. It would be impossible to have an orange button and play, while still having 
 a firm grip on your DS. However, this does not mean that Guitar Hero: On Tour is a walk in the 
 park. Hard and Expert are really tough in the latter tiers. 
  
  Now, here's another sacrifice. With the amount of space on the DS game cartridge, and the focus 
 on making the songs actually sound good, the developers could only fit in 25 main tracks, plus 
 1 bonus track. The bonus track can be unlocked by completing all of the single player guitar duels, 
 which is similar to battle mode from Guitar Hero 3. The 25 songs can be unlocked in single player 
 career mode, then they can be played in quickplay.
  
  There is no Wi-Fi connection in On Tour, but you and a friend who has a copy of the game can play 
 via DS download.
  
  Sound
  The tracks actually sound somewhat good coming out of the DS speakers, and they're even better 
 with headphones.
  
  Graphics
  Most of the graphics actually look good.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  If you have a friend to play with, or if you want to fully complete the game 
 by five starring every song, this game will last for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777jon
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  It is not the greatest Guitar Hero game, but at least it is portable. It is not as realistic as 
 the PS2, PS3, XBOX360, and Wii Guitar Heroes because you do not actually have a guitar in your hand; 
 you have a DS in your hand. And the bad part is that you only have four frets on it, not five. 
 The only good part in having only four frets is that it is easier for some people. But having a 
 pick as a stylus is pretty cool. The Guitar Hero: On Tour grip leaves an indent in your hand when 
 you take it off (comes off in a few minutes) . And the other bad part in Guitar Hero: On Tour is 
 that there are a few characters. And Slash is not in Guitar Hero for DS. Slash one of the best 
 characters in Guitar Hero. He should be a character. That is all I have to say about it.
  
  It is still really fun playing it though :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  It really is a Guitar Hero experience, albeit with only four buttons. 
  
  The Bad:
  Most of the game can be completed in under two hours. The control configuration can 
 be very painful. Many of the 25 songs are not what most kids these days would call "rock".
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I've pretty much said it all above. It is a wonderful attempt to portable-ize guitar hero for a 
 handheld, and the end result is a brief tour of the guitar hero world that will leave many players 
 craving more. At 25 songs, the playlist is woefully lacking, with only a handful being what could 
 be called rock or metal (Twisted Sister and Ozzy Osbourne, to be more specific) . 
  
  The other major complaint concerns the control scheme itself, which, while innovative, is cramp 
 inducing in longer bouts. It requires either frequent breaks, or finding a position that doesn't 
 kill you. I found that, lying on my back with the game propped on my belly, I could play for over 
 an hour before I stopped feeling my thumb.
  
  Look, if you want a full Guitar Hero experience, you should be playing the console versions. But, 
 if you want a taste of he game in something you can carry around, well, this is about the only 
 option so far. It will be interesting to see if a sequel pack comes available at some point in 
 the future.
  
  I would have given this game a higher rating if it were only longer than the few hours it took 
 to finish. While there are duel options available to prolong the life of the game, for those interested 
 in the single-player experience, this one needed more songs to round out the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojado71
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  It is very rare that I complain about reviewers giving a game a score that is too low as I generally 
 think they score too high on most occasions. That being said, I have played Guitar Hero DS for 
 several hours now and find it incomprehensible that these reviewers could score the game so low. 
 When taking into account the challenge facing the developers of creating a portable version of 
 a game so connected to it's guitar controller, it is amazing how effective a workaround they came 
 up with. Once you find the a good angle to play the game, GH DS becomes as addictive as the console 
 version. While it is not perfect, it so far exceeds what I expected and is simply a great game. 
 To look at the games given higher scores is like seeing a club fighter ranked above Floyd Mayweather.. just 
 seems like two standards set for judging different games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiragsharmadx
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is kind of like the games on the Xbox360, Ps3, Ps2, and Wii. Some of the things is that 
 first the idea Guitar Hero pordable, next the guitar pick styles wich is pretty cool, and you just 
 pick it on the screen on the right, then it is kind of bad for some people but good for some, if 
 you are a persone who always plays on expert it's kind of bad because there are onley 4 buttons, 
 but its good for people that are not so good at the game, and its no diffrent for people that play 
 on meduim, also I forgot to say that the pack with the buttons on it looks pretty cool. Some of 
 the bad things are that it does hurt your fingers when you play the game, in the other games you 
 can see your whole band play but on here you only see your guy play, and they don't go crazy like 
 in the other games, and it onley has 25 songs on it but some good ones in The Red Hot Chilly Peppers, 
 but some one that should not be there like Smash Mouth, and Maroon 5 witch really aren't rock and 
 roll. All together from the pain to all the fun it is a okay price $50 because a ds game is about 
 30$ the pack is $15 and the guitar pick styles is about $5. So I hope you won't hurt you rself 
 to much and I also hope you have darn fun playing it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerboy4eva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero on tour is an awesome game. a big leap in the video game world. i mean whocame up with 
 an idea to make it portable. and to even make it happen. imagin what they could do now. heres my 
 review.
  
  Tilt (originality) ---10 out of 10
  The game is like no other. This is the start of a new type of video game. 
  
  Value ---10 out 
 of 10
  ten years from now , people will look as this game to be one of the best and if they still sell 
 the ds, people might even but it. the resale price would be good but i dont know why you would 
 sell it.
  
  sound ---9.7ut of 10
  The actual sound quality is excellent. the songs are great. the only thing is that they could have 
 maybe added a little more.
  
  Gameplay ---9.6 out of 10
  songs are fun to play. the only problem is, there isnt much of a story mode. but what covers for 
 that is that the harder the mode you play in the more fun it is. personally i like medium and hard 
 mode. multiplayer is pretty good and it your tired of the regular thing you can go to a guitar 
 duel, which is also fun
  
  as you saw everything was good. so the game is great. THIS IS WHat isnt so great...
  
  Controls -- 9.3 
 out of 10
  now, you might be saying, what is he thinking, 9.3 is good. im saying that because the actual controls 
 are creative and innovative. the only thing is that sometime when you play a lot your hand or wrist 
 starts to hurt. but it wears off.
  
  Overall ---9.8 out of 10
  Guitar hero on tour is a great game that i definately reccomend. its mad fun and if your a guitar 
 hero fan, youll have it on the go. now what are you waiting for. GO AND BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS has been known to have unique games that take advantage of the innovative touch 
 screen. Guitar Hero: On Tour not only successfully makes use of the touch screen but it offers 
 fans of the series a chance to be a rock star anywhere they want. 
  
  Since this is a handheld game the full size plastic guitar is out of the question. Instead On Tour 
 ships with a peripheral that slides inside the Game Boy Advance slot on the DS. The peripheral 
 is essentially a grip which consists of four fret buttons (green, red, yellow and blue) , a guitar 
 pick and a strap to secure your hand in place. After playing a few songs the controller becomes 
 rather uncomfortable and might be a problem for those that have bigger hands. Unfortunately the 
 controller doesn't snap into the Game Boy Advance slot so if you find yourself rocking out too 
 hard then the controller slips out of the slot and requires you to power off the DS and start the 
 game over again. 
  
  The game play is similar to the previous Guitar Hero games but what makes this installment distinct 
 is the touch screen features. As always you must press the correct color fret button that matches 
 the notes on the screen. Sliding the guitar pick back and forth on the screen emulates strumming. 
 This works surprisingly well since it is rather responsive and lag free. 
  
  Since there isn't a whammy bar to distort the sound on the controller the alternative is to quickly 
 move the guitar pick back in forth whenever long notes are being held. It's an easy way to rack 
 up on more points. Another example of the touch screen game play is the way in which "Star Power" 
 is enabled. To feel like a true rock star you can say "Rock On" into the microphone to activate 
 Star Power, or if you're more on the shy side you can blow into the microphone or even touch the 
 Star Power meter. While this may seem creative it doesn't always necessarily work. The microphone 
 on the DS is sensitive and picks up any loud noises which will randomly cause the star power to 
 activate. Since this happens quite a bit it makes it hard to play on the go which totally defeats 
 the purpose of the game. 
  
  There is a significant amount of game mode options that are included in the game. Of course there 
 are the standard Career and Quick Play modes which are basically the same as other Guitar Hero 
 games. Practice is another mode but it doesn't seem too useful since there isn't an option to change 
 the speed of the song so you can perfect those parts in the song where you get lost. Out of the 
 entire options multiplayer is where the game shines. Unfortunately there isn't Wi-Fi multiplayer 
 but linking up with a friend in the same place works just as well. There are a number of modes 
 that can be played such as Face-Off (playing against your opponent to see gets the most points) , 
 Co-op (you and your friend play songs together) , and Guitar Duel. Guitar Duel is similar to Face 
 Off but you are given the opportunity to throw items at your opponent to hinder their performance. 
 A few examples of this is where the music is muted but the notes still appear across the screen; 
 repairing broken strings and putting out the fire that has encompassed the guitar. 
  
  Guitar Hero: On Tour isn't the best looking game on the DS but it definitely captures the Guitar 
 Hero style. There are five venues to select from; Subway, Rooftop, Parade, Greek Arena and Battleship 
 which fully pulls off the atmosphere of each one. There are a few familiar characters in the game 
 but you can't really tell since the character models aren't detailed at all. On the other hand 
 the various guitars that are available look great while they are enlarged on the touch screen. 
 The size of the screens doesn't seem to make a difference since it is easy to see the notes that 
 scroll down. 
  
  The DS does have some small speakers but you wouldn't be able to tell since the music sounds great. 
 There is the option to plug in headphones to get the full experience but you should have no problem 
 hearing the music if you are playing in a fairly quite area. There are a total of 25 songs in the 
 entire game. While this is nowhere near the amount of songs in the previous Guitar Hero games, 
 it is amazing to have that many songs on a small cartridge. When it comes to song selection On 
 Tour tends to have more of a lighter feel to it as opposed to Hard Rock and Metal. The artists 
 range from No Doubt to Ozzy Osbourne. There is definitely a good mixture of songs here and the 
 bonus is that the majority of them are master tracks. 
  
  Sadly On Tour doesn't offer a lot when it comes to value. As always there are four difficulty levels 
 to perfect and the multiplayer modes are a blast that will leave you wanting more. The problem 
 seems to be with the short 25 song set list. After a while the songs tend to get a bit stale especially 
 when you are constantly playing them over and over again in order to practice. It would be great 
 if there were songs that were available to download but that obviously won't happen. This game 
 is great to pick up and play for short periods of time.
  
  Overall Guitar Hero: On Tour is a fun game that gives players a different way to play. While the 
 game and the controller aren't perfect it sure does make up by for it by giving you the opportunity 
 to be a Guitar Hero on the Nintendo DS. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAVEZero
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  On Tour is a fun, yet terribly short DS variant of the popular console versions. With an interesting 
 peripheral dubbed the Guitar Grip, players will play their way through 5 locales on a ride of 26 
 songs. 
  
  The gameplay works if you're willing to take a few minutes off in between venues to rest your Grip 
 hand. While the peripheral captures the feel of the console versions, it is very loose and unstable 
 in the GBA slot. Some gamers may experience disconnection of the Grip from the DS, stopping gameplay 
 altogether. Why this is, no one knows. Yet it shouldn't have to be. Otherwise, strumming is done 
 on the touch screen, and is very easy to accomplish, as is activating Star Power.
  
  Another major setback is the career mode. Casuals and even Hardcore GH players may find that the 
 brief 26 song set is way to small, not to mention the songs are pretty outdated, as in early 2000's 
 and before. But what you have to appreciate is that with as small a card as the DS, 26 is kinda 
 good. Couple that with the multiple difficulty levels, and you have quite the time-waster here. 
 
  
  On Tour also provides you with a total of seven characters, two of those unique to this game (though 
 not really. Research it) . As the cash accumulates, you're able to pick up new clothes and guitars 
 for them, just like the consoles. 
  
  The final setback for me is the actual character interaction. On the consoles, your rocker would 
 strum, dance, act a fool, whathaveyou on stage - wait for it - IN TUNE TO THE SONG. What you find 
 in On Tour is just a character strumming madly with no apparent perception to the track played. 
 And what's up with the lead singer from GHIII playing and singing?
  
  All in all, Guitar Hero: On Tour is for the purists of GH rock. If you're one of those kind, go 
 ahead and pick this up. You'll find much to do here, especially if you don't mind going buckwild 
 on a DS. For the casuals, think before dropping the $50. You may just want to pick up the console 
 version instead that subtracts the negatives here. With a slighty disappointing setlist, wonky 
 graphics but amazing controls, weigh your options ahead of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited Guitar hero On Tour was just released this week and so far it looks to be a hit 
 with fans of the franchise. Guitar hero returns with an all new set list, with a couple of tracks 
 taken from Guitar hero 3, such as La Grange by ZZ Top and Pride and Joy By Stevie Ray. The game 
 how ever features over 20 new songs to the Guitar hero franchise. The game has also been improved 
 from past Guitar Heros, now you can do battles against your friends with a copy of the game anywhere, 
 and if for some reason you don't feel like playing against your friends you could also try facing 
 against the computer in a Guitar Battle on ANY song on the set list.
  But needless to say playing the game is painful, although the intro tells you to take breaks, but 
 most rockers would find that difficult to do when they are drawn to the game and can't take their 
 eyes off of the screen.
  *
  The graphics on Guitar hero On Tour are simply outstanding for a DS game.
  * 
  I know what 
 most of you are thinking $50 for a DS GAME! That's a bit high, but think about what all that comes 
 with the game. You get the strap to go onto your DS, 2 sheets of stickers to customize your DS, 
 a Pick Stylus, and one heck of a hurt wrist. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour is plain fun. You still feel like you're playing guitar but on a smaller handheld 
 console. This game might have turned out bad, but leave it to Activision and Red Octane to deliver 
 a good Guitar Hero expierence on a handheld console. Most of the praise goes to the guitar strap. 
 It has four buttons: green, blue, red, and yellow. They didn't include the orange button, but that 
 would of made the game more difficult so I understand why they only put four buttons plus the strap 
 wouldn't fit on the DS. The graphics on On Tour isn't the best on the DS but the gameplay and the 
 controls are neat and innovative especially the stylus. It just makes you feel more like a rock 
 star with just strumming the guitar on the touch screen with a pick and they managed to insert 
 the whammy bar in there so all you have to do is just move the whammy bar around and you get extra 
 points from the notes. What I especially like about On Tour is the battle mode. It has more powerups 
 and it still retains the basic core that was found in Guitar Hero III. There is some complaints 
 to this game though. Sometimes when you you're playing the game you might feel a little uncomfortable 
 with the wist strap if you've been playing for a long time. That said, Guitar Hero On Tour is an 
 excellent addition to the franchise and any DS owner should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wdave92
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Ahh activision you have taken us on a wild ride of the Guitar hero series, from GHIII, to GH world 
 tour. This is your latest attempt at milking the series and guess what you actually pulled off 
 a decent addition to the series, let alone a Guitar hero on the DS is impressive in its own way. 
 
  Where to start... Lets start with gameplay, the gameplay is like the original guitar hero without 
 a 5th fret, yup they took off the 5th fret but in practice it seems like a good idea because there 
 is no way in sliding you hand up and down the adapter to play. you also this time have to strum 
 by taking a pick shaped stylus across the touch screen in theory it would have been a great idea 
 but sometime it just isn't responsive for a rhythm game.
  Sound plays a critical role in the guitar hero series because without sound you wouldn't have the 
 awesome music that the series in known for. but in this game the sound is dare i say Lackluster, 
 it is compressed way to much and makes the music sound tiny and bad. this is apparent on the song 
 Breed where you cant hear the ripping sound of the guitar that makes the music so immersive.
  Soundtrack is well small with 25 songs in total most of these songs you have heard in other Guitar 
 hero games but some are completley new (Such as Twisted sisters "Were not going to take it") some 
 will argue that the music of this guitar hero leans towards Pop instead of rock (This is apparent 
 in smash mouths "Allstar")
  Presentation is not what you would expect of a Guitar hero game over simplistic menus and the worst 
 graphics on a GH game to date really pulls you out of the experience that they intended for you 
 
  Final thoughts this guitar hero is essentially Guitar Hero in a nutshell but its good for the short 
 time your interested in it is fun for a while but lasting appeal stinks
  I Give it a 7.8/10 so i round it off to 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour marks the franchise's first attempt at making a game on a handheld system. 
 Conceptually, the game should work brilliantly. Using the GBA-slot of the DS, one simply attaches 
 an add on that has four fret-buttons. They then turn their DS sideways, a la a book, and use their 
 dominant hand to strum the guitar, which has been replaced by the touch screen. All seems fine, 
 however, that's not necessarily true.
  
  The biggest problem this game has is the control scheme; it's unbearably uncomfortable. Occasionally, 
 the player would be able to find a position in which their left hand isn't being twisted to the 
 breaking point, but most of the time the game feels like it could only be played by an Olympian 
 gymnast. But the left hand isn't the only hand that will suffer from this game, righty will live 
 on in anguish as well. Strumming by movning your whole hand on the touch screen feels a lot more 
 tiring than doing it on a standard Guitar Hero guitar. Both hands wind up dead after a couple of 
 songs, and if you're someone who seldom uses their hands, you might not make it through one song 
 on a very difficult setting.
  
  If you do find yourself in a comfortable position, one in which your left hand isn't going to hate 
 you for the agony you're putting it through, then On Tour can be fun, if not extremely tiring. 
 The console versions of Guitar Hero do a good job at replicating the feel of being a rock star, 
 and though On Tour doesn't really succeed in achieving that feel, it still feels fun, but you need 
 to cool with playing Accordian Hero. It's definately can be enjoyable, but not to the same extent 
 as the game's console counterparts.
  
  Technically, the game is surprisingly impressive. The game's 3-D graphics are unneccessarily decent 
 and the audio quality is the best the DS can offer, and though it's obviously not going to be as 
 crisp as the console games, the DS's speakers don't lessen the experience. Most of the songs are 
 also masters, recordings by the original artists, which is a nice touch. Visually, the game's only 
 problem is that sometimes a regular note can appear as one of the glowing hammer-on notes, causing 
 you to not strum.
  
  Though the songs are masters, the tracklist is somewhat disappointing. The game only has 25 songs, 
 most of which are tailored for the casual audience. Very few songs are ones that would be requested 
 by true Guitar Hero nuts, and a lot of them are ones that would be requested by a Radio Disney 
 listener. Let's put it this way: if you hate Smash Mouth and Daughtry, you'll dislike about 20 
 of the songs here as they're from similar artisits. It can be fun to play through these songs, 
 but they're far from being preferable. Aside from how good the songs are, there are just too few 
 of them. If you fight through the pain, On Tour can easily be beaten in one sitting on an easy 
 difficulty.
  
  Aside from the hand cramps they bring, the controls aren't all that bad. The game only features 
 four fret-buttons, which is okay since sliding would be near-impossible and the songs can still 
 be difficult with four buttons. Using the whammy bar is smart and intuitive, you simply scribble 
 on the touch screen. The only small problem with the control scheme would be activating star power, 
 which can sometimes be difficult. To activate star power, you either need to scream into the microphone, 
 blow into the microphone, touch one of the DS's face buttons, or touch the star power gauge on 
 the touch screen. Screaming into the microphone is always recognized, but sometimes is inconvenient. 
 Blowing into the mic requires you to be fairly close to the DS, and fairly precise with the aiming 
 of your blow. Touch the face buttons is impossible; both your hands are pre-occupied and cramping. 
 Touch the meter can ve inconvenient as you need to shift your attention from one screen to another, 
 potentially making you miss out on some notes. Going for the gauge option also can result in losing 
 your streak because the game will pick it up as a strum if your fingers are on any of the frets.
 
  
  Multiplayer is back, but you'll need to find a friend who also shelled out money for this game, 
 because disappointingly, there's no online multiplayer to speak of. However, if you do engage in 
 a multiplayer battle, it can be fun. The modes from Guitar Hero III are back and work well with 
 the DS's download play options.
  
  Guitar Hero: On Tour costs $50, which isn't as over-priced as it seems. The game comes bundled 
 with the fret board, a novelty guitar pick-shaped stylus, and an add-on that lets the fret board 
 be used with older DS's, you know, the fat ones.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero: On Tour is a potentially great game, held back by a few major problems. Though 
 the team obviously cared a lot about the game (it even has the best story-line of any Guitar Hero 
 game yet) , there's just no getting around the track list and uncomfortable controls. What's even 
 more disappointing is seeing how much Vicarious Visions cared about this game, but still couldn't 
 find a good control scheme. It makes me feel as if a truly good Guitar Hero game on the DS isn't 
 possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  When we heard a version of guitar hero was being created exclusively for the Nintendo DS, we all 
 wondered, How is that going to work?". The answer is a cool-looking guitar pic stylus and guitar 
 grip that sadly only has 4 smaller buttons rather than the five that fans of the series are used 
 to. In other words, there are pros and cons to both the new hardware and the game itself. 
  
  The new hardware built for this game works just like would expect it to. But on occasion it 
 can slip out of the GBA game slot causing a few extra missed notes. And it is all just a little 
 bit hard to get used to, just as the guitar in the other games of the series were. The guitar grip 
 has a strap that holds your wrist and fingers kind of steady, you must ajust your hand accordingly 
 so you can hit all the fret buttons comfortably. The strumming is a bit awkward as well. You must 
 make sure the strumming movements you make with the pic are very deliberate, it cant just be a 
 tap or it wont work. On the sections that require you to strum up and down, sometimes itll almost 
 seem like it just stops registering. Despite all these shortcomings with how the game is played, 
 it does work well most of the time. And this new way to play is really fun. 
  
  As far as the track list goes, I think 19/25 are master recordings. Some artists like Ozzy Osbourne 
 and Red hot chilli peppers are featured while other less desirable artists are there too, including 
 maroon 5 and daughtry. The main problem here is the fact that there are only 25 songs. You will 
 probably burn through a career in about two hours. But there is reason to come back and play them 
 again, to get 5 stars of course. There are two new characters as well, neither of them are really 
 as classic as the others. 
  
  The mode called Guitar Battle allows up to 2 players play locally (no online either) and try to 
 make it more difficult for the other player by using power ups, similarily to Guitar Hero 3. This 
 mode is actually pretty much as you cant actually fail the song. 
  
  All in all the game is good, but not as much as the other games in this series. As a first on the 
 DS it is definitely worth a play or at the very least a rent if possible. Fans of guitar hero will 
 definitely have fun, and others can too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natdog112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  First of all, the DS isn't the most powerful gaming system out there. This game would have done 
 better on the PSP in my opinion. None the less it is still an entertaining game. 
  Let me start with the bad things: Only 25 songs, now as i said before the DS isn't very powerful 
 so that little cartridge is holding as much as it can. Another problem is the colored buttons accessory 
 falls out during play some times, it could have used a much better locking mechanism. I am one 
 of the few people who haven't experienced bad hand cramps and my hands are moderately big. 
  The good things: It is fun for all ages. The graphics are pretty good for the DS. those 25 songs 
 go a long way on 4 different difficulties. This game gives you a challenge.
  
  This game is GREAT for a Guitar Hero fan, and will last you a good time. 
  $50 may seem expensive 
 but for what you get it isn't really.
  Everyone has a different preference so go done to Toys R Us or somewhere else and try it out on 
 the machine they have setup there. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezbrown
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game even after hours of playing and I'm over 50! I've also had a lot of experience 
 with the Guitar Hero series and Rock Band and found this a similarly fun diversion I use while 
 traveling. The reviewer's main complaint may be an individual one. Depending on the length of your 
 fingers and general well-being of your hand and finger joints the game could be problematic. I 
 manged to play it for about 90 minutes with no problems. It is probably wise to take a few breaks 
 here an there and that will keep the fatigue minimal. 25 songs seem obviously limited when compared 
 to Rock Band's limitless song set but I am not going to be playing this as many hours as the console 
 versions I own, so all is forgiven on that front as well. Ya, it's lo-fi but it's on a cartridge 
 and for that space constraint I think it is well done. Overall I highly recommend this portable 
 version for anyone who likes the series. If you have arthritis take some extra Motrin and get rocking! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYYMANIAC
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour plays exactly how you would think it would play, like Guitar Hero. You get 
 the great rhythm in a very convenient travel size, but you will come to realize that guitar hero 
 was not meant to be miniaturized. There is just simply too much rock crammed into a tiny place. 
 
  On Tour has all the features of its console brothers. The game has quickplay, multiplayer, guitar 
 and character selection, etc. The real problem is just what happens when you try to make it smaller. 
 The first thing you realize when you put the controller on your hand is that it is very intuitive, 
 and you cannot wait to play. I honestly was very excited to play this game. I picked it up and 
 started playing. As a seasoned Guitar Hero veteran, I jumped into expert. I failed the first two 
 songs, but after that it was pretty much smooth sailing. After about five songs my hand and wrist 
 were aching so bad that I had to stop, even though I didn't want to. The game is still Guitar Hero 
 after all. It is obvious to me that no one will feel comfortable playing Guitar Hero: On Tour with 
 the DS peripheral, and it was also obvious to the developer, Vicarious Visions, with the warning 
 they show when the game boots up about resting your wrist. They even suggest that you visit their 
 web page to find out different ways to hold the DS in your hand. 
  To go one, the visual are what you would expect from the DS, but the sound is down right bad. Gamespot's 
 metaphor of the song sounding like it was being broadcasted over an AM radio station is spot on. 
 There are different ways Vicarious Visions could have dealt with it. I personally think they should 
 have cut the 3D models and just used the Ken Burns effect of some pictures of the artist that made 
 the box art. The backround in guitar hero has always been more for the spectator than the player, 
 and nobody is going to look over your shoulder while you are playing on a DS for too long anyway. 
 
  Gameplay is very intuitive with the DS screen and is a good change of pace. Being someone who plays 
 Guitar Hero on expert on the consoles, my sole worry was that the game would be too easy, but it 
 is not. There is definitely enough here to keep you challenged no matter how good you are, but 
 there is still a downside. There are note lines you know that you could easily pull off on the 
 console versions that you cannot pull off with the DS setup. Playing the final Lynard Skynard song 
 on expert was getting very frustrating, because I knew that I could easily pull off the lines on 
 a regular Guitar Hero guitar. 
  Even with all of that, I was still willing to accept Guitar Hero: On Tour for a decent game. It 
 did what I expected it to do, even if it did cramp my hand a bit. That was when the last straw 
 came. I went to tighten the strap, and it ripped off. THE STRAP CANNOT HANDLE THE GAME! It is a 
 Rock Band drum set all over again. I knew if I got another, I would just end up breaking it again. 
 The strap did not even last 24 hours, less than 3 hours of gameplay. 
  All in all, Guitar Hero: On Tour is not something anyone should buy. The peripheral is horrible 
 for your wrist and it will break, and the hefty price tag of $49.99 can be spent on something better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persia316
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is loved buy all gamers & non gamers cause its fun. Why can't we take it to go. Well 
 now we have Guitar Hero for the DS & it does feel like its big brother the console version but 
 with a twist. Multi player is by far the best feature cause you have items to mess up your opponent 
 like setting there guitar on fire so they have to blow on the mic or cut a string to make them 
 stop playing to fix it & even steal there items to use on them. Everything good about on tour is 
 the same as the console. Now lets get to the point. There's only 25 songs & 4 suck big time if 
 your not a fan. No WiFi, that kills me cause its fun playing another player. Finally your wrist 
 will hurt like a bus ran over it for a few min so you really do have to take breaks here & then. 
 Its a good start & I want to see another guitar hero on the DS soon but with 25 songs & no WiFi 
 $50 is a little to much I guess. It is fun & its a good game but not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_reaper406
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first learned of Guitar Hero: On tour, I suffered several seizures induced by an unrelenting 
 fit of giggles, and a nerve racking smile. 
  "Guitar Hero? On the DS? 'TIS A GODSEND!" I shouted in my rejoice. However, the longer I awaited 
 the game, a series of warning signs began to arise. My first sign of how f*cking horrible the game 
 is, was when I beheld the incredibly flashy, yet unbelievably stupid commercial, in which various 
 teenagers embark on a peyote induced endeavor. They play on a giant whale, a colossal robot, and 
 as if this blatant message of insipid commercialization wasn't dreadful enough, a glowing squirrel 
 fills the television screen, and fills my heart with dread by spewing a predictable "rock" related 
 one-liner. This should have darkened my spirits, however I daftly convinced myself otherwise by 
 repeating the words "portable" and "Guitar Hero." As I drew closer to a local Wal-mart, I began 
 suffering a growing sensation of doubt. Unfortunately this growing unease graced me far too late, 
 as I soon found myself with the game in one hand, and my dusty DS in the other.....
  
  Problems immediently made themselves present when I realized the game only contains 25 SONGS, yet 
 costs a crippling 50 DOLLARS! 
  Well, it's Guitar Hero, the 25 songs must be the very escence of rock itself!
  WRONG! This song 
 selection is HORRIBLE!
  Guitar hero? Horrible Songs? Such a notion was completely unheard of until this entry in the once 
 glorious series....
  
  Imagine, if you will, your favorite classic rock band. 
  Black Sabbath
  Boston
  Iron Maiden
  The Beatles
  The Rolling Stones
  Your most beloved 
 classic rock band.
  Now, imagine that your band is adapting their musical stylings to a more modern crowd. Your titans 
 of classic rock, are now portruding comb overs, 16 layers of eyeliner, they cease any attempt of 
 a complex solo, and the singer adopts an emo style of singing, just to please the modern zealots 
 who enjoy such music....
  If you actually visualized the above statement with anything other than sheer disgust, then your 
 sexuality is immediently in question! 
  
  GHOT's next flaw immediently found refuge... In my wrist. Unfortunately this installment of the 
 Guitar hero series bestows high doses of discomfort in ones wrist due to the akward fret addition. 
 One can only play two dreadfull songs in succession before undertaking a break from playing. Another 
 brilliant design function included within the fret insertion feature is it's frequent rate of falling 
 out of the DS, forcing the player to SHUT OFF THE ENTIRE GAME, instead of re-inserting the insipid 
 torture device, and continue playing the vomit inducing song.
  
  Also, one must reflect upon why the Guitar hero series has remained so entertaining. Players generally 
 enjoy GH for the unique, and intuitive controller, and excellent song selection. Since it has already 
 been established how ungodly the song selection is, I must explain how boring the game is without 
 the guitar controller.
  Without the classic Guitar Hero controller, the game suffers a sever lack of immersion, and feels 
 incredibly dull.
  The gimmic of sliding one's stylus over the touch screen causes for discomfort in the wrist, and 
 horribly fails at offering anything unique or entertaining. I also found the controle faltering 
 at crucial moments.
  Star power frequently activates completely unexpectedly, and the required strumming function runs 
 the tendency of registering one stroke as two, thus rendering a multiplier extremely difficult!
 
  
  I was blatantly amazed regarding how dissapointing this installment was, and I'm even more amazed 
 at how highly the game is praised amongst Gamespot members! This game is an embarassment to not 
 only the Guitar Hero series, but DS games as a whole.
  I honestly can't reccomend this game to anyone except those who love Guitar Hero more than breathing.
 
  Seriously.
  If Guitar Hero is the god to your dellusional world, then I whole heartedly reccomend this game, 
 as well as a bullet to your skull.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  So, Guitar Hero finally comes to the DS, but is it cool, to put it in easy words: NO!!! This game really 
 isn't a great interpretation of Guitar Hero games, and sorry, but I personally didn't like Guitar 
 Hero games in the first place. One, the songs get very old, pretty fast so by the time you're done 
 with the game, you're totally sick of your favorites. Two, this is no where near a real guitar, NOWHERE 
 NEAR!!!! Especially on the DS, because to me, it doesn't feel like a guitar at all, and this can really 
 scratch up your screen. And sorry,50$?! For a game that really ain't so great, this seems just plain 
 out STUPID! And colored frets? Wow, that's realistic. Sure, these games may be fun, but people who could 
 have been rockstars will never be because they won't try actually playing music. Think of it this 
 way: if Slash had had Guitar Hero around when he was a kid, he would've never played guitar! He actually 
 said that! They even had the balls to take out the fifth fret button, making the game actually challenging. Another 
 problem is, that this doesn't even LOOK like a guitar, it's dumb. You scratch up your touch screen 
 basicly to strum, and there aren't as many hammer-ons, so you are screwed. Plus, (as if it couldn't 
 get any worse) half the songs in this game suck ass! I mean, Spiderwebs?! That's skaw music! Saxophone 
 with rock n' roll, I don't think so!! At Guitar Center, you can buy a shirt that says: My guitar doesn't 
 have colored buttons! Nice work!! I appreciate that (serouisly) . As if you'll even listen to me any 
 longer, you should actually try playing guitar, or drums, or bass. Don't waste your money or time on 
 this piece of s**t!!
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creapz
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  So It was the first day that this Guitar Hero On Tour for the DS came out, and yeah I'd have to 
 admit it looked totally awesome as I took it up to the cashier. When I got home I opened the box 
 there it was the fret button controller, although I was expecting a there to be a Nintendo DS case 
 like all the other Nintendo DS games come in right? Wrong! There was this little plastic case with 
 the game inside, kinda lame. But, thats beside the point, I then went and tryed out the game! Now 
 I have played Guitar Hero before and I knew the controls fairly well, but the DS had smaller buttons 
 and frankly it was fairly hard to get my pinky finger around to play the blue fret button. I started 
 out on easy, and well YES it speaks for its self. Although Medium is alright, and Hard is not bad 
 either, but having to play it on expert is a nightmare! Constantly trying to hit the frets shakes 
 the left side of the screen and makes visibility poor. Plus, you can't forget that your strapped 
 into the controller and you will constaintly knock the tip of the bottom right side (where the 
 blue fret is) out alittle bit. Anyway lets talk about song selection. There are 25 song, all of 
 which are fairly good and enjoyable. Although there are a few songs I'd like to say that dont really 
 fit with Guitar Hero at all! They are, 
  All Star, Smash Mouth
  This Love, Maroon 5
  What I Want, Chris Daughtry
  Oh and if you thought that the last song in the game was going to 
 be excellent like Through the Fire and Flames, Dragonforce
  It's not...
  But, I do still enjoy the game. I think its really exciting to be able to play it on GH on your 
 DS! and I will tell you that it does impress the ladies!!! jk '
  Overall this game 7.0 and hopefully there will be an Add-on version availalbe later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleks-619
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero, It is an franchise that has given us much with which to amuse ourselves and even more 
 with his next launch Guitar Hero Aerosmith, but we are not here to talk about it.
  
  It is time to talk about Guitar Hero: On Tour for the Nintendo DS. This version created for the 
 double screen comes like all we know with the Guitar Grip, with four buttons that are inserted 
 in GBA's slot that allows us to take the Nintendo DS in the shape of opened book and to use the 
 stylus to strum the touch screem.
  
  One could talk that is an innovate game, of course for Nintendo DS.
  Also one could speaks of 
 that the design can produce pain in the hand, I believe that it is possible but you can fix it 
 if you take bathroom paper, you make a ball and put it between your hand and the Guitar Grip.
 
  
  The game comes with 25 tracks, for a portable console, the number of songs is surprising though 
 clear we all prefer that at list have some more.
  
  Song track list:
  
  "Do What You Want" -- OK Go 
  "All The Small Things" -- Blink 182 
  "Spiderwebs" -- No Doubt 
 
  "Are You Gona Be My Girl" -- Jet 
  "We're Not Gonna Take It" -- Twisted Sister 
  "All Star" -- Smash Mouth 
  "Breed" -- Nirvana 
  "Jessie's Girl" -- Rick Springfield 
  "Hit 
 Me With Your Best Shot" -- Pat Benatar 
  "This Love" -- Maroon 5 
  "Heaven" -- Los Lonely Boys 
  "Helicopter" -- Bloc Party 
  "China Grove" -- The Doobie Brothers 
 
  "Rock and Roll All Nite" -- KISS 
  "What I Want" -- Daughtry
  "Stray Cat Strut" -- Stray Cats
  "Pride and Joy" -- Stevie Ray Vaughan
  "I Dont Want To Stop" 
 -- Ozzy Osbourne
  "Anna Molly" -- Incubus
  "Rock the Night" -- Eurupe
  
  
  The game contains features like both single-player and multiplayer wireless play. When playing 
 with (or against) a friend, you'll be able to choose to play cooperatively, in guitar battles for 
 the high score, or in duel mode, where you'll be able to earn power-ups you can use against your 
 opponent. For example, you be able to toss bombs at your foe that will make random notes appear 
 as bombs for your opponent. Another power-up will break the strings of your opponent and he or 
 she will have to repair them using the touchscreen.
  
  Dont compare this game with his brothers, of course is not the same to grab a guitar from Guitar 
 Hero and Rock, try to see this game with fresh eyes, do not judge it if you havent play it.
  
  Aleks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerJunkyKidO
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero On Tour for the Nintendo DS is advertised as Guitar Hero for the DS but is it? The 
 answer is yes, as soon as you select your first song and it starts up, you know damn well its Guitar 
 Hero, The game runs very very well from the consistency of the frame rate to the game play, its 
 a very solid game, no bugs, no glitches *that i know of after playing for a good 4 hours over time 
 today* The animations are great, ever noticed in the console versions the drummer, drummed a little 
 stiff? Apparently they fixed that on the DS version. Though the bass player you know and love won't 
 be making a appearance this time around, probably this is due to keep the game running consistent, 
 and luckily the bass playing isn't from the invisible band mate and his gear, the singer picked 
 up the role as front man and bass player, nice touch, I know some people are probably scratching 
 there heads thinking, who cares? But I myself like how they went the extra mile, found a way to 
 keep everything running up to speed while keeping the look of a full rock band. The game play is 
 very similar to the console versions though the orange button has been removed, it does make the 
 game alot easier but the game would have been way to hard if it was included as I can't imagine 
 how some one would slide there hand on the DS. Using the touch screen to pick also feels natural, 
 its not weird at all. The game does lack some things, the game isn't jam packed with a lot of songs 
 (25) though thats probably because its on the DS and I understand it, when you think about it, 
 what would of you rather have, a thousand songs and the game be Midi Hero? or 25 songs and be Guitar 
 Hero... Thought so. Another thing that is disapointing is the play list, but I respect the play 
 list at the same time for the following reasons, the game is called Guitar Hero not Metal Hero, 
 not Indie Rock Hero, there for songs that aren't metal or rock in my opinion are still more then 
 welcome to come. My next reason is, they're trying to make as many people as they can happy, its 
 impossible to make every one happy, but it is possible to make a great portion of people happy 
 and the play list does indeed do that. And finally this is my personal theory on why there isn't 
 really any crazy metal.... its because it would of sounded like crap on the DS. Distortion happens 
 when the volume is turned up really loud, to achieve guitar distortion, the player's effect pedal 
 or amp does a process to turn the guitar's frequency up really loud to get the distortion without 
 making the Amp go high in volume. Now with that being said, in order to play this game without 
 head phones, you NEED the volume of the DS turned up as loud as possible, so a Disturbed song would 
 be distorted way more then it should of been and it wouldn't sound good at all. While the songs 
 that are in the game have less distortion on the guitar though if you really pay close attention 
 you'll hear the extra distortion produced by the DS. A lot of people also complain about the price, 
 to me the price is fair, like the console version's it includes the device needed to play, and 
 it includes the game so like the console versions it will cost more then the average game for the 
 particular system. I am certain that sequels for the DS will come and it'll be a more normal DS 
 price because it won't include the Fret Grip since this version does. Though I honestly will frown 
 if sequels will run $35, I think $25 would be completely fair for the producer and consumer though 
 if they include some wifi in the next version I'll be happy to pay $35. Speaking of Wifi, heres 
 the only thing I can truly complain about that they could have controlled, Why isn't it here? The 
 DS is capable of Wifi, they took the time to include Local Wireless Multiplayer, so why not include 
 Wifi??? And I don't have one logical reason I can come up with to why its that way so I'm disapointed 
 about that. I think this game is good despite the difficulty it lacks and the absent online play, 
 it is indeed Guitar Hero and not a game cashing in on a well known brand name. I like it, I am 
 probably going to be playing this DS game for awhile, thanks for reading my review. I highly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DbleBassDrummer
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Next week, we're going to play Guitar Hero: Aerosmith, and we're all going to love it. The Guitar 
 Hero formula just works. Muck with the formula, however, and the results could be disasterous. 
 We should have seen this coming.
  
  In a perfect world a portable Guitar Hero with a grip and a small but enjoyable setlist would be 
 entertaining. Unfotunately, everything it attempts to do is flawed. The problems start with the 
 hardware.
  
  There's no real way to explain it. The guitar grip is just impossible to use. You can support your 
 DS using the strap, but it constricts your fingers. You can remove to strap, but you'd then have 
 to palm it, which hurts your thumb. If you hold the DS slanted, it can give you cramps. If you 
 hold it straight, you'd have to keep your elbow and shoulder upright and completely stationary. 
 If you're at home, you can lay down and rest it on your chest for optimum control, support, and 
 movement. But if you're at home, you can also play regular Guitar Hero.
  
  You use the colored buttons to hit the corresponding notes just as you normally would, and you 
 strum using a pick stylus. It sounds feasible, but it's always cramp inducing no matter how you 
 look at it. There's simply no comfortable way to play it. The strumming also dosn't always register 
 when you're going back and forth extra fast, so attempting to beat the tough songs is usually filled 
 with fake difficulty.
  
  The setlist has some pretty good songs, but for every good song there's usually a bad one, and 
 at 25 songs total, it's not a good ratio. Maroon 5 and Smash Mouth stick out as inapropriate for 
 Guitar Hero no matter what your taste, and there are 5 songs we've already played before on Guitar 
 Hero 3. It seems as if On Tour was not designed to expand the Guitar Hero experience, but make 
 it portable. If you're looking for depth, you'd be disapointed.
  
  Guitar Hero: On Tour is a challenging affair in its own rights, save for the challenges with trying 
 to hold the thing in the first place. Try it yourself. If you can somehow bear the physical pain 
 it induces, then you may enjoy it after all, although 25 songs for the $50 price tag still isn't 
 a great value, portability considered.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrisingguy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot gave this awesome game the wrong score! To start off the game keeps the feel of Guitar 
 Hero! the grip does take time to get use to and it will be painful for the first time you use it. 
 you also will probly pop the grip out of the socket a couple of times (which you have to turn off 
 the power and put the grip back in) . but those our the only complaints i have for the game. The 
 track list is perfect but it has some good songs like: "Black Magic Woman" "Youth Gone WIld" and 
 "Rock and Roll all nite". you have 5 characters to chose from whitch includes 2 new characters. 
 you still have the same difficultys Easy, Meduim, Hard, Expert. i would suggest that you should start 
 on easy to get used to the grip. once us do go straight medium casue easy is to slow! The pick 
 that you use as the stlyus is bigger than a regular pick and it feels good (since is made out of 
 some kind of rubber) . The easy- to- use grip and the great Track list makes this game for any Guttar 
 Hero fan that owns a DS. its worth the price of $50.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pacrone
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that Guitar Hero was being ported over to the DS I was puzzled. True the DS 
 has been home to some great innovations thanks to the touch screen. But GH is a whole different 
 type of game and playing it with the touch screen and face buttons didn't sound like and fun to 
 me. So when the final product was revealed in mid-spring it was to a bit of a relief. The Guitar 
 grip gave the game more promise, but would it still play like Guitar hero? The answer is yes. True 
 You're missing the plastic shaped guitar we are all use to, but the Guitar grip is a good substitute. 
 It takes a little getting used to at first. Strumming the touch screen with the pick stylus is 
 a lot different than the strum bar I'm used to. But after a few songs I was able to hit multiple 
 notes with no problem. 
  
  Now onto the game itself. Being a DS Game, GS: On Tour was going to have a limited number of tracks. 
 So it was no surprise that it only included 25 songs. Kinda disappointing, but understandable . 
 What's not understandable is the quality of the tracks. The songs are compressed at such a low 
 bit rate that it sounds like you're listening to the songs on AM radio. 
  
  Visually, On Tour looks pretty good. Again, with the limitations of the hardware I was pleasantly 
 surprised. Most of the GH regulars are here and are rendered well. To be honest though, I have 
 never cared much about the series graphics. Keeping focus on the note bars leaves little time to 
 admire the window dressing. 
  
  Which leads me to my final point in my review. If the graphics are more or less something for spectators 
 to look at, why not make the visuals as bare bones as possible. The game doesn't get the same lookie 
 loo's that it's console counterpart does. The developers could shift that memory to the sound which 
 is what should be the focus in the first place.
  
  Despite its limitations though, GH: On Tour manages to translate a much bigger game into an enjoyable 
 portable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe Gamespot was so harsh with the review of this game. Yes it is not exactly like GH 
 on any console, nor can it be, but for a portable version, this game gives GH lovers what they 
 need.
  
  I have the same gripes Gamespot has. The adapter does detach easily if you try forcing your hand 
 into position. It can be an uncomfortable device to use if you have huge hands or even long fingers. 
 I wish it had more songs as well, but I do think the quality of each song is great for a DS game. 
 
  
  I wish I had a friend that had this game. I would love to try the co-op play on this title. Online 
 play would have been gravy on top, but sadly is not part of the game. 
  
  Strumming is so much fun and it is very responsive. It feels better for me to strum on this than 
 on the console guitar (more realistic) . The fret buttons respond well and losing a button does 
 not make the game much easier than with five. 
  
  The visuals in the game are again great for a portable GH game. 
  
  This is a great DS title 
 that is a must have for all GH lovers and newcomers to the series.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laceyrpfreak
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  So I was hopeful when I first got this game. Thought I could walk around town showing off my mad 
 skillz. Well the game has quite a few flaws, and sometimes I wonder if it's a health hazard. 
 
  
  For one, the price. It is NOT worth 50$, and I can understand that GH still wants to make their 
 profit, but 40 or 30 would be better. 
  
  The contraption itself. The buttons are about the fourth the size of a normal button and are spaced 
 oddly so your fingers will ache after just one or two songs. You won't want to play too long because 
 if you do, your wrist and hand starts hurting, and I think my eyesight is getting worse because 
 immediately after I feel dizzy and can't see as well. Also it takes hours for my hand to stop hurting. 
 
  
  The game only has 25 songs, 5 being from the Gh3. That leaves only 20 new songs, and the list isn't 
 the greatest. Alot of songs sacrifice quality for being a master track. Take Allstar, by smash 
 mouth. It's boring to play, but it's not a cover, right? The game itself isn't fun and it's not 
 challenging enough for us experienced players. 
  
  There are some technical glitches as well, and the strumming is awkward. Also if your guitar grip 
 comes out a cm or so you have to restart the whole song and turn the power off. Not fun. 
  
  All in all, Guitar hero On tour isn't worth the money and is a blemish on the Guitar hero name. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireboltjjl
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  it is not a 6 out of 10 from the critics. This game is very cool. I don't know what these fake 
 know-it-all critics are thinking. The judgemental people do not know anything about Guitar Hero 
 On Tour. It is very good. The only downside is that there is no Wi-Fi. I was very proud and happy 
 that I did not pick Rock Band Wii because I heard the Wii version was sucky and easy to break with 
 bad gameplay. There are good graphics and sound for the DS. You might want to use earphones to 
 get the full Guitar Hero Experience. When using the guitar pick stylus it is very easy to achieve 
 quick notes. You don't need an orange button to think it wouldn't be expert enough. If activsion 
 decides to create another Guitar Hero for DS , they should add more songs and have Wi-Fi. This 
 game is worth at least an 8 out of 10., but I gave it a 9-9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSamus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I've played guitar hero 2 and 3 (and soon Aerosmith) and I can say with confidence that if you 
 enjoyed those you will enjoy this one.
  
  The controls are quite simple, and I've rarely found flaw with them. The touch screen is actually 
 quite nice and at times I actually prefer it to the strumming on the console controllers, as it 
 actually feels more like strumming a guitar to me than flicking something up and down (I do play 
 guitar) . 
  
  The buttons are well placed and not hard to hit, and the whole attachment thing works out well. 
 I actually haven't played more than an hour at a time so i'm not sure if you get cramps from holding 
 it like that for extended periods of time, but i"ve had no problems thus far.
  
  The only thing that keeps it from being amazing is there are only 25 songs. Single player wise, 
 this is a very small amount. However, the replay value is very much extended when you take into 
 account all of the multiplayer modes, which include Face Off, Pro Face Off, Co-op, and Duel. The 
 Duel mode leaves a bit to be desired but all the other multiplayer modes add a great deal fun to 
 the game.
  
  It's definitely worth the money, and I'd think this is one of those games i'll still be picking 
 up and playing in a year or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaterpunk5431
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  gamespot complains about it hurting. BOOHOO. i beat the whole game on expert without taking a break. 
 25 songs is still quite a bit for a HAND HELD. god the ds doesnt have alot of memory. but this 
 game is still very fun. anyway, ever since my three favorite reviewers left, gamespot has been 
 going down hill, and they have been looking at the down side of every game. i'm really starting 
 not to like gamespot. and they say the strum doesnt pick up, well they are just not doing it right. 
 at first i was having trouble then i got the hang of it. DONT LISTEN TO GAMESPOT. IF YOU ARE A 
 GUITAR HERO FAN, THEN GET THIS GAME. OH AND GAMESPOT, THEY DO ALL KINDS OF ROCK. 
  
  dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot 
 dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot 
 dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot 
 dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot dont listen to gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo742
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero for the DS is something that I personally did not expect to ever come to be, and when 
 I first heard of it, ill admit, I laughed. But as I tracked this game along, I began to become 
 more and more interested in it, and luckily curiosity lead me to buy this game, and I'm glad to 
 say, this game rocks almost up to console guitar hero. Of course, being a hand held you cant expect 
 a huge amount of songs, but the 26 songs on the game, despite having an irritatingly large amount 
 of tracks from past GH games, is really great! Despite not having all 5 buttons from the other 
 guitar heroes, the challenge is still there and just as willing to throw you all around the fret 
 board. The sound in the game is pretty good without headphones, a little quiet but it works, but 
 if you have headphones, it will really add a lot to the game, the music is more clear, and much 
 louder. As for controls, the attachment works perfectly, but is a little uncomfortable, hand cramps 
 seem inevitable. The strumming on the touch screen may take some getting used to, but don't be 
 discouraged from your first impressions, it works nearly just as well as the guitar for console 
 versions, the only problem being the touch screen being just a bit over sensitive. The graphics 
 aren't the DS's best but are far from the worst. Backgrounds are just as odd and interesting as 
 the of GHs, my personal favorite being a parade float. The guitar select is great, with plenty 
 of colors to choose from, and the guitar will be shown on the touch screen for strumming and looks 
 great. Character select is good, they have some old favorites like Axel and Judy Nails, and add 
 Memphis Rose, a country star, and Gunner Jaxson, who is rocking the grunge look like no other. 
 Multiplayer works great, with 4 modes to choose from, Face off, Prof face off, Co-op, and guitar 
 duel, it will keep you and a friend occupied for quite a while. This game is truly innovative and 
 should seen as a real part of the GH series, this is one of the best time wasters for a long road 
 trip, especially with a friend, but of course, if you are looking for a party, console GH will 
 always rise above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithmasteryoda5
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  Comparing Guitar Hero: On Tour with a console version of GH just isn't fair. Playing On Tour might 
 not feel like you're shredding a real guitar, but it feels like a Guitar Hero game. 
  
  The sound quality complaint is ridiculous too. Ok Ok maybe it doesn't sound like awesomeness coming 
 through some Dolby Digital stuff like the console versions but the DS Speakers do the best they 
 can. Headphones make up for it though. Also plugging it into your car stereo with a headphone to 
 headphone plug is pretty sweet. You can get as loud as you want if you do that!
  
  The multiplayer is also very fun. Ripping against your friends late at night on the back porch 
 is great. Vicarious Visions went out of their way to make it a truly stand alone feature from single 
 player. There are so many battle items it's crazy. Watch out from Fish Signing and Screen Flip. 
 Those attacks can put you out of commission!
  
  I really think the reviewer did Guitar Hero: On Tour an injustice by comparing it to its Big Brother. 
 Instead of just lazily slapping some crappy game together they worked hard on this game and the 
 hard work shows. Bring on the Sequel!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HairyBeast87
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Let's cut to the chase. What I'm going to cover in this review are the controls, music, graphics 
 and features.
  
  First off, the thing that many people will first notice when opening the game up for the first 
 time is the attachment for the 4 fret buttons to be hooked into the DS. When first putting your 
 hand through the strap and aligning it just right so it feels comfortable can be a little hassle. 
 Once strapped in, pull out that pick and strum over the guitar strings on the touch screen to the 
 notes falling down on the other. Be prepared to experience some missing notes and such while getting 
 used to it but once you get the hang of it, it plays well and you can start having fun.
  
  The most important thing about any music game is, well, the music. To be honest, I was a bit disappointed 
 by the 25 song length in the game. The music ranges from Ozzy to Maroon 5 so if you don't like 
 to have a nice variety, which I do like, then you may be disappointed to hear that the game isn't 
 all hard rock anthems. All together, the list is great for a portable game that tells you to not 
 play the game for long periods of time.
  
  The graphics are okay, but is that really important?
  
  The features are good. In single player, 
 you have Career, Quickplay, Guitar Duels (kind of a guitar battle career mode) , Practice and Tutorials. 
 For multiplayer, you have Face-off, Pro Face-off, Co-op and Guitar Duel (battle mode) . The downfall 
 with the multiplayer is that it is not online, but it is fine for playing with friends and all 
 the features are exactly like their console .
  
  As a total package, Guitar Hero On Tour is a great first attempt at a Guitar Hero game for the 
 DS and worth the $50. The controls are great once you get used to them and the graphics are okay, 
 but who really cares that much. There could have been some more songs to make the game longer but 
 from the songs that you get, it is a nice variety and satisfying as a portable game. Let's just 
 hope that the next one will have more songs and online play but for what you get, it is recommended 
 for new comers and veterans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Guitar Hero..... If you liked Rock Band.... If you like any other music game out there 
 than you will love this.... GUITAR HERO for the road. The game is simply fun to play. Yah so what 
 there are only 25 songs and there all not the best, but think whens the last time a music game 
 had all the songs EVERYONE loved, I rest my case. The game is the same guitar hero you have come 
 to love without the guitar. The guitar is missed but is not forgotten as you do have your attachement 
 that acts as the fret buttons. I bought this game and I am please with it. I really do wish there 
 was an online mode to it but I can live with out it as I will be busy beating the game on medium 
 difficulty and then hard and dare I try expert? I dont know. Again, if you loved guitar hero and/or 
 rock band and you have a DS, go out and buy the game its a fun game and I promise you will not 
 be dissapointed. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgh93_29
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour, as you most likely know by now comes with a unique guitar type peripheral 
 that is made to resemble the fret bar of a traditional guitar hero guitar. The game is very similar 
 to the other Guitar Hero games in the series: Create your band name, choose your rocker, choose 
 your Guitar, and begin your road to fame. The game play of this installment takes a lot of getting 
 used to. The new hand grip is somewhat awkward at first but given a little more time than usual 
 to get used to it, it becomes almost as natural as the full sized guitar. The song choice is rather 
 small at only 25 songs, but if you put it into perspective, Guitar Hero: World Tour on the DS will 
 add many songs to the list. I think of it similar to Gran Turismo 5 Prologue. As a stand alone 
 game I would find it somewhat disappointing but since you most likely won't have to buy the 49.99 
 dollar package with the peripheral for Guitar Hero 4 I find it more than worth my time and money.
 
  
  My 'Pros' of this game in my opinion outweigh the 'Cons'. The game play is fun, intuitive, it has 
 a great but short list of songs, and it really is a somewhat authentic portable guitar hero experience. 
 The downside of the game I would say is the controls. They take quite a bit more getting used to 
 than most games and if you are a lefty, but didn't use lefty flip on the console guitar heroes, 
 it can be a tad uncomfortable at first. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yojimbo25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  There is no denying that the Guitar Hero franchise is big, and now they have expanded to the DS.
 
  
  GH On Tour, features everything from the big brother games. A new style controller which ingeniously 
 plugs into the GBA slot of the DS, looks just like buttons from the actual GH guitars minus a orange 
 button, obviously for size reasons.
  
  Graphics
  What blows my mind, is just how good this game looks. The character models are highly detailed, 
 they look just like their PS2 counterparts. Vicarious Visions really pulled something amazing off 
 with the overall graphics engine.
  
  Sound
  The game features 25 tracks which are presented with amazing quality given the cartridge's size 
 restraints. But loses points for having recycled songs from GH 3 and Rock Band, which are: Are 
 You Gonna Be My Girl by JET (Rock Band) Black Magic Woman (GH3) Le Grange By ZZ Top (GH30) Overall 
 outside from a few good songs, the choice of songs are rather pitiful.
  
  Gameplay
  The game plays just like it does on the console, utilizing a awesome controller unit that plugs 
 into the GBA slot. The games comes packaged with a guitar pick stylus, that is used to strum the 
 strings on the touch screen. The picking of the strings is highly accurate, but the problem will 
 lie in find a balance between picking with your left, and pressing the buttons with your right. 
 Its alot harder that it seems to be. But the bottom line is that the gameplay is absolutely great. 
 It has the right balance to keep you coming back for more, and also has a multiplayer mode that 
 will allow you face off against friends. If you have any doubts about how the game will play, trust 
 its good.
  
  Overall GH On Tour is great game, and a techincal marvel. At fifty bucks it makes it the most expensive 
 DS game to date, but its worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyGuy2311
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  At first, paying $50 dollars for this game seemed a little too much for the amount of songs. I 
 began with quick play to test what type of difficulty I would be ready for, considering the new 
 way to play. You hold the DS on its side and strum on a guitar on the touch screen in time with 
 the notes on the note highway on the left screen. The green, red, yellow, and blue buttongs attach 
 to the GBA slot with a grip in the back to slip your hand through. With there being only four buttons, 
 it makes it kind of easier, but sometimes the blue buttong can be hard to reach with the pinky. 
 That brings me to the actual songs. I find that the songlist is great. It's a decent size and I 
 remember liking some of the songs, sych as "All the Small Things" by blink-182 and "All-Star" by 
 Smashmouth, from when I was a kid. As much as I like this game, it is not comparable to the Guitar 
 Heroes on other consoles. Understandably, the graphics are not as nice and the the list of songs 
 is not as deep, but you'll have equal fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatake_653
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  For a portable version of Guitar Hero, it was a pretty good game. I was excited when I found out 
 that there would be a DS version of Guitar Hero, but I still wondered how they would do it. Well, 
 about maybe 2 weeks before the game came out, I saw the trailer on how to play it. Pretty cool 
 looking concept, considering that it was something that I thought nothing of. I personally thought 
 they would have either have you press the face buttons and strum the touch screen, or give you 
 a really small version of the guitar, like the size of the horrible handheld game version that 
 came out after Guitar Hero II, and plug it into the headphone jack or the gameboy spot. Turns out, 
 their idea worked out better than expected. My friend kept saying that it would never work, but 
 when he played it yesterday, he liked it.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good, comsidering there are only 4 buttons. My main complaints are:
  
 
  1.) The screen seems to shake while you are playing it, especially during solos, because you have 
 to basically hit the touch screen with the pick
  2.) Your wrist starts to get really uncomfortable, especially when you're about to beat a really 
 hard song with the rock meter in the red zone
  3.) The track list was too short and wimpy. Yes, there were alot of good songs, but 25 just didn't 
 seem enough, and some of them were horrible, like the Stray Cat Strut. It sounded like something 
 from a bad musical, and yet it made it to a Guitar Hero game. I was waiting for some real metal 
 or something insanely heavy, like some Underoath or Killswitch Engage.
  
  But there were good points to the game that outweigh the bad by alot. Like the new Guitar Battle 
 system was great, and having a whole mode dedicated to it was a good idea, considering that there 
 were only 3 of them in the last game. It also made good use of the touch screen and mic, like the 
 Autograph, Pyrotechnics, and Screen Flip attacks. And for the DS, it has the best sound I have 
 heard out of it yet.
  
  If you have a DS and like Guitar Hero even a LITTLE bit, pick theis game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  I never expected a guitar hero game for a handheld would be so well excicuted, but, Red Octane 
 proved me wrong, this game is really fun, the only down side I have with it are the graphics and 
 the strumming, yes, I know, the graphics can't be all that good for the DS, but, the characters 
 move so roboticly, I personally would prefer this on the psp, but, none the less, its still a wonderful 
 game for portable play, this game may have the lowest count of songs of any guitar hero game, but 
 it does feature some excellent music like blink 182 and twisted sister, the multilpayer is really 
 fun, although, you are bound to be emberessed at a buss stop with your buddy blowing onto a peice 
 of plastic.
  
  graphics: 7
  gamplay: 9
  sound: 10
  replay value:10
  
  I give guitar hero: On tour a 8.6/10 if you like guitar hero and own a DS, you should give this 
 game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirokarosu0
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  First thing I was worried about when I found out that the Guitar Hero hero series are coming to 
 the DS was that how good will be the graphics? Even though that's not what I usually ask myself 
 whenever expecting a game, I decided to go grab it on release date.
  
  I had high expectations for this game, and I was not disappointed. This game had good graphics 
 for a DS game (even though it's nothing compared to GH III) , and the game play was pretty much 
 good. You have start with around 5 songs, then unlock new songs by doing the Career mode and performing 
 the songs live on different venues. 
  
  This game has four buttons, unlike the other Guitar Hero games which have five. 
  
  However, 
 there was two things that I didn't like, or either annoyed me: the fact that you get wrist pains 
 after playing for too long, and that you strum on the touch screen using a Guitar Pick. 
  
  Overall, I give this game a 9.0/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  i almost dident pick it up today due to the fact i couldet even find it at many places but i managed 
 to pick it up and im having a blast with this game, it captures guitar hero so nicely , just a 
 great addition for the nintendo ds
  
  Graphics..
  its guitar hero so it dosent matter about the graphics but still for a ds this looks good the character 
 animations look bad as usual but same with GH3 and such
  
  Sound..
  surprisingly good for the nintendo ds, uses its full capability and sound nice on all songs.
 
  
  game play..
  The shining part of this game is the game play, if you have played the older gh's its just the 
 same just smaller and with 4 frets, but the difficulty is great and still holds true to the older 
 GH's and GH fans and some of the songs such as la grange are just the same as GH3 version of the 
 song..
  
  overall its a great game.. if your a guitar hero fan you should imminently pick this up even if 
 your not a fan its a great addition to your ds collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  
  Gameplay 9/10
  The first time i heard that activision and red octaine were gonna make a ds GH game i thought (like 
 thousands of others) how?. Well with the help of a peripheral called The Guitar Grip GH: OTplays 
 almost exactlay like the console games it's based on save for the fact that theres no guitar involved. 
 The grip looks and plays great though it will take a little getting use to the first few songs 
 your hand will probly cramp unless you looked at the manual and saw the correct way to hold the 
 Ds while playing. If you do that i promise you'll be just fine. Another important factor is the 
 difficulty make a game to challengeing and newcomers will be turned off, make it to easy and you 
 can say goodbye to vetran support. Luckily on tour strikes a balance between challenge and appeal. 
 But the most important part of a rythem game like GH is the tracklist and on tours tracks are great 
 with artist's like maroon five and incubus also (duh) ozzy ozzbourne. The one problem with the 
 list is that there are only 5 and while at woulden't hold up on aaconsoe it dooes a decentjob on 
 the ds considering the size of the cartridge ut for vets like me 5 venue'isjust a littlle to short 
 but that doesn't mean i won't play them to death.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics in on tour are superb since the ds isn't very well known for having 3d game's it's 
 nice to see that GH: OT has smooth graphics and nice animations throughout.
  
  Sound 9/10
  Almost every track in the game is the master version so really no complaint's here though you'll 
 need a pair of headphones to et the full experience.
  
  Value 8/10
  The weakest part of the package is the value a 25 tracklist, multiplayer for two and not to much 
 more you can still by guitar's and costumes though they cut out the buyable characters, songs, and 
 there's no online play. But again considering that this is all cramed on to one cartrige the deal 
 is great since you get the grip, game, and adapter, and stickers (hehe) paying 49'99 isn't a bad deal.
 
  
  the good
  It's GH on the ds!!!, graphics and sound are great, the guitar grip works awesomely, a great balance 
 between challenging and apealing.
  
  the bad 
  no online support, one more list woulden't of hurt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillWingless
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I took home Guitar Hero: On Tour with a sense of trepidation. I really, really wanted the game 
 to be good, but I had a strong feeling that it wasn't meant to be. The concept just sounded too 
 far out: Guitar Hero on DS? Sweet, if they could pull it off.
  
  Setting up wasn't bad. There's an extra attachment for those who want to play on older DS systems, 
 and the placement for the guitar pick stylus is brilliant. However, the grip itself was an absolute 
 pain. I pride myself on having relatively long fingers, but I still found the buttons to be awkward. 
 I know the setup is meant to be small, but I had to akwardly curl and crunch my fingers to hit 
 every button, and my pinky finger never hit the blue button quite right -- it was either too far 
 to the side or too far away. If I managed to get my pinky on the button comfortably, my index finger 
 was off of the green button.
  
  I also quickly learned to not adjust my hands too much while playing. The attachment didn't seem 
 to lock quite right into my system. Making matters worse, if you knock the attachment too far out 
 of the GBA port, you'll have to turn the game off and start over from after the last song you finished. 
 This is a pain when you're mostly through a song, just to have to restart the system and start 
 all over again.
  
  Not to let these downfalls ruin my appreciation for a game I hadn't started yet, I dove into the 
 single-player mode. I was immediately impressed with the song selection and sound quality. There's 
 a handful of strong rehashes from GH3 (La Grange, Black Magic Woman, Hit Me with Your Best Shot, 
 Helicopter) , a few really nice additions (China Grove is just fun to play, Jet Airliner fit really 
 well, This Love and Stray Cat Strut ended up working surprisingly well) , and not that many WTF 
 moments (Spiderwebs is really just too long) .
  
  However, partially into my first song, I was seriously having difficulty. Between an extremely 
 awkward hand position and a bigger disconnect with the small screen and moving backgrounds, I found 
 myself suffering from extreme hand cramps and a small case of motion sickness. Plus, the graphics 
 are... interesting. I wasn't expecting much, but I wasn't expecting character models to be quite 
 so stiff or stilted. I was also disappointed to find that even the harder difficulties were a breeze. 
 I'm not very good past Medium or Hard on console GH games, and I was blowing my way through the 
 hardest difficulty in the game.
  
  The real challenge of the game is to find a way to fit your fingers onto the badly-space buttons, 
 deal with the small bit of lag in the game (sometimes the DS seems to not be able to handle everything) 
 and try not to let your stylus wander from the guitar strings on one screen while you're watching 
 colored dots on the other. Strumming in the wrong place results in broken combos, squonky notes, 
 and the end of your multipliers. The way the whammy bar is set up seems logical, but actually tends 
 to bleed over into the next note you're meant to be strumming, and can end up causing more accidental 
 misses than anything else -- a real pain on some of the higher difficulties that provide stiffer 
 penalties.
  
  And did I mention the hand cramps? Let us not forget the monstrous hand cramps. Hand cramps so 
 bad that the opening screens of the game suggest going to their web site for suggestions on dealing 
 with the annoying hand cramps. 
  
  The songs are great until you've beaten all 25 in 3 hours, find yourself susceptible to carpal 
 tunnel, and realize that the difficulty really isn't up to par to On Tour's console brothers. Multiplayer 
 provides a small redeeming factor to this game, but you have to find a second player who decided 
 to blow their time and money on this carpal-tunnel-inducing attempt at Guitar Hero. It's not really 
 worth the $50 you have to drop to pick it up. I would rather have some of these songs show up on 
 big-kid GH, rather than be relinquished to this afternoon-long game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Grip will plug into the Game Boy Advance slot at the bottom of the Nintendo DS system. 
 Players put their hand through the strap of the Guitar Grip for a firm hold on the system, and 
 then position the system in its vertical book form. The peripheral has a storage area for a specially 
 designed stlyus pick, which is used to strum the guitar strings on the touch-screen. As the notes 
 slide down the screen, players strum the strings while pressing the corresponding fret buttons, 
 all to the rhythm of the song that's being played. According to the video released by Activision, 
 the microphone comes into play during songs -- we're guessing it'll be used as control to activate 
 Guitar Hero's "Star Power" mode to increase the points multiplier. 
  The idea for the peripheral came during the prototyping phase of getting Guitar Hero working on 
 the Nintendo DS. "We began prototyping ideas for Guitar Hero on DS in early 2007," said Karthik 
 Bala, CEO of Vicarious Visions. "We quite frankly didn't know whether it would be possible to bring 
 the core essence of the franchise to handheld and have it actually work. It was 20-something gameplay 
 prototypes that were built, all trying different mechanics and uses of the hardware. Some were 
 pretty cool, others were total disasters!
  
  "At some point, we hit upon the idea of creating a peripheral that would have the fret buttons 
 plugging into the GBA slot of the DS," he recalled. "We ripped apart an old GBA cartridge and did 
 some electronics work on it to rig up a prototype device. As awkward and crude as that prototype 
 was, that's when we knew we were onto something. We figured that attaching a full-size guitar or 
 even a mini-guitar would be too awkward to play on the road, hence the design of the more compact 
 Guitar Grip, which gives you the tactile sense of the fret buttons, with the touch screen depicting 
 the strings of the guitar."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slycooper2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  The creators of Guitar Hero take a chance by making GHOT, but was it wise? Of course! What will 
 probably rake in mountains of cash whether it; s good or bad turns out very good. Supporting mulitiplayer 
 battles and co-op, a wide selection of guitars, and 25 songs, this game gets a high score from 
 me.
  
  On the touch screen is a little guitar, focusing on the strings and whammy bar. On the top (left) 
 screen, is the note highway and the camera focusing on the band. The game also comes with the guitar 
 grip, with is used to mimic it's console counterpart. The only differences are smaler buttons, 
 and there are only four. It's okay though because it would pratically be impossible if the orange 
 button were still there. While playing, try and keep your arm a bit straight to avoidd cramps, 
 as it tells you before gameplay. The package also comes ith a guitar pick stylist, which, in fact, 
 does seem to make it easier.
  
  The sound is great... not just for a DS game, but for any game. It may not be loud enough for some 
 places though, but the headphones sound good as well. There are 25 songs, from okGo to Lynyrd Skynyrd 
 to Red Hot Chili Peppers. There is a donside thoought, as it took me to 2 hours to unlock every 
 song.
  
  As I said, GHOT supports local wireless play, which is fun as can be. You can duel (like the boss 
 battle in GH3) or do co-op, both of which are fun. In duel, you can set their guitar on fire, overload 
 their amp, or make them sign an object of a fan.
  
  Overall, his game will surprise many gamers, and live up o the others' expectations, and it is 
 absolutely worth every penny of the 5$50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan06
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Oh how I have been looking forward to this day. I've always wanted portable Guitar Hero, and here 
 it is! The Guitar Grip takes some getting used to, but once you do, it feels pretty much the same 
 as the console versions. 
  
  Graphics: This is by far one of the best looking games on the DS. Everything animates fluidly, 
 and there's always something going on in the background. The developers obviously kept the graphical 
 limitations in mind while designing this, as they subtly, but cleverly, made the singer the bass 
 guitar player as well. The score multiplier might have been better off as a little icon squeezed 
 somewhere on the top screen however. It can be distracting to try and divert your eyes to the bottom 
 screen while your attention is focused on the top screen. One thing I've noticed though is what 
 happens when you pause and unpause the game: the visuals completely stop moving until the camera 
 change. It's minor though, since the fretboard still works fine. 
  
  Sound: The game sounds fantastic, but you'll most likely want headphones. The music isn't anywhere 
 near as loud as you'd probably like it coming from the speakers, even with the volume all the way 
 up. Let's compare it to Elite Beat Agents for a sec. In EBA, you really only need the headphones 
 if your playing it in public, but with GHOT, you may want them on all the time. But judge that 
 for yourself, people say I listen to my music loudly, so it might just be me.
  
  Gameplay: If you know Guitar Hero, you know what to expect. It's just that, minus the Orange Button. 
 The Guitar Grip takes some getting used to, and you may find yourself constantly adjusting it at 
 first. If you play Expert on the console Guitar Hero's (like me) do yourself a favor and play the 
 game on Medium or Hard first so you can get used to it. Once you do get used to it, it feels great 
 and exactly how a portable Guitar Hero should. I am dissapointed with Practice mode. You can only 
 practice at full speed, which I think kind of defeats the point. Just try to master the solo in 
 "I Don't Wanna Stop" on Expert without slowing it down. 
  
  Guitar Hero On Tour is a must-have for Guitar Hero fans, and it's definitly worth checking out 
 for rythm game fans. I think the only way you could possibly hate this game is if you hate Guitar 
 Hero altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: On Tour, the next installment of the franchise is now introduced on a portable device, 
 the Nintendo DS. But does it hold up to it's reputation? The answer is yes.
  
  At first thought of many would be, how would you play Guitar Hero on the DS? Well Activision have 
 created a new periphal, that snaps onto your GBA slot. included is a strap, and a guitar pick shaped 
 stylus. There are also 4 buttons this time around instead of 5, but do not worry, the difficulty 
 of the songs do not loosen. One issue i had was configuring the way you play, as it can make your 
 hand or wrist really sore, it can take time to get use to it. I found that using the strap, can 
 sometimes make the periphal pop out of the GBA slot, making you restart the game.
  
  You hold the DS on it's side, like a book a la Hotel Dusk, Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword. You strum, 
 and whammy on the right side, and the note highway and concert stage is on the left. The controls 
 at first, doesn't feel that responsive, and takes time to get use to. But when you do, you'll be 
 rockin' on the go, in no time.
  
  The soundtrack this time around is decent, you get 25 songs, less than the consoles', and you get 
 mostly mainstream songs, just like in Guitar Hero III. There are some good songs such as "Youth 
 Gone Wild" by Skid Row, "Anna Molly" by Incubus, "Jessie's Girl" by Rick SpringField, and "Breed" 
 by Nirvana, just to name a few. Some songs from Guitar Hero II have made it's way on the portable 
 such as "Black Magic Woman" by Satatna, and "Helicopter" by Bloc Party. The soundtrack, even on 
 Expert can be a little easy, with most songs having you strum the same notes over and over again.
 
  
  The graphics are excellent, I'd say a good competitor to the LEGO brand of Video Games, with a 
 full venue with crowds and the band playing in the background just like on the consoles, running 
 smoothly.
  The audio is good, but no excellent, coming from the DS speakers, some songs on the full volume 
 can be distorted, but still audible.
  
  The game also includes multiplayer, which you can play against friends locally. In addition, there 
 is also a Guitar Duel mode, where you play through Career Mode against a computer oppenent, on 
 any difficulty you choose, battle items are also included, this mode is a nice addition, increasing 
 the game's longevity. The game only contains 25 songs, and no more, wished that there was more. 
 And also cheats such as hyperspeed, and performance mode are no where to be found.
  
  Guitar Hero: On Tour is an excellent addition to the Nintendo DS library, an awesome translation 
 of its predecessor. There is no other portable system that fits this franchise more than the DS 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  I was really on the fence about buying into all of the hype of this game, but the hype was to much 
 for me to handle and I had to go buy it. Before I start out talking abot the game I will tell you 
 that I am not that big of a fan of the original Guitar Hero, being as I've never even played it, 
 or any of them for that matter.
  Now, in my opinion the makers of Activision did one of the most wonderful jobs not only choosing 
 the songs, but the songs are like master recordings and are probably the best audio work I have 
 ever seen done for the DS. I will say the gameplay is a bit odd. You spend all that time looking 
 down on that little screen, plucking along and your neck will start to hurt. I mean it's not a 
 game that you want to go rocking out with like the original Guitar Hero game. It's better just 
 to sit down and play or you will miss a few notes here and there.
  I do not understand what all the complaining abot the setlist was about, I mean I thought everything 
 was just about perfect, it's my kind of music. Although, you shall not find it difficult to beat 
 the game from start to end. Give yourself 10-15 hours and you'll be set. 
  Although you will beat the game, the replay value is just about the best you can find on the DS, 
 I would rank it right up there around Mario Kart type. You will constantly be playing songs over 
 and over like I myself did.
  The game is just another great solid addition to the popular series, and it's great to have with 
 you if you ever wanna rock out in public. You will find the graphics very neatly done, the value 
 is some of the best, you can't go wrong with $50 for a game like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent setlist, solid graphics, excellent sound quality, majority of songs are master 
 tracks, online multiplayer, good control scheme and great periphrial.
  
  The Bad: Only 25 songs in the game, can take some getting use to control wize, periphrial pops 
 out of GBA slot pretty easily.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Are you ready to rawk? Well, now you can even on the go with Guitar Hero On Tour for the Nintendo 
 DS! It seems like Activision is trying to milk their popular music game for whatever it can get 
 them by putting it on as many platforms as possable, even handhelds. Fortunately, this one works 
 quite well and turns out to be another solid addition to the franchise. 
  
  The first big thing about On Tour is the control scheme. Obviously, this time you don't have a 
 big Guitar controller to rock out on, so instead you have to rely on a fret button periphrial and 
 the DS touch screen and microphone. Fortunately, this does work pretty well, but it can be tough 
 to get use to at least at first. In my first experiences, if you play more than three songs in 
 a row, you hand holding the DS (left if you are right handed) will begin to cramp up, so like the 
 game even says, it's a good idea to take frequent breaks while playing. They did take advantage 
 of the capabilities of the DS with the controls though, because the touch screen whammy bar and 
 voice activated star power are nice touches. It takes a bit of getting use to strumming by using 
 your pick stylus (included in the package) to strum on the touch screen guitar, but once you get 
 use to the new controls, it's a lot of fun. 
  
  Now, at first you may wonder how good the setlist for the portable version could be considering 
 that it's a DS game? Well, the setlist is actually quite impressive. The vast majority of the songs 
 included are master recordings and they all sound great even when played through the DS's speakers. 
 There are several songs ripped from Guitar Hero 3's setlist ("Hit Me With Your Best Shot" and "Rock 
 and Roll All Nite" just to name a few) and even a couple are ripped from Rock Band ("All The Small 
 Things" and "Are You Gonna Be My Girl") , but there are quite a few songs that aren't on any other 
 music game similar to this one. My favorites are probably "What I Want" by Daughtry, "All Star" 
 by Smash Mouth and "Jessie's Girl" by Rick Springfield. There are also offerings by Maroon 5, Incubus 
 and Ozzy Osbourne which all play and sound great. The main downside of the setlist is that it is 
 only 25 songs in length, which is easily beatable in 4 hours or so, but you can bet Activision 
 will release additional song packs for the DS version sometime down the road. 
  
  I only had a few problems with the whole thing. First, the fret button periphrial can easily pop 
 out of the GBA slot even when you try not to. When that does happen, you have to restart your system, 
 no matter what you were doing when it happened, which is annoying. The package as a whole is $50, 
 which may seem like a lot because of the short setlist, but if you are a fan of the series, it's 
 worth the cost of admission.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero On Tour is another solid addition to the popular series and great to have 
 around if you get the sudden urge to rock, no matter where you are.
  
  Gameplay: New controls take some getting use to, but once you figure them out, it's a blast.
 
  
  Graphics: Suprisingly solid for the DS.
  
  Sound: A solid setlist with great sound quality.
  
  Value: At $50 for the bundle, the price 
 may seem steep, but like the other Guitar Hero bundles, this one is definately worth it.
  
  Final Thoughts: It's time to rawk!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
