-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gunpey DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/gunpey/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Line puzzles are a refreshing change from the usual block-based fare.
 Japanese cowboy presentation and techno tunes are a weird but attractive combination.
 gameplay and unlocks are fun and addictive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lines on the gameplay grid can get lost in the colorful skins.
 sound box and G-Note Gallery features feel tacked on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 76 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Art
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Nov 17, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gunpey for the DS is a charming puzzle game that may not hold the same level of challenge as the 
 PSP version, but makes up for it with its own unique presentation. 

  Puzzle game players have contended with cubes, spheres, and other geometric shapes over the years, 
 but lines have been pretty scarce, which is part of what makes Gunpey such a refreshing change 
 of pace. It was originally released on the Japanese WonderSwan handheld, so the gameplay concept 
 is relatively unknown in the West. Thank goodness for the modern makeover, because the core gameplay 
 is strong, and the presentation is delightful.  

           Japanese cowgirls and mechanical maitre d' penguins: Will wonders never cease?     

 
  Gunpey's premise is simple: Lines pointing in various directions pop onto the gameplay grid from 
 the bottom, and you must connect them from left to right. Once you've linked one side to the other, 
 the chain is locked, and you have a few seconds to add more lines before it is removed. While you 
 can use the D pad and buttons to play, it's far simpler to use the touch screen: Just touch the 
 line you wish to move and drag it to the desired position within the column. If a line is in the 
 top row when the next row is due to appear at the bottom, the game is over. It sounds easy, but 
 the underlying complexity soon becomes apparent.  

  The first challenge you'll need to overcome is to only move lines vertically, so it doesn't take 
 long for a single column to collect multiple stray lines that you can't do anything with yet. Because 
 new lines constantly push what's already there toward the top of the grid, you're wrestling not 
 only with connecting them but also with moving the ones near the top further toward the bottom. 
 Making a complete connection doesn't just cause the chain to explode, though; it also buys you 
 time. Once the connection is created, the lines within it will freeze. You can either eliminate 
 the chain right away or leave it frozen until it explodes automatically. Not only can you add other 
 lines to the chain, but you can also move them through it, and no additional lines will pop up 
 while your chain is actively frozen. This downtime presents an opportunity for you to get your 
 stray lines in order.  

  At first, a grid full of lines looks a little minimalist because you're likely used to the more 
 visually appealing shapes common to this style of game. But it's a nice change that grows on you 
 once the levels start moving along. If you've already arranged your lines and are still waiting 
 for the next row to appear, all you have to do is tap the B button or the arrow on the touch screen 
 to pull them up. The first minute of play moves along slowly, but the closer the lines get to the 
 top, the more quickly new rows appear. The resulting tapping is hectic and satisfying.  

  Frontier mode is Gunpey's main attraction. Here, you choose a character and fight through a variety 
 of foes in a musical showdown. It's a strange premise because Gunpey is not really a rhythm or 
 music game. The top screen shows a computer-controlled grid, while your own playing grid is on 
 the touch screen, and after your enemy fills his playfield, you move on to the next. In standard 
 difficulty, you can play through a set of opponents in about 30 minutes, and you can choose from 
 three levels of difficulty. As you cycle through characters, you play on a variety of cowboy-themed 
 skins called stages, as well as unlock new characters and stages as you progress. They're all vibrant, 
 attractive, and accompanied by a mix of club tunes that don't seem to fit with the visuals. Yet 
 it works, with a Lumines-brand fusion of music and sound effects that oddly suits the Japanese 
 Old West style. However, there are times when the stages get too colorful. The lines on the gameplay 
 grid aren't very crisp, and they can get easily lost, making it difficult to see what's going on 
 in some of the skins.  

  Unlike the PSP version of the game, where much of the challenge lies in using the buttons to manipulate 
 the pieces, the DS iteration is much simpler because of the touch screen. Sliding lines up and 
 down doesn't take much effort, although you can avoid the stylus and use the buttons if you prefer. 
 The default "break" rules will cause lines above deleted chains to drop, but if you wish to hone 
 your skills, you should choose original rules to keep those lines in place. To keep things interesting, 
 some of the modes give you special attacks to mix up the fun. If you clear 14 or 15 panels at one 
 time (or clear the screen completely) , you attack your opponent with "slot machine," which causes 
 all of his lines to be replaced randomly with other lines. The "no touching" attack removes touch-screen 
 controls and forces you to use the button controls for a few seconds. The attacks aren't all that 
 interesting and rarely change the overall course of your game, but the variety they add is welcome 
 nevertheless.  

           The lines are a nice change of pace from blocks and marbles.     

  There are other 
 gameplay modes that add value and help you play around with the difficulty level. Double skin mode 
 is easily the best. In it, you play on two game grids simultaneously, switching back and forth 
 between them using the shoulder buttons. Its pace is quick but not overwhelming, so if you're looking 
 to test your mettle, stage attack is a better choice because you can choose how fast you want new 
 lines to appear. Gunpey's most challenging task is to play on speed 9 with original rules. The 
 one mode that doesn't work that well is time attack, because grids are slow to get moving, and 
 the game functions better over a longer period of time. Fortunately, the versus mode is solid, 
 featuring local two-player competition and a handy rivals list that tells you how well you fared 
 against your opponents.  

  Gunpey offers a few other diversions, but while the related unlockables are fun to accumulate, 
 they're relatively pointless. The sound box lets you create your own music pattern from a small 
 set of digitized sounds and pitches. It's fun to play around with for a short while, but it's very 
 limited, and you can't use the tunes in the game itself, which doesn't make a lot of sense. There's 
 also a weird Lemmings-inspired minigame called G-Note's Gallery, though it's more of a toy than 
 a game. A small pixelated character wanders about a game grid, and you adjust the lines to determine 
 where he moves. You can unlock new ways for him to walk in the other modes, such as sneaking or 
 dancing, but it's just a little sandbox with no discernible purpose. There's nothing wrong with 
 including these throwaway amusements, but they feel rushed, between the sound box's limited features 
 and the gallery's Colecovision-era graphics.  

  But with so many different ways of playing, Gunpey on the DS is a very good game and a fine choice 
 for players of all ages. The unusual visual and musical presentation, combined with addictive and 
 interesting gameplay, makes for a one-of-a-kind experience that pulls the best parts from Q Entertainment's 
 previous titles and applies them to a forgotten classic.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BladeCUBED
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The main strategy of Gunpey DS is simple: You must puzzle-fight variously-themed animal aliens 
 as a gun-toting, green-haired space cowboy bounty hunter. It's easy to defeat each enemy, especially 
 when you are awarded power-ups, but there are advantages to doing well; the better you do in the 
 puzzles, the more miniature men appear on your screen. If a miniature man appears, it means you've 
 unlocked a new miniature man move, which you can view in another play mode.
  
  This game is crazy. It doesn't make much sense because there's no story and nothing but a brief 
 respite in between ten-minute puzzle battles. I have no idea what the miniature men signify, but 
 it seems like they're just a feature added to distract you during gameplay. The navigation menus 
 aren't configured correctly, so you'll need to use the D-Pad instead of the stylus.
  
  The gameplay is fun while it lasts, but it eventually becomes boring. The Patternizer feature that 
 allows you to create your own custom 8-bit songs is fun as well, but that also becomes boring. 
 So when the Tetris-style puzzles and making your own 5-second song snippets become boring, what's 
 left to do? Nothing.
  
  Gunpey DS is one of those games that nobody in America hears much about due to its strange, cartoony 
 characters and crazy techno music. If the game had been Americanized and given a storyline, it 
 would have potential to be the next addictive puzzler phenomenon. As it stands, the lack of explanations 
 and alien disco beavers combined with minimal gameplay and low replay value make this a hardcore 
 niche game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Gunpey DS isn't exactly bad, it's just that after a couple of hours I was done with it. It's kindof 
 a neat concept, linking lines in Meteos fashion - it's just been done before. I can't say it was 
 terribly addicting... puzzle games usually have to have that element that just makes the actual 
 gameplay alot of fun, and that just really wasn't here for me. There really aren't any, Yes! kindof 
 moments, it's just the same thing a little faster and a little faster. It wouldn't be a bad game 
 to rent for an evening if you really loved Meteos, but definitely not worth the time or money to 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smasher24
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Gunpey DS contains wacky characters and fast paced music action! There are several modes of play 
 where you get a high score and unlock new sound sets or notes. Sound sets are pieces of music you 
 can use in the patternizer. The patternizer is a music making program called the 'sound box' in 
 the extras section. This is a game within itself! Make your own patterns and notes, change the 
 tempo, and save your creations.
  
  As for the actual gameplay you have to create a line (like tetris) out of different pieces. When 
 you get a line you must add more lines to create a combo that attacks the opponent. The more lines, 
 the greater the attack. Each character has there own special combo like raising the opponent's 
 blocks towards the top where it is hard to move them back down. You must keep the blocks away from 
 the top of the screen with your stylus because with time the blocks are shifted upwards.
  
  Some of the characters are crazy for example, a robot-chicken hacker, a rather fruity pig, a techno 
 penguin, guitar-flute swinging country kid, high as a kite fox, and a rapping bulldog. Yeah. Anyways, 
 each character possesses a 'sound set' such as hip-hop, techno, pop, country, reggae, or house 
 that is played while you play the main game. All 2-D graphics here, nothing stretching the ds limitations. 
 Great creative artwork however with highly detailed characters. Very colorful and fun.
  
  Great replay value to earn unlockables such as sound sets for the sound box, achieve high scores, 
 or get owned by the computer. The sound box is great for just making beats for fun and is worth 
 coming back for.
  
  Great hidden gem here. If you like music, buy this game. Pure fun and highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantefan1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  this game, though simple in concept, can actually be pretty challenging and addictive once you 
 get into it. the main playthrough is only a few levels long, but it varies each time, with different 
 game modes, difficulty levels, and characters. it also has great multiplayer opportunities and 
 over a dozen playable characters. Gunpey DS is just a fun and addicting puzzler that hasn't gotten 
 much hype. try it out and you won't be dissapointed.
  
  i dont have anything else to say, but there is a limit of at least 100 words in these reviews so 
 this part is just text to fill the word count. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushgoil
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  If you like Meteos.. you should love this game. It's a little quirky.. but a great idea and there 
 are enough gameplay options to give hours and hours worth of fun. You can send a demo to a friend.. 
 or play wirelessly against each other if you both own the game. Otherwise.. you have three levels 
 of difficulty. Easy is a great place to start.. though you'll quickly be eager to defeat every 
 character on normal mode.. and hard mode is definately a challenge though not impossible. The bright 
 colours and spunky music makes it a fun game to play.. and makes it have a slightly different feel 
 from Lumines or Meteos...
  it does take a little getting used to.. just because it isn't difficult to play the game.. but 
 it is challenging to create a chain large enough to use your special abilities which are essential 
 during hard mode if you want to beat your insane computer opponent. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
