-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Happy Feet
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/happyfeet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Belly sledding and tap dancing jibe with what happened in the movie.
 Dance missions employ actual song recordings.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dance missions require nothing more than tapping the dots that appear.
 Controls in the sledding missions are unpredictable.
 Story mode can be finished in one hour.
 Multiplayer mode offers same boring missions from the story mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.1, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 4.6, 63 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Artificial Mind
Genre: Adventure
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Happy Feet on the DS is oriented around sledding and tap-dancing. Neither aspect is any good.

  Anyone who has watched the movie  Happy Feet  knows that animated penguins get around by sliding 
 on their bellies and express their moods by tap dancing. It's no surprise, then, that Midway has 
 produced a game based on the movie that focuses solely on these two activities. However, beyond 
 its quirky design, Happy Feet for the Nintendo DS is cool as ice, and not in the good way. The 
 rhythm levels are cute but are far too simplistic, while the sledding levels are boring and suffer 
 from dodgy controls.  

  A third of the game's missions are rhythm levels that involve tapping the screen in time with music. 
 These levels feature roughly a half-dozen songs from artists like Gloria Gaynor and KC &amp; the 
 Sunshine Band, but apart from having a catchy playlist, they amount to nothing more than tapping 
 dots on the touch screen over and over again. When a dot appears, it's surrounded by a large circle 
 that quickly shrinks in size. The idea is to tap the dot with the stylus when the circle's circumference 
 is the same size as the dot's. You get cheers and points for tapping the dots at roughly the right 
 time, and jeers for tapping too soon or too late. That's all there is to it. There's no sliding 
 or drawing with the stylus. You're always just tapping. All the while, a 3D rendition of Mumble 
 the penguin performs a tap dance on the upper screen. These rhythm levels are nothing more than 
 a watered-down, kid-friendly rip-off of Nintendo's Elite Beat Agents.  

  Two-thirds of the game's missions are downhill sledding levels, where you have to maneuver Mumble 
 around icy boulders and collect fish while he speeds down a lengthy course on his belly. In theory, 
 moving Mumble is accomplished by dragging the stylus left and right on the touch screen. In practice, 
 the game isn't consistent with how much dragging is required to steer the rocketing penguin. Sometimes, 
 a slight drag will yank him sideways. Other times, you'll have to drag the stylus across the screen 
 multiple times just to move him a little bit. Not that it matters much, since you can get through 
 a number of sledding missions without ever touching the screen. The only missions that pose even 
 a modest challenge are those that require you to pass through checkpoints to refill the timer. 
 Visually, the 3D courses aren't all that interesting to look at, although the various hills, jumps, 
 and snowdrifts do flex the system's polygon capabilities. In contrast to the real music used in 
 the rhythm missions, the music in the sledding stages is merely Game Boy-quality stuff.  

  Solo players can choose between a story mode and an arcade mode. The story mode presents 23 individual 
 missions in sequential order and displays static scenes from the movie between each mission. The 
 arcade mode lets you replay any of the missions you've already completed. Missions are brief and 
 rarely take more than three minutes to finish, which means that the entire story mode can be completed 
 in about one hour. That's pretty short for a full-priced game. If you invite a friend over who 
 also owns the game, you can access the multiplayer mode. The multiplayer mode is identical to the 
 arcade mode, except that you compete to see who can score the most points in dance missions or 
 who can finish first in sledding missions. It's inconceivable that anyone would enjoy the missions 
 in the multiplayer mode just because another player is sharing the same numbing experience.  

 
  Midway and A2M had the right idea when they thought to produce a game based on  Happy Feet  that 
 orients itself around sledding and tap dancing. They just didn't put enough effort into making 
 either aspect any good.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 05mjones
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game is mainly about tap dancing and belly sliding neither of which amused me after this was 
 bought for me. It also has very little game life and once completed, which doesn't take long, there 
 is nothing to do. I personally haven't been on the game since i completed it. For the belly sliding 
 you just have to slide the stylus up the and across the touch screen to guide happy feet down the 
 slope and in the dancing you just have to tap the screen in time with the shapes on the screen. Overall, 
 i would recommend to anyone thinking about buying this not to go ahead and buy it. As previously 
 said the game doesn't take long to complete and there is nothing else to the game except the tap 
 dancing and belly sliding. Hope this helps anyone who was considering buying this game and persuades 
 them to not do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wez_hulme
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  this game is quite good if you only like doing certain activities which on this game are dancing 
 and sledding. this game is about a penguin who hatches like any normal penguin but there is a difference 
 he cant sing like all of the other penguins in the south pole. he is born to dance and throughout 
 the game you go on a journey to find the aliens that are stealing all the fish and on the way you 
 slide and dance your way to getting the fish back to the south pole. on the way he gets caught 
 by humans and then bring them to the south pole to view the penguins that live there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Happy feet for the Nintendo DS is a good game when you think about it, but when you actually sit 
 down to play, you'll be really bored.
  
  In Happy feet there are three modes that you can choose to play from. Not bad when you think about 
 it, but really, it's just the same stuff in all of them no matter what one you choose. The three 
 modes are Story, Arcade and Multiplayer.
  
  In story mode, you play through the minigames in chronological order from the movie. The story 
 aspect of it is blan and boring though, it's just text that if you've seen the movie, you know 
 whats happening; if you haven't seen the movie, it's still a waste of time. The story sometimes 
 feels forced into the game to take up more time. From the 23 different stages, there are only 3 
 different types of mini-games, making this more boring.
  
  In arcade mode you can choose any of the 23 levels that you have already played through and beaten. 
 Though this is nice, the limited amount of mini-games make it repetetive.
  
  In multiplayer mode you can challenge other players using the wireless features of the DS. It is 
 a scarce game and finding other people to play against can be troubling as this game doesn't incorporate 
 Wi-Fi. As for what you do in multiplayer, you just play those same mini-games until your eyes start 
 to bleed.
  
  There are 3 different types of minigames in Happy Feet, Tap Dancing, Time Trials and the famous 
 collect em' trial.
  
  In the Tap dancing, you will see these coloured circles appear and a white circle closing in, you 
 need to time it so you tap it with the stylus when the circle is closing in to the smallest possible 
 circle. The problem with this game is that you will find yourself waiting a lot. In the 3 minutes 
 that each one is, you'll only be actually playing it for about one and a half to two minutes. The 
 rest you'll just be waiting for another one to come up. I also found this to be the most enjoying 
 one, but it is off beat a lot.
  
  In the time trials you are sliding down a hill trying to go through the yellow rings to gain time 
 to get to the bottom, if the timer runs out, you lose; sounds simple enough right? Well the stylus 
 is only half the battle, if you move the stylus slow, you might jerk all the way over to the other 
 side, if you move the stylus a big range, you may only just go a little over.
  
  In the last mini-game, I like to call collect em' , you are sliding down the hill again, collecting 
 things. The problem about this is that sometimes you can't even see what you're trying to collect.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are choppy and don't seem at all similar to the movie. The best part 
 about the graphics are the clouds in the sky, I am not kidding here. Another good thing is that 
 the frame rate doesn't drop.
  
  For 20 dollars, it still doesn't cut it. It's not worth the money at all, it would be better priced 
 at 5 or 10 dollars because you only get one or two hours of play, and you're back at the game store 
 to trade it in. To sum it up, this is not a game I'd recommend to everyone, though I would recommend 
 it to 5-10 year olds who loved the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 20, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok I will start by saying the graphics are cute but the game stinks.. It is way too repetitive 
 .. The whole game is either mumbles tap dancing ( you click on little colored circle paw prints 
 before the white circle closes all the way in.. or it's mumbles sledding on his belly down a long 
 hill type area.
  In story mode it switches between the 2 .. it's like dance, sled, dance, sled, etc..
  i was amused 
 for about the 1st 5 mins or so then I was bored outta my mind with this game.
  
  ok let me explain this better..
  1 part is this.. there are these little colored paw prints and 
 this white circle that closes in on it.. and if you click to soon or too late then the paw print 
 turns pink and breaks which is a bad thing.. The closer the white circle gets around the paw print 
 when you click the paw print gives you a score or either 50,100 or 200 .. or it turns pink which 
 gives you 0 and takes away from mumbles heath bar.
  
  the 2nd part is this huge hill thing that mumbles slides down on his tummy .
  the object is to 
 get from the top of the hill to the bottom before the timer runs out.
  
  In story mode it just switches back and forth between the two.
  Like I said VERY repetitive and 
 boring after about 5 mins.
  
  Do not waste you money on this unless you are obsessed with the Happy Feet movie and just want 
 to add it to your collection.
  I'd say check your bargain bins for this game..
  So not worth the money.. Do not pay over $10 for this game or you will be kicking yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  nothing fantastic... however compared to charlotte's web, this game definitely is much way ahead 
 in terms of graphics, audios.
  
  the game only consists of 2 parts. one it is the little birds tapping its feet while you tap on 
 the screens - a easier verison of Elite Beat Agents and its japanese copy. this is much a scale 
 down version with very lame dance steps and getting thru it is no sweat. the other part is collecting 
 lovelace, seaweeds along the snow while the penguin ski down within a time limit. as you progress, 
 the time limit tightens and you need to hit some fishes or sunrays along the way to get yout time 
 counter extended. both parts alternate each other and the game can bore you after nth times of 
 clearing the stages without much changes to the gameplay.
  
  so far i cleared quite a fair bit since i was waiting for a friend at a bar when he was caught 
 up with work. for a hour, i cleared a fair bit. this game is definitely suitable for kids as they 
 are easy. for almost the same price you pay for charlotte's web, i rather you to get this (IF YOU 
 MUST) . of course, there are other much better games around. sometimes, the kids just want it... 
 so get this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
