-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/harrypotterphoenix/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Using the stylus to cast spells and mix potions is fun for a while.
 Two dozen different minigames to try.
 Hogwarts looks beautiful, and you can explore the whole place.
 Basic story is faithful to the movie.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Inane fetch quests water down the story.
 Exciting moments don't seem so exciting as still images.
 The turn-based duels are too simplistic and lopsided.
 After an hour, you'll be sick of the minigames too.
 The game does a poor job of conveying how truly cruel Umbridge is.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.1, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 133 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Visual Impact
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A few fun minigames don't make the watered-down story and tedious fetch quests tolerable. 

  Electronic Arts has produced two very similar renditions of Harry Potter and the Order of the 
 Phoenix for the Nintendo DS and Game Boy Advance. The graphics in the DS game are more detailed, 
 and the stylus acts just like a magic wand in that version, but the two games are otherwise virtually 
 identical. Each is a collection of minigames and fetch quests woven into the story framework of 
 the fifth Harry Potter film (and the book, to some extent) . Regardless of which version you play, 
 you'll get to control Harry, wander around a meticulous replica of the Hogwarts grounds, and cast 
 spells alongside the other members of Dumbledore's Army. However, what you won't get from either 
 version of the game is the same high level of tension and excitement that you got from the movie 
 or the book. Showdowns that were epic in the movie are depicted as dull, turn-based duels or as 
 static images, and the filler-style fetch quests only serve to stretch what should be a two-hour 
 story into an eight-hour grind.  

           Hogwarts is beautiful, but you'll grow sick of wandering it long before the story concludes. 

  Your home base is the Gryffindor common room. From here, you can practice various minigames related 
 to Harry's studies, and compete in popular school activities such as gobstones and exploding snap. 
 If you play the Nintendo DS version, you can also partake in a round of quidditch and play the 
 after-school minigames with your friends using the system's download play function. Ron and Hermione 
 stand vigil near the common room's entryway. Talking to either of them will cause the next bit 
 of the story to unfold. Usually, this means going out on a fetch quest to talk to someone or to 
 find an item situated somewhere around Hogwarts. While you're traveling from one place to the next, 
 you'll invariably be asked to use your magic to help out other students, or be challenged to a 
 duel by Malfoy and his Slytherin cronies.  

  The basic story is faithful to the film's progression. As the story unfolds, you'll enlist Harry's 
 friends into a secret society, learn defensive spells behind Lady Umbridge's back, take lessons 
 at Hogwarts, and constantly square off with Slytherin and other evildoers -- just as Harry did in 
 the film. Likewise, the game's depiction of Hogwarts is superb. They've scanned the backgrounds 
 and turned them into 3D environments that you can walk around in. Every floor of Hogwarts, all 
 of the rooms and secret paintings depicted in the films, and all of the surrounding landmarks are 
 yours to explore. Compared side by side, the DS and GBA versions look quite similar. However, the 
 graphics in the DS version are more detailed and include cute animated touches, such as revolving 
 staircases and blowing leaves. In both versions, the audio consists of musical cues and sound effects 
 that evoke the same Euro-fantasy mood that the films' soundtracks do.  

  It doesn't take long before the novelty of exploring Hogwarts wears off. There are dozens of fetch 
 quests, and most of them involve walking through a multitude of corridors and buildings. You'll 
 smile the first time you hoof it through places like the magical staircase, the trophy room, and 
 the outer walls. Unfortunately, between backtracking and subsequent quests, you'll see those same 
 places countless times. The amount of walking is ridiculous, especially since a large number of 
 missions involve mundane goals like using a spell to fix cabinets, or collecting the ingredients 
 another student needs for a potion. As you go through the game, you won't be able to shake the 
 feeling that the sole purpose of these filler moments is to stretch a two-hour story into eight 
 hours of gameplay. To make matters worse, the bits of story that were borrowed from the film have 
 had the life sucked out of them. They left out the majority of Umbridge's cruelest moments, probably 
 to maintain the game's "E" rating, but her nastiness is watered down even further because key events 
 tend to play out as matter-of-fact sequences of still images. You also don't actually participate 
 in some major battles, and the ones you do have a hand in take place as bland, turn-based duels. 

  Apart from walking around and talking to people, most actions are handled as minigames. To cast 
 spells like reparo or wingardium leviosa, for example, you select an object and then follow the 
 onscreen prompts. If you play the GBA version, you'll have to push the correct sequence of buttons 
 before time runs out. If you play the DS version, you'll have to use the stylus to tap and drag 
 objects on the touch screen. Of the two, the minigames in the DS version are more engaging because 
 you actually feel like you're physically stirring potions and waving Harry's wand around. In total, 
 there are roughly two dozen different minigames. Each fetch quest incorporates at least two or 
 three of them, but, save for a few exceptions, you can also practice the majority of them in the 
 Gryffindor common room. The various minigames are fun for a short time. Sadly, they're not so much 
 fun that you'll want to forgive the lethargic story or the litany of tedious fetch quests.  

           Most actions are handled as minigames. In all, there are about two dozen of them.   
    

  Frequently, Malfoy and his Slytherin buddies will challenge you to a spellcasting duel. These duels 
 play out as turn-based minigames that are best described as "Final Fantasy Battles for Dummies." 
 In order to attack, you select the icon representing one of your opponents and then pick any of 
 five spells from a list. To actually cast the spell, you have to press the indicated button sequence 
 (in the GBA version) or drag the stylus between randomly appearing red orbs (in the DS version) . 
 You'd think a battle between wizards would be exciting. Here, duels are just plain boring. Harry, 
 Ron, and Hermione each have the same five spells, and there's no variance apart from stronger spells 
 consuming more magic and taking more time to cast. On top of that, the CPU is usually too outmanned 
 or overpowered to put up an even fight. Out of the fifty or so duels that you'll participate in 
 throughout the course of the entire game, there are only a couple where you can't coast to victory 
 by alternating between protego and stupify spells.  

  You don't have to read the book or watch the movie to realize that the Game Boy Advance and Nintendo 
 DS renditions of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix are both snoozers. The different minigames 
 have their ups and downs, but they won't get you through eight hours of diluted story and pointless 
 fetching.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DavisDUDE333
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  This game feels more like a recreation of the movie you would find on the Harry Potter website. 
 One of the games I wish I rented first. Correction: rented.
  
  I've realized games that are released a day or two before the movie tend to be awful, especially 
 for handhelds. (Sorry PSP) . Harry Potter 5 DS tends to focus around the enormous Hogwarts castle, 
 which takes forever to get anywhere. Most of the time you will be hurrying to classes, helping 
 different students with the same face solve their ridiculous problems, and dueling Malfoy, again. 
 Classes are pathetic minigames, apparently preparation for Harry's OWL's (tests for wizards) . Dueling 
 is time consuming, and it would be nicer if you could just say mean things about Malfoy's mom into 
 the mic. 
  
  There are various students around Hogwarts who will need your help retrieving their camera, Gobstones, 
 textbooks, etc. Around every corner is Malfoy and his buddies, who'll challenge you to a magic 
 duel. Turn the DS like a book and draw symbols to shoot stuff at Malfoy. Performing magic spells 
 requires drawing a shape quickly. This was a good idea, but there is always a boring minigames 
 that follows. What would be great (for me, maybe) is if after a spell is "drawn" you'll hear Harry's 
 voice say the spell, or you can simply say the spell into the mic. This would be a good experience 
 for die-hard Harry-fans.
  
  There's not much of a climatic ending to the game. You duel a couple of "Death Eaters" and finally, 
 evil Lord Voldemort. Defeating Voldemort is easier than defeating Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. I 
 sort of wondered if the game was really over at the end. 
  
  Overall, this game is hardly worth playing. Story is told by screens from the console game, and 
 the environments around Harry are hardly worth calling "3-D." The environments are well detailed, 
 but nothing changes, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione look out of place among environments. Seriously, 
 watch the movie or something, or buy the game for the Wii if you love Harry Potter that much. But 
 unless you like free, crappy PC-like games, avoid Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix for 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GmasterRED
Rating: 2
Date: May 2, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  Ok, I was in Best Buy, looking at the NDS games. I had narrowed it down to two games. Harry Potter 
 and the order of the phoenix or Brain Age 2. I choose OOTP because it was only $19.99. Bad move. 
 It was positively the worst game I have ever had to suffer through. as soon as I turned it on, got 
 it going, I knew I was doomed. It has bad graphics, poor sound, Hogwarts is at first slightly interesting 
 to explore, but after 30min-an hour, it was already old it is blank and empty, no hidden passageways 
 or secrets. The battle system, frankley, sucked. It was slow, you shoot ,he takes the hit, he shoots, you 
 take a hit typ of thing. There is very little, if any, skill involved. You are always garenteed 
 to hit. You have a limited range of spells to choose from. The only fun part is a few side games 
 you can unlock fairly quickly. All in all, the worst $20 I have spent on a game. Being a Harry 
 potter fan myself, I was deeply disappointed in the game overall. It has caused me to vow never 
 to buy a game based on a movie again.
  I will give it a 2.0, but even that's pushing it.
  
  The Good:
  A few good side games.
  
  The Bad:
  Everything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdlee05
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  After playing this game I can only come to one conclusion. The developers rushed this game out 
 so they people could buy it after watching the movie. After playing this game you realize that 
 they made a very poor decision. 
  
  You start the game watching some horrible cut scenes. Seriously, who wants to see pictures and 
 read text anymore. These scenes progress throughout the entire game. Then you get into the action 
 and things get worse. You are directed down a path of performing useless meaningless tasks. Then, 
 when you have completed those, you get to move on and perform more useless meaningless tasks. The 
 only word to describe this is brutal. It is just simply brutal. 
  
  When you are walking around Hogwarts you can appreciate the amount of time they put in to make 
 the castle as big as it is. But, you are immediately resentful because you cannot go discover anything 
 on your own. As soon as you deviate from your set path someone tells you are going the wrong way 
 and you have to stop and go the correct way. Just simply allowing people to go where they want 
 would make this game score higher. Well, probably not that much higher.
  
  The spell minigames are okay. They are a good use of the touch screen because you draw the shape 
 with your wand but, I kind of think that should be all you have to do. You don't see wizards waving 
 their wand and then hitting colored dots to make sure that their spell works. It adds nothing but 
 making you take a little longer to cast your spells. 
  
  However, the spells you cast during duels are much better. You simply trace from line to line to 
 cast your spell. Not very challenging but much more fun. The duels are set up as you taking turns 
 with your opponent. You cast one spell and then the enemies cast one spell. It is kind of unrealistic 
 but it is also probably the only way that they could have set it up. It is also nice that the number 
 of spells you can cast is based on your magical training. That was a well thought out part of the 
 game. But, the duels always seem a little unbalanced. I never once lost one of my characters, I 
 always defeated all of my opponents before I even came close.
  
  There are other games like gobstones, quidditch, exploding snap. Okay at first but you probably 
 will not be putting this game in your DS just to get some quidditch in. They incorporate the touch 
 screen a little bit, but not in any new inventive ways.
  
  The lessons are hit or miss. Some are okay, others are terrible. Take history of magic for instance. 
 If you new nothing about Harry Potter you could not do this one, you would fail every time. Potions 
 is the best though. It uses the microphone to blow on the fire to make it hotter, you have to stir 
 the cauldron and you have to drag and drop ingredients in. This is probably the best use of the 
 DS controls in the game. As a whole, the lessons are probably the best part of the game. But, that 
 really is not saying very much.
  
  I know it may be asking a lot to make a great game from a movie. But, I think with Harry Potter 
 it is achievable. There is so much more that could have been done with the spells, lessons, and 
 games. They storyline should have been the easy part in this game since it was already written 
 but it was also a failure. Also, we have seen from other recent offerings on the DS that it is 
 capable of achieving graphics that are way better than these. 
  
  This game has a lot of good ideas but none are complete. If there was just a little more time spent 
 in devolpment we would be singing a completely different tune. As it is, this one is not worth 
 even renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Asa_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  A few years ago I bought Harry Potter & The Chamber of Secrets for my GBC. I had great fun with 
 it, although there were better games.
  So when I saw this one in stores I though "Oh well, why not buy it?" I didn't really have the highest 
 expectations of it, but I had fun with the other one too. Well, I was wrong. A bit. The quests 
 are quite fun, but the running-around through the castle usually takes up more time that the actual 
 quest. And that running-around gets really annoying after you've done it 3 times What I liked 
 about it is duelling. The concept might be a bit simple, but casting spells is just fun to do.
 
  The good thing about it is the minigames. They're fun to play and quite addictive. They're also 
 the reason I give this one a 6.5. If it weren't for the minigames, that would've been a lot lower.
 
  I wouldn't recommend you buying it, but if you did (accidentally) it's not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmewater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The Ups
  
  Casting Spells
  Exploring Hogwarts
  Potions
  Transfiguration
  Other Classes
  Minigames
  Quidditch
  Gobstones
  O. W. L. S
  The D. A. Meetings
  
  The 
 downs
  
  Most of it is running around
  Some of the exciting parts in the movie are boring as pictures
  Some of the moving around is 
 confusing
  
  
  This is a highly addictive game. It keeps to the story of he book and Movie, abd the graphics are 
 pretty good. The duelling is fun, but you get bored of it. You get attacked by Malfoy, Crabbe, 
 and Goyle too much ,though. At the end the four sets of duels are kind of boring. Exploring Hogwarts 
 is excellent. Quidditch is one of my favorite parts of the game. Quidditch is awesome except, it 
 would be alot better if you played seeker instead of chaser. Potions is fun, transfiguration is 
 ok, and charms is also fun. O. W. L. s are kind of easy but its fun that you get to take the O. W. L. s. 
 Recruiting for the D. A. is also fun. The spellcasting is great.
  
  Overall this game is Just Plain Fun . Its very addictive. Using spells is made fun, they made it 
 so some boring things are more exciting. Its a great game. I'd recommend you pick up this game 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  The worst thing about buying this game, was that it cost me like 70 USD (which is a normal price 
 for DS-games in Norway) . I wouldn't have, but I was on a months holyday without PC or WII, so I 
 needed a DS game. In the closest town it was only one game shop and only two DS games (the other 
 one was a horse game) . The first impression was that the characters looked silly running around. 
 When you ad graphics like PC games from the middle of the 90's, you get quite a bad look. This 
 is what the game is all about: You run around, guided by a compas and cast spells. That's it. You 
 will find yourself sick of running, not only because it takes time and looks stupid, but also because 
 the compass is confusing and the camera angle changes all the time. When they show part of the 
 movie, they show it as pictures with text. You never actually hear the characters talk during the 
 game. When you have to cast a spell, you do not just press a button, or tap with the stylus. First 
 you have to tap the object, then draw the symbol and then do something else stupid. It migth seem 
 cool at first, but not for long. During the game you will also have to duell a few times. You can 
 choose between five spells, but you cast them in the same way, and it is easy. The real highlight 
 of the game, is actually the classes. That is how the stylus should be used in games, but still, 
 that is just like a mini game and it doesn't at all save the game. You'll be done ith it in eigth 
 houres, even if you choose to run around to find all the 120 collectables. When you're done, you 
 just have that feeling that you will never touch the game again, unless you're so bored you're 
 about to die. If you haven't bougth it, just save your money. It's not worth a single dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llabtoof9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  One of the better games on the DS. Uses the Touch Screen really well however, short and some tasks 
 are a waste of time. The Graphics are amazing for the DS!! The music is exactly what you would 
 find in one of the movies. You use the touch screen for mostly everything. All of your classes 
 are on the Touch Screen. You can go back and do any class, too. Single Card Multiplayer is the 
 BEST!! You actually send the game and they can practice while you turn yours off!! It's really 
 a great game. However, some of the tasks that you are given, are pretty lame, like= Go get my transfiguration 
 book in the Great Hall. But apart from that, it is a good game!! If you like Harry Potter and the 
 DS, you will like this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartcobra
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is very good and the characters of game is amazing and story is to good. This game is 
 too long but i like it too much.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  The sound is amazing i give it 9 out of 10.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  The graphics is too good i give 
 it 9 out of 10.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  The story is great i give it 9 out of 10.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  
  The gameplay is amazing i give 9 out of 10.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  The magic system 
 is amazing i give 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emziebubs
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  just started gettin into the game only brought it yesterday ...... and ive completed it!!!! personally 
 im not impressed! im fuming i paid 30 quid for a game that is very easy and quick to complete. even 
 my sister was fuming! making potions and the odd battle here and there was good, other than that 
 im very upset that a game that i've been lookin forward to playing turns out to be boring and very 
 easy to complete and a waste of money!! i will be recommending to my friends not to believe the 
 hype of the game cos its not all it cracks up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedijoe91
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  i bought this game after seeing it in a sale. i hadnt bought a game for the DS in ages so i decided 
 to go for it.
  
  i knew how poor the previous game in the harry potter series, the goblet of fire was, and so i 
 wasnt expecting a brilliant game.
  
  i was pleasently surprised. the producers had clearly thought hard about how they could use the 
 DS system's spec to create an interesting game. Although all of the movement is done using the 
 D-Pad, the rest is the stylus.
  
  You have to go around Hogwarts doing tasks not only from the book/ film, but new tasks only found 
 on the game. The tasks include climbing up walls using a correctly timed stylus movement to make 
 sure harry doesnt fall. Or playing magical games like Gobstones, in which the player uses the stylus 
 to flick small orbs onto a target. closest to the center means higher points etc.
  
  Also the player, as harry, is required to take the OWL examinations. In preparation for these you 
 do tasks in every subject. For example, in Potions class you have to place a certain ingedient 
 into the cauldren at a specific time, or stir the misture in the specified direction using the 
 stylus. it even goes as far as blowing on the microphone to cool down the flames.
  
  All the spells are conjured using the stylus as well. drawing the wand movement onto the touch 
 screen then doing a short mini game to complete the spell
  
  I was also incredibly impressed with the graphics on the game. i really enjoyed this game, although 
 there is one major drawback. Its very short.
  After only about 10-12 hours gameplay i had completed the game. Although then i was free to roam 
 the whole of hogwarts (which is a massive expanse of playable map) searching for the collectables, 
 (chocolate frogs, golden snitches, gobstones etc) by using spells to search everyday objects. This 
 means that the game is still playable for as long as you like, which is an added bonus. You can 
 even play as much Quidditch as you want!
  
  So overall if you are looking for an easy game which wont cause masses of stress and will give 
 hours of enjoyment, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizzardi
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I was really anxious to play it. I saw some pictures in gamespot and it was 
 really good for a DS.
  The first minutes were really disappointing. The story was completely erased, you can&acute; t understand 
 anything if you haven&acute; t read the book or watched the movie.
  When the game started I had to control Harry Potter, what was really difficult. You have to use 
 the directionals to walk, nothing really new, but it was terrible! Sometimes you press left and 
 he goes down! How can this happen?
  After learning some magics (one good point of the game, but only in the beginning) you finally 
 can explore Hogwarts. The school looks really huge! But it just looks, believe me. You can&acute; t 
 go to a lot of places, door are sealed and you can&acute; t walk in grass. The two screens use is 
 terrible, because in the upper screen you&acute; ll always have some message of what to do now , 
 and you can&acute; t really see what&acute; s behind it. The duels are great (at the beginning, again) , 
 you just rotate your DS to your left and use your magic to knock down the enemy (that is Draco 
 and his friends or Voldemort and his friends) , what is really boring, you just press the stylus 
 in some shiny points at the right time and you can cast it.
  The sound is really bad. You don&acute; t have voices (OK, is a DS) , the sound of the spells are 
 the same (Well...) and the music of the movie is in midi, not in mp3 (Oh my God!) .
  The graphics are good. You can see a lot of parts of Hogwarts and recognize it, but when you walk 
 too much, the screens pauses and you hardly see where you are. The story is terrible, even me, 
 who readied all of the books, had difficulty in understand what was happening.
  The game is really short. In one day I finished it, but with 53%. You still have some minigames 
 to complete and some itens to find. This minigames are cool, like the chocolate frogs, Quidditch 
 (exactly the same of Game Boy Advance) and the lessons, but who can play it all the time? It&acute; s 
 boring, and it takes so much time to search this itens, that the game will be in your closet very 
 soon.
  What I can say about it is that who really loves Harry Potter should rent it, or buy for a good 
 videogame, like PS3 or 360. The graphics are good, but the story is terrible, the sound is poor, 
 the controls are crazy and the magic is boring, not to mention the short time you spend to finish 
 the game. Seriously, buy some good game for your DS. Really. Harry Potter is a really great book, 
 but the game is terrible. At least the PS2 version is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizkid357
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Order of the Pheonix for the Nintendo DS tries something somewhat ambitious: 
 put together genres and spice them into the Harry Potter world. Unfortunately, the game tries to 
 be like the Console versions. That's mistake number one. The game has pre-rendered backdrops witch, 
 coupled with the terrible models for every character, look dreadful. Models of the character when 
 they're talking are laughably bad. Controlling this game makes it close to broken, due to a jerky 
 pre-rendered camera switch facing the wrong way every few seconds. The entire game is basically 
 a huge fetch quest. For example, you wake up, find a person, go to a class, do a minigame, find 
 another person, do a minigame, sleep. The whole game is wandering around the castle looking for 
 people (which takes for ever seeing as how you can hardly move without an analog stick in this 
 game.) Not to mention the story. Although the story is great in HP 5, the game butchers it into 
 a random jumble of text and bad art. The minigames themselves wich make up most the the game are 
 poorly designed, although being able to play them again and in harder levels in the common will 
 get the game some points. My two cents is that you should definitley get another version of this 
 game for the consoles or handhelds. Or better yet, get another game altogether. This frustratingly 
 broken game with simple meaningless fetch tasks is atrocious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tails_and_mario
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better than the others in the series, especially the atrocity known as Harry 
 Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone for GBA. The adventure consists of mini-games where you use Harry's 
 wand (your stylus) to cast spells, fight enemies, feed Thestrals and Buckbeak, take O. W. L. s, play 
 Quidditch, Gobstones, and Exploding Snap, find secrets in Hogwarts, complete classes, take Occlumency, 
 climb walls, walk on thin passages, and sneak past evil Professor Umbridge in the Invisibility 
 Cloak, and more. The character models look 89% like the real actors, and the backdrops are detailed 
 and nice to look at. The controls are solid, and the mini-games are fun to play and look at. The 
 game has good (but annoying at times) music, and the D. A. meetings are good for practicing spells. 
 The game is fun, and actually very true to the book! The movie doesn't have Quidditch or the Weasley 
 is our King scenario, but the game does! The potions class is like Cooking Mama, where stirring 
 the pot, blowing the fire, and dragging ingredients are the way to win. The part that is like Wario: 
 Master of Disguise, is the duel system. Casting some spells requires you to draw a specific shape. 
 Overall, the game is very good for a movie tie-in, and the few downsides involve the camera and 
 the minigame controls, which sometimes falter. In the words of X-Play, I give Harry Potter and 
 the Order of the Phoenix 4 magical orbs out of five. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
