-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/harrypotterandthegobletoffire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good variety in monsters.
 Levels are pretty large.
 Minigames are fairly amusing .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Presentation is uninspired.
 Gameplay gets repetitive after a while.
 Relies a lot on replaying through already completed levels.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 247 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Magic Pockets
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 8, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Goblet of Fire is a decent game, but exploring the large levels becomes repetitive after a while, 
 and it also fails to effectively leverage the strengths of the DS. 

  The magic of J. K. Rowling's universe makes its way once again onto the Game Boy Advance and Nintendo 
 DS portable platforms, this time with Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Like the console and 
 PSP versions of the game, The Goblet of Fire on the DS and GBA follows the trio of Harry, Ron, 
 and Hermione as they quest through a plotline that's similar to the one used in the book and film. 
 Unfortunately, this adaptation of the adventure doesn't quite measure up to what you'd expect from 
 a Harry Potter product.  

          The Goblet of Fire video game follows the adventures of Harry, Ron, and Hermione.     

 
  The GBA and DS versions of The Goblet of Fire are the same for the most part, with a few minor 
 differences. Both games are played primarily from an overhead view, using a 2D action adventure 
 engine. You'll explore a number of different areas from the book, including the Quidditch Cup campsite, 
 the Forbidden Forest, Hogwarts school, the three Triwizard cup challenges described in the book, 
 and more. Each area consists of a large, mazelike map that has simple environmental puzzles to 
 solve. You'll need to use spells, such as the wingardium leviosa spell to lift obstacles out of 
 pathways or to move platforms into place so you can climb to higher locations. You'll also use 
 charms, such as the reparo charm to fix broken treasure chests for looting or the aqua eructo charm 
 to put out flames. Some obstacles will require the simultaneous spellcasting of all three characters 
 to lift heavier objects or put out larger flames, for example. The artificial intelligence in the 
 game is generally smart enough to help you when needed, but you can always tap the left shoulder 
 button to manually nudge the computer-controlled characters into following or assisting you. If 
 you're playing the game in three-player cooperative mode, you and your buddies will need to work 
 together.  

  As you work your way through the levels, you'll pick up special collector's cards, beans that can 
 be used to unlock cards, and Triwizard shields. The levels are surprisingly large in scale, but 
 unfortunately they end up feeling like repetitive filler rather than compelling content. The types 
 of environmental puzzles you face are limited, so when you do the same task for the umpteenth time 
 to open yet another blocked pathway, it tends to be more tedious than satisfying. Opening new levels 
 and discovering new spells does introduce some different gameplay principles, but this often requires 
 you to go back to previous levels and go down pathways that were previously impassable to you. 

  Various creatures will also fight you along the way. Burrowing dugbogs, vicious bowtruckles, and 
 flaming fire salamanders are a few of the monsters lying in your path. The game does a pretty good 
 job of varying the manner in which you have to dispatch the creatures. Red caps, for example, must 
 be lured to you by turning your back to them until they get close -- then you can lift them into 
 a cauldron to kill them before they hide back in a cabinet. The fire crabs, on the other hand, 
 are vulnerable only when their shells are open. The DS version of the game differs somewhat from 
 the GBA version in that some of these creature fights will switch to a first-person dueling mode 
 in the DS version. In this mode, you and the creature take turns firing spells at each other. You 
 can choose different types of attacks -- one requires you to trace an outline of various shapes onscreen, 
 while another requires you to quickly connect dots that appear onscreen. Functionally these attack 
 spells don't differ much, so you'll probably end up relying only on the one that's easiest for 
 you to do. The method of defending against the attacks of the different creatures in this mode 
 differs depending on the monster and also relies on using the touchpad, but for the most part, 
 these duels play out the same every time and are more time-consuming than they are compelling. 
 This of course also makes the Dueling Club multiplayer minigame included in the DS version of the 
 game less appealing than it sounds on paper.  

  The Triwizard challenges offer some respite from the regular levels. As in the book, the first 
 one has you running from a Hungarian horn-tail dragon on your broom. The second has you diving 
 into the Black Lake to rescue Ron, while the third has you exploring the forbidding hedge maze 
 outside Hogwarts. These challenges also form the backbone of the GBA version's multiplayer aspect, 
 as does the Dance Dance Revolution-like Yule Ball level, where you must press buttons in sync with 
 the music to make your character dance with the beat. The DS version's multiplayer consists of 
 the Dueling Club minigame, which we described earlier, and the Care of Magical Creatures minigame, 
 which is sort of a Nintendogs-lite minigame where you take care of a niffler. This game mode is 
 also accessible in single-player and requires you to watch the body language of your niffler to 
 determine whether it's hungry, bored, or dirty. A number of objects, like vegetables, a wash scrubber, 
 and toys, reside on the bottom screen, so you just toss whichever one is necessary up to the niffler 
 on the top screen of the DS using your stylus. The happiness of your niffler depends on how astute 
 you are at figuring out its needs. You can't play with your niffler for long stretches though. 
 It eventually gets bored with you after you figure out what it wants, and you have to come back 
 to it sometime later.  

  The DS version of the game also includes a half-dozen minigames that make use of the DS's touch 
 screen. Most of these are pretty amusing although rather simple, and they're unlocked as you make 
 your way through the game's single-player campaign. Chocolate Frogs has you stamping out the slippery 
 treats with your stylus as they hop from the top screen to the bottom screen. Bean Sorting requires 
 you to grab beans from the bottom screen and toss them into the correctly colored jar at the top 
 screen.  

          Unfortunately those adventures tend to get somewhat repetitive in this version of the game. 
     

  As far as presentation goes, The Goblet of Fire looks like your typical Game Boy Advance action 
 adventure game, with its tiled environments and its character models that are small and distinguishable 
 mostly by their clothing. The spell effects offer some pizzazz, but overall the game looks pretty 
 run-of-the-mill on a Game Boy and less impressive on a DS, which is capable of delivering better-looking 
 graphics. Aside from the orchestral music score, which is pretty good and plays both in menu screens 
 and during gameplay, the sound effects seem pretty sparse. The monsters make appropriately threatening 
 noises, and the spell effects are decent, but there's little voice acting in the game, because 
 most cutscenes are subtitled.  

  In the end, The Goblet of Fire on the GBA and DS doesn't seem much better than any other action 
 adventure game. The minigames in the DS version offer some amusing diversions, and the designs 
 attempt to leverage the touch screen with some success. But the core campaign where you'll be spending 
 most of your time seems like standard fare and gets repetitive after a while. Hardcore Potter fanatics 
 may find some redeeming value in collecting all the cards and exploring the levels, but those of 
 us who haven't submitted an application to the Hogwarts School of Wizardry and Witchcraft will 
 probably find better action adventure options elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: patrickmanx
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Oh my! this games is sooooooo boring! its always the same! "harry take this magic to clear obstacles" 
 its all about that. every new level you get a new magic only to clear obstacles, and it shoot automatically 
 to enemies, like you see a fire enemy and harry automatically shoots water magic!!!
  
  Also the dungeons are sooooooo long, you really need free time to complete only one dungeon, in 
 other games its fun to have long levels, but this times, the levels are so repetitive that it is 
 annoying!!
  
  Also what were the creators of this game thinking about a dance level?!?!?!
  dance games are 
 cool, only if you actually dance!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game follows closely to the story plot, but I would have expected it to be longer and far 
 more exciting. People complain that Eragon for the DS is far too short, but this is much worse. 
 It took only a few hours to complete and the monsters were easy to kill too. The spells have different 
 naming but are actually all the same graphical actions and nothing exciting.
  
  You can choose from either Harry, Hermione or Ron but then it defeats the purpose as their spells 
 are all the same anyway. You wonder through the different levels, killing monsters to get through 
 the levels.
  
  Although I would say the mini games are pretty innovative, but still it's more like child's play 
 and good for kids I guess. And there are some good playing styles like flying from the dragon and 
 swimming underwater. But the graphics look like they are directly extracted from GBA version, hardly 
 any 3D view at all. Touchscreen use to fight monsters are also limited as random play to kill monsters 
 are quite infrequent. Get it if you're a fan, but otherwise, renting or getting a 2nd hand one 
 will do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4yda
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 15, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  
  What gameplay?
  So, I started this game one evening having just got home from the theatre and having bought it. 
 I played it for 10 minutes to start with, and it was fairly good. Had to replay the first 3D bit 
 several times, but it was ok.
  I played it for less than 3 hours the next day. And I completed it.
  It's not worth replaying 
 anyway, because nothing changes.
  
  TOO SHORT, REPETETIVE AND DULL - 3/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  They're OK. Sure, the 2D that forms most of the game isn't all that good, but I 
 must say I was impressed by the 3D.
  
  ACE - 7/10
  
  SOUND
  
  Well, this is probably the only place where the game really excells. Great music and sound.
  
 
  EXCELLENT - 8/1
  
  VALUE.
  
  Apsolute crap. Not worth even the 15 quid I payed second hand.
  
  NO - 1/10
  
  I'm gonna 
 say 3 for reviwers tilt, because it did nothing atall to impress me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa_demon
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  No and no again this game has the worst graphics that the nintendo ds has ever seen. The game is 
 quite fun but somethings in it are just rong like when you battle the spells are quite hard to 
 do but the worst part is that you cant learn new spells you do the same bloody spells the whole 
 game. But its a fun game with most levels but the levels just take to long to do. But its not a boring 
 game you can play it for hours and you will never get bored but this is a warning for the gamers 
 who want to buy it the graphics are so bad you can hardly tell what there faces look like. I end 
 my review here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  do not buy this game, it is definitely not worth it...
  i am a huge fan of the harry potter books and movies so i thought i should give this game a try... i 
 was extremely dissapointed.... there is absolutely nothing good about this game except for maybe 
 the minigames which are not bad but a bunch of mini games dont make up for the main game which 
 is an utter dissapointment.... although the touch screen is used in this game the levels are too 
 repetitve...
  to sum it up, this game is not worth ur money and a waste of ur time !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girman
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Well this is a very surprising game. A year ago I got this game and it waz between HP4 or the Sims 
 2. I waz desperate for an adventure game. I looked at the back of the cover and it says cast spells 
 with Ur stylus, its a lie. Well not totally when Ur in a sort-of combat mode, u get a choice 
 of 3 spells with no names. The game is basically on the buttons. The total bummer is adventure 
 mode. Like all the other games, it would have a freeplay roaming feature. This game only has certain 
 levels. There is a good side (of some kind) . Feeding ur Niffler will be fun at times. Also theres 
 minigames that wont be that fun. But youll have to unlock them. This game wasnt that fun. The 
 Graphics r not that good of 3D, its an overhead view. I found that this waz a very easy game. 
 I know this isnt a very good review, but this isnt a very good game. But I forgot 2 tell u, when 
 Ur in adventure mode u will have 2 face different things in every room, and that waz also fun
 
  PEACE
  Ellie aka Girman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasterwoo
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 12, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The overall gameplay of this game is just all right. The use of the stylus to cast spells 
 is neet but gets old very fast. The use of spells during the regular parts of the game is horrid 
 as you use the B button whenever you need to and it auto picks the right spell for you. There's 
 some fake Nintendogs thing going on with the Pet mode so who knows what they were really trying 
 to do.
  
  Graphics: Unless it's the cutscence where you get to cast your spells it looks like a really bad 
 SNES title.
  
  Sound: At times the game does sound good and at other times you think it's a step back from pong.
 
  
  Value: I got this game when it first came out at $34.99. If youpay anymore than $9.99 you're doing 
 yourself a great injustice.
  
  The Word: If you're a fan of the movie series you might want this game though you would be better 
 off getting it on another system. This was the first and it will be the last Harry Potter game 
 I buy. I was looking for an RPG but instead got this mix of game styles which none are done good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natinal
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is embarrasing to JK Rowling's Harry Potter book. It doesn't use the stylus very well 
 and I had a lot of difficulty with it. The shields which are supposed to be used by the stylus 
 were very difficult to produce ,especially for the Bowtruckles, where if you turned the stylus 
 too quickly the shield would disappear and you would suffer a lot of damage from the hands of a 
 little creature.
  Also, the cards which you are supposed to collect do absolutely nothing to help you defeat certain 
 creatures such as the Dugbogs and the Erklings, which is completely useless. Finally, the positive 
 things about this game is the mini-games such as Wizard Sweet sorting and the main Care of magical 
 creatures where you care for a Niffler, which is the only reason why I tried to play this game 
 with the stylus.
  Overall, if you really do want this game I suggest you rent or get a demo of this game and carry 
 on from there. Do not make the same mistake as I did and pick it free with a console!
  
  Regards,
  natinal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ---DSLite ---
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is well made and suffers from no glitches. 
 Perhaps one of the best things in the gameplay is the excellent use of the touch screen. Often 
 in the game you will have to duel enemies by using the stylus as your wand on the touch screen 
 to conjure spells. This is displayed on both the top and bottom screen in excellent 3d graphics 
 as compared to the normal 2d top down view and is propably one of the most fun and best things 
 to do in the whole game. There are also several mini games to unlock while exploring adventure 
 mode and these can be accessed by the main menu. Not only are these great fun to play and brilliantly 
 use the touch screen but upon completion you unlock some other cool things. There is also another 
 game within Harry Potter called Care of Magical Creatures. This plays very similar to Nintendogs. 
 You must look after your pet feeding, cleaning and playing with him to keep him content. This game 
 also makes great use of the microphone and touch screen.
  
  Graphics:
  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is played from a 2d bottom down view which is great just at 
 that but the graphics truly shine when you are dueling enemies in adventure mode. This switches 
 the game to a fully 3d view which is excellent and looks absolutely divine. The graphics are also 
 in full 3d in the Care For Magical Creatures mode which also looks beautiful. The mini games vary.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound effects in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire are great but the soundtrack gets repetitive. 
 For example whenever you complete a task it constantly repeats a short terrible tune until you 
 are off of that map or if you pause the game and then un-pause the game.
  
  Value:
  I would say that after buying the game 75% off the normal price I got a very good deal and I would 
 propably even pay full price for it. Overall Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire combines Nintendogs 
 and Wario Ware but gives it a Harry Potter makeover. The game is excellent and outside of the adventure 
 mode it has a lot of replay ability. One things for sure, you will be playing this game for a while, 
 even after you have finished it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess-peach
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  This game is embarrasing to JK Rowling's Harry Potter book. It doesn't use the stylus very well 
 and I had a lot of difficulty with it. The shields which are supposed to be used by the stylus 
 were very difficult to produce ,especially for the Bowtruckles, where if you turned the stylus 
 too quickly the shield would disappear and you would suffer a lot of damage from the hands of a 
 little creature.
  Also, the cards which you are supposed to collect do absolutely nothing to help you defeat certain 
 creatures such as the Dugbogs and the Erklings, which is completely useless. 
  Finally, the positive things about this game is the mini-games such as Wizard Sweet sorting and 
 the main Care of magical creatures where you care for a Niffler, which is the only reason why I 
 tried to play this game with the stylus.
  Overall, if you really do want this game I suggest you rent or get a demo of this game and carry 
 on from there. Do not make the same mistake as I did and pick it free with a console!
  
  Regards,
  Princess-Peach 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellom
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  The game starts out pretty basic, you cast spells, collect beans and learn more spells as you go 
 along. The game for me is too short because it relies a lot on re-playing levels, which for me 
 is alright, but for some they hate to replay levels. The mini games are really what shine here 
 though, they are fun and they really use the touchscreen.
  
  You also learn few spells in this game and there is a multi player mode which seems just alright. 
 It sound gives you a good grasp of the spells but can get annoying at times. Your friends lag behind 
 you most of the time but they do help in defeating enemies, and you can call them for help anyway. 
 Overall I would say a 65/100 because the game is fun, but it has so much more potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  If you like the books and movies of the series, there's allot of Hogwarts themed fun in this game. 
 If you're not a fan, don't bother. You can care after a Niffler (like a cheesy nintendog rip off) 
 and play a few other fun but basic minigames: Imagine Potterware Inc but with not nearly as many 
 as Warioware. The adventure portion is your typical overhead fighting and puzzlesolving (luckily 
 it doesn't require too much backtracking) with the various spells you pick up. The real fun for 
 the fans is going up against a beast in a magic duel where you get three kinds of attacking spells 
 to choose from. You're supposed to use your stylus as a mini wand to either trace sigils, hurl 
 balls of magic, or send a barrage of magic. The defensive spells differ by who you're going up 
 against. The only really bad part about the duels is that when they go for the victory close up, 
 the kids look like mutant cats and I don't think it's supposed to be from Polyjuice potion.
  My biggest complains are about the sound and the length. The repetitive music and bizarre sound 
 effects may lead you to turning the ds volume off and listening to Jim Dale's narration of the 
 audiobook. Also the kids make odd grunts while jumping around that... well.. they may be a little 
 too young to make, they are 14 after all and if you close your eyes it sounds like a Ron Jeremy 
 film. Except, he gets better music. The sound is just bad, okay.
  The length of the game may lead you to just want to rent it or get it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syluvan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to playing this ever since it came out; however, due to my parents' aversion 
 to all things Harry Potter, I was never able. So, of course, when my girlfriend's cousin finished 
 it and offered to let me borrow it, I accepted the offer instantly. Unfortunately, I found it to 
 be a little less than I had expected.
  
  The gameplay was quite good. The collection was tedious at times, but that didn't bother me. However, 
 the level design was often far too long for its own good. There is such thing as too much of a 
 good thing, and this game proves it; this does not mean that it is not worth playing, though. I 
 particularly liked the "care of magical creatures" section with the Niffler, which was basically 
 Nintendogs with one of the Harry Potter series' cutest magical animals. I only wish that they would 
 make a full-fledged version of the care of magical creatures, with a selection of animals to choose 
 from.
  
  Overall, I may not recommend buying this game, but borrow or rent it if you get the chance. It's 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wu-Tang-Clan93
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games out at the moment for the DS, a 6.5 rating
  is a foolish Mistake to make. This package is wound tightly and holds together very well. It features 
 a superb adventure mode, that lasts quite a while. This is the first in the series that matches 
 the children/adult difficulty, much like the books target age range. Some levels are very long 
 with a couple taking at least an hour to complete. The story graphics are quite good, it uses a 
 2d story action/adventure engine, but the characters could fool you into being 3d. But wait! There 
 are a load of 3d sections, for example the 3d magical encounters that send you into a first person 
 person perspective that are unbelievabley detailed, and are eye-wateringly good for the DS,. The 
 encounters are not like the normal battles in the game, it is turn based, like final fantasy minus 
 the leveling up. The spells in the encounters are all different, one is where you have to trace 
 shapes that show up on the screen which increase in difficulty as the game progresses. The other 
 is a where you have to tap white glowing orbs, and the other where you have to link them together. 
 You even get to battle lord voldermort, which is obviously the hardest encounter in the game. The 
 selectable characters in the game are the obvious 3, Ron, Hermione, and Harry Potter, all varying 
 in stats. Hermione is the best at the beggining and when you get a few power ups harry will have 
 perfect stats. Also in each level there are cards to collect more than 70, and once you've collected 
 them all you will get screenshots of the blockbuster movie "goblet of fire", there are also tri-wizard 
 shields to collect, which unlock cutscenes. 
  
  Added to the game, are several mini-games, which vary in difficulty, from catching chocolate frogs 
 to sorting beans. But the best mini game is, Care of magical creatures, where you get to look after 
 a Niffler. Quite similar to nintendogs. You get to feed him, play with him, give him toys, wash 
 him, and when his completely happy niffler appears at the bottom of the screen where you stroke 
 him with your stylus.
  
  Also there is a great sound track, which I bet you will be humming along to in minuites 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexmoona
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME COULD HAVE BEEN MUCH BETTER IF THEY WOULD HAVE PUT MORE TIME NTO IT. THE GRAPHICS ARE 
 UNREAL WHEN YOU HAVE A DUEL WITH A ENEMY, BUT IT HAS GBA EVERYTHING ELSE. THE WAY YOU GO FROM LEVEL 
 TO LEVEL IS NOT MUCH FUN EITHER, I LIKED THE FREE ROAM FEATURE LIKE IN 3, I ALSO LIKED THE RPG 
 STYLE IN 3 ALSO.
  THE GAME WOULDNT OF PISSED ME OFF SO BAD, BUT 2WEEKS AFTER I PAY $34.99 FOR IT, IT DROPS TO $19.99. 
 WTF
  WELL ITS NOT THE BEST DS GAME, BUT ITS ALSO NOT THE WORST,
  I THINK THAT IF YOU HAVE A DS THIS ONE IS WORTH BUYING FOR THE NOW LOW PRICE OF $19.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wastelanda_adam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games out at the moment for the DS, a 6.5 rating
  is a foolish Mistake to make. This package is wound tightly and holds together very well. It features 
 a superb adventure mode, that lasts quite a while. This is the first in the series that matches 
 the children/adult difficulty, much like the books target age range. Some levels are very long 
 with a couple taking at least an hour to complete. The story graphics are quite good, it uses a 
 2d story action/adventure engine, but the characters could fool you into being 3d. But wait! There 
 are a load of 3d sections, for example the 3d magical encounters that send you into a first person 
 person perspective that are unbelievabley detailed, and are eye-wateringly good for the DS,. The 
 encounters are not like the normal battles in the game, it is turn based, like final fantasy minus 
 the leveling up. The spells in the encounters are all different, one is where you have to trace 
 shapes that show up on the screen which increase in difficulty as the game progresses. The other 
 is a where you have to tap white glowing orbs, and the other where you have to link them together. 
 You even get to battle lord voldermort, which is obviously the hardest encounter in the game. The 
 selectable characters in the game are the obvious 3, Ron, Hermione, and Harry Potter, all varying 
 in stats. Hermione is the best at the beggining and when you get a few power ups harry will have 
 perfect stats. Also in each level there are cards to collect more than 70, and once you've collected 
 them all you will get screenshots of the blockbuster movie "goblet of fire", there are also tri-wizard 
 shields to collect, which unlock cutscenes. 
  
  Added to the game, are several mini-games, which vary in difficulty, from catching chocolate frogs 
 to sorting beans. But the best mini game is, Care of magical creatures, where you get to look after 
 a Niffler. Quite similar to nintendogs. You get to feed him, play with him, give him toys, wash 
 him, and when his completely happy niffler appears at the bottom of the screen where you stroke 
 him with your stylus.
  
  Also there is a great sound track, which I bet you will be humming along to in minuites.
  
 
  This is a completley fantastic game, and i give it 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed almost all the Harry potter games and although this one is pretty good it was a 
 little harder then I thought and could have a little better graphics. Some of the graphics were 
 great but when you are walking around they seem to be lacking a little. Maybe a little harder then 
 the other Harry potter games I have played. I paid $35.00 for this game and although it is good 
 I would say it would be better in the price range of $20.00 - $25.00 range. If you are not sure 
 about buying this game I would say wait a few months when the price goes or get it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wash_out
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire isn't as exciting to play as on other game systems. The graphics 
 are the same as a GBA which surprises me because the DS could do so much better. I was hoping for 
 a 3D environment when I heard that the game was coming out. The music was nice but there was barely 
 and any sound effects. The controls are easy to figure out, once you get a hang of which spells 
 the A and B buttons cast. 
  
  Every level that involves the Golden Trio to adventure out (whether it be in the Forbidden Forest 
 or Hagrid's Pumpkin Patch) is repetitive and time consuming. So far, the only part that I found 
 the most interesting was the Yule Ball. It was like DDR except for your fingers. I found it quite 
 amusing to see Harry and his friends dancing because it wasn't in the book. The game is basically 
 based on the movie; fast paced and didn't stick to facts in the book. 
  
  This game barely needs the use of the touch screen and microphone capabilities that the DS offers. 
 Sure, you'll need to use the touch screen to sort out jelly beans and catch frogs and you might 
 need to blow on your microphone to whistle for your magical creature but, that's if you want to 
 play the mini games. Through out the game you might encounter "boss magical creatures" and the 
 use of the touch screen is needed to fight and defend yourself against them.
  
  In the end, I was rather disappointed. I had already known about the graphics before I bought the 
 game, but I'm a fan of Harry Potter and all that is magical about the world he lives in. I recommend 
 this game to fans of the book that aren't easily disappointed about how loosely based the game 
 is on the book.
  
  Happy playing if you buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdafun
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the goblet of fire is a great game but the levels are way too long and the game 
 is short! I got the game for free with my DS and i really like it but i didnt like that you would 
 have to reach a check point to save i. i almost every day lost a part of what i did because i had 
 to turn the game off without saving and once or twice i pressed the power button:)
  Over all i liked the game. they could have worked a bit better on it but i still think that its 
 a great game and you should play it yourself!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PotterObsessive
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire: DS" Is defintely my favorite DS game to date. Graphics are 
 wonderful, the gameplay is magneficent, and the game just has potential.
  
  I am a gifted student, and my teacher describes us as "persistent and hard-working" so I am compelety 
 satisfied with the fact this game is really hard for me. I knew it wasn't going to be easy, but 
 this -- wow. I've spent 20-40 hours playing it, and I'm only on stage 5. It is a MASTERPIECE.
 
  
  This game is brilliantly portraying J. K. Rowling's "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire", meaning 
 the book, not the movie. I'm delighted by this game and it is fully worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikmin_guy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the goblet of fire is the forth in the game series (also in books and movies) 
 it is fairly good; but is let down by long levels and repetitvenes (dont know ifthats a word lol)
 
  
  gameplay: good but not great, you can spend hours exploring the levels, but after awhile it get 
 tiring and a bit boring. its fun trying to go back and get the collectables such as the tri-wizard 
 sheilds and the cards. the 3d battle system is good aswell, but is let down by horrible explination 
 (hard to understand)
  
  score: 7
  
  graphics: the graphics in the game are alright, but fairly bad for what a ds can acheive. the 3d 
 battles are terrific with the spells and the 3d-ness (hehe)
  
  score:6
  
  sound: very good but can sometimes be annoying. the sound of spells and background music is good 
 but its very anoing when that girl keeps yelling out "over here!" or "watch out!"
  
  score: 8
  
  value: well i got it for free (buy 2 get one free deal) but I dont think it is 
 worth $70 (aus) mabey $50 or lower.
  
  overall: fun but has really long levels in some places, and the story is a bit messed up. 
  
 
  score: 7.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prophecy15
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is a highly entertaining puzzle-solving adventure. The smooth 
 controls and enjoyable levels complement the magic system. Theres nothing more fun than levitating 
 objects  except for levitating enemies! Boss battles are fairly difficult, but even the easier 
 ones are fun. This is a rare exception for me. I dont usually enjoy games that dont have at least 
 one insanely challenging aspect. But good is good. Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is, as Mario 
 would say, Just what I needed!
  Isometric view, third-person-quality gameplay. The eight-way direction of the controls are much 
 smoother than other comparable titles. Players will be able to jump into this game with zero hassle. 
 There are times when the level layout and unchangeable camera interfere and make it hard to pick 
 up an item or pass through an area. This nuisance  as well as any other you encounter  is a trait 
 of isometric adventures and should not deter fans from playing a game thats great first and a 
 licensed property second. If you have a DS, make sure this games added to your games-to-play 
 list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DutchFoeke
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  Although the actual functions of this new Harry Potter-game all work properly, I felt this was 
 the first of the games so far that really missed out on some opportunities. Firstly, and most importantly, 
 I finished the biggest part of the game in a couple of hours (admittedly fanatic hours, but still) . 
 There was so little of Hogwarts or indeed the 'magical' world that the game felt like being thrown 
 into some pyscho's beast-infested dungeon with a few cutscenes in between that really didn't glue 
 the story together properly. 
  
  The search for Triwizard Shields and Cards made for some fun activity, but the lack of explanation 
 as to what they're actually for (at least, in my eyes - I bought the version with the Dutch manual, 
 perhaps the original elaborates further) made it feel a bit pointless. The biggest anti-climax 
 for me came with the 'final' battle, the Dark Lord Voldemort, which was by far the easiest Big 
 Boss I've ever played. His attacks were easy to avoid and even a grand magnificent row of subsequent 
 (deadly?) yellow blurbs failed to pose a proper risk. 
  
  Now, onto the better aspects. The graphics were fine, and the 3D-battles were done brilliantly 
 in my opinion, although - once again - I was thrown a bit into the deep at first with the three 
 available combat modes. My two helpers, computer-controlled, cooperated with me fully when I asked 
 them to and even when I hadn't. The variety of spells given could be used in a similar variety 
 of manners, ranging from unlocking chests to extinguishing fire crabs for once and for all. The 
 levels all had their own distinct feel, enhanced some more by the nice movie-like cutscenes at 
 their beginning; I especially liked the way the Prefect's Bathroom and the grounds around Hagrid's 
 hut were portrayed.
  
  The mini-games unlocked throughout the game were fun aswell, although not as much as those in SM64DS, 
 mainly because there's less of them so they tend to get repetitive earlier. I thought the Yule-ball 
 was especially amusing, with Ron, Harry and Hermione each having their distinct way of moving about. 
 
  
  All in all, I personally would not recommend buying this game unless you're an absolute Harry Potter-die 
 hard and don't mind the lack of story or some nice interludes giving you a feel of Hogwarts like 
 in The Philosopher's Stone for the Gameboy Color way back. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
