-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harvest Moon DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/harvestmoonds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Raising crops and tending animals can be somewhat addictive.
 The casino minigames provide an amusing, if temporary, diversion.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Disappointing use of the touch screen.
 Lackluster presentation.
 Very little has been improved since the previous game in the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Natsume
Developer: TOSE
Genre: Strategy
Date: Sep 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Aside from including some half-baked touch-screen features, Harvest Moon DS does nothing to set 
 itself apart from previous games in the series. 

  There's a lot to do on the Nintendo DS. You can be a surgeon, a trial attorney, a chef, and much 
 more. Now there's another virtual profession on the list: farmer. Natsume's long-running series 
 of Harvest Moon games has made the jump to the dual-screen handheld. However, it doesn't feel like 
 much of a jump. The game makes very slight use of the unique features of the DS and doesn't look 
 any better than the previous Harvest Moon game did on the Game Boy Advance. These shortcomings 
 aside, it's still very much the same old farm, with the same characters, the same crops, and the 
 same animals. If you're a dedicated fan of the series, that might sound great, but it's difficult 
 to justify the price of a new game when there isn't anything significantly "new" about it. For 
 newcomers to the farming life, Harvest Moon DS is as good a place to start as any, although it 
 doesn't measure up to other DS games in terms of presentation and noteworthy features.  

          Life on the farm isn't difficult... or exciting.     

  As if raising robust livestock 
 and sweet, golden ears of corn weren't enough reason to be a farmer, Harvest Moon DS attempts to 
 ply you with a story of sorts. It turns out that the Harvest Goddess and the Witch Princess have 
 an antagonistic relationship, so one day the witch decides to put a spell on the Harvest Goddess 
 to shut her up. Something goes wrong, though, and instead of simply silencing the Harvest Goddess, 
 the spell sends her to another dimension. Together the witch and the helpful harvest sprites have 
 to bring back the Harvest Goddess. But they can't do it alone; they need your help to revive the 
 goddess by raising crops, falling in love, starting a family, and generally being a productive 
 all-around citizen.  

  You start as a young boy in Forget-Me-Not Valley, and after a brief introduction, you're dropped 
 on a farm and left to do what you please. You start out with a large farm where you can plant and 
 harvest crops and gather materials such as wood and stone. Once you have enough materials, you 
 can construct buildings such as chicken coops and barns so you can begin to raise livestock and 
 gather the wool, eggs, or milk your animals produce. There's also a full town to explore, with 
 a mine where you can find ore, and unclaimed fields where you can gather items such as fruit and 
 flowers. Everything you collect, from the vegetables you grow to the weeds you pull, can be sold 
 to earn gold. You can then use that gold to expand your farm or purchase gifts for a lucky girl, 
 witch, or even a mermaid that you want to be your wife.  

  There are plenty of familiar faces populating Forget-Me-Not Valley, so you can mingle with folks 
 like Gustafa, Popuri, Muffy, and many more characters that have appeared in previous Harvest Moon 
 games. You can give people gifts, do business with them, or just chat it up to see what's going 
 on in town. Several characters are available for you to court, marry, and eventually begin a family 
 with. It takes time and persistence, though, since each girl has specific likes and dislikes that 
 you have to pay attention to if you're to win her favor.  

  Everything in Harvest Moon DS takes place on the clock. Each day, special events occur, crops and 
 livestock mature, and weather changes. With only so much time in a day, you have to manage your 
 chores carefully, but you also have to take care of yourself, because if you work too hard, you'll 
 pass out and lose the rest of your day as you recover. It's a delicate balance that can be difficult 
 to get used to at first. However, if you have previous experience with Harvest Moon games, you'll 
 quickly settle into a workable routine. The problem is that the day-to-day chores aren't fun or 
 challenging, so you have to be able to put up with a lot of tedious, repetitive tasks. At first 
 it can be strangely addicting to literally reap the fruits of your labor, but the game goes on 
 for years, and the task-reward cycle wears thin because nothing much changes as the game progresses. 

  For better or for worse, Harvest Moon DS feels just like previous Harvest Moon games. You might 
 expect some new features to be added to take advantage of the touch screen, but that isn't the 
 case. The bottom screen is used mostly for inventory management. You can see the contents of your 
 rucksack and drag and drop items as necessary. However, it's just as easy to keep the stylus holstered 
 and use the shoulder buttons to equip different items. You can get a glove later on in the game 
 that lets you interact with your animals via the touch screen. When you have this glove equipped, 
 you can walk up to an animal and press a button to initiate a minigame where you have to pet your 
 animal for several seconds to make it happy. It's a brief and uninteresting mechanic that brings 
 nothing to the game, and after using it a couple of times, you'll probably never use it again. 

  Another new feature in Harvest Moon DS involves playing casino games with the harvest sprites. 
 As you complete your tasks and find more harvest sprites, they'll populate a miniature casino where 
 you can go play poker, blackjack, or a card-matching game to win medals. The medals you win can 
 be exchanged for special items, or you can use the medals to hire harvest sprites to work for you. 
 For example, if you need to free up your time for other endeavors, you can hire a crew of harvest 
 sprites to water your crops for you every day. The minigames aren't engaging, but they're a welcome 
 break from the tedium of doing chores.  

          The extent of the touch-screen control is this animal-rubbing minigame.     

  Beyond 
 the couple of minigames, Harvest Moon DS looks and sounds like a Game Boy Advance game. The characters 
 all look the same as before, the town is small and not especially interesting, and compared to 
 other 2D games on the Nintendo DS, the animation is clunky and the world lacks detail. The sound 
 effects are all simple, and the generic, inoffensive music loops endlessly until you eventually 
 tune it out.  

  Harvest Moon DS is a lukewarm foray into the world of farming; it's likely to please fans of the 
 series but will leave everyone else scratching their heads wondering what all the fuss is about. 
 The repetitive, menial tasks get old quickly, and there's not enough challenge or reward to make 
 the required investment of time and effort worthwhile. Plus, there just isn't anything remarkably 
 different about Harvest Moon DS. It's essentially the same game that came out years ago on the 
 Game Boy Advance, with some useless touch-screen features added on. The bottom line is that there 
 are much more interesting and engaging ways to spend time with your DS.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (76 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo and Monster Games has teamed up to bring us a new addition to the Excitebike Series, but 
 this time they used Trucks instead of Bikes and now it takes place across the world with the Off-Road 
 environment like some tracks in Excitebike 64. Even though Excite Truck is a sucessor to the Excitebike, 
 but can it hold up from other launch titles on the Nintendo Wii?
  
  Excite Truck starts you off to the Training Session where they teach you the basic skills of how 
 to play the game, after you are done with the training session, you can neither start off your 
 Single Race or do more training. If you choose the Single Race Mode or the Challenge Mode and also 
 the Versus Mode, you only unlock the Excite Mode and the Bronze Stage. As soon you finish the Bronze 
 Stage, you get to move on to other stages and other Modes as well. As soon your done with all the 
 stages, then you must get all S-Ranks in every single stage.
  
  Excite Truck has a different selection of Trucks to choose from, you only start out with Three 
 Trucks and as soon as you get more S-Ranks and use of the Truck, you earn new paint jobs to go 
 with it. Also if you get more stars through these levels, you unlock new Trucks and eventually 
 you can unlock all the Trucks if you keep doing this, but there's something special if you beat 
 the game.
  
  Excite Truck plays like a Arcade Game, plus elements from the Excitebike series, the player gets 
 to race other players on the track, but unlike all of them, you have the special ability to make 
 the landscape change and you can also use the POW to make you unstoppable for a short peroid of 
 time. You can also do stunts, which you can earn extra points by doing them. If you finish the 
 race in any postition, you can earn extra points and you are ranked at the end. But remember you 
 have a time limit so complete the stage the fastest as you can. You can also have two players on 
 the track and race on any unlocked track.
  
  Excite Truck's graphics looks pretty good for a Wii Launch Title. Excite Truck has nice environments 
 and you can see in the distance with no pop-ups what so ever. The Trucks in this game looks awesome 
 and looks great for a game like this. Excite Truck also have some amazing backgrounds you can see 
 before the race started and after the race is finished. 
  
  The music in Excite Truck sounds kidda plain. It's just rock music that plays over and over again 
 in every stage, but some of them are quite original. Excite Truck is the first Nintendo Wii Game 
 to use the SD Card, but for this game you can put your own tunes on.
  
  The sound effects in Excite Truck can often be realistic, the trucks in Excite Truck sound great 
 and even the Wii Remote Noises sounds great for Excite Truck. The menu screens also sound great 
 as well.
  
  The controls are quite simple for a racing game. You steer with the Wii Remote to move the car, 
 you press two for the gas and one for the brakes. You can also use A for the Nirto and B for the 
 Radio. You can also use the D-pad to control your car. You can also change the controller setting 
 to loose or tight.
  
  Cruis'n is a good purchase for old school gamers and racing fans. But remember Cruis'n isn't for 
 everyone you know, it has some old school fan service inside the game. As soon you beat the Cruis'n 
 Curcuit Challenge, which it might take you an hour, then this game gets repeative and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inumorganna
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  its hard on some occasions... but sometimes its pretty easy and enjoyable, but it can get boring 
 doing the same thing day-after-day. It gives you alot to dao but you have to work like crazy to 
 even get to that point. Its like the game that you can never work good enough at, but you enjoy 
 the simple challenge sometimes, then on others you enjoy just the simple day-to-day routine... The 
 girls are hard to get along with though, its like there relationship change with the weather and 
 they are never happy with one thing, everyday they drop to zero with you and you dont get very 
 far with them, its like a lost cause with them, just like most of us girls, heheh ; ) ... Overall 
 its pretty ok you just got to know what your doing, the best thing to do is to buy the ones for 
 Gamecube or Playstation 2, just to start you out, get the feel of it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon DS is a great game, no doubt about it. Everything from the GBA version is bascially 
 in the sequel. Festivals, marriage, animals, crops all here. However, it might be a bit to similar 
 to it's predcessor...
  
  --Graphics --
  
  The graphics were a bit of a let down in the first DS Harvest Moon. People were expecting for it 
 to finally be 3D on a portable console, but a no go. The graphics have stayed the same since the 
 GBA version. The new characters have the same style as the old ones. Cows, sheep and chickens are 
 the same models, even the dog and horse. I did like the graphics for the GBA version, but not so 
 much for the DS version.
  
  6/10
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  The gameplay has also stayed mostly the same for the DS version. You run around, tend to your animals 
 and crops while trying to make a family. The touch screen plays a small role in the game. It is 
 used 99% of the time for your Rucksack, map, etc The other 1% is used when you play special Touch 
 Screen mini-games with your animals. However, all this consists of is rubbing your screen as fast 
 as you can, which might result in slight damage. However, the main gameplay of running a farm and 
 such is perfect, just like the GBA. Raising a family has been turned into a tedious task though. 
 The hardest part is filling all the requirements to marry someone. There are special girls like 
 the Harvest Goddess who need a ton of work to win over, but even the normal girls are tedious to 
 get because of one problem: Harvest Sprites. You need to save at least 60 sprites before you are 
 able to marry and it is almost impossible without looking for a guide on the Internet.
  
  8/10
  
  --Music --
  
  Harvest Moon games are usually filled with music, and it's the same 
 for Harvest Moon DS. Not only is there default music for most areas, but it is also possible to 
 purchase records of your favorite songs from previous Harvest Moon games. Many of my favorite songs 
 are there, however some of the songs I don't enjoy so much. Anyways, it always depends on your 
 taste in music, but overall, the list is great.
  
  9/10
  
  --Story --
  
  Most Harvest Moon games consist of stories that start with an old man who owned a farm, then gives 
 it to you, blah blah blah. However, it is really changed in Harvest Moon DS. It all starts with 
 the Harvest Goddess having a dispute with a new character called the Witch Princess. After a small 
 argument, the Witch Princess accidentally banishes the Harvest Goddess. Now, the 101 Harvest Sprites 
 decide to go and save her, however they get trapped inside a different world. Now it is up to you 
 to save all the 101 Harvest Sprites and the Goddess while running a successful farm and raising 
 a family. The story is a bit strange, but it's nice to see a new twist.
  
  9/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  Harvest Moon DS is a great game! Sure, the graphics weren't what people expected, 
 but it doesn't change the fact that it's still a really great Harvest Moon game. Many of the early 
 products of the game were glitchy and froze a lot, however the new ones are perfect, so there is 
 no reason not to get it. Any Harvest Moon fan should get it and any DS owner should check it out 
 because it will keep you busy for hours on end.
  
  8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iruletewo1234
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I turned on the game exited I turned it off bored. I mean it looks like GBA game ,sounds like one 
 and shoehorns in needless touchscreen bits. If your American buy Rune Factory if not import just 
 don't buy this. Oh yeah Rune Factor is hand drawn with 3D character models it has origanality from 
 the introduction of monsters and also has much more lovable characters not to mention having a 
 town thats not only larger but it feels much more alive with realistic festivals and wacky characters 
 so DON'T
  buy harvest moon ds invest in something else. By the way this is my first review so praise would 
 be could also I'm only eleven so don't diss this otherwhise I'll hit you, only jokin. I'm English 
 so the spelling may be different. Oh yeah Joseph Cumbo rocks Ok don't diss me or else! All hail 
 me and dmxkwjxc jedjifdd vvvvvvv dddddd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Gamespot, shame on you for your pathetic scoring of this solid game. It isn't particularly worse 
 than any of the other games, even if it's a bit more buggy. Gamespot and IGN criticized the old-school 
 graphics and sound, but this was a second-generation DS RPG by Natsume of all companies, who, having 
 just recently released RIver King: Mystic Valley, still can't say goodbye to cartoony 2D graphics. 
 And the sound is fine. I wouldn't have that any other way.
  
  What about the gameplay? Yeah, it's all there. Upgrade your house a billion times (building bathroom, 
 toilet, lumber shed, stone shed, house upgrades, buy a kitchen and household goods, animal shed, 
 bird shed, maker shed, etc.) mine the mines, farm the fields, sheer the sheep, milk the cows, tend 
 to the chickens, explore the village, get married, have a kid, etc. In this game you also have 
 to rescue Sprites who will help you with your chores, and also have a little Casino in their hideout. 
 With your winnings you can buy some pretty nifty items, like teleport stones and the love bangle 
 (which alows you to see someone's exact numeric affection and friendship levels toward you) .
  
  There is nothing wrong with this game. The only flaw with it is that it draws you in for hours 
 at a time and is difficult to put down. It's addicting as hell.
  
  Look, if you're picking this up because you like HM games, you know the drill. This doesn't stray 
 far from the formula, and that's a very good thing. If, on the other hand, you're new to the series, 
 then for God's sake get this game. If nothing else, this is a fantastic Harvest Moon 101 and can 
 get you into the other titles later like Magical Melody etc. And believe me, even though the gameplay 
 in all the games seems basically the same, you won't be satisfied until you've played each every 
 game in the series.
  
  I find it hard to believe that any HM game deserves a 5.8. I'm positive Natsume wasn't expecting 
 that. It's a great gaming experience that offers hours of fun. To maximize your enjoyment, definitely 
 check out the faqs and codes here on Gamesppot/Gamefaqs and also the IGN ones are useful too (see 
 the Shipping Prices and Courtship Guides) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  For longtime fans of the Harvest Moon series, Harvest Moon DS will be what you have expected, and 
 than some. Though fans will enjoy a new addition to the series, newcomers will most likely think 
 this game is a waste of time.
  
  When put into thought, a farming game sounds, well, cheesey and bad. But when the gameplay kicks 
 into overdrive this game is great! The game begins with a nice little intro, not as captivating 
 as the one in HMFoMT, it still provides a little bit of a fill-in to whats going on. The object 
 of the game is simple, by farming, you need to unlock 101 little harvest sprites to save the Harvest 
 Goddess. Along the way, you will get married, have a child and much more. The main aspect of the 
 game is farming, growing crops and tending to your animals. When your animals get sick, or your 
 crops grow or even the little events that are from 9am-6pm, no day is like the one before it.
 
  
  The sound in this game is excellent. You can hear the rain (weather permitting) and of course, 
 that catchy HM music!
  
  The graphics are average. Compared to FoMT, they are just a little brighter and easier on the eyes.
 
  
  The touch-screen capabilities may not sound like much when you read the official GameSpot review, 
 but they really rock. Going through menus is about a mile easier. The mini-games are fun, but also 
 tedious. They are fun when you just start out with only a few animals, but when you get 10, the 
 mini-game gets really repetetive.
  
  All in all, HMDS is a game worth buying if you are a fan of the series, and a game worth checking 
 out if you are new to the series. You are garanteed to spend hours on end playing this one, inexpensive 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  There are many weird and even stupid problems with this game. A total of three weird & stupid things 
 happened to me before I got it working without any problems.
  
  As soon as I stared playing HM: DS the game glitched. There were no people in the town and I couldn't 
 enter any buildings. I made a new file and the problem fixed itself. Everything was fine for a 
 while. 
  
  But then, after many hours of game-play, another problem popped up. I left my farm house one winter 
 day and there were all kinds of colors across the screen, and it wasn't my DS. I restarted the 
 game to my last save and slept to the next day but the problem didn't fix itself. So, I made a 
 new file......
  
  The last thing that happened to me was on a spring day at 3:00, the game froze. I tried and tried 
 to fix it. I slept three days and the problem was fixed.
  
  Now, I gave it one more chance because I did enjoy it..... when it works. I like the way there is 
 so many things to do in the mine, there are many scenes with the villagers, lots of food to cook, 
 and many upgrades to the house.
  
  It's also a personal farm. There's cows, chickens, ducks, and goats to raise have to be fed and 
 rubbed everyday. There are many bachelorletts to choose from also. The one thing I don't like about 
 the marriage requirements was the fact that I have to get the girl all the way up to red to be 
 able to marry her. It takes like two years. Literally. 
  
  I was able to marry in one year but it took every-day visits from me and lots of gifts to get there.
 
  
  It's fairly easy to collect money once you've got the "leveling" of the vegetables and fruits down 
 pat.
  
  The fourth time that I tried it, the game worked. I have had no problems with it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jim_bo_bo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to the Harvest Moon series, there are great games, and there are awful games. Harvest 
 Moon DS, however, somehow winds up somewhere in-between. So, if you're a Harvest Moon fan, you'll 
 find a lot to love with HMDS, but not a whole that you didn't already love. There's the farming, 
 the mining, the girls, the town and everything that Harvest Moon is known for, which isn't a bad 
 thing. What is bad is that you'll see damn near NOTHING new that actually makes for a significant 
 change in the series. Every character you see will be a familiar face, every crop is something 
 you've watered before, every animal is something you've already raised, even the town itself somewhere 
 you visited a few years back on the Gamecube. That's right, you'll be living in Forget-me-not-valley... 
 IN 2D!!! So, if you played A Wonderful Life, you won't be able to have the enjoyment of exploring 
 a new town the first time you play. This is actually a big disappointment to me, as the towns in 
 Harvest Moon are generally pretty small, which means you start wanting something new pretty quickly... 
 especially when you already visited the area in a better dimension. 
  
  So, what exactly does HMDS bring to the table that you haven't seen? Well, first let me: "Who's 
 ready for gimmicky touch screen controls?!" If you raised your hand in excitement in response to 
 that question, you're gonna love the new content HMDS has to offer! For everyone else, there's 
 always Rune Factory. 
  
  The touch-screen controls themselves consist almost completely of waving your stylus left-right 
 as fast you can to pet, brush, milk or shear your animal. All of these mini-games are done by having 
 the touch glove equipped. The games themselves run off of a point-system, and if you're good at 
 them (and trust me, they're easy) then your animals will like you more if you do it daily, which 
 is a chore as you can imagine. While you can just choose not to use the touch glove, it's greatly 
 beneficial to use it instead of just pressing a, which is a bit frustrating at times. 
  
  The game also seems to have added... just a bit of direction. While previous games started you 
 off with a farm full of the buildings you needed to raise the animals you wanted, you have only 
 your house and stable in HMDS. This forces you to gather resources around the town using your axe, 
 sickle and hammer. There are four materials you can use to build what you need, ranging from worst 
 idea to best idea. The worst would be fodder, which is very cheap to build with, but can fall apart 
 in even the weakest rain. Wood can be destroyed in blizzards and fierce storms, while I've yet 
 to experience stone be destroyed. The last material, golden lumber, is solid enough to survive 
 any weather condition but is a bit too expensive to be reasonable. The idea of gathering resources 
 before you can start a poultry or dairy farm is actually a good idea, and something that should 
 be repeated in later games. 
  
  While on the subject of new content, let's talk about the story. Yes, they tried adding a story 
 into the farmwork. Do you really even need a storyline when all you're doing is farming? Yeah, 
 I didn't think so. Anyway, HMDS takes place about 100 years after A Wonderful Life and Friends 
 of Mineral Town. Now, as the game starts out, the Witch Princess becomes fed up with the Harvest 
 Goddess, for some reason... apparently she's just "annoying" (as described by the witch herself) 
 so, in order to solve this problem, she speaks a spell to silence her. The spell ends up doing 
 the wrong effect; instead imprisoning her in an alternate dimension (maybe it's the 3rd, living 
 in the far superior Wonderful Life game) . The sprites get very upset over this, and she sends them 
 to the alternate dimension as well so that can bring her back. But instead... they all become trapped 
 as well. All 101 sprites wind up stuck in the dimension, and it's up to YOU to save them. How do 
 you this? You till, water, plant, harvest, brush, milk, pet, marry, examine, fish and do everything 
 you possibly can in the game to rescue them. This is supposed to give you a goal to go by; something 
 previous Harvest Moon games lacked. It's instead ruined by the total randomness of how to rescue 
 the sprites. It's too random for you to plan, and instead you just do whatever you want like in 
 all Harvest Moon games, and you'll eventually get all 101. 
  
  Once you free 60 sprites, you rescue the Harvest Goddess herself, who then becomes a marriage option. 
 There's actually quite a bit more marriage candidates than usual, and even more if you put a FoMT 
 cartridge in the GBA slot of your DS (the regular candidates from FoMT) . You can excpect the same 
 girls from AWL (Muffy, Nami and Celia) but there's also a couple newcomers that you could only 
 befriend on the Gamecube (Lumina and Flora) . And, if you befriend Daryll, the scientist, he'll 
 let you into his basement, where he keeps a mermaid (Leia) , who you may also woo for marriage. 
 
  
  The regular girls are pretty easy to court (basically consisting of giving them a gift once a day 
 and seeing each of their heart events) , but the special girls (Leia, Witch Princess, Harvest Goddess 
 and Keria) have some pretty strict requirements. Some of which are even a bit too ridiculous to 
 follow through on. For example, marrying the Witch Princess requires you to kill off at least 50 
 of your animals! A task that will make everyone else in the town completely despise you. Or there's 
 Keria, who requires you to dig down to the 255th level of the mine just do see her daily, which 
 is NOT an easy task. 
  
  The other characters of the game can be befriend by gift-giving, as usual, but there's not a whole 
 lot of point to it. Other than seeing a cutscene or two for befriending someone (and even still, 
 you have to be at the right place at the right time) there's really no real reward for talking 
 to the locals, unlike in A Wonderful Life where you got your tool upgrades by being friends with 
 people, which is a lot more fun than mining for ore. Making friends does reveal a bit more personality 
 to the characters in the town, but there's not much to the relationship other than giving them 
 a present everyday, and since there's no real reward to it, the relationships seem pretty one-sided.
 
  
  When you talk to the locals, they'll tell their ancestors settled here for whatever reason, and 
 if you go back and play A Wonderful Life, you'll find that the same characters said the same things, 
 just about themselves rather than their ancestors. It's a neat touch, but it hardly makes sense 
 that the descendants of AWL all have the same names and are identical to them. It seems more like 
 an excuse for laziness to escape making an entirely new game, to me. 
  
  Graphically, the game could have been done on the GBA with ease. There's nothing to gawk about 
 in the game, though the scenery is quite peaceful and pretty-looking. The graphics aren't much 
 of a bother, but I do sometimes wish it had a higher FPS rate. It seems a bit clunky as you run 
 around, looking borderline slideshow-ish.
  
  In conclusion: if you're a diehard Harvest Moon fan, you'll probably like this installment just 
 as much as all the others. If you've never played a Harvest Moon game, it won't matter either way. 
 If you want a Harvest Moon game that does something different for once, this one should be a pass. 
 The added direction in the game still may not be enough for the game to live out the decades of 
 in-game time it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Magic_Realm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  After Reading the Reviews around the web I thought this game would be rubbish. But being an optimistic 
 gamer I took the liberty to rent it. I really regretted taking it back after the week was up. I 
 rented the cute/girl version and loved it to pieces. It is now definetly on my Christmas Wish List. 
 Ummm..... I dunno what else to say. It's super fun, sizzlin' and cute. I got caught playing it 
 in my Agriculture lesson at school and then at lunch when I went to pick my DS up from the office 
 I found the Agriculture teacher playing it. LMAO totally funny but if my super serious Ag teacher 
 enjoys it you will to.
  
  Don't listen to the people dissing this game, Harvest Moon Rocks, But if you are really worried 
 about wastering money (YOU WON'T) rent the game first, But make sure you force yourself to return 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wez_hulme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  harvest moon is about a farmer who works on a farm for a living and you are here to help him on 
 his way to winning competitions and raising livestock. but there is one other thing, you can also 
 get married on your way to getting 101 harvest sprites and recueing the harvest goddess. the animals 
 you can have are cows, chickens, ducks and sheep. this is no game because raising animals while 
 trying to get married will take forever but not when you have got a horse to ride around on. on 
 the plus side you cant complete the game so the fun just keeps on comin'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youthebestboy
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Most Harvest Moon games have been very enjoyable for me. I did not personally own this game but 
 i borrowed it from a friend. As I always do i started off fishing, then learned that there was 
 a bride that loved fish. Hearts were changing very quickly, but after 4 hours and 2 game years 
 of getting 2 fish, one for money and one for a gift i only got a yellow heart. After this stage 
 nothing ever moved, in the TENTH year I was doing this. Don't buy this game, it's a waste of time 
 and money. (Is good for passing time on car/plane trips if you are THAT bored) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voltlights
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this game is much like the GBA version, with slightly altered sprites to fit the 
 hardware. 
  
  Ofcourse, it seems to be quite alot bigger than the GBA version, there is quite a large town to 
 explore now, with differen't areas, unlike the GBA version which limited you to a small village.
 
  
  The bad:- You no longer can go to shops, you must phone shops to buy stuff, which slightly takes 
 away the fun and seems harder to use. The only shop you can go to is a sprite shop where you trade 
 in 'medals' or something similar in exchange for a small option of items.
  
  The good:- You don't have to go to different shops all the time and there are lot's of cool places; 
 The beach, other peoples farms... etc...
  There are a few new items availible from shops.
  
  Graphics:- The graphics are what you would expect from the harvest moon series, top view 2D 
 game. Sprites are slightly editted to make it look nicer.
  
  Gameplay:- Great gameplay, the only game that allows you to farm. There is slightly more interation 
 with animals too. Can be hard to learn as there is not much help from the game.
  
  Sound:- Midi style music with the usual noices from the GBA version. Simple sound, alough it does 
 sound better when played with earphones.
  
  Overall:- Very good, exept the few exeptions of it not having some of the parts from the old version.
 
  
  I would advise this game if you like virtually farming and gaining money to buy items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Link_753
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Harvest Moon is a slightly addictive game. At least for me, the only drive was for $. It should 
 have made there be more benefits for getting Harvest Sprites. It may be the best of the series, 
 but that was b/c the others sucked. And, to tell the truth, this one kinda sucked, too.
  The ducks were a good addition, though pointless. Also, the touch-screen petting and milking, scratched 
 my screen really bad.
  Also the Harvest Sprites don't pull their weight. If I made them milk my cows, half were not milked. 
 And that makes an unhappy cow.
  The mines were the only difficult part of the game, in my opinion. And also, monsters? I mean, 
 cmon. Thats the kind of stuff that should be in a MYTHICAL game. This is a 1/2 reality farming 
 game. 
  So, my suggestion would be, borrow this from a friend, don't buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Harvest Moon game for Nintendo's DS! The game while it is fun with new features 
 like the Casino, suffers from countless glitches and some typos! While it was cool to see the townsfolk 
 from one of the previous Harvest Moon games ( A Wonderful Life ) on this new installment of the 
 Harvest Moon Franchise, the game is FAR from the best Harvest Moon game out there! The game has 
 been made to where its a bit tougher to marry your future bride than the past Harvest Moon games! 
 Not only do you have to see all of their heart events, buy everything from the supermarket, get 
 them up to a RED heart, but now you have to find almost all of the Harvest Sprites! That doesn't 
 sound like much ,but believe me it takes some time! I wouldn't recommend this game unless your 
 a die hard fan of the Harvest Moon series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I remember wanting this game months before it came out. It looked so cool! A Harvest Moon for DS. 
 How cool! It's gonna have awesome touch screen capabilaties! That's exactly what I said pretty 
 much every day until I bought it. I was very happy with Harvest Moon DS until I was about half-way 
 through the second season; then things went wrong. I will just name a few things that happened: 
 1. Every time I threw food in for my cows, sheep, chickens, and ducks, it would just disappear. 
 So my animals never got to eat, so they all got sick. I tried using medicine on them. Guess what? 
 The medicine would disapper too. So eventually every animal on my farm died except my horse, dog, 
 and cat. 2. Harvest Moon DS lets you keep two files in which to play and save your games. When 
 you turn on the game and it gives you a choice on which file to load, you tap the one you want 
 to load, then it says LOADING FILE . What happened to me was when I tapped diary one it would say 
 LO A D ING FI LE then the game would freeze. So that means that I can never play Diary one again. 
 So I started a new file on Diary two. 3. This was my favorite file. I was so far. I had all the 
 buildings made out of golden lumber, I had tons of money, and I was days away from getting married. 
 Then the worst glitch came.... I was a day away from getting married. I was done for the day, so 
 I saved then turned off my DS. A few days later I decided to play. I tapped diary 2. Then it said 
 DATA FILE CORRUPTED I was so mad!!! So I started a new file. Then I learned that every time I saved, 
 my save file was deleted so I could never advance through the game any farther in diary 2. So now 
 both of my files are screwed up. So now I cannot play Harvest Moon DS. Over all it is still the 
 fun harvest moon handheld game we know and love. If you are willing to put up with the numerous 
 glitches in this game, then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-c-a-r-g-i
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  I got this game and i thought that it would be a good game. I may not have this game a good try 
 but by the time all talking had finished i was bored to death of the game so i am sorry if i dont 
 give this a propper review but in my eyes this is the worst ds game i have ever play and i have 
 played alot. I wish i had tried it abit more but like i say the talking at the start killed me 
 and i couldn't take anymore of its annoying rubbish that it babled about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Harvest moon ds is a very fun game, but very glitchified. Its mostly like friends of mineral execpt 
 in this one you kill chickens and stuff like that in the caves. I cant say its not fun, its just 
 really messed up. My game was glichted and so was my friends. During the winter, my whole farm 
 was covered with some crap, so i couldnt feed my chickens and cows. The graphics to this game arent 
 great either. The gameplay is normal harvest moon. I suggest, if your going to get a harvest moon 
 game for the ds, then get rune factory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  Harvest Moon DS isn't bad. But I felt there were things missing.
  
  The game starts off with you getting a real weird plot and some bizarre lines that could be chalked 
 up to bad translations, and then being dropped on your farm, with no real idea what you're meant 
 to be doing, unless you're a previous Harvest Moon: Friends of Mineral Town player, which fortunately, 
 I was. The game has previous things, such as a town, NPC's, lots of farming and upgradable tools, 
 however I found myself going through it in a far more disconnected feel than previous games, such 
 as the SNES and GBA versions.
  
  The first thing I noticed was that the stylus is a pain to use, and while tossing and watering 
 crops, its far more comfortable to just use the game pad shortcuts. The second thing that got me 
 was that, unlike previous games, I wasn't really brought into the game, characters, town and its 
 mechanics at a good rate. I was just tossed in and ended up spending (game) weeks trying to figure 
 out whats what, which I found a bit annoying.
  
  Sound:
  I actually quite liked the music. It wasn't bad quality and had a nice feel to it. The sound effects 
 aren't that fancy, however they're crisp and not too repeatitive.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics aren't alot better, though I felt the sprites looked better than the GBA version, 
 so I wasn't particularly dissapointed. The movement/action animations have a smoother feel to them 
 as well.
  
  Gameplay:
  Theres a brand new town to discover, despite being given absolutely no instruction on where things 
 are or what to be doing. The game's very similar to Friends of Mineral Town, minus a few points 
 like crops and things are made easier to access, though give less rewarding profits. The game has 
 a very disconnected feel to it, that ends up not drawing you into it very much. There are a few 
 new interesting additions, such as the new cave dungeons, but they're not very interesting.
  
  Overall:
  I didn't hate the game, though I did feel it didn't do justice to the possibilities 
 it could have had given the stylus capabilities. That, and the game leaves you a bit lost until 
 you can pick things up yourself, faster if you're a previous harvest moon player. As mentioned 
 before, the game also has a very disconnected feel to it.
  Bigger Harvest Moon fans might get more of a kick out of this game, however I felt a bit dissapointed 
 by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AryaSvitkona
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say about this game? It's Harvest Moon, that's for sure. There were some good 
 moments, some bad moments, and some that just had me wanting to throw my DS on the floor and stomp 
 on it (when you don't save in three days and then your game freezes... yeah, that's no fun) . Honestly, 
 I do think that the game could have been presented so much better, but for what it was, it was 
 pretty good. But when I read Harvest Moon DS I thought it would be... more. You know, you can use 
 the touch screen to till the soil and plant seeds and stuff, not just pet the cows and sheep, etc. 
 I like the graphics all right, they could have at least given the character a freaking MOUTH. But 
 I have seen games in supposed 3-D on the DS and they didn't go over well, so I liked the 2-D graphics. 
 Music... I play my DS with the volume all the way down, especially on this one. The music just 
 gets annoying after a little while. Overall, I thought it was good, but it could've been so much 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellom
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  The long awaited Harvest moon DS was very disappointing. Been there, done that exactly. You start 
 off on a large farm which is basically a huge land filled with twigs, stumps, stones and weeds 
 which you have to clear in order to get anything done. You live in a tiny house with a useless 
 cat and a dog that can catch a ball. exciting.
  
  as much as i love the harvest moon series, this game made terrible use of the touch screec, it 
 only being used to take car of your inventory, check the map, take care of your pets and a few 
 other thing.
  
  The game's new concept is alright thought, 106 (if I am not mistaken) harvest sprites have been 
 lost and you must find them. there is now way to find them other than sheer luck or cheats. You're 
 lazily cutting a stump then one day a sprite pops out of one. interesting, but not quite.
  
  I would give this game a 50/100 since to even get married you must find at least 60 harvest 
 sprites which is already very challenging.
  
  Fair game for a series fan, but disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Now harvest moon DS has the characters and locations of a wonderful life. Those who played it will 
 reconise just about everything. But after a wonderful life and friends of mineral town this just 
 fells like a down grade. First of all this game is really slow. You start off with only the tools 
 and some money. If you want a barn and or a cope you either have to wait and ship lots of crops 
 or spend countless hours collecting random crap and shipping it. Having low stanima furthers the 
 problem. This will make some people put the game down and never play it or head to the action replay. 
 The game also makes you have to collect harvest spirits. Thease little guys can help you with your 
 animals, the fish, collecting stuff, and so on. But finding them is either triggered by some random 
 event or doing a certain thing hounderds even thousens of times. There are some things how ever 
 that are a welcome edition. Like getting stuff right away after ordering it, Being able to teliport 
 to any were on the map, Touch screen animal petting, and more festivals. But thease certain festivals 
 shut down the town. if you need food for your animals or medicen your sol. Getting married takes 
 a lo6t of work and isn't worth it. It now takes longer for a girl to like you and theres no clue 
 to what a girl likes and when her heart events are. Also having to get 60 spirits to get married 
 furthers the pane. You wife dose really nothing but walk around the house spiting out the same 
 2 phrases over and over. You could play this game for a long time but the likely hood of that is 
 slim. it's good but disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robio_basic
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon DS is pretty much the same as every other Harvest Moon game you played. Not to say 
 that the game is bad, because it's not. It's the same Harvest Moon formula that's been around for 
 a decade now. If you haven't picked up a copy of one of the GBA installments, then maybe Harvest 
 Moon DS is worth your time. Otherwise unless you're a diehard HM fan, move on and wait for Rune 
 Factory.
  
  If you've played a couple Harvest Moon games, then you know what to expect. You plow your fields, 
 sow your seeds, and harvest the crops much in the same way as ever. The touchscreen allows you 
 to do things a little differently, but it's easier to use the touchpad. The cast is the Forget-Me-Not 
 Valley group you met in A Wonderful Life, with a few extra additions. Overall though, everything 
 you'll see if familiar.
  
  There are a few nice additions to the game, but nothing that revolutionizes gameplay. There's a 
 mine where you fight creatures with your tools. A magic map will allow you to teleport across the 
 valley. And there's a casino where you'll find yourself spending some time to get some rare items.
 
  
  The graphics are very disappointing. The game looks like it was originally intended for the GBA, 
 but ported over to the DS at the last minute. And the music is mostly forgetable. So diehard fans 
 go ahead and get the game. If you love every Harvest Moon, you'll love this as well. But for more 
 casual HM fans, just pass this one over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbymariopika
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, in the core mechanics of this game there is a great farming experience for 
 everyone. So before I start bashing this game, let me say one thing. The glitchy and unfinished 
 attributes in this game are what really destroy it. The lackluster presentation and dated recycled 
 graphics, which though are an annoyance, are NOT what I have in mind when I say this is the worst 
 Harvest Moon game Natsume has sowed and grown yet.
  
  Let's get to the dirt of this review. This game is in one word: unfinished. There was a pretty 
 good amount of potential with it, but there are just so many things missing that it almost seemed 
 like this game is still slated for a later release and they just sent you a work in progress. There 
 are missing sound effects, missing functions for items, and even entirely missing items. One in 
 particular makes it impossible to marry some of the special girls in the game. It seems odd that 
 any debugging crew would overlook issues as massive as this. but if you play trough even a season 
 or two of this game (if not less) you will start to wonder if this game ever was debugged! Basically, 
 this game is glitchy to the point where it hinders normal gameplay.
  
  I'll stop with the glitch gripes there because though I could go on for pages, I think most readers 
 get my point by now. Moving on to a less important portion of the game is the presentation. The 
 presentation is decent in graphics and sound (minus the oddly placed and seemingly missing sound 
 effects that pop up) can sound good. The seasonal music around your farm sounds great. Really the 
 issue here that ruins presentation is how the general graphics are just recycled from previous 
 harvest moon games. The only nice touch as far as presentation goes would be would be portraits 
 of the characters you talk to. Other that, graphics are outdated
  
  Now your thinking so the graphics are just there, and the game has a buttload of glitches. Where 
 is the good? Well the good comes in when you get down to the raw farming gameplay, that though 
 is somewhat ruined by the previously (and heavily) mentioned glitches, is still there. The farming 
 is basically unchanged from the other Harvest Moon games, and when you get around the other issues 
 in this game, it plays just as good!
  
  To make a long story short: It seems when Natsume created Harvest Moon DS, they used the saying 
 If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Unfortunately when they shipped he game, they didn't realize that 
 it was broken, and when comes to the insane amount of glitches in this game, they sure didn't fix 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btwin92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  i have all of the other harvest moon games. i never really play any of them (my sisters play them) . 
 so im not defending it just because its a part of the harvest moon series. the game is truly amazing. 
 i got hooked. i cant put it down. even if you arent a big fan of the other harvest moon games, 
 give this one a shot. i dont know why gamespot gave it such a low score. it deserves wayyyy more 
 then that. its a ten in my book. sometimes reveiws seem weird. why did elite beat agents and new 
 super mario bros. get high ratings. new super mario bros. is okay, but its not that great. and 
 elite beat agents is awful, bad, boring, stupid, 0/10, stupid looking characters, dumb story, nothing 
 about it is good, nothing about it is even decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theuptonator
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  When I first bought my DS a few days ago, I'd done my research into a few games which I wanted 
 with it. After reading the gamespot review, I wasn't very confident about buying this one, but 
 being a big fan of Friends of Mineral Town, I went for it. I'm not sorry that I did!
  
  The basic story is that the Witch Princess (through a bunch of spells she did trying to be funny) 
 banished the Harvest Goddess (who is rather annoying in the opening cutscene by the way) to another 
 world. Being too busy (or lazy) to find her, the witch princess sends the Harvest Sprites to find 
 her. Then, you, the player are introduced somehow - being the great reviewer I am I can't remember 
 it ! Anyway, the basic concept of Harvest Moon is too make your farm business boom! Sound easy 
 ? Well it's not as easy as it sounds. For the DS version you only start off with a House and a 
 Stable, so you have to go around growing crops, and making a suitable income to buy an animal house 
 which is needed to own animals. It's all about strategy though! For example, you have to build 
 your animal house etc in places. Then you can either spend lots on the materials, or you can take 
 the time consuming option of getting all of the materials through means of chopping or smashing. 
 It takes a lot of time but it is very satisfying once you've got all the materials ready.
  
  The only thing I can say about this game that I dislike is the sound - it gets pretty irritating 
 at times.
  
  All in all, I feel that this is a good game - I really enjoy it at the present time, it keeps me 
 entertained - thats what it's supposed to do ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actingmatt96
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  This is definitely not the best Harvest Moon game I've played, but it is still that addictive, 
 fun game I love.
  
  I sometimes wish that there were easier ways to make money in this game. Cheats could come in handy, 
 and although I think cheats are... well.. cheating, sometimes you just need them!
  
  This game has too much in it. There is no point in having the dog and cat. Maybe it's just trying 
 to make this game seem like it's a real farm, but they could've done that without them!
  
  Well, that's the end of my review, but before I end this, I just want to tell you that I'm about 
 to play. This game is truly addictive... I can never leave it's side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicky-dragon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  I started playing it the other day and now I'm playing it every day, so it's pretty addictive. 
 I like the fact that you can raise animals and grow crops and so on so forth.
  I don't like the fact that your animals can die from the darn weather like snow storms if the shed 
 isn't strong enough.
  
  Learning how to play the game to me doesn't take long cause I'm a quick learner but now and then 
 I do get a little confused. I've learnt that you can't upgrade sheds, not that I know of anyway.
 
  
  Overall, it's a really nice game to play, even if it takes a while to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon all together is great I had no idea this one would be so much fun. You get to try 
 to rebuild your new farm: by getting animals, growing plants, and selling things you dig up.
  
  For the animals you can raise and sheer sheep, milk your cows, and ride your horses.
  
 
  To grow plants you have to buy the seeds, then plant them and sell anything that grows.
  
  And you can dig up all sorts of things to sell, especially things from the Mine.
  
  So I would 
 say if you like Harvest Moon or any kind of Sim then I would get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  As a longstanding fan of the Harvest Moon series, the latest edition for the Nintendo D. S. is a 
 welcome change! Gamespot's review, which I will not entirely disagree with, doesn't seem to take 
 into account that while much of the game is the same-haven't most all of them? Also, the HM: DS 
 edition apparently doesn't use the touch-screen enough to satisfy stylus monkeys.
  
  Despite the aforementioned perceived shortcomings of this edition, fans of the portability of the 
 D. S. will clearly appreciate the platform and the changes that have been brought to the game from 
 previous versions and assimilated into the D. S. version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cytheh
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  the game design is fun, i can say the best harvest moons are the one on ps1, ds, gba, 3 harvest 
 moons on GBC especially the third.
  
  the arguments that gamespot gave for the 5.9/10 is weird. Poor using of touch screen, ok... and 
  has a good using of touch screen?!?!!?!? i dont think so
  GRAPHIC... ok, when STARCRAFT came out it was not that great compare to the graphic of the other 
 RTS of the same period... Grand theft auto never had a great graphic, but so what. Graphic isnt 
 all what game needs. If graphic is so important then Nintendo WII is totally JUNK cuz ps3/xbox360 
 both have a lot better graphic, whoever that's not the case.
  The game has not a bit renovation since the last title (on gba) . Well... how about ps2 version GTA 
 liberty city story, and ViceCity story? both Vice city and GTA3 was on ps2. Not big difference 
 neither...........
  
  However there's one deadly NEGATIVE point for this harvest moon game.
  this can make any game 
 score drop from 10/10 to 0/10... some times, the game FREEZE! that's the only point that disapointed 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Time to go build your own farm, make lots of money, free 101 harvest sprites, save the Harvest 
 Goddess, marry a girl, have a child and make your farm the best. Not too much to do then! Addictive, 
 Fun, Awesome, And A Pleasant Surprise. Having never played this game before I did not know what 
 to expect so I borrowed it off of my mate and before long i was down the shop buying it. I would 
 not be able to recommend this for its graphics, becuse they are not that good but I would recommend 
 it for the gameplay. Grow crops, milk cows, shear sheep, look after ducks and chichkens and make 
 sure all your animals are happy. Not a thing often seen on a portable console game, more expected 
 for the PS2, Xbox, Wii and those sorts. The main storyline is that the Witch Princess accidentally 
 sent the Harvest Goddess and the Harvest Sprites to another world and you have to save them in 
 multiple ways. Shipping X crops, eating X of a food and the list goes on for ever more! Overall: 
 this game is mainly awesome for its game story/play not for its graphics and sound etc. But it 
 is recommended.
  http://rosslovesharvestmoon. bravehost. com Our cheats for HM DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackenedSky719
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 18, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  While this game most certainly isn' t the most intense game the DS has to offer it is most certainly 
 one of the most time consuming. This game uses the touch screen to make your farming experience 
 more interactive allowing you to actually milk, bathe, and brush your animals. The catch is that 
 you have to be willing to take the time to get that far. There are multiple things that make this 
 game entertaining and if you really do enjoy the Harvest Moon games you will enjoy this game. Many 
 of the characters are familiar from other Harvest Moon games and while the game play isn't the 
 same the basic concept is still the same and what any Harvest Moon fan loved about the game. The 
 wonderful thing about this game is that you can come back to it at anytime, you don't have to play 
 it constantly to remember what it is you have to do or where you last were. All in all I'd say 
 that Harvest Moon's first attempt on the DS it did a wonderful job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanthebond
Rating: 3.7
Date: May 18, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The immensly popular farming simulator is back for its first appearance on the Nintendo DS, and 
 this time around, the 'hoe' doesn't seem to be working.
  
  Once you start up the game, you will be greeted by the regular cute little characters that you 
 know and love. Unlike the Harvest Moon game for the GBA, Harvest Moon: Friends of Mineral Town 
 , this game's town is much larger, and based more on magic. Unlike in the GBA game where you had 
 to get down to the bottom level of the mine to get the 'Teleportation Stone', (a stone that allows 
 the user to teleport all over town) , the gamer just has to save up about 20,000 gold, and he can 
 purchase it. This makes the game incredibly easy to navigate, but some hardcore players may call 
 this cheating.
  
  The bottom screen displays your rucksack, as well as some other information. It remains pretty 
 useless for the game. One of the things you can do is teleport to a certain location on the map 
 using the 'Teleportation Stone'. Otherwise, the screen just takes up battery life.
  
  The game is all good until you get in about a month and suddenly it freezes. The game's screen 
 turns blue and freezes. It may be a month, it may be a week, but the game will crap out on you. 
 This is a widespread problem, one that Natsume, the game's publisher, has not acknowledged. This 
 makes the game completely unplayable and frustrating due to the fact that it does not automatically 
 save, and you will rarely remember unless you are quiting the game at the time.
  
  Due to the problem with the cartridge and it freezing while you walk down the street, I give this 
 game a:
  
  3.7/10
  
  Pros:
  - Getting the 'Teleportation Stone' is a treat so early in the game.
  - There are numerous characters 
 in the town.
  -The town is very large.
  
  Cons:
  - The game freezes up, losing all saved data. This is the worst con of all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samslayer
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 5, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I will tell everyone that I am a fan of Harvest Moon, ever since the SNES version came out I've 
 been hooked. I received my DS as a gift, and I was excited because I could play some whole-hearted 
 games, that do not take to much commitment. So, with this, I bought Harvest Moon DS, I was looking 
 forward to farming, raising some cows, and just having fun. Well, the game started off like any 
 other Harvest Moon game, and as the game progressed it never changed from any other Harvest Moon 
 game. Yes, there are some cheesy touch screen stuff, which in reality, get very boring and tiring 
 to do over and over. I am not sure if it is my game cart., DS, or not, but I have noticed several 
 bugs, every once in a while, my touch screen will turn blank for normal gameplay, and also the 
 game will freeze from time to time. All in all though, if you are a big fan of Harvest Moon, consider 
 getting the game; however, if you only enjoy the game, just keep playing your old ones, there really 
 isn't much difference! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandwein
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  The game is fun but it is very close to the GBA version. The graphics are ok and the game play 
 is easy. I can understand if you never played any of the Harvest Moon series, one would be very 
 excited. I have played every console of Harvest Moon. This version is good and to me it is one 
 that I will keep and play. I love the concept of Farming . Though I never farmed in reality, this 
 gives me a chance to do what farmers do daily. To enjoy this game, one has to have the desire to 
 take on the responsibility of taking care of animals, growing crops, and finding a bride to be. 
 Nothing like living in today's society!!! Ha HA Ha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nyakinat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  This game is sooo awsome i love waistin my life on this game it feels like your really living and 
 i love it!!! This game has soo much life to it!! Its klike you dnt even have enough time in a day 
 to do things but thats the great thing about it its hnot a bit boring!!! It always feel like Your 
 doing somthing!! I love it!!! This game is fun in soo many different ways u get married and have 
 kids and its all different than a reguklar game its sooooo awsome!!!! Play it!!! You can spend 
 hours on this game without even realizing your still playing it has sooo much life and fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JacKYH0831
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I first want to say I was a big fan of Friends of Mineral Town on Game Boy Advance. So I got the 
 DS version thinking this would be better. Actually this game sucked. I got boring real quick and 
 there are lots of glitches, most noticeably the door glitch. If you don't have a Harvest Moon and 
 game and looking into getting into it, I recommend getting the FoMT or MFoMT on Game Boy Advance 
 instead.
  
  Pros:
  1) Harvest Moon Game
  2) Same basic gameplay
  3) new DS capabilities
  
  Cons:
  1) many glitches
  2) English dubbing is worse than some 
 on anime shows
  3) story not as interesting as previous games
  4) new casino games are sorta cheap and too easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hate-this-werid
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is very borning the only thing you do is water crops!!! Other then watering crops 
 you are taking care of your live-stock (i have 2 cows/2sheep/2chickens) which i have to take care 
 of every day that is so tireing. Will you can order the harvest sprites to water your crops for 
 you but it takes alot of money for 7 days it's like 350 medals! When i first got this game i thought 
 it was pretty good but after a couple of days later i gave up playing it altogether. I also thought 
 it was kind of childish it's these little things thier the harvest sprites but the people in the 
 game are so childish. I think this would be a great game for a player at age 10 to 12. I am 14 
 years old and that is probably why i don't like it. This game is not fully bad it has some fun 
 parts in it like the consino i love that place!!. You can fish with your rod ( you can get it on 
 saturdays on 9:00 at the old fishing buddy's house it's by the beach) . I like playing it from now 
 and then but i don't think it's a very good game but the graphics are really good such as when 
 you are doing the mini games on your live stock like petting them/brushing them/milking them/ to 
 even sherring the wool of a sheep the mini games are really fun. Overall this game is a little 
 on the half way bad side of the scale i would say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge Harvest Moon fan for a long time and when I heard that a Harvest Moon game was 
 coming to the Nintendo DS I couldn't be more thrilled. The game starts off with a witch who makes 
 the Harvest Goddess and her Sprites disappear and you or Jack how ever you want to call him must 
 find all 101+ Harvest Sprites to bring back the Harvest Goddess. You must do a bunch of tasks to 
 free these Sprites like checking an empty pot or milking cows so many amount of times.
  
  Unlocking the Sprites is one of the many things you can do in this game. You are able farm, raise 
 animals, and go fishing. One of the big things in the series that draws a lot of new Harvest Moon 
 gamers to play the game is having a family of your own. All you have to do is woo a girl of your 
 choice from the local town with some items that she likes and just ask for their hand in marriage 
 when their heart level is red. Later in the game you will find out that your wife is pregnant with 
 a child! The game play in this game is very simple, so getting into the game will be no problem 
 at all.
  
  Some of the flaws that I found with Harvest Moon: SS is that the game has a lot of glitches that 
 can get in the way when you are playing. One of these glitches is when your in the middle of doing 
 something when the game all of the sudden freezes. This makes you have to turn off the game and 
 restart from the last place you saved. I might as well warn you that if you do not like games like 
 the Sims and Animal crossing you will most likely not enjoy Harvest Moon: SS. This game can get 
 boring at times if you play the game for hours and hours on. That is why I advise you to play a 
 limited time a day so you may enjoy the game longer then if you have played it constantly for hours 
 a day. So in my own opinion I think Harvest Moon Sprites Station worth picking up if you have a 
 Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyiscrazzy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  My oppinion of harvest moon ds. Its was a 10 on the fun scale my game glitches a lot. I also found 
 the whole story line awesome it is  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~! 
  ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !!! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! OMFG O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O OO O O O O O O O O OOOO O O O O O O O O O O O O OO O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrIlluminati
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Well, This is a Very, Very Good Game. I Bought i thinking Should I do this ? But now I See it was 
 a Very Worthy Buy. I Began to play it and I Was'nt familiarized with the controls, but 10 Minutes 
 after, I Already was a Controlling Master.
  If you like Simulation Games, this is a Basic Game at your Collection. If you like Harvest Moon, this 
 is Definitely a Basic Game at your Collection. The DS' Touch Screen makes the game very good. With 
 It, you can bath your animals, brush'em, Pet'em, and with the Stylus you can organize your Rucksack 
 Very Well. but there is a problem : The Game Stops Without Advise. But the far I Know it is only 
 until you finish Year Two. Well, I've enjoyed it Too Much, and I Think you should too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro_Sannuzuki
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Great game, but the graphics are just the same as the Mineral Town one's, thta's the only thing 
 I think it could be better than the others... The game is great for all ages, the farm managements 
 are great stuff, to build stuff, you need to select a place to build it, it's not like the others 
 that the building were already there... Another great thing in this game, for me is that you are 
 a boy... I wanted a Harvest Moon game that was with a boy as the main character... This game is 
 a great addiction to the Harvest Moon family... The Witch Princess VS Harvest Goddess is really 
 great, nice and good to watch... O. K., the point is that it's a game for everybody to play, a great 
 game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Once again Harvest Moon has made hit! This game is a lot of fun and just about anyone could play 
 it. It seems to play more like Magical Melody for game cube crossed with Friends of Minor town 
 for the GBA. Like all of the games in this line you grow crops and raise animals, Get married and 
 have a child. This game does have a few more things like a Mushroom Shed and shed for you stone 
 and gold lumber. The graphics and sound are good and the game play is great! You can play for hours 
 and still not have the time you would like to get everything done. This game is worth the money 
 and will be a classic for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunflora263
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. It's just like the other harvest moon games. Plus all those fricken stages 
 in the mines. What were they thinking? There were so many it took forever to get threw them. Also 
 all those stupid animal inside you have to fight are annoying. But all those crystals are very 
 nice and expensive so you do get lots of money. There's a bunch of glitches in it. Even one to 
 get a million gold. This would be better if it was exactly like the old harvest moon. When you 
 didn't need to do the rival events, didn't have to get have to get the 3rd fricken mine in order 
 to get makers which cost 20 thousand gold each, didn't have all those levels in the mine. I mean 
 50 is enough we don't need over 2 thousand levels of fight anilmal and constanly fainting and losing 
 half your money. then gatting pissed because you just lost half your gold. Esspecially if you faint 
 outside that poor guy comes and takes half your money. And when you talk to him you can't get your 
 money back. Now that I think about it this game kind of sucks. Also in order to get married you 
 need to get 60 harvest spirits. I liked this game better when there were 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireOcean
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I personally thought this was one of the best games in the Harvest Moon series. At least they managed 
 to use the touch screen in some pretty fun ways &gt;.&lt;
  
  The gameplay was pretty alright - everything was still there, and there were still the basics, 
 and it was fun to do the casino thing back in the Harvest Sprite company ( I was stupid and I couldn't 
 unlock the all the casino sprites for 4 weeks when it was clearly written in the instruction booklet) . 
 I was kinda freaked out 'cause I'm a GIRL and I had to play as a GUY and court a GIRL so I could 
 beat the game and get the credits rolling. That was really, really weird, but never mind.
  
  The music was a bit repetitive - at first I thought it was pretty cool but later on I got a 
 a bit bored and listened to rock music while playing that game ~.^
  
  One last thing - I thought it was pretty cool that you could watch TV wherever you wanted to, even 
 in the stormy weather where you couldn't go out. In the previous GBA games, it completely cut the 
 TV off when the weather was stormy. NOOO!!!!! Now all they have to do is to release the translated 
 female version and I'll be satisfied. For now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefanatic544
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Harvest Moon DS is a great role-playing game with lot's of things to do which never get you bored. 
 They have lot's of new interactive mini games which let you do normal stuff on your farm like milking, 
 petting, washing, etc. Harvest Moon also includes some other new features such as being able to 
 play Black Jack and some other card games. I recommend this game to Harvest Moon fans and non Harvest 
 Moon fans. If you never played a Harvest Moon game before and have a DS then you'll get hooked 
 right in when you start playing Harvest Moon DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit222
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I tried playing HM in the old GBA version and disliked it. But I really enjoy this game. There's 
 a lot more to do and more characters to interact with. As a matter of fact, there's almost TOO 
 MUCH TO DO, and not enough day to do it in. People say it is repetitive, but seasons come and go 
 so quickly that I don't find it repetitive. Everyday there's something new to try and new people 
 to meet. You can work on the farm, kill critters in the mines, find jewels, fish, search for sprites 
 or find the one you love. I highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys Sims or Animal Crossing 
 DS games. It is very similar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tintin2k4
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I am one of the few that have been playing the Harvest Moon series since SNES days. Harvest Moon 
 for SNES is still to this day one of my favorites games. I also spent many hours on Harvest Moon 
 64. Same with HM Back to Nature and so on. So it goes without saying I am big fan of the series. 
 That said...
  
  The same old routine in every game is just getting old. The game plan hasn't changed at all since 
 I played this game 8 or so years ago. Everytime they make another HM it seems they had a few different 
 things and change the map up a little bit, maybe switch some names on the characters. This HM is 
 different though. There is a completely different town and all new characters, which is good because 
 the same cast has been with us for a long time now. You can plant trees if your getting tired of 
 plants. There are community lands that you can grow stuff yourself.
  
  Harvest Moon DS is without a doubt a good addition to this series and is not just the same game 
 with a little difference. I want to give this a good rating but I can't because I think this series 
 is or needs to come to an end. Harvest Moon just takes so much time to get anywhere and if I'm 
 going to squander hours on a video game it won't be this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissitMeDominus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  5,9????
  una vez mas los muchachos de gamespot fueron muy estrictos juzgando un juego
  si es cierto no hubieron muchas mejoras con respecto al juego anterior pero aun asi este juego 
 tiene lo suyo
  el clasico sistema de juego de HM siempre es bueno, de eso no tenemos duda, en este se involucra 
 mas ese mundo magico detras de los tomates, papas y gallinas, el echo de tener que buscar a los 
 duendes, y el sistema de casino le agregan bastante interez al juego.
  
  en teoria el juego se mantiene aferrado a sus versiones aneriores... pero eso que tiene de malo???? 
 buen juego con algunos defectos pero nada que no se pueda pasar po alto
  
  nota: Bueno leer una review en espa&ntilde; ol para variar no??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Millerboy101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Well where do I start? This is quite possibly THE best harvest moon thats arrived on our shores 
 in an AGE. Why, I hear you ask? Well its simple, this new addition includes many old and new features. 
 For example, do you remember the old god hand from early harvest moon outings? Well its back and 
 its better than ever, this time around you can use it to milk, groom and control your cattle all 
 through the touch screen, somewhat more efficient than pushing and shoving your cow or sheep 
 into the barn at night. In a way this adventure is a sort of sequel to the GBA Harvest Moon: Friends 
 of Mineral Town, as its located beneath the town in Forgetmenot Valley (gamecube owners may recognise 
 this as the location of Harvest Moon: A Wonderful Life) . The same old characters are walking about 
 town this time around swell as one or two new ones (i. e. the witch princess, the newly included 
 101 harvest sprites etc.) . There are a range of young ladies for you to attempt to woo and eventually 
 marry, Harvest Moon: A Wonderful Life featured three possible wives whereas in the valley now there 
 are EIGHT town members (including the four harder to achieve maidens such as Harvest Goddess and 
 Leia the Mermaid) and another five from Mineral Town (They will visit if you put your Harvest Moon: 
 Friends Of Mineral Town game pack in the GBA slot) . There is an abundance of mini games available 
 in the game, all enclosed within the Harvest Sprite Tree. The mines have made a return as well, 
 bringing a host of new items and ENEMIES, thats right, this is the first Harvest Moon to include 
 full on FIGHTING!! The enemies consist of black or glowing version of simple farm animals and flying 
 insects, you take care of these blighters with a simple smack with one of you farm tools. Mind 
 you, there IS a sword available for all you wannabe farmer/hero types. There are three mines this 
 time round, not including Carters dig site. I could go on and on about this games abundance of 
 features and characters and the new purchasable island off the beach (oops, I wasnt meant to say 
 that) but that would mean that I cant play it myself and my golden lumber shed is almost complete 
 so Ill love you and leave you fellow farmers. This is Millerboy signing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I am a sucker for Harvest Moon games. Its one of those series that once you like it, youll like 
 every single installment that will come out, no matter how many times the same village and characters 
 are used. This time Natsume pulls out Forget-Me-Not Valley for another installment in Harvest Moon 
 DS.
  
  Let me tell you this, if you love the Harvest Moon games. Stop reading now. Seriously, this game 
 is a good installment for your DS and improves on the game play from Harvest Moon: Friends of Mineral 
 Town.
  
  Youll start out just like every other Harvest Moon game. You, and I mean not a character you play 
 as, decide to start off on the farming life. But unlike the previous installments, you dont have 
 most of the necessities to begin. Thats right, no lumber yard, no silo, no barnyard, nothing. 
 Youll have to pull all your resources together to purchase your necessities to build your farm 
 from the ground up.
  
  Game play wise is a bit improved. The touch screen makes managing your rucksack a bit easier. Youll 
 also be able to navigate maps, your diary, and a Harvest Sprite TV all on the bottom screen where 
 the top screen is your wonderful little area. If by any chance you get lazy and just want to use 
 the entire game using the stylus, the game also offers a simulated DS controller that uses a portion 
 of the screen, all thats missing is the Start and Select button.
  
  Players of A Wonderful Life will instantly recognize the layout of the area and will already know 
 most of the villagers, but for newcomers the change of pace isnt all that bad from Mineral Town. 
 You can even insert your Friends of Mineral Town cartridge to form relationships with the girls 
 from that game, however if you pursue them, know that your game will end if you marry them.
  
  Graphically it is still the same as the GBA counterpart. Seeming its on the DS, I was hoping 
 for an improvement in the graphics. The sounds are also similar to the GBA counterpart. However 
 dont get me wrong, either way this game is good.
  
  While playing Harvest Moon DS, it made me want to play A Wonderful Life over again. For players 
 who have played the Gamecube and Playstation 2 counterpart, you may feel the same way, having the 
 benefits that A Wonderful Life gave you at the start instead of the DS counterpart. But nevertheless, 
 Harvest Moon DS gives you the same great game that fans of the Harvest Moon franchise are used 
 to. Now if only they can remake the original Harvest Moon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headfonejaxx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Fairly decent gameplay. My favorite so far out of the games. Lots of improvement on interaction.
 
  
  As there have been many of these games, it's hard to pick it out to be the best of them. The chores 
 and daily activities haven't changed, but Natsume has added little touch-screen features such as 
 interacting with cows, sheep, chickens, ducks, and your pet dog and cat. It's simple stuff. The 
 tools and upgrades are all still there, and the girls of this town are all picky in their own ways. 
 Also, you can still acquire the girls of Mineral Town if you so choose. It's more difficult, but 
 they show up for events mostly. A good, well-rounded game that hasn't improved too much in general 
 gameplay, but hasn't decreased satisfaction either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, i think I am a 'Strawberry' kind of person. Though whatever your Fruit, Vegetable, 
 Sprite ect. You have to see, if this game is for you...
  
  Gameplay \\ 6/10 Don't get me wrong, i am an addict for Harvest Moon, BUT... i dont like it when 
 if you get ONE heart event wrong, she isn't going to ever like you agiain. Plus, if you feel that 
 you dont like repetitive gameplay, you just wont like this game. Here's what you do;
  
   Wake Up
   Go to girlfriend, and spoil her with cheezy gifts
   Follow her all day, only 
 to be disappointed when you dont find out that her heart event didnt happen today
   Look at your pedometer, and go... WOW, didnt do much productive today
   Find out tomorrow, 
 that her heart event happened yesterday an hour later.
   Repeat steps, over... and over... and over... UNLESS yoou have crops. Then you can just add the 
 step in.
  
  Thats about it. Sound \\ 7/10
  
  Its a DS game, dont expect big, but for what is given, meh..
  
  Graphics \\ 6/10
  
  w00t 
 I just love GBA graphics on my DS! :l
  
  ANYWAYS, get it, if you like Harvest Moon, if you dont... well... why did you read this review... 
 eh? You can now look away! But thanks for wasting your life on this very page 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnesNinja
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all let me say im aware of the slightly awkward touch screen configurations for this 
 game. All that aside this is a great Harvest Moon game. It still has all the charm and fun of the 
 other Harvest Moon games. The game is set in the valley where HM A Wonderful Life took place, which 
 i can say is definitely the least appealing of all Harvest Moon villages. A plus side to this is 
 that a few new characters have been added, and Mineral Townsfolk will occasionally visit if you 
 have the FOMT GBA cartridge. One thing different this time around in the valley are festivals, 
 which brings a lot more to the game.
  
  The goal in this game is to find all of the Harvest Sprites by completing tasks. The tasks all 
 fall into 1 of 7 categories excluding secret sprites.
  
  The game expands on crop raising by allowing the player to level up their crops by using them with 
 a seed maker and sowing multiple bags of seeds in one spot and thus growing the next level of crop. 
 This is extremely profitable bosting individual crops selling for millions of gp at high levels.
 
  
  Mining in this game is definitely improved with the additions of accessories and tools that can 
 be found on various levels, the player can either them or sell them off for a high price some even 
 in the millions. un-curse Animals in this game are more interactive with the addition of the petting 
 glove, but also become more of a hassle and are quite useless for making money.
  
  Cooking and fishing in this game are still very basic and do not compare to other installments 
 such as magical melody.
  
  Overall this is a great Harvest Moon game that any HM fan would enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theartistgamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  When the game came out, I was just excited. Not because I was expecting some amazing, breath taking 
 game; Because I'm a lover of the Harvest Moon series. Gamespot gave it a poor rating because, if 
 you're not a addicted fan of the series, you aren't getting much out of it. But for the rest of 
 us, who in fact loved FoMT and MFoMT, this game is just another addition to the series.
  
  HM: DS is based on FoMT in the town from AWL. It's supposed to take place 100 years in the future. 
 (If you connect to mineral town, then go look at the big rock above where the construction site 
 is, it will say Here lays legendary farmer _____ from your mineral town.) There are 9 Bachlorettes 
 (Muffy, Lumina, Celia, Naomi, Flora, Harvest Goddess, Witch Princess, and two new additions to 
 the series; Leia the Mermaid and Keira the Cave Princess... or something.) You can also married 
 the girls from Mineral Town, but in doing so you end your game.
  
  The Witch Princess has a prank go wrong, and all the sprites and the Harvest Goddess Disappear. 
 Obviously, you are called to find the 101 sprites, and free the Harvest Goddess. (This becomes 
 a pain when you have to find 60 to get married.) You find them by doing things such as shipping 
 1,000 items and breaking 100 stones, just general things you would do playing the game like you're 
 supposed to. They also have something called Sprite Stations. There are nine sprites (named after 
 the planets) that host television shows accessable from your rucksack, which takes up the bottom 
 of the screen. One is the television show, one is the weather, etc. You have to find them also 
 by doing random things around your farm.
  
  Some new features have been added, such as the fact that your farm comes with nothing, and you 
 have to work to buy it all from Gotz. (The stores are called from your house, instead of going 
 through the town.) You have the choices of building your buildings out of fodder, wood, stone, 
 or golden lumber. Fodder is obviously not the sturdiest thing in the world, and golden lumber is 
 unbreakable. Buildings fall down. If you have cows in a barn made of fodder, and it's raining, 
 it's possible that your building will fall and all your animals will die.
  
  Other features have been added like there are for different mines, with the levels going from 10 
 in the first and 65,335 in the last. (How you're ever supposed to get through that many levels... 
 Don't ask me.)
  
  A few other things have been added, that make the game a great addition to the Harvest Moon series.
 
  
  On the bad side... There are many, many glitches. None of them seriously mess up your game, but 
 some of them are worse than others.
  
  In conclusion, I really love this game and I think if you truly loved FoMT or MFoNT, you would 
 love this game and it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  For those who have toiled along the sun-parched fields of Harvest Moon over the years, one thing 
 has been made evidently clear: repetition is fun. Combining the occupation of farming with the 
 genre of simulation, Natsume has kept their hardworking fan-base busy for over a decade. Though 
 obscure in the glory days of the SNES, the series has definitely busted onto the scene in recent 
 years. Whether by word-of-mouth or a lack of first-party Nintendo games (which we should all be 
 used to) , Harvest Moon has sort of become the ultimate reality simulator. Whether youre tilling 
 that last spot of barren land or milking your cow for the hundredth time, there is an irreplaceable 
 charm underneath all that manual labor, rarely found in games today.
  
  Yet, there is a problem.
  
  It is the one thing that has always been a consistent problem in 
 this series and that is its lack of game-play diversity between releases. Yes, it is safe to say 
 that each individual game in the series is solid. However, for those who have followed the farming 
 simulator since the earlier days, there have been times where we have felt a disappointing sensation 
 of deja-vu. Example being the nearly identical versions of Harvest Moon 64 and Harvest Moon: Back 
 to Nature. Though different in name, each title shared the same characters, animals, and practically 
 the same town. And unfortunately, the same can be said for the Game Boy Advance version of Friends 
 of Mineral Town and Natsumes latest offering for the dual-screen handheld, Harvest Moon DS.
  
  Thats not to say that the title is poor, its just that, well, nothing has really changed. 
 Despite all the system changes the series has gone through over the years, the core game-play hasnt 
 changed in the slightest. If the last Harvest Moon you played was on the SNES back in the nineties, 
 then you could jump into any of the others with little effort. Tilling land, managing crops, upgrading 
 buildings, and making friends are still your primary objectives and it is safe to say that Natsume 
 caters more to gathering new fans than keeping old ones. Yet, fans keep coming back, hoping for 
 that one change that will rekindle the passion for their delightful, little reality sim. Nevertheless, 
 if you are new to this particular collaboration of farming-oriented games, then you are in for 
 a good time. And where else could those good times be held, but the place where it always starts.
 
  
  Ah the farm, always the location where your blue-collar adventures begin. You start as a young 
 boy in Forget-Me-Not Valley, living a simple life in the quaint little town. However, things are 
 not always what they seem. Through some magical mischief, brought about by the Witch Princess, 
 the Harvest Goddess is petrified and sent to another dimension, along with most of the helpful 
 little sprites. Realizing her wrong doing, the princess enlists your help to try and bring her 
 back. How you may ask? Well, by farming of course, what else? Despite the unique back-story, not 
 much has changed as far as introductions go. Within minutes you will begin clearing out your crappy, 
 weed-filled backyard as you have done in every other Harvest Moon game, all the while trying to 
 get used to the new control scheme brought about by the DS.
  
  The touch screen acts as your access window in Harvest Moon DS, allowing you to reach in and pull 
 items out of that big, orange rucksack. Within that backpack you will notice three distinct placeholders, 
 them being: tool, item, and accessory. Though the first two should be familiar to any regular, 
 the newly added equip option brings about an RPG approach to the series. As you continue to gain 
 prestige and wealth, or what little you can in such a small setting, you will find it easier to 
 unlock these unique items. Items that will let you recover lost stamina, transport from place to 
 place, and even improve the happiness of your animals. The animal glove, for example, brings about 
 the other use of the touch screen, allowing you to brush, wash, and pet your animals through a 
 compilation of quick mini-games. It is undoubtedly intriguing, however, this feature remains as 
 one of the few new game-play elements. Beyond this point you should instantly recognize practically 
 everything, assuming youve been playing these games for some time.
  
  The game is certainly more challenging this time around though. Rather than having the bird and 
 material sheds handed to you at the beginning of the game, you will have to earn them through a 
 little bit of ingenuity and elbow grease. Planting crops is definitely a priority in the early 
 seasons, with the casino being a useful way to make a bit of money on the side. Speaking of crops, 
 there are plenty to pick from, with over twenty vegetables available for harvesting. Trees also 
 give you a break from tending to your large gardens, providing extra income without you even having 
 to lift a finger. In due time, you will have acquired the necessary buildings, allowing you to 
 raise livestock, poultry, and of course, a trusty steed.
  
  Life as a farmer can definitely be lonely at times, so heading down to the village for some social 
 activities is essential. Those who played through A Wonderful Life will have no problem remembering 
 most of its unique inhabitants. Who could forget the shy giant Cody, the introverted scientist 
 Daryll, or the loveable hobo Murrey? Well, too be honest, most tried to after the disappointing 
 mess that was A Wonderful Life, but its hard not to remember when the game came out just two years 
 ago. Agendas run rampant for the townsfolk of Forget-Me-Not Village and learning their schedules 
 is key for accessing secret events, unlocking particular tools, or raising their friendship levels. 
 Nevertheless, as always, there resides the most important individuals in each farming adventure 
 youve ever undergone  the women.
  
  Wish getting married in reality was as easy as it is to in this game? You should. In fact, everyone 
 should . . . unless you like being single. As always, there resides five primary bachelorettes, 
 with several unlockable ones along the way. Each has their own unique personality, likes, dislikes, 
 and locations they enjoy visiting. After some trial and error, you will memorize your lady of choices 
 favorite things and proceed to raise her friendship and heart levels. This can be done by giving 
 some gifts, unlocking their heart scenes, and attending the festivals regularly. The core element 
 of marriage as a whole hasnt really changed and those familiar with the system will probably be 
 married by the end of the first year. Just another thing Natsume couldve expanded upon, but didnt.
 
  
  Okay, maybe there is one new addition in Harvest Moon DS that hasnt been in its predecessors 
 . . . but it isnt very good. In fact, it is just as monotonous as the primary farming game-play 
 can eventually become. What is being talked about here is the implementation of a dungeon-crawling 
 mechanic. Wait, what? Dungeon elements in a farming simulator? Yeah, it befuddles me too.
  
  It all takes place within the mine and at first, it will seem just like the traditional cave 
 from the earlier titles. Hoeing here and there, collecting ore and random stuff along the way, 
 nothing out of the ordinary right? Well, you will soon discover floors and below the first floor 
 you will unearth the most bizarre of items and creatures, that you would never think would come 
 out of a Harvest Moon title. Evil chickens, cursed tools, and even a mysterious maiden await for 
 you within the bowels of the earth, with the floor levels ranging from fifty to over sixty-five 
 thousand! The repetition isnt too noticeable at first glance, but within an hour you will realize 
 the lack of diversity between floors, with the problem compounded even more due to the HP system. 
 Here you are, on floor 1,243 and you havent saved in a while. Then all of a sudden, thump! You 
 just fell over two hundred floors through a random hole and lost all of your health.
  
  Fantastic.
  
  Despite the lack of uniqueness and the negativity brought upon by the few new 
 approaches to the series, there is one positive to Harvest Moon DS, and it has to do with the presentation. 
 The visuals have certainly improved since the farming simulators outing on the Game Boy Advance, 
 with vibrant landscapes and better drawn character models enveloping the top and bottom screens. 
 The game features plenty of catchy new soundtracks, that would be even better if the same song 
 didnt play throughout all thirty days of a season. The addition of purchasable songs from previous 
 Harvest Moon titles makes up for this, with over twenty of them available for purchase as you progress 
 throughout. You always have the option to turn down the volume though.
  
  At the end of the day, what else can be said but  this is Harvest Moon. If you have been a faithful 
 fan since day one and dont care whether or not anything ever changes in this series, then have 
 fun. If you are a newcomer, there is no better place to start. There is plenty of work to be done 
 and those worrying about time restriction can relax a bit in knowing that the game continues forever. 
 Year three, six, or even forty-four are all possible, just in case you want to continue your progress 
 from home, work, or on the road. However, if you are one of those that likes change, look elsewhere. 
 To be honest, the game is really just a combination of A Wonderful Life and Friends of Mineral 
 Town. So if you own one or both of these games, just save your money.
  
  Hey, if youre really desperate for a new simulator, theres always Animal Crossing . . . unless 
 youve bought that too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PharaohsVizier
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon DS is getting bashed from all major reviewers because of its strikingly similar graphics, 
 gameplay, sounds, sprites, and so on from the greatest game of all times on the GBA, Harvest Moon: 
 Friends of Mineral Town. I would say that it is true that it takes almost everything from that 
 game, but I would not deduct as many points as IGN, Gamespot, Gamespy and so on did. They took 
 a system that worked well, and just put it out again, didn't change anything because it worked. 
 This is a good and bad thing, it kept everything that was great about the GBA, which is everything. 
 The game is very playable, very fun, and retains everything you loved in Harvest Moon: Friends 
 of Mineral Town. As a negative side, as a result of taking it directly from the GBA version, it 
 basically lost all touch screen functionality, the few things they use the touch screen for feels 
 like a cheap gimmick.
  
  Harvest Moon DS is a very playable game. You are a farmer, and you need to farm to save the Harvest 
 Goddess, throughout the game you also find sprites that help you in certain ways. In the game, 
 you not only farm (digging, watering, planting, so on) you also meet girls. Your job is to farm, 
 get money, woo a girl, and marry her. That is true with all the Harvest Moon games. If you've never 
 played a Harvest Moon game before, then you may think that this is a very stupid idea that will 
 never work. But Harvest Moon is an age old series, starting in the original Gameboy and the SNES. 
 The formula has been reworked many many times. Just the Gameboy alone has 3 versions. The game 
 is highly addictive, even if it doesn't sound like it. You will find yourself playing for hours 
 and not even realize it.
  
  The controls for Harvest Moon DS is good, it retains the complex but easy (yes I know its contradictory, 
 but once you get the hang of it, it is very good) controls of the GBA version. The touch screen 
 is used a little bit, and every time I use it, I want to cry, it is so badly implemented. If you 
 never use the touchscreen, then the controls are good, but when you use the touch screen, it really 
 sucks.
  
  Overall, this game is taken largely from the Gameboy Advance version, the similarities are too 
 big to ignore. The game is in no way bad, in fact it is great. The only problem is, if you had 
 played the Gameboy Advance version, you don't want to play this one. If you haven't, pick this 
 game up, it is worth every dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgban64pcgc
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I heard from my friend that this is supposed to be a rrreeaalllyyy good game. I had never 
 even known there was such a series of Harvest Moon, but nonetheless I got curious and decided to 
 get it. When I first started, I was lost. The way they introduce the story line is definatly unorganized. 
 I was confused. After the ten minutes that it took for me to finally figure out the plot line, 
 I realized that it wasn't really really really good like my friend had suggested to me, but it 
 still is a good game.
  
  For people who are familier to the HM series, you may think differently, but I myself think I speak 
 for all the new Harvest Moon-ers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangaLord_TAW
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  I'll say it right away, on first glance Harvest Moon DS is just like the GBA game (Friends of Mineral 
 Town) , however, this is not the case. It actually tries out a lot of things that were never in 
 the Harvest Moon series (I'm a veteran, I can tell) and really expands the experience that is Harvest 
 Moon in general. So, this is (for the most part) just like any Harvest Moon, you start a farm, 
 grow crops, raise livestock, start a family and try to start with 2 bags of seeds and some pocket 
 change and turn that into a thriving farm. This has always been what the series is about, and always 
 will be, so of course it doesnt change the formula.
  
  Don't fix something that isn't broken . That's what the developers probably thought. Instead of 
 that, the game has several major enhancements compared to any other Harvest Moon. Such as more 
 types of animals to take care of (Duck's, cats) , easier control overall (Harvesting crops has really 
 become a less frustrating thing to do, because of the overhaul of the backpack system, you can 
 now store the same kind of item in one slot for about 10 times) , and the biggest innovation of 
 all :
  
  Designing your farm.
  
  That's right, you start this game with only your house and a stable, the rest is up to you build. 
 You place buildings anywhere on your farm, and you really have to put some thought in where you 
 want to place them, from what kind of material they should be made etc. There's some really interesting 
 buildings in there, such as a factory-thingy in which you can make cheese and butter out of your 
 milk, to a full-fledged mushroom greenhouse, in which you can tend to all kinds of mushrooms.
 
  
  It's too bad that the graphic's haven't improved at all, but I can live with that, Harvest Moon 
 never used to be about stunning graphics, and I think the sprites are made really well, the character 
 drawing's in particular are a step up to previous Harvest Moon's.
  
  The DS stuff that was put in isn't really great, but it also isn't the focus of the game. It basicly 
 let's you pet your animals and order your inventory.
  
  In short, Harvest Moon offers a familiar experience, but it has enough new features to get even 
 a big veteran such as myself excited. A must-buy for fans of the series! (And if you have Friends 
 of Mineral Town, a lot of familiar characters will appear, which is a nice touch if youre nostalgic 
 :P) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNYROCx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Overview: very addicting and amusing. its not one of those games where you play it for 2 days and 
 then say, yeah, whatever, been there, done that. The only thing i dont like, are the negative glitches, 
 some are just annoying, but others will make you have to restart your game.
  
  Gameplay: This game is like bacon: You gotta love it, it stays fresh for a looong time, It passes 
 loads of time and it's great on sandwiches... O, o... wait a second...
  
  Graphics: a bit blocky, but not so much that it iterferes with gameplay. I like the little high-detail 
 portraits that appear when you talk to someone..
  
  Sound: the low point of the game but, not that bad. it gets a little repetitive.
  
  Value: 
 This game has replay value, which i like in a game. You can replay and see if you can marry a different 
 girl. Also, you can have 2 files at once, so you can try something, and if it doesent work out, 
 you have your other file.
  
  Tilt: it's JUST PLAIN FUN.
  
  I just got this game a month ago, i've (probably) already played 20-40 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crlake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I can understand if you dont like the game, because its not for everyone. But 5.9? Did you guys 
 even play the game? This Harvest Moon, the best one of the series. Its SO much easier to play; 
 bigger backpack, quicker ways to make money, the villagers are less obnoxious, and the girls arent 
 as stuck-up. This game is NOT for everyone. You have to have a very patient personality to play 
 this all the way through. (I havent done it yet  I get board just before I get married) Its 
 really is the game in which NOTHING happens. Ive agreed with almost all of Gamespots ratings, 
 but this one is WAY OFF. 7.5 is fair, because nothing has changed, but the quality has been greatly 
 improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarvesterMoon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I'll start out by saying, I am a really big fan of Harvest Moon, and I see nothing wrong with this 
 game. 'Harvestbuddy' was SO wrong. 
  
  The game's graphics are very similiar to HM: FoMT, but man, that game was cool, and so is this 
 one. The game is designed using similiar code, but it's still fun! Is there something wrong with 
 it? Maybe just the fact that MY copy has locking-up issues, but it's still fun, y'know? So why 
 bother getting it? 'Cause its so fun! If you are a TRUE HM fan, you should show the love to Natsume, 
 Inc.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harvestbuddy
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 6, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  Although the game is fun, the game play gets repetitive and it reminds you of playing Harvest Moon: 
 Friends of Mineral Town. The slight changes are the touch screen, but it's usually hard to move 
 around from Buttons to the Touch Screen. The graphics hasn't improved as much. Everyone still looks 
 as if they're from the GBA Version, except when you use the touch screen, which is often only for 
 petting the animals and washing them. The music gets irritating after a while. It doesn't sound 
 much of an improvement. But other than that, it's a pretty fun game for a couple hours a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wal0026
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon DS at a first glance seems like it can be a great title, especially with all the possible 
 controls due to the stylis. However closer up Harvest moon DS is this game that relies heavily 
 on it's previous games, while delivery little new content.
  
  The story starts off with the Harvest Goddess and the Witch Princcess in a bit of a quarrel, the 
 witch princess then decides to make a spells that will supposedly stop her from saying Tadaaaaa! 
 . Unfortunatley things dont turn out that way, the Witch Princess sends the Harvest Godess to another 
 world along with all of her harvest sprite friends, which then has you saving all of the sprites 
 along with the Harvest Goddess by farming and getting a girlfriend.
  
  As you can probably tell the storyline is a bit abstract as you go through the game magically finding 
 all of these harvest sprites by doing normal farming chores (for example you find one when you 
 water the plants 10 times in a row) . The game also falls into a bit of a rut as it really doesn't 
 continue the storyline from there.
  
  The farming side of harvest moon DS is the same system we've all known and loved, with a few minor 
 tweeks which TRY to keep the game from becoming stale, unfortunatley these tweeks won't necessarily 
 have Harvest Moon veterans jumping through hoops.
  
  However some tweeks do improve on some of the problems of the past Harvest Moon games, for example 
 instead of scrolling from your rucksack, you now hav your entire bag's contents on the bottom screen, 
 along with some other menues you can access using the stylis. However it is a bit tedious to constantly 
 switch between the d pad and the stylis and selecting menues and moving around.
  
  Probably the only one bit positive with Harvest Moon DS is the length, you could be sitting there 
 for hours on eand, tending to your crops, animals, meeting girls, cooking food, trying to build 
 new building etc. However this can become a bit repetitive as you practically do the same thing 
 day in and day out.
  
  All around however Harvest moon DS is a good gam, although it may not apeal to Harvest moon veterans, 
 it is worth buying simply for the idea that it's handheld, just dont expect anything new from this 
 title. I would also reccomend this game to people who loved games such as Animal crossing, as it 
 does esencially have the same sort of vibe to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katie_wolf_89
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe this. I have been a HM for years. And I thought I would never come across another 
 HM game that I wouldn't even play 10 minutes of...
  
  I played STHL more than this...
  
  At first the story seemed great.... but, once the Mayor came... that's when I first got annoyed... And 
 how it ENDS if you don't help the idiot from your dog he well deserved it! I never played Friends 
 of Minerial Town, and this mayor had the meanest attitude... I wanted to kill him...
  
  And as I said that it ends if you don't pick the right opinion and how you have to go thru the 
 story over again! It gets really annoying. Well, once I got started playing.... I put it down about 
 3 minutes later.... I was walking around down... and I just couldn't find my way... and I haven't 
 played it since... I know this isn't a real helpful review... but don't waste your money... (in this 
 case my b-day money) on this! Buy MM or even Save Home Land (which is 2nd in my HM vworst series 
 now) is better than this!!
  
  It really was a waste of time and money... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon for the ds is like animal crossing but a whole lot better. In the game you can own 
 animals like dogs, cats, Chicken, cows, and sheep. The point of this game is to live on a farm 
 growing crops or using the supplies that your animals provide to earn money to by bigger and better 
 things. Like a house for your animals and furniture for yourself. And like every other Harvest 
 Moon game you can get married and have kids. If you have never played the Harvest Moon series you 
 should start of by playing this game first. This game is just so good I just can not stop playing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fedgem
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  I've only had Harvest Moon for the DS for a couple hours now, and one touch screen functionality 
 that I am digging (no pun intended) is that you can water your plants, dig your crops, chop your 
 weeds, and smash rocks all on your farm with out having to steer your character around (other than 
 to refill water) This makes farming a snap, and though there is a little awkward switching between 
 stylus and buttons to do this... it's still WAY quicker than doing these activites manually. You 
 can manage many aspects of the farm without moving your character at all. I can't believe nobody 
 is mentioning this. I haven't even gotten to any of the other stylus functions. This game is addictive 
 as ever. Yes, the graphics could be better. But HM has never been a graphical powerhouse. If you 
 liked the previous ones, you will like this one. If you haven't played Harvest Moon before, this 
 is a good place to start. It's basically the minisized version of the Gamecube version, with all 
 of those characters... a huge town, and many more conveniences to maximize farming efficiency. Check 
 it out. With all due respect to Gamespot and other 'bonafide' critics, screw what they say, this 
 is just as good as any of the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Wolfy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The Harvest Moon series has always been a bit of a niche game that you will enjoy it based on your 
 idea of what a game should have. As if you have looked around, people will give you a good idea 
 that it is in many aspects very similar to FoMT for GBA. But I never played that game so I don't 
 have a biased opinion on giving it a rating just because it is similar to a game I never played.
 
  
  The story, as in all Harvest Moon games, take a bit of a backseat to actual game play. The set 
 up is always simple so their is never a plot twist or anything surprising. Then again for the most 
 part in Harvest Moon games the story is almost always just an excuse why you have a farm in the 
 first place. This time their is a Witch Princess character named... Witch Princess. Simple already, 
 huh? Also making an appearance is the Harvest Goddess. The Witch and the Goddess are sort of rivals 
 and they battle each other with their magic. So at one point the Witch casts a spell to keep the 
 Harvest Goddess from saying her surprise intro catch phrase Tadaa! Yet the spell goes wrong and 
 turns the Goddess into stone. Then in attempt to fix it the Witch ends up sending the Harvest Goddess 
 into another dimension and then proceeds to send all 101 Harvest sprites to the other dimension. 
 This is where you come in. You must... Well... Do almost anything in order to save the Harvest 
 Goddess and the harvest sprites. How do you bring them back? Anything you do will probably bring 
 them back. Such as cutting wood, breaking rocks, harvesting and shipping crops, fishing, all of 
 which and more help you collect the sprites back. Very simple.
  
  The game takes place in a little town with a couple of characters, most of which have very different 
 personalities. And like many Harvest Moon games their is a group of bachlorettes that you can choose 
 from to marry. Aside from the six normal girls to marry that come with rivals. Rivals are guys 
 in the game that will marry the girls if you don't after 4 years in the game. Giving you sort of 
 a time limit, yet 4 years is plenty of time to win over a lady with the normal showering of gifts 
 that the character enjoys. Aside from the 6 normal choices, their are 4 special girls that are 
 a little more tricky and unique than the other girls, yet these special girls don't give you rivals 
 and most require a lot more time and effort to win over. And as a bonus if you have FoMT and have 
 it in the GBA slot in your DS while playing you can go ahead and try and marry the bachlorettes 
 from FoMT, yet by doing so the credits will roll and it will end your game. No one likes that.
 
  
  What about the music? The music is very calm as in all Harvest Moon games. Nice little tune to 
 listen to you while you do your daily routine. And even though it is repetitive, it isn't something 
 that will annoy you. Neither will it be a song that will get stuck in your head and you will hum 
 in your free time. Just something simple and fun. Yet it is nothing to laugh at either since the 
 music sounds like something you would hear in an RPG in town music. I really liked listening to 
 the music most of the time and with the Sprite Channel you can buy records and listen to them on 
 the go. Most of the songs consist of little tunes from previous Harvest Moon games and it put a 
 smile on my face when I heard the Harvest Moon 64 intro song on the list.
  
  A couple of new stuff was placed in their such as the sprite casino and the touch screen use. The 
 casino revolves around 3 games. Poker, Black Jack, and a matching game. Simple games that are pretty 
 good time killers. You can easily fly by a few hours in the casino alone if you are into that sort 
 of thing. The touch screen is a must in this game. Most of my time playing the game, I had the 
 stylus in my hand during game play for quick switching to navigate the menu on the bottom screen. 
 It isn't very complicated since it is a kind of drag and drop, point and click type of situation. 
 And if you get a touch glove you can pet, brush, milk, and sheer with the stylus on the touch screen. 
 Once you approach the animal and use a certain tool or just interact with them the lower screen 
 will become a mini game type of scenario. You get points by furiously scribbling on your animal 
 to pet or brush them. Milking is basically scribbling in the area of the utter as fast as you can. 
 Sheering is scribbling on your sheep as fast as you can to snip all of it's fluff. Something I 
 found cool is if you are fast with scribbling is that you can get more milk than you could with 
 out using the glove. If your fast you can get large milk and large wool from new sheep and cows.
 
  
  Over all I really enjoyed the game and I am still playing it on a daily basis from when I got it 
 on pre-order. But then again it is all just opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r11011b
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Harvest Moon, the quirky, love-it-or-hate-it farm simulation, made its first appearance in 1997 
 on the Super Nintendo. Throughout the years, it's made subsequent appearances on almost every console 
 to date, including the Nintendo 64 and both Playstation 1 and 2. Upcoming titles on the PSP and 
 Nintendo Wii are also in development.
  
  Long story short: Harvest Moon, while ultimately off-beat and with a subject matter that in reality 
 is far from interesting, has a pretty strong, cult-like following. I should know -- Ive owned 
 every Harvest Moon game on the market since 1997.
  
  At any rate, Harvest Moon DS begins slightly differently than the other games in the series. This 
 time, its your job to help the Witch Princess recover the Harvest Goddess and 101 Harvest Sprites 
 from some netherworld after a prank spell goes horribly wrong. And to do so, youll have to farm, 
 raise livestock, and get married. Yeah, so it sounds a little contrived, butlets move on.
  
  Harvest Moon DS plays identically to all the previous versions of the game, though in this 
 case its mostly similar to both Harvest Moon: Its A Wonderful Life (GCN) and Harvest Moon: Friends 
 of Mineral Town (GBA) . If youre looking for some perspective, you can think of it as a fairly 
 accurate combination of the two.
  
  Youll have to plant crops, raise and care for animals (which include Cows, Chickens, Sheep, and 
 a new addition: ducks) , and build up your farm. In fact, you dont even start out with the usual 
 animal and chicken sheds -- you have to acquire the materials and build them yourself, with the 
 ability to place them wherever youd like. Its a new addition that adds a bit to the customization 
 of the game. Also new to the DS version of the game is the utilization of the touch screen. While 
 there are a few mini-games involving petting, brushing, milking, and clipping your animals, this 
 is mostly limited to making menu selections, as now your rucksack is constantly open and appears 
 on the bottom touch screen of your DS. In my opinion, it makes accessing tools and items easier.
 
  
  Ultimately, Harvest Moon DS is a great game, but its not without its flaws. In the couple of weeks 
 that Ive had it, it has locked-up once, and since then Ive started to save often (always a good 
 strategy with any game) . The graphics are slightly dated in comparison to newer games, but theyre 
 pleasant to look at, and if youre a fan of Harvest Moon, this shouldnt bother you. Finally, there 
 are rumors of glitches here and there, such as not being able to build a basement more than one 
 level down without lock-ups, or disappearing sprites, or the like. But regardless of its faults, 
 I highly recommend Harvest Moon DS, especially to long-time fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doryrules123456
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game but its just that it has alot of gliches, and it frezzes. but it was great i 
 mean like how you could have animals, marry people, have babies, and all that good stuff that makes 
 harvest moon games what they are. but the best part was the horse! i love horses so when ever there 
 is a good game with a horse in it im all for it! but im new to the series and so far i love it 
 so much! but it gets kind of annoying if you dont save frequently though. but its the best game 
 i have played for the ds!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roan23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I play my first harvest moon game, and i think it was a great game, they even let your brush and 
 pet your animals. then some strange things will happend, and it make you rich. if you didn't know 
 how to make a relationship with girls, this game kinda help you. then it teach you about animals, 
 planting, and relationship with your friends at the town. you even can compete at the festivals 
 thing. you also can get married, and make a baby, which is supposed to teach you to become a father, 
 which i think was a stupid thing, well it's part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 22, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  I never played the GBA Harvest Moon games, only the SNES, GBC, and N64 ones. When I started playing 
 this I was pretty impressed, the town is huge, lots of places to go, lots of things to do, and 
 its alot harder now to. I am going to get the Harvest Moon GBA game, so I can get the new stuff 
 in the DS version xD. But anyways, the sound and music is neat, the graphics are gorgeous in 2D 
 as always, the controlls are great, whats really not to like. I like the new interactive touch 
 screen animal cabablity, where you can wash, and groom your animal, I think that was a very cool 
 idea. Well im glad it finally came to the US (over a year of waiting since the JAP release which 
 was March 17th, 05) , because this is a really awsome game, especially with the inserting the GBA 
 games for more surprises, thats really awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blk-Gnome
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Alright i know the title is a little negative, but this game isn't the harvestmoon it should have 
 been. The game play is as expected from a harvest moon game. go around picking stuff up, selling, 
 talking, farming, repeat. the cool thing is using the stylus to pet animals milk cows, etc. excellent 
 use of the touch screen. this game plays pretty much like all the others tho, so no surprises there. 
 Graphic wise? it looks like a GBA game. they defenetly could have done more with the DS's hardware, 
 but this is how we grew up with harvest moon looking. so no complaints but nothing to be praised. 
 Sound- same as always no words just sounds and noises. so no surprises there. once again nothing 
 wrong with it but nothing to praise Replay value is relatively high. so many different things to 
 do unless you get bored with the whole foundation of a game you wont get tired of it.
  
  this game is a decent harvest moon, i felt that Back to nature was a much better game. but this 
 is gona keep me going for a couple months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid_X7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The game seems pretty odd and boring at first but when you start playing a while it gets funner. 
 First of all ive only played HM on GAMEBOY COLOR other than this, so the story seemed pretty odd... 
 why would the witch princess banish them to another world... and the crew of new characters. I 
 spent to first 5 days (in the game) just exploring and talking to people and understand the gameplay. 
 Then i started growing my crops.,, finally i realized that you can sell almost anything, - grass, 
 plants, flowers, rocks etc... by throwing them into the box. So i started robbing almost anything 
 i could find in gardens. Also i like the new casino feature. Now you can hire elves that do your 
 chores for you, such as a team to water your plants or take care of the animals which seems to 
 help. In this game you have to save 101 harvest sprites and the H. goddess. Its pretty important 
 to find most of them because they help oyu in different ways. Altho awkwardly i found all the casino 
 sprites before others. Now i must expand my farm and finally finish making all the buildings (i 
 mostly go with wood because i am poor) . The sound and the music could get quite dull and repetitive. 
 THe lighting is nice when it gets darker or lighter according to the time. The game could get a 
 bit repetitive but theyve added certain features too make it less boring. Altho i find it confusing 
 that i must give a specific and different item to each girl if you want to get married and youll 
 get competition too. The graphics arent all that impressive but decent. This game may be similar 
 to friends of mineral town but i think youd enjoy it if ur a hm fan. The gameplay is very long 
 and fun and you can play unlimited amount of years. If you think this game is too girly then dont 
 waste your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JosephLai44
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I was so looking forward to this game as I actually bothered to preorder it at EB games. I got 
 it, and inserted it into my DS System, and I the first thing I noticed was how the main character 
 looked exACTLY , no kidding EXACTLY the same, as the one in nintendo advance, there were no change 
 or improvement in visuals at all. I started the game and immediately noticed the sound factor wasn't 
 that great either, or rather the music.. wasn't that great. As the game intro rolled along, I was 
 put into confusion.. although I had played Harvest Moon before, on Ps, Ps2, and gamebody Advance.. 
 I have never been confused whatsoever by the intro, because it has always been straightforward, 
 and easy to follow. The start of this game puts you in a WTF situation. After the Harvest Goddess, 
 and the Witch square off, (at which point you should be thinking WTF?, what does THIS have to do 
 with anything?) , AFTER they square off and the witch makes the Goddess disappear and all that 
 stuff.. and you Actually BEGIN the game.. you still have no idea what the hell is going on.. there 
 are almost no tutorials on how to do stuff, unless you ARE an already experienced Harvest Moon 
 player. I explored the town and quickly found that although the backgrounds and visuals HAVE improved 
 a SLIGHT bit.. they are still graphics which you can put on a gamebody Advance game. The characters 
 are dull, immiedietly, in Harvest Moon: Friends of Mineral Town, you start to like characters, 
 because they are presented well, and have good dialogue to them. The girls are cute and you would 
 actually think about which girl to pick as your wife. But in Harvest Moon DS, you wouldn't actually 
 want any of the girls to be your wife, now there is the option of plugging in Harvest Moon: Friends 
 of Mineral town into your DS, which makes the girls from that game go to the DS version of the 
 game when you are playing, but if you choose to marry them, your game immiedietely ends because 
 you have to move to mineral town. Seriously I've played this game for about 5 hours now.. and I 
 am already so sick of it.. there is seriously NOTHING new to the game at all, the cute presentation 
 of taking care of animals is really the only thing that uses the touchscreen.. but other than that, 
 and the shift in scenery, its basically the same game as the gameboy Advance version, only worse. 
 If your a Harvest Moon fan, rent this game first, before buying it. Don't want anyone to waste 
 money on this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invdrcats
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  when i 1st got the game and had to go though the 30 minuit story-line i was like o crap theres 
 a story, but when you get into the game part its freakin awsome harvest moon but every now and then 
 you`ll run into the story, im more of the guy that likes to play with a little story and alot of 
 gameplay but sadly thats it, its harvest moon and thats great the touch works great man handling 
 the cow and ect
  
  pro`s cons
  
  -great long game lots of fun -sounds ok -have a kid -when you litter people hate you
  
  -grow 
 crops
  
  -have a cow
  
  -easy then the other games 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
