-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harvest Moon: Island of Happiness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/bokujoumonogatarikimitosodatsujima/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Same old dependable Harvest Moon gameplay.
 Plenty of chores to keep you busy for hours.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Touch-screen-only controls ruin the fun.
 Stiff character animation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.6, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 282 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Natsume
Developer: Marvelous
Genre: Strategy
Date: Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Island of Happiness offers plenty of satisfying farming gameplay, but the controls will leave you 
 decidedly unhappy. 

  It was over 10 years ago that the first Harvest Moon game came out on the SNES, and in keeping 
 with the series' sports-game-like longevity, Natsume is releasing two new Harvest Moon games this 
 month, Island of Happiness for the DS and Tree of Tranquility for the Wii. On the DS, you get classic 
 Harvest Moon gameplay on the go -- and controls so slippery, it feels like youve replaced the stylus 
 with a stick of butter. Rest assured, the same dependable farming sim is here, but the awful controls 
 make it hard to enjoy.  

           You can make money off of just about everything in this game, even hunks of rock.     

  The story has always taken a backseat to the gameplay in the Harvest Moon games, and this one is 
 no different. Your impetus for farming is a shipwreck at the start of the game. After washing ashore 
 on a deserted island, you run into a small group of survivors who, instead of searching for rescue, 
 are turning the barren patch of land into a bustling community. The characters who populate the 
 world are interesting and varied, though much of the dialogue and interaction with them is optional, 
 so if you'd rather focus on farming, you can do that without being forced to be social.  

  If you've played a Harvest Moon game before, you'll know exactly what to expect when it comes to 
 farming. Things will start slowly in your first year -- money is tight and resources are slim -- but 
 as your land expands, so will your opportunities. In addition to the various crops to tend, you'll 
 have chickens, sheep, cows, and other critters to look after and upgrades to make on your property. 
 You can even get married and have kids, though that's a bit creepy since your onscreen avatar never 
 looks a day older than 11. With new responsibilities popping up all the time, you'll never be without 
 something to do. Within a few in-game years, you'll see the island go from a decrepit floating 
 rock to a thriving metropolis. Natsume has managed to cram a lot of content into the game, giving 
 you an almost endless number of things to care for, tend to, and make money off of. The challenge 
 in this particular Harvest Moon game is finding the motivation to play that long.  

  Like all the other games in the series, at its core, Island of Happiness is a game about doing 
 chores. Past Harvest Moon games were charming enough to keep us pulling weeds and milking cows 
 all day. Island of Happiness certainly has that trademark Harvest Moon charm, but the touch-screen 
 controls are such a chore themselves that they ruin the experience.  

  You guide your farmer around by holding the stylus in the direction you want to move, and you interact 
 with objects and people by tapping on them. This control scheme has worked beautifully in other 
 DS games, but it doesn't fit the time-sensitive demands of the Harvest Moon series. You'll constantly 
 drop items you need, pick up items you don't need, water the wrong patch of land, make the wrong 
 choices in menus, and generally waste valuable time and stamina. Had there been an option to use 
 the D pad, Island of Happiness would have been a much happier place to spend time; instead, the 
 D pad is used to map four items to each direction for quick access. Like the touch-screen controls, 
 the item mapping doesn't work as well as it should. Once an item is equipped, you still have to 
 either press the direction on the D pad to use it or tap the icon. The icons are small and the 
 controls are so sluggish that you often accidentally select the wrong item or turn your farmer 
 in the wrong direction. The imprecise and unresponsive controls make nearly every task a frustrating 
 ordeal.  

           As the island grows, so does its population, giving you more choices to find a mate.  
     

  Island of Happiness looks great compared to the last Harvest Moon game on the DS, which was really 
 nothing more than a Game Boy Advance port. The game blends 3D environments with simple 2D sprites, 
 and though the character animation is rigid, the overall look is pleasing. The scenery is vibrant 
 and spacious, and each season brings in new colors and crops. There is a bit of missed potential 
 with the top screen though, since it does nothing but display a basic map the entire time you're 
 playing. The music is bright and cheerful and never gets in the way. Ambient sound effects like 
 crickets in the summer or rain in the spring make the world seem alive.  

  Not a lot has changed in the Harvest Moon series, and it's unfortunate that the new features introduced 
 in Island of Happiness, with the exceptions of online leaderboards and voice chat, are mostly to 
 its detriment. The controls aren't so bad that the game is unplayable, but you'd be better off 
 picking up one of the many older and better games in the series.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hellooo_Nurse
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  Harvest Moon Island of Happiness mostly has it's flaws in how the controls work. Most people don't 
 like using the touch screen to move around (it's much like Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass) , 
 and I prefer the arrow pad as well. But in this game, the buttons are very seldom used. 
  
  You must be extremely careful when holding stuff in the game, like fodder and crops. One wrong 
 touch on the DS screen could cause you to drop and waste away all you're hard work. 
  
  Controls is one of the main flaws, but don't let that stop you from buying the game. I got used 
 to the controls after I played for a couple hours (Yes, hours. I'm used to playing other Harvest 
 Moon games) . But overall I enjoy playing it. I think the graphics are pretty good for a DS game 
 (Much better the Rune Factory) , and of course who doesn't love the annoying music that changes 
 every season. This game also has a brand new storyline unlike any other Harvest Moon game. You 
 get shipwrecked, and must use your farming skills to make the deserted island prosper.
  
  So, as I said, if you're a die-hard fan for Harvest Moon, go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaytoes
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Usually, Harvest Moon games are great. But what happened with Harvest Moon: Island of Happiness? 
 This game has a nice-ish plot, and some new additions. But the CONTROLS... Oh gosh.
  The controls are very annoying. You try touching your selection on the Menu screen, and you end 
 up being taken to something different. 
  While tending your farm and such, the controls waste your time and Stamina. You do one thing, miss, 
 and it comes out to be different. Exact opposite of what you wanted.
  
  The moment I got this game, I was nearly jumping off the walls in happiness, since I love Harvest 
 Moon.
  I popped the card into my DS, loaded it, and the moment I had to start using the controls... I 
 lost it.
  I can't take a game with horrible controls. So I ended up re-selling this game.
  So disappointing. Natsume really screwed up here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inkserotica
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Whether the controls make any difference to the game play is entirely down to you and your preferences. 
 In some ways, it can make things tricky. You will often find it's a slow process because you have 
 to click to equip the tool and click again to use the tool, but you have to make sure the correct 
 square on the ground is highlighted before your character does what you want it to do.
  
  To begin with, you may feel frustrated as you get used to the idea of only using the stylus. There 
 are mixed feeling about this around the Internet in the gaming world for this game. Some say it 
 spoils the gameplay and makes the entire game impossible to play, others will say it makes no difference 
 at all and once you've learnt how to use it, the game itself is very playable and very enjoyable.
 
  
  In Harvest Moon: Island of Happiness you don't have to be social if you don't want to but if you 
 want to fall in love and get married then this is something you would need to do, obviously. Each 
 girl has their own desires and you would need to figure this out if you want to get on with them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid108
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This game really was a letdown. It was made to be one of the greatest games but it was majorely 
 disapointing. First time players will never pick up another hm game again. But do! Normally Harvest 
 Moon games are awsome, but this is a totally different game. The graphic type is terible and only 
 stylus controls are available, which is really anoying. If you like the stylus controls, you might 
 just go for it. If not try Harvest Moon DS or Harvest Moon DS: Cute. These games are great games and 
 barely use the stylus unless you want to.
  
  Thank You For Listening. ps. i have 9 harvest moon games and this was the worst so far. try rune 
 factory for the rpg twist Metroid108 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forgottenjack
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  I personally believe Gamescore reviewers didn't play very far into the game nor have they been 
 a big fan of Harvest Moon series cause if they did, they would had release by now how much the 
 difficulty of the game have been tune up and how wonderful the new system have made this just about 
 the biggest Harvest Moon yet.
  
  1st of all, the crops. Now no longer is it just watering the plants to make them grow and rain 
 no longer helps as much as they do before. The crops now grow on a light and water system where 
 too little hinder their growth and too much kills them. That's right, too much water kills them, 
 just like real plants do. While most seasonal crops are design to grow in their own season with 
 much ease, others like trees and grains (wheats, rice, etc) grow through a few seasons before they 
 finally bare fruits, thus making weather the most unpredictable enemy in this game, and i'm not 
 just talking bout hurricane or blizzard. Speaking of weather, too hot or cold drain your stamina 
 too and this time, sorry, no more power berries.
  
  2nd, the tools. Fans of HM series would be too familiar with mining for ores to upgrade the tools, 
 iron to gold or something even more. The strongest tool can drastically improve your farms out 
 put with the least effort. Sorry guys, tools no longer 'upgrade' that easily anymore. Now all tools 
 (less fishing rod) comes with slots and to power up them, special gems call 'Wonderful's are to 
 be insert into the slots. Different colour of the gems give different effect, stronger, wider or 
 longer range, harvest more items or even add more slots, your tools are up to you to customize 
 them. Sounds good? Too bad these 'Wonderful's are also wonderfully difficult to get; reward for 
 winning contest, 'random' item in store during winter or special event at the bottom of the mine. 
 
  
  I've to admit though, the new control takes awhile to get use to and lots of time i wish i can 
 go back to the old control. But i take it as a worthy challenge, like how there new system of the 
 game makes it more addictive than ever. I ask all the give the game a chance and not to be taken 
 by the site's review. May not be the game for all but i'm sure it will grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimGirlRei
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Yes, as everyone says: The controls are HORRIBLE! But once you get passed that it's just like all 
 the other games, with better characters than the ones from Forget-Me-Not Valley. The characters 
 remind me of the ones from Mineral Town. And guess what! You see some! I was kind of depressed 
 you don't meet all of them... it would be pretty neat.
  They also did ok with the graphics. I found that my screen would get glitchy... and the top screen 
 map was no help what so ever. There are many ways they could make this way better, and I wish they 
 would! 
  Overall this is a good game to pick up when it's on sale or used. You play it for a while, get 
 addicted like every other Harvest Moon game, put it down for a while, then pick it up again, and 
 the cycle goes on. 
  This game also has good replay value and makes you want to get all the different people you can 
 marry and see all their cute faces and cut-scenes~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SanctuaryKitten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  It seems a lot of people have been upset with the stylus controls of this new edition of Harvest 
 Moon. The truth is, after a couple days, you're managing them more or less fine... a couple of weeks 
 and you're really liking them! Now, after 2 months of playing the game, I can't even imagine wanting 
 to go back to the control pad for this HM version :o)
  
  Everything is great about this game! The graphics are gorgeous! The island is enormous! There's 
 so many new visitors and residents that appear who you can make friends with (something like 100) ! 
 And there's so much neat stuff to buy for your house and property!
  
  Its never been so addicting to unlock all the different crops, cooking recipes, and love scenes. 
 Not since More Friends of Mineral Town have i had this much fun :oP
  
  Another interesting part of Island of Happiness is being able to upload your farm data through 
 WiFi to rank yourself against other players worldwide!
  
  So, what else can i say? This game is great! So long...
  
  (soon to be marrying the HM: Island 
 of Happiness love of my life. but i won't say who it is! heehee) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  At first I wasn't too sure about this game. I was disappointed with Harvest Moon DS, with all it's 
 glitches and terrible problems. But this game actually surprised me.
  
  You start off being shipwrecked on an island with another family. After some dialog you all decide 
 that you're going to start a thriving community on the island.
  
  The storyline is still a little dumb, but it's that way with all Harvest Moon games. It's hard 
 to make money in your first two to three in-game months of playing the game but that is expected. 
 If it was too easy than there would be no reason to actually work for the money.
  
  I have really enjoyed myself while playing this game. It deserves a much better rating than 5.0. 
 The graphics have been bumped up to a much better level and there aren't any glitches or problems 
 with the game play that I've seen. And I've been playing this game since it's official release.
 
  
  The new island, new characters, and new DS features have given Harvest Moon a fresh look and feel.
 
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys the Harvest Moon or Rune Factory series and/or loves 
 farming games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erscott
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  i was a harvest moon fan when i first played "harvest moon save the homeland" on ps2 then i started 
 to play the GBA version.
  
  but this time on the DS harvest "moon island of happiness" was a bit dissapointing.
  first the 
 2 new "stamina" and "hunger" bars made the every day chores difficult and not satisfying.
  the new way of playing the game "with the stylus" made it a bit fun at the beginning but then made 
 me miss the old fun arow pads. 
  playing with a stylus for more then 1 hour makes it uncomfortable for gamers.
  
  the enviroment 
 is welcoming ands it has some fantastic 2d graffics.
  when u first play u will start in a deserted island where u and 4 other people try to live in this 
 place.
  after u continue playing harvest moon u will notice that more and more people are moving in the 
 island.
  every new island member has his/her unique place in the islands community.
  and to get further into the story u will have to spend alot or money in building bridges to open 
 new areas in the island and with that inviting newer members to the comuunity.
  like the old harvestmoon in the GBA u can get married and have kids
  
  this game made good 
 use of the touchscreen in the DS .some times when u are taking care of your animals u will play 
 a minigame that requires you to either pet or milk them.
  
  and there is a new online system where u can rank yourself with other players around the world 
 and see whos the better farmer.
  
  overall i think this game is pretty cool but would be awesome of they just added some more material 
 and canceled the whole moving and useing the stylus in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kandy00345
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying how much i love the Harvest Moon Series. I have every game, and play them 
 until i cannot anymore. However, though i was extremely excited to get this game, i found it repetitive 
 in more ways than one. The game play was one of the few changes made to this game. It felt a lot 
 like its predecessors HM DS and Mineral Town, in the way that the art and feel of the game were 
 very simple. Mostly in the Harvest Moon games, I've come to expect an improving quality, but this 
 game was the same old 2-D game. The changes i did find were not liked, such as the obligation to 
 speak to everyone for risk of their leaving, the difficulty in making money, the low stamina, the 
 new 'Full' bar that requires you eat, the annoying recipe-requiring cooking, inability to upgrade 
 tools without waiting YEARS, item grading system, and the lack of variety. I found it difficult 
 to water my plants, a previously easy and inconsequential chore, without fainting. Even then i 
 would have to scour the grounds to find good enough grasses. Everything was too hard for easy play 
 and didn't offer a fun challenge, and was more of a chore. If you only like the classic HM games, 
 you'll enjoy this, but if you like the new stuff and resent the visit to the dark ages, you can 
 pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakirbydude
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Perhaps the only real complaint about this game is the controls. Many people find them frustrating, 
 but I don't. They can be played one-handed and that makes it fun and good for multitasking. Now 
 as for the gameplay it's great! The game takes place on an island, and you make a farm. Similar 
 Harvest Moon style as always but the fact that it takes place on an island adds to it. Natsume 
 did a good job with this one and they packed it with action and fun even though the first year 
 in the game is slow, but when in a harvest moon game is that not the case? I'm very impressed with 
 this, and have played it a whole lot, and continue to enjoy it, and I give it a high rating. Everyone 
 should go for this game! It also could perhaps be the best in the series, but I won't make that 
 call since I haven't gotten years into the game yet, and that's usually when it's the easiest to 
 tell how great it was overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gh057rider
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Upon first starting the game it is easy to see that it is much more complicated than previous versions 
 (Harvest Moon: DS being an obvious comparison) . The controls are redesigned (think Phantom Hourglass) 
 and they are very frustrating at first, but after a day or two they become second nature, I feel 
 sorry for those people who find this a turn off because you're really missing out on a great game 
 for a dumb reason. The second complicating factor is the new crop growth system. Crops now have 
 specific sun and water requirements. For example, if it is cloudy you will not receive any sun 
 points for that day. You can manipulate the water to a point, but you have to deal with the weather 
 to get your sun points (until you get the green house which offers 1 sun point per day regardless 
 of weather) . Though this is frustrating at first (there's a good chance weather will cause you 
 to lose an entire season's worth of crops) , it adds more realism to your experience and it's much 
 more rewarding to produce good crops because of the extra effort involved. For those of you that 
 are familiar with HMDS, you might be sad to learn that weather is determined 5 days in advance, 
 so restarting to get better weather is no longer a good option.
  
  This time around your goal is to revitalize an island with a focus on drawing new villagers (by 
 meeting certain requirements) to the island and building upgrades such as bridges to new areas 
 and more buildings on your farm (greenhouse, chicken coop, etc) . Among those new villagers are 
 several marriage candidates, and in addition to your farming responsibilities you get to court 
 and marry one of them. FYI, you can choose to play as a boy or a girl in this game. 
  
  Another new feature is the addition of "wonderfuls" which are colored stones that upgrade your 
 tools. Each color has a different effect which makes your tools more useful or easier to use. At 
 first this makes tools tough to use because they use a lot of stamina, but once you get a wonderful 
 collection going you'll find it much easier to complete your daily tasks.
  
  This time around, you are able to raise up to 16 chickens and a combination of 16 cows and sheep 
 (after upgrading your coop and barn, of course) . The wonderfuls allow you to increase the amount 
 of love points you get from using your brush (Don't forget to charge it!) and the number of milk/wool 
 you can receive. There is also a petting mini-game you get randomly every few days which allows 
 you to increase your animals affection for you. There's a similar mini-game for milking/shearing 
 which allows you to increase the quality of your product.
  
  There's much more to it, but I don't want to give away all of the secrets!
  
  Controls: 7/10 
 - A bit frustrating, but they actually work really well once you get the hang of them.
  
  Sound: 8/10 - As always, Harvest Moon has good background music, but it does get kinda repetitive 
 after awhile, and the cicada during the summer is very annoying.
  
  Difficulty: 7/10 - At first it is quite difficult, but once you get going it's actually pretty 
 easy.
  
  Replay Value: 7/10 - In previous Harvest Moon games, I find that once you accomplish most of your 
 goals, it starts to get very repetitive. I haven't reached that point with this game yet, but I 
 do think there's a bit more replayability than in previous versions due to the difficulty in crop 
 growth and sheer number of animals to raise. There's also the goal of completing your shipping 
 and recipe lists, which can prolong the experience.
  
  Enjoyability: 9.5/10 - It's much more rewarding this time around to grow your crops successfully 
 due to the complications of the weather, and there's a lot to do both on and off the farm. 
  
  Final Thoughts: 9/10 - Fans of the series will love this new addition, while newcomers may 
 find the learning curve a bit higher than HMDS, but will enjoy it nonetheless. There are a lot 
 of new features which make great additions to the series. Just be patient with the new controls! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit222
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  First off, the controls aren't as smooth as Animal Crossing or Phantom Hourglass (both of which 
 use the stylus extensively) . It would have been nice to have been able to use both the stylus and/or 
 the controls. It can be a pain picking up the WRONG item. Takes some skill. Having said that, I 
 think it's a good game. But it's a little harder to play than HM Cute/Guy version. You start out 
 on a small island and through hard work and interaction with other people it gradually grows (bridges 
 to other islands) . The interaction with other people is important this time around. Without it, 
 people won't move to the island and the island can't 'grow'. As with all HM you can marry (takes 
 longer than the other versions) and you can have a child that eventually grows up. If you like 
 the HM series, you will definitely like this newer version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon: Island of Happiness is another great game in the Harvest Moon library. Marriage, 
 cows, sheep, crops, chickens... everything you want is here and more. However, the new Touch Screen 
 controls aren't that bad as Gamespot says it is. I find it's decent and it for sure doesnt ruin 
 the game.
  
  --Graphics --
  
  This game has been greatly improved since HM: DS. Instead of re-using the GBA game's graphics, Harvest 
 Moon: Island of Happiness is now the first 3D Harvest Moon game for the DS. The surroundings are 
 nice and everything just looks a lot better. The sprites do look kind of weird at first, but they 
 are still better then the sprites in the old Harvest Moon DS games.
  
  9/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  As I said before, I find that the new Touch Screen controls aren't bad. It 
 works just like in Zelda, where you touch the screen in the direction you want to go. You talk 
 to people and pick things up by tapping on them. A small thing that annoyed me (again, comparing 
 it to Zelda) is that wehn you see something in the distance, you can't tap on it and your character 
 will run to it and pick it up. You need to manually run to the object and then tap on it. Not a 
 big deal, but you get over it. One thing they put in that helped me is that when you want to throw 
 something into the shipping bin/feed box, an arrow will appear over it when your character will 
 throw it there. Which means you won't mistakenly throw your object on the ground that much. Sometimes 
 your character wont respond when you want him/her to run and you might have the tap the screen 
 again to make it respond, but overall the controls aren't horrible.
  
  7/10
  
  --Music --
  
  Once again, Natsume has filled their latest Harvest Moon game with great tunes. 
 Each season and area has their own theme and they're nice. However, one thing that I didn't really 
 like is that in the Winter, when it snows, there is no music what so ever. And it snows a lot in 
 Winter so I found it kind of dull. But, the other 3 seasons have great music!
  
  8/10
  
  --Story --
  
  Another great story! Finally getting away from the traditional "old man dies 
 and gives you a farm", Harvest Moon: Island of Happiness has the best story yet. You start off 
 on a boat going across the sea. However, a nasty storm comes about and whipes your ship on a deserted 
 island. With only the 4 other passengers on the boat, you guys decide to turn this run down island 
 into a thriving community. You can unlock new villagers by doing certain tasks and the story just 
 gets bigger and bigger.
  
  10/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  Harvest Moon: Island of Happiness is another great HM game! Getting married isn't as tedious as 
 it was in the previous DS game. The controls aren't as horrible as Gamespot says, well at least 
 in my opinion. Overall, a great game and definetely any DS owner needs to check it out.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBGOOFBALL
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  "Harvest Moon: Island of Happiness" is an addicting farming game based on collecting items and 
 creating a successful Ranch and bringing prosperity to a small island. 
  
  The game starts out rather slowly but as you progress it does become more interesting with more 
 and more things to do and explore as you unlock more regions of the island. The game play is rich 
 with things to do and really promotes user experimentation on how to tackle basic tasks. I've been 
 playing the game for several weeks and still find more things yet to discover that it keeps me 
 coming back for more.
  
  The controls aren't as bad an issue as critics say. You can use a combination of buttons along 
 with the stylus. For Example you can use the D-pad for right handers to select your equipped items 
 instead of having to constantly touch the screen. Also you can equip an item and drag it to exactly 
 where you want it to go without the hassle of the system asking for your approval. The only major 
 issue I do have with the controls is with the stack able items feature of this game. It is really 
 apparent from within the Rucksack and managing your items.
  
  One of the features of this game I like best is your Asset menu option. This allows you to see 
 an overall breakdown of your progress in the game. It provides stats on everything from farming 
 to livestock and how well your animals and other villagers like you. It even gives you detailed 
 breakdown of your income and spending reports. Very Slick.
  
  The graphics in the game are very good and provide nice graphical detail to everything you do or 
 needs to be done. Very vibrant colors and details are all there. Every item in the game is noticeably 
 different and very easy to tell apart from one another. 
  
  Overall, If you like "Harvest Moon" series this one should be a definite pickup for you. If you 
 were disappointed by "Harvest Moon DS Cute" then this wil definitely be a more tried and true Harvest 
 Moon Adventure for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adraa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  I was very mad about how poorly done Harvest Moon DS was. But this game is a total turn around.
 
  
  Controls- Everyone makes a huge deal about the controls. They didn't give me ANY trouble. It just 
 seemed to go and I found nothing wrong with that.
  
  Graphics- Much better then Harvest Moon DS! It seems to also fit right in. I find the graphics 
 are great for a DS game.
  
  Sound- Sound isn't annoying! I actually keep my volume turned up. So no real problem there.
  
 
  Story- Thank goodness you don't inherit somebody's farm! I loved that you were one of the 'founders' 
 of the island. You were one of the first to start trying to build up the island so on and so on.
 
  
  Marriage in game- I'm a girl so I play as a girl. Now I couldn't find anyone I really liked to 
 marry. The only guy I really liked was Elliot. (A nerdy guy) There are a lot of girls I like though.
 
  
  
  Closing Thoughts- I love this game and haven't found any major glitches. This game is a lot better 
 done and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erdvilla
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  The theme Harvest moon is always fun to play when you have plenty of free time or plenty of some 
 times between your chores. That's a must in the game, to keep you entertained and busy. I almost 
 liked all HM past games, but I have to say that this is the one that I won't try to finish or obtain 
 certain development as in other, since the Touch screen-only system is really disappointing. They 
 should'nt have done that, the system showed in Rune factory: A fantasy harvest moon was excellent, 
 mixing button + touch screen controls, that was really useful, and in this case as I said I'm disappointed, 
 so I won't finish it and wait until an other HM comes out to see if the recognized their mistake 
 and retake the mix control system.
  The characters are charming as almost in any HM game but that's the least for my liking, so if 
 you like past HM games and wan't an extra challenge, not from the gameplay but from the stressing 
 controls well, mabe this game is just for you, not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fires_in_the_sk
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  I have played nearly every Harvest Moon ever made aprt from Incent life and save the home land. 
 Island of Happiness is one of the greatest Harvest Moons yet.
  
  No longer has somone died and left will or having wounderful life or uncovering dark secrects etc.
 
  
  This time is Farming meets Lost just kidding but love the idead of been on island.
  
  Anyway down to basics -
  
  Controls - Yes ok the controls do take sum geting use to but in 
 fairness half the world moaned about Harvest Moon DS not making use of the stylis etc now Nintendo 
 do somthing about it and people still complain.
  
  Graphics - The graphics in this game are great the detail look nice and people move well etc.
 
  
  Sound - The music and sound effect run fine I known with sum Harvest Moon games the music can drive 
 people a bit nuts but I found the music to be quite nice in HMIOH.
  
  Game Play - The game runs simler to the other harvest moons well of course it will it the same 
 concept again rase animals build your farm etc. But the nice touch about this game is you got to 
 bring people to your island by improving and building it feels more challenge this time around.
 
  
  Final Thought -
  Great Harvest Moon game even if the controls are bit complex still worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash234244
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  I got it as soon as it came out. So ya i spent like 20 hours trying to beet harvest moon island 
 of happiness it was fairly easy but i got to give it to natsume GREAT GAME GUYS. :/ relly fun. 
 pretty good graphics (awesome for the ds :D) . its a little different than harvest moon ds (damn 
 harvest sprites :O) or harvest moon ds cute (damn cute harvest sprites :O) but it was fun, i really 
 like harvest moon ds especially awl and fomt, but i gotta tell ya im not a big fan of AAWL or mfomt 
 and hmdsc but the rest of them are good... watever u wanna say about the game is up to u. Gameplays 
 pretty good deffinetly better than hmds or hmdsc. some people thought it was a royal pain in the 
 ass when they had to get 60 Harvest Sprites Before they can marry or do anything productive in 
 the game. overall a amazing game... here are my rankings
  Sound 9.5/10
  GamePlay 10/10
  Music 8.5/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Features 10/10
  Ash234244 (Angleboy234, K_Killr)
  DAMN HAREVEST 
 SPRITES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Awesome 3D graphics | Nice sound | Gameplay is solid and innovative | Great replay value | Huge 
 level of customization | Crop system is innovative and realistic
  
  -------------------------------------
  
  The Bad:
  
  Controls have a steep adaptation curve 
 | Shipping is hard | Annoying Yes/No confirmations
  
  -------------------------------------
  
  Harvest Moon is a classic series ever since the SNES 
 came out. Not as popular as Mario or Zelda, per se, but with the aid of Rune Factory, it's become 
 a must-try (and play, if it's deemed good) . The former HM DS installments have been pretty mediocre, 
 but IoH promises to turn the tables. Can it really?
  
  Graphics: They are finally 3D. It works, since the visuals are very good and clean. It really takes 
 HM on the DS to another level. Top screen display useful information in 2D, such as your stamina 
 and fullness levels, weather, time and your location. One of the best on the DS.
  
  Graphics Score: 9/10
  
  Sound: You may not notice the music, but then again it is really subtle. 
 See, HM isn't a very music dependent series, and the less it interferes with what you really want 
 to do, the better. This has, again, been accomplished here. Most songs are subtle, and on rain 
 days there is only the patter of the rain, no music to interfere with what the game wants you to 
 transmit - the weather which is important to keep a record of so your crops can harvest successfully. 
 Nice move, Natsume.
  
  Sound Score: 9/10
  
  Gameplay: Here is where my review gets a little lengthy. If you want to read some explanations 
 of major game features and their mechanics, read on. 
  
  Right, so the story is simple: you shipwreck on the coast of a deserted island after a stormy voyage. 
 It appears to be inhabited by very few people, just this Taro guy and his family. Your plan is 
 to take care of the ranch he possesses, harvesting whichever crops you desire, and living in the 
 house next to it. Basically, it's yours to keep and care. You also have to try and make this island 
 more appealing so that it will eventually grow and prosper. This is mainly the general story line 
 present in all HM games, except for the voyage part. But it's a nice intro to the same type of 
 gameplay.
  
  The new crop system is basically the biggest change in IoH. This time around, crops are dependent 
 on certain amounts of rain and sun in order to harvest a successful end result - the fruit (or 
 vegetable) . Too much rain/watering crops will end up with a failure, and the same applies to too 
 much sunlight. There are some plants (such as grass) that may require more or less of the two, 
 so you have to be aware before planting them. The game also divides the 4 seasons into a month 
 for each (with each day taking around 10 minutes time in real-life) . Some crops only harvest in 
 certain seasons, while others can be harvested all year round. Keep in mind that any crop, in any 
 season, can also be harvested in the Greenhouse with the use of season stones (i. e. you can set 
 a Winter stone and harvest typical Winter crops in Summer) . In my opinion, this is a lot more realistic, 
 since you'll need to take note of anything that happens to your crops, and it's also harder too. 
 Some fans may not like this new approach, but I speak for myself - I think it's brilliant.
  
  Next new feature - upgrading your tools. Now, this may not seem new to you, but the truth is 
 that the way you can upgrade your tools has been changed in this game. They now require Wonderful 
 Stones to be upgraded. There are seven types of these, all different colors, which obviously all 
 do something different - Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Indigo and Purple. I'm not going to 
 cover what they do, otherwise this section would be way too long, but they can be obtained by reaching 
 the last floor (255th) of the only mine existent in the game, or simply by winning the different 
 contests throughout the year.
  
  Obviously, after crops have grown, you are to either ship them and earn G - the game's currency 
 - or keep them, get a kitchen installed, and then start cooking to produce even tastier meals to 
 ship out, eat or give to your friends/inhabitents in order to boost their friendship and hopefully 
 marry you one day, and have a kid.
  
  Control-wise, this game invests uniquely in touch-screen movement. This may come as a disappointment 
 to many fans, and the control scheme is a bit hard to get used to at the start, but you'll soon 
 like it. Truth be told, it's not as responsive or smooth as Zelda: PH, but it doesn't lag or stutter, 
 so don't worry. 
  
  Item sorting is just plain dumb, though. The game hasn't any sort of intelligent sorting, save 
 maybe when you pick up the same crops. It stores the same item in different rucksack slots, so 
 if you have a small one you'll quickly notice that you have to move them into a single slot, stacking 
 them up manually. This can turn into a very repetitive motion, since you'll have to be doing this 
 over and over again before you have the time to upgrade to a bigger rucksack. You'd think that 
 items would auto-stack, but no. And if you're mining, this really gets annoying, as you have to 
 interrupt what you're doing to go to the rucksack every minute, stack items and make room for more, 
 then resort to picking up more items, etc... you get the picture.
  
  Gameplay Score: 8.5/10
  
  Replay Value: This game is simply huge, due to the fact that there 
 is no limit to when the game ends. You can harvest for an infinite amount of years (at least, there 
 is no restriction) before you actually get bored with the game. 
  
  The game offers huge amounts of customization so you can really personalize it to your likes. There 
 are tons of recipes to learn, some exclusive, others a little more mainstream, but nonetheless 
 equally fun. You can harvest an enormous variety of fruit and vegetables, using the land you are 
 given or the Greenhouse, which is a valuable extension to your land. Animals, such as sheep, chicken, 
 dogs and cows all play an important, albeit facultative role in the game. You can have cows and 
 sheep which produce milk, dogs which protect your land from other predators getting their sticky 
 paws on your crops and ruining them, and chickens which lay eggs. 
  
  With tons of things to do, you won't get bored so soon!
  
  Replay Value Score: 10/10!
  
 
  All these aspects and tons more combine to provide an unique, highly-customizable gaming experience 
 that no other series can compare to. There is no doubt that Harvest Moon is one of the most famous 
 and played series out there, on a variety of platforms. 
  
  Island of Happiness brought to the DS what this excellent portable console was lacking for quite 
 a while now: a 3D, fun, enjoyable and intuitive HM game that most fans will enjoy. I have no doubt 
 that this is one of the best games in the entire series. Probably not the best, but it simply is 
 a must-have and play for any avid HM fan. It truly is quite a shiny gem.
  
  Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazongo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  For those who have not played a harvest moon game you are missing a pretty good franchise that 
 even though it is old is still has a lot of charm to it. Harvest moon is a farming sim in which 
 you plant crops, take care of animals, you can get married, and do many more stuff. With that said 
 it is time to explain how this one in particular works. 
  
  This time around you take the role of a boy that because of a heavy storm ends up in a deserted 
 island, but not quite deserted as you may think. Theres an old man with his family that encourages 
 you to stay in the island to make it grow and become more prosperous. And this is how your relaxing 
 adventure begins.
  
  In terms of gameplay this game uses the touch screen almost for everything. You move using the 
 stylus and you talk to people by just touching them. The same goes for many other actions like 
 moving in the inventory, planting crops, collect stuff, etc. At first is a little bit hard especially 
 if you are used to classic controls (i am new to this control scheme) but with time you get used 
 to it though it can sometimes be annoying cuz when you want to chop a branch or cut some weed (not 
 for smoking of course) you may not calculate the distance and instead of choping you pick items 
 that you dont want, which means you need to go to the inventory to get rid of them. In past renditions 
 of harvest moon that part was easy, you just picked something up and then throw it away, but here 
 you instantly put items inside your bag but dont worry you can still throw it outside inside your 
 inventory. Putting controls aside there is great deal of difficulty in this game cuz money is not 
 easy to get and theres a lot to buy and some of which is expensive as hell. An example is the chicken 
 coop, i remember that in the GBA HM it could cost you 5000 but in here 20000. This means that it 
 could take a while for you to get everything in this game which is not a bad thing but it definitively 
 raises the bar in difficulty. As time passes by more people come to the island so dont worry if 
 you feel lonely at first, more people will come. Theres also a stamina and full gauge. The first 
 is for you to know how much can you work, cuz if it gets down to 0 you will collapse. And the second 
 one is for how hungry you are, which is very important cuz if you are hungry you will not get up 
 early which can be a problem. Days go by pretty fast, at first it will not be important, but as 
 you go on and have more things you can do, more people to visit, you may feel a little overwhelmed 
 cuz days are not long enough and you want to do a lot more. All of the core elements of HM are here, 
 planting crops, taking care of animals, getting the love of your life to marry you, expanding youre 
 house, and the list goes on and on. You can also play as a boy or a girl, you can also go Wifi 
 to see where is youre farm ranked at which adds a competitive aspect to this game.
  
  Now Graphics look pretty nice, way better than the first ds HM. Sound is solid to, very catchy at 
 times and implemented just right.
  
  If youre a Harvest Moon fan looking for a great game you will find it and if you are a newcomer 
 to the series youll find that this is a great franchise with plenty of things to do and it has 
 a lot of lasting appeal. Even though it does not bring a lot of new stuff to the table , it does 
 not mean that this is a bad game or an old one. Milking a cow for some odd reason seems as fresh 
 today as it was 10 years ago.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gir42
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon has been around for ages, well maybe not ages but it's been around for a long time. 
 Interestingly it has managed to stay relevant after all this time, despite few changes to the actual 
 game play. You still run a farm that still grows what is essentially the same crops you've always 
 grown. You still raise animals and make sure they stay healthy and happy. You still have the opportunity 
 to court one of several ladies, and have children. Thankfully for women, you won't have to wait 
 for a sequel this time that lets you play as a member of the fairer sex, but as the game itself 
 is concerned I suppose that may not be the most important feature.
  
  
  Graphics: Overall the graphics looked pretty good especially when compared to Harvest Moon DS, 
 which looked like a barely improved GBA title. It made the transition into 3D quite well though 
 at this point, there having been a 3D Harvest Moon title on the DS (Rune Factory) it's probably 
 to be expected.
  
  
  Sound: For many this is likely an unimportant category, I for one usually listen to music for another 
 source or use the TV as background noise when playing my DS, but if people out there care I guess 
 the music wasn't bad for a DS title. It certainly caught the ambiance of tropical island fairly 
 well, and honestly what more can be expected of them.
  
  
  Gameplay: Here we have the most important judge of a games buyability, and unfortunately this is 
 where i personally find the game is lacking. It's not the substance of the game itself problematic, 
 far from it. I've been a fan of the harvest moon genre since the 64, (while I am old enough to 
 have played it on the SNES, I really couldn't appreciate it) and since then have given nearly every 
 iteration of the series a try. The game is the same as it ever was, farming, fishing, chopping, 
 wooing, and hittin' stuff with a hammer. They even let you keep track of your stamina which is 
 something that's always bothered me in the past. The addition of online score keeping is also a 
 nice touch, it adds competition to a game that has never really had any community elements at all, 
 but could obviously have included them if they were available. The problem I found was with how 
 you accomplished all of these things. The title is controlled almost completely with the stylus, 
 using the control pad to select which tool or item you were holding at anyone time, and the shoulder 
 buttons to run in whatever direction you were facing. Moving, interacting with the environment, 
 and any and all actions are preformed using the stylus. that may not be so bad, but certain tasks 
 are slowed considerably, by the decrease in precision. I found movement to be tedious and preforming 
 actions to be annoying.
  
  Overall: As my score may point out, the problems with control were too much for me, though it probably 
 won't deter most fans of the series from picking it up. I'm glad I did play it, if nothing else 
 it showed they could make a normal Harvest Moon title on the DS that didn't look and play like 
 a broken GBA title. I just hope that next time they leave the option of playing it like I've always 
 played it, with a control pad and some buttons. If you like the series, and have the means give 
 the game a try, I don't know where one would rent DS games, though if you can, go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pik-ku
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  The game begins with selecting your character's gender! A cute girl or a boy (cute too!) anyway, 
 the story begins with the main character's departure from his (/her) hometown to a less populous 
 island to live. But at the midway, the boat their riding is caught in a storm and some people got 
 washed away to a remote island (including you) . And so, your journey to make the island prosperous 
 begin!
  
  The objective here is clear. You have to ship crops and etc to make this island more appealing 
 so that many people will decide to live there.
  
  The control is mostly by stylus and the right pad. Many people finds it hard but when you get used 
 to it, it's not that bad actually.
  I think the hard part of this game is to maintain the stamina and fullness (for me 'hungry-ness' 
 because mine's always hungry xDD) and to build the house at a very slow rate! Like when you upgrade 
 the chicken coop you have to add 1 incubator at a time, 1 feeder tomorrow and it requires more 
 money! But the good thing is the upgrade only takes 1 day.
  
  This HM has a WI-FI connection by using the phone inside your house. Oh, and both girl and boy 
 chara can marry!! (^^)
  
  At first gaining money will seem so difficult but as the game progress the options will open up! 
 Like fishing, raising animals, and etc. And don't forget to collect heart-shaped herbs! Those could 
 be shipped too. 
  
  Anyway, this is the first Harvest Moon in DS I actually enjoy! (umm, I don't like the rune factory 
 too) Actually I'm a bit uncertain when buying this game because all previous HM in DS are disappointing 
 (for me, sorry if one of you are a fans of those) but it turns out surprisingly good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  After playing Harvest Moon DS. I was in doubt about Natsume and Marvellous Interactive's ideas. 
 To be blunt it looked like a GBA game and almost felt like a GBC game. It looked like it was developed 
 by people who develop a pixar movie game. And at the best of times. they were mediocre.
  
  So this game has 3d and makes a lot more use of the touch screen. 
  
  Making the visuals a 
 lot better and there fore dont make you wanna go emo for looking at it and lets you use the buttons 
 of the DS free and there fore allowing more features and innovativeness. 
  The loosely thrown together story of the harvest moon games has been somewhat improved in this 
 installment. after you are washed over board by a storm, you wake up on an island. And slowly you 
 rebuild the island after finding it was once a bustling town.
  Marvellous has also included Nintendo WFC in the game, which allow you to, post your ranks and 
 such, i know it made me want to be the best, but there are some people who will always win, but 
 staying in the the top 1000 is a good goal.
  
  
  Amongst the many changes that have occured in this game, the harvest moon charm has stuck, keeping 
 its fanbase in tact. 
  Island of Happiness is a great HM game and shouldnt be missed by fans of the series. and i recommend 
 it to those looking for a new series to adore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I love the Harvest Moon series, with out a doubt, but I've yet to find a game that is as good as 
 Harvest Moon 64 or Friends of Mineral Town. In each new rendition there is just this one little 
 thing that bugs the hell out of me. Island of Happiness is by far the best Harvest Moon since Friends 
 of Mineral Town, but nevertheless there's just some stuff in there that gets to me. That being 
 said, no minor gripe should stop any Harvest Moon fan from picking up this game. 
  
  IoH has more of a story than previous Harvest Moons. You choose between a male or a female and 
 the game begins as you and another family get ship wrecked on an island and what do you know, you 
 decide to cultivate it. Eventually more people will come to live in the town you build and the 
 island will come to life with a full blown town.
  
  Unlike Harvest Moon DS, IoH is has a lot of touch screen features. Almost everything is done with 
 the touch screen, much like Animal Crossing Wild World. The only time you will use the buttons 
 is while changing tools, ect. It's good to see that the touch screen is being utilized, but it's 
 not as responsive as it should be like in Animal Crossing or LoZ: PHG, but it only serves up a second 
 tap of inconvenience here and there.
  
  All the basics of Harvest Moon are here, there are festivals, you farm, you can get married, and 
 have a kid. I'm not going to waste time on that sort of stuff, I'll just get into things unique 
 about this one. For one IT'S HARDER. Harvest Moon has always been a grinding game, and fans don't 
 mind, but be prepared to grind, and grind, and grind. It's harder to make money in this game, thus 
 harder to do anything. It's also harder to build up your friendships with others which brings up 
 another point, people leave! 
  
  There's a ton of people that come to live on the island, but only 24 or so are actual characters 
 with portraits when you talk to them, but never the less if you ignore them for 30 days, a lot 
 of characters will leave and you'll have to do some requirement like ship 10 Yogurt or something 
 before they'll come back a month later. It's very annoying and it can be considered this game's 
 sprites to collect, since you need a certain amount of people in the town to accomplish goals. 
 
  
  Despite every gripe I have with this game, I love it. It's Harvest Moon what else do you need to 
 know? I've gotten used to games never being as simplistic as Harvest Moon 64 or FOMT anymore and 
 I deal. Now if only the games got a proper publisher to put them out here sooner compared to Natsume 
 who always takes over a year and constantly delays, YEAH WHERE'S TREE OF TRANQUILITY!? IT WAS SUPPOSED 
 TO COME OUT WITH ISLAND OF HAPPIENESS YOU JERKS! But I digress. If you're a Harvest Moon fan, BUY 
 THIS GAME, if you're interested in the series, pick it up but I'd do yourself a favor and learn 
 the legacy of the series and play older ones if you get the chance.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
