-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Henry Hatsworth in the Puzzling Adventure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/henryhatsworthinthepuzzlingadventure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Platforming sections are intense and satisfying.
 Puzzle sections are fast and engaging.
 Upgrade system gives plenty of reasons to search for hidden treasure.
 Charming visuals and energetic soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Steep difficulty spike in later levels.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 80 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Action Puzzle
Date: Mar 17, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This odd combination of platforming and block busting makes for one awesome experience. 

  When a game is classified as a puzzle platformer, that usually means you'll need to use your brain 
 powers to guide your hero to the exit. Henry Hatsworth in the Puzzling Adventure is a far different 
 take on that hybrid genre. The action spans two screens that you can switch between with the push 
 of a button, but they have two completely different gameplay types. On the top screen, you control 
 Hatsworth in a standard, though extremely enjoyable, 2D platformer, vanquishing a horde of enemies 
 with your fancy sword while you try not to spill the tea you're holding in your left hand. On the 
 bottom screen is a puzzle game that is heavily inspired by Tetris Attack. You slide blocks around 
 until you match three of the same color, clearing the slowly rising tower before it reaches the 
 top of the screen. As strange as this combination sounds, it works really well. The later levels 
 exhibit a sizable leap in the difficulty, making your journey harder than an old man should have 
 to deal with, but the sheer joy of matching blocks and blasting foes makes this a unique and fun 
 adventure.  

  Despite his advanced age, Henry Hatsworth is a genuine adventurer. He plunders buried tombs like 
 a man half his age, but he isn't driven by just any priceless treasure. In The Puzzling Adventure, 
 Hatsworth discovers a long-forgotten suit that is made out of pure gold and gives the wearer special 
 powers. Every few levels, you find a new piece of the treasure, which gives you new abilities to 
 play around with. Your standard jumping is complemented by a golden pipe that lets you breathe 
 underwater and a pair of gilded shoes that let you leap off of vertical walls, among other things. 
 Although you can use these powerful clothes to travel back to earlier levels to explore previously 
 unreachable sections, it is the later levels that take full advantage of these new moves. The intricately 
 laid-out levels force you to bounce off walls and run past disappearing paths, making the jumping 
 portions thrilling and nerve-wracking.  

  Even though you have enough different moves to make this old man seem far more agile than his gray 
 mustache suggests, levels focus more on combat than on clever jumping tricks. You have a sword 
 with you at all times and can pick up various types of guns -- straight shots, bombs, and boomerangs -- along 
 the way. It doesn't take much effort to dispatch one lone enemy trying to halt your progress, but 
 the game frequently fills the screens with deadly foes. The early levels are fairly kind in this 
 regard, making sure the enemies require little more than one hit before they meet their end. As 
 the game progresses, the difficulty spikes straight up, and the screen will frequently be flooded 
 with enemies you'll need to strike a half-dozen or more times to vanquish. Trying to take down 
 torpedo-spewing enemies while dodging tiny bomb-toting foes and maniacal sword swingers in one 
 tight room can be a daunting endeavor, and the sparsely laid-out checkpoints ensure that you will 
 have to replay the same stretch over and over until you can successfully kill them all. The tight 
 controls make this exciting even when you're severely outnumbered, but the difficulty does seem 
 a tad unfair at times.  

  When you kill enemies, their souls float down to the bottom of the screen and take the form of 
 one of your blocks. You can switch to the bottom screen with a push of a button, and you'll have 
 to frequently bust blocks if you want to stay alive on the top screen. Like in Tetris Attack, the 
 tower of blocks slowly rises from the bottom and you have to match three consecutive colors (using 
 either traditional controls or the stylus) to make the blocks disappear. Although most of the blocks 
 are benign, doing no damage if they reach the top of the screen, the enemy blocks must be eliminated 
 to avoid the wrath of the resurrected undead. As the game progresses, new block types are introduced 
 that make the puzzle world every bit as difficult as the platforming sections. For instance, some 
 enemy types turn into blocks that cannot be moved, while others turn into speed blocks that make 
 your tower rise more quickly. However, the bad blocks are offset by good ones in the form of items 
 that will help you on both screens. For example, a lightning block will clear every block of that 
 color while stunning every enemy in the main world.  

  Loot recovered from enemies can be used to upgrade Hatsworth's powers, which goes some way to counteracting 
 the increasing difficulty. You can make his sword and gun attacks stronger, add to the amount of 
 time you can spend in the puzzle realm, and even make sure helpful item pieces appear more frequently. 
 If you find yourself dying more often than you'd like, you can replay earlier stages to build up 
 your cash reserve to further upgrade Hatsworth. There is also a special meter that can be built 
 up by chaining combos in the puzzle world. Once the meter is full, you can tap the bottom screen 
 to turn into an invulnerable robot for a little while. Called Tea Time, this is a welcome reprieve 
 from the onslaught of enemy attackers, letting you clear the top screen without worrying about 
 falling to their unrelenting might.  

           Hatsworth doesn't have to take guff from enemies when he's in robot form.      

  Even 
 though you have to switch between two completely different play styles, the pacing in Henry Hatsworth 
 never stumbles. The tight controls and varied environments in the platforming realm keep things 
 entertaining throughout, making every moment you spend striking down foes and jumping across treacherous 
 pits rewarding and fun. Because of the pure joy found in the platforming world, it seems that an 
 abrupt shift to busting blocks would be a chore, but that is far from the truth. Clearing blocks 
 is fast and frantic, and it's especially rewarding to clear a line at the last possible second 
 in the later levels with their multitude of evil block types. Both sections are an absolute blast, 
 so even though you must switch between these wildly different play types many times throughout 
 each level, the game always stays engaging.  

  The combination of traditional platforming and block-busting puzzles is an odd marriage, but Henry 
 Hatsworth makes it worthwhile. Both aspects of the game are first-class, mixing intricately designed 
 platforming stages with frantic puzzle action. The visuals make your elderly protagonist quite 
 endearing and bring the world to life with vibrant colors. The music is also top-notch, complementing 
 the hectic action perfectly with some energetic beats. The high difficulty in the later stages 
 can be frustrating at times, but that is the only tear in the otherwise immaculate suit Hatsworth 
 proudly wears. Henry Hatsworth in the Puzzling Adventure is not only one of the strangest platformers 
 on the Nintendo DS, it's also one of the best.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -Beatz-
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  So, Henry Hatsworth in the Puzzling Adventure.
  
  When I picked up this game, I couldn't help but think of Professor Layton and the Curious Village, 
 which is one of my favorite Nintendo DS games ever.
  Sadly (or maybe the opposite for some of you) , the game is not similar.
  While Professor Layton 
 in the Curious Village is a point and click adventure with different puzzles, interesting storyline 
 and characters, and an all around fun game that was something I played as much as I could in one 
 sitting, and recently with games, that hasn't happened.
  
  Henry Hatsworth, on the other hand, isn't a point and click adventure.
  It's a platformer, and 
 thanks to the dual-screen capabilities of the Nintendo DS, also has a puzzling mini-game on the 
 bottom screen.
  The game's storyline revolves around a set of golden clothes that Henry Hatsworth searches for, 
 and along the way, he encounters (often) an other adventurer who wants to get the golden clothes, 
 and also the other adventurer sends a few characters to battle Henry Hatsworth as the game's bosses.
 
  The boss fights are fun to play, as they all have different strategies, and are pretty considerable 
 enemies.
  The first time, it's definitely harder to defeat them, because you don't know what to expect of 
 them.
  
  Now, the game's storyline also includes a "puzzle realm", which is kind of loosely put into the 
 story.
  You have to find the golden clothes to close the puzzle realm, but that's all you know.
  The 
 puzzle on your bottom screen always slowly, slowly rolls upwards, and when you don't enter the 
 puzzle realm and put 3 or more blocks in a row and clear the entire realm, they will (at one point) , 
 invade the bottom of your top screen, and then come into the realm where Henry Hatsworth does all 
 the platforming, to fall from the skies, and, as you may have guessed it, to squash you.
  I, personally, didn't find the "put 3 blocks in a row" that interesting, as, let's say, Professor 
 Layton's interesting, and varying puzzles
  Also, the puzzles were better incorporated into the story.
  I only went into the puzzle realm 
 when I saw that the puzzle blocks were coming to the top screen, and even then I rushed through 
 to get back to the game.
  
  Now, the platforming sections are very good. The controls are solid.
  I can only say one thing 
 about the whole platforming system in Henry Hatsworth, and that is: "It just feels right", because 
 that is what it is. When you run and jump around, it just feels right.
  You have two weapons. A sword and different projectiles.
  When I started the game, it didn't 
 seem that distinctive from other platformers - just jump around, kill enemies with swords and your 
 gun.
  Fortunately, the game does many great things to improve upon that.
  For one, your projectiles and swords have alot of great and interesting features, for example when 
 you shoot your projectile, then while it's going towards the enemy, go into the puzzle realm and 
 solve 3 times a 3-in-a-row puzzle, your projectile's power multiplies.
  The sword mainly has attacks while pressing specific directional buttons, but it's all good fun.
 
  Also, you get to turn into a robot.
  Here, the game's one main theme, "British", is shown the most.
  When you go into the robot form, 
 a tea cup with the text "Tea Time" comes up, music comes, Hatsworth's drinkin' tea and a group 
 of fine gentlemen (or some level-specific characters, like Sherlock Holmes and a murder victim) 
 raise their tea cups and applause him.
  In the robot form, you're invincible and also have a separate set of moves, which improve at some 
 times in the story (after completing levels etc)
  The scenes like the Sherlock Holmes' murder victim raising his cup, and a fit ladies-man with blonde 
 long hair (who's a total buffoon) , adds to the humor of the game.
  The game has many funny segments and fortunately, never tries too hard.
  
  The game also gets 
 harder half-way through, which, may be frustrating to little kids who buy this game, but sure to 
 please the so-called "hardcore platforming" crowd.
  
  All in all, the game is very fun, suitable to people from all ages, and unique.
  While it doesn't 
 exactly invent a fresh game mechanic, it's different from the myriad of generic games out there, 
 and good as a game you can play for hours, or for just a quick time kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spade_Crisis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Henry Hatsworth, our protagonist, is in the search for a very rare and valuable Golden Suit. Only 
 the truest gentleman can wear such a suit. Now, I won't give much away, because spoilers are bad. 
 Henry must go through worlds and fight off monsters. Easy? No, because we also have our Puzzle 
 World. 
  
  Gameplay - Those who are familiar with the legendary Super Mario mechanics should feel right at 
 home with Hatsworth. And it clearly shows how EA has taken ideas from Mario. Our basic platform, 
 Hatsworth can change to his younger, more stronger self (just like a Mario's mushrooms) , you have 
 your wall jumps, and in Hatsworth, we have "Twomp-like" monsters out to.. twomp you. Although with 
 every monster you kill, their "soul" is taken over to the Puzzle World, like a graveyard. If you 
 don't get rid of it in time, the monster's soul will haunt you again. So, you are constantly moving 
 back and forth, real world to Puzzle World fending off enemies.
  
  Graphics - You're simple plat former with simple sprite animations. Very well done, very vibrant, 
 and you will see a lot from world to world. Whether it's a graveyard, or land in the skies, visuals 
 are well done and noticeable. 
  
  Music - Music is almost flawless. Original soundtrack with a mix of an electric guitar and some 
 European Classics. Definitely something to look forward to.
  
  Flaws - It's just too hard. Almost as if we are living in Super Mario World, these levels are hard! 
 One level in Hatsworth and generally be three levels in The New Super Mario Bros. Checkpoints are 
 spread out. Bosses at the end of each world can be tedious. So, have a seat, ready your hands, 
 and have your thinking cap on, because this is tough
  
  Conclusion - Definitely something to check out, Hatsworth is an exciting puzzle plat former that 
 stand out from others. Difficulty can be tough at times, but because of the charming characters, 
 beautiful visuals, amazing music, and a compelling story to it, you will come back for more, and 
 have a go at that tough level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  The platform genre was very popular in the 8 and 32-bit eras, the characters that starred in those 
 games gained celebrity status and became the main mascots of videogames. However when 3-D games 
 started being produced platformers quickly declined as just a few characters were able to do a 
 good transition from 2-D to 3-D and very little series were created to satisfy fans of the genre. 
 Fortunately handheld systems still occasionally deliver great platforming titles that not only 
 present the old-school concepts that exist on masterpieces of the genre, but that also bring tons 
 of new things to the table. Henry Hatsworth is the latest, and one of the most creative, examples 
 of this rebirth.
  
  As the game's title says Henry Hatsworth brings a mix of puzzle and adventure, while both had already 
 been combined on games like Zelda and even other platformers no game did it like this one. On the 
 upper screen you will take control of Henry, a British gentleman that destroy enemies by using 
 a cane and a gun while on the bottom screen a Tetris-like puzzle game will take place.
  
  The relation between both screens is rather simple. Enemies that get killed on the upper screen 
 aren't completely dead, as they remain alive on what the game calls the "puzzle realm". In order 
 to fully beat them you need to take care of their poor souls that flee and posses a puzzle block 
 on the bottom puzzle screen.
  
  The bottom screen is composed by tons of blocks on different colors. All you need to do is press 
 the x-button and the action of the game will switch between the screens. Use your stylus to drag 
 blocks horizontally and join three blocks of the same color, after that those blocks will disappear.
 
  
  The developers made sure players would have to utilize both screens, making the puzzling and platforming 
 compelling and extremely fun. The puzzle blocks move upwards so if a block possessed by an enemy 
 reaches the top screen it will try to smash Henry, and given the difficulty of the game and the 
 enemy-ridden screens this is not good at all, as an enemy returning to haunt you will usually mean 
 game over.
  
  The power-ups and 1-ups of the game also get moved to the puzzle realm once you collect them on 
 the platforming sections, and you will only be able to activate them if you get rid of their blocks 
 on the bottom screen.
  
  The puzzle screen has one meter on each of its corners. One representing the time you can spend 
 on the puzzle, and the other the special power your character has. The former fills gradually as 
 you play while the latter is filled by producing combos, activating power-ups, destroying enemy 
 blocks or simply getting rid of regular blocks. You can use the special power to either fire projectiles 
 or transform into a powerful robot to pound enemies when the meter is totally filled.
  
  Robots and elder gentleman don't match, but that is all a part of the game's over the top presentation. 
 It all starts with the rather strange storyline that involves a treasure realm that has been opened 
 freeing tons of monsters, and a golden gentlemen suit that needs to be collected to close the portal 
 joining both dimensions.
  
  Besides the game is filled with very humorous dialogue, that is made even funnier by the mumbling 
 voice of the characters, which was obviously inspired by Banjo-Kazooie's quirky character voices. 
 Henry soon finds out that his rival is also after the different suit pieces and so the quest becomes 
 more intense and some funny situations happen along the way with Henry having great exchanges with 
 his rival or having to deal with strange bosses summoned by the other gentleman.
  
  With all that being said the game still has plenty of flaws. The game is divided in five worlds 
 each one with 5 stages, one boss battle and other two secret stages that can be unlocked by finding 
 secret exits on the best Super Mario World fashion. However the levels are slightly repetitive 
 as their scenarios don't present really big changes and their concept is basically the same as 
 you will be jumping on platforms and battling carefully placed enemies with little surprises or 
 variations along the way.
  
  Enemy variety is also lacking, by the time you reach the fourth world you will have faced around 
 ten types of different foes which is too little. Some enemies are very creative as once they transform 
 into blocks they will have different effects on the lower screen either making it move faster, 
 becoming oversized unmovable blocks or transforming into blocks with high stamina that need to 
 be involved in two combos to be destroyed. But I felt like this could have been used more often 
 as there aren't many different enemies in the game.
  
  The bosses however not only present a major challenge but are overflowing with creativity and great 
 attacks. Bosses are extremely tough, which is no surprise given the game's unusual extreme difficulty 
 and they have a nice range of attacks. Beating them will usually require good management on both 
 the upper and bottom screen of the game.
  
  The game is very tough, even people who have beaten old-school tough platformers like Mega Man 
 2 will have a hard time here because the game gets hard way too fast. By the time the first boss 
 is reached you will start seeing how hard the game can be, and things only get harder from then 
 on. This is very good due to the lack of challenging games nowadays but an option for the difficulty 
 could have been nice as players will certainly be unhappy by getting killed all the time and having 
 to restart some levels all over again.
  
  Overall Henry Hatsworth is a good game. It deserves a lot of praise for its originality on mixing 
 different gameplays on a very successful way by making both the puzzle and platform sections extremely 
 solid and compelling. But it is undeniable that the game has some issues that could have been avoided. 
 The game has good visuals, hordes of enemies, great replay value due to the secret exits and weapon 
 upgrades that can be acquired by collecting treasure and an amazing soundtrack. Platform fans will 
 certainly be delighted.
  
  Actual Score: 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The DS is well known for its broad appeal, accessibility and impressive library. One of the most 
 impressive titles to hit the system last year inspired EA enough to develop a charmingly familiar 
 character modeled after the good Professor Layton, seemingly to appeal to a wide variety of people. 
 Unlike the title it drew inspiration from, however, Hatsworth is strictly a hardcore game meant 
 for players who can not only propel themselves past fatal traps and cheap deaths, but are fans 
 of both puzzling and platforming.
  
  Henry Hatsworth's charming attitude and personality are mockery of Professor Layton's demeanor, 
 as the game consistently pokes fun at British stereotypes and Layton itself (Hatsworth's sidekick, 
 for example, is very similar to Luke) . The plot is as complicated as a 2D platformer's writing 
 can get (very basic) ; there is a golden suit of clothes scattered around the globe with magical 
 powers, just waiting for a handsome devil to put it on. Hatsworth decides to go out and locate 
 the articles of clothing; alas, British professors tend to be bogged down by sophisticated British 
 noblemen, and the search turns into a race.
  
  Dialogue is humorous and provides for a few laughs, although the annoying Banjo-Kazooie voice acting 
 (gibberish) will get on some player's nerves. The story unfolds through short cutscenes in between 
 levels, which ensures the focus of Hatsworth is the gameplay -- which is a mixed bag.
  
  On the top screen is classic 2D platforming, where the player controls Hatsworth as he lacerates 
 past obstacles while showing off humorous animations and vivid environments. After every 20 or 
 so seconds, the player has to look down to the bottom screen. The touch screen is essentially a 
 watered-down Bejeweled; the player needs to get 3 blocks in a row, but they can only move blocks 
 horizontally. When an enemy on the top screen is killed, it becomes a block on the bottom screen. 
 Blocks appear at the lower half of the touch screen and slowly progress to the top. If an enemy 
 block reaches the edge of the touch screen, it becomes a powerful obstacle on the platforming screen.
 
  
  The platforming side of Hatsworth is very good, with a plethora of attacks, skills and abilities 
 to enforce the already competent level design. Visuals are decidedly average for a 2D DS game, 
 although in the game's defense it makes good use of colors and character designs are charmingly 
 stereotypical; more importantly, Hatsworth's score is excellent, breathing originality into an 
 experience that heavily relies on conventional methods of play.
  
  Hatsworth's platforming is a bit different than most platformers on Nintendo systems, as it relies 
 more on combat than actual platforming, but those familiar with games such as Castlevania will 
 feel right at home. As opposed to picking up different weapons and abilities, however, Hatsworth's 
 arsenal does not expand but is powered up throughout the game; upgrades can be bought at a shop 
 in between levels. Personally I would have liked to see a larger, more creative arsenal, but what's 
 here is adequate.
  
  What's beyond adequate are Hatsworth's boss battles, which are not only humorous, memorable and 
 creative, but fun to play. Tiburon likely had a lot of laughs coming up with these far fetched 
 scenarios, and whether it be an enraged widow or an operatic pirate, each one is a fantastic conclusion 
 to each world.
  
  Hatsworth boasts an intense level of challenge rarely seen in video games these days, which restricts 
 its audience and really only makes platforming a lesser experience. I'm all for a good challenge, 
 but much of Hatsworth's 'challenge' comes from cheap level design and tricky deaths. Dieing does 
 not necessarily mean you deserved to die.
  
  The puzzling on the bottom is passable, if not as solid as the platforming. It is simple, repetitive 
 and mindless; unfortunately, the player is required to spend an arbitrarily long period of time 
 in the puzzling, and after a few hours it becomes mundane and tiresome to waste so much time in 
 a meaningless mini-game. It also becomes ridiculously easy and isn't very rewarding, which leads 
 to the question of 'what's the point?' Unless you're a fan of overly simplified puzzle games, I 
 can't see the appeal of doing this.
  
  The platforming is not without its pitfalls, either. As I mentioned earlier, cheap deaths are rampant 
 in later levels and cause nothing but frustration. The first few levels are sorely lacking enemy 
 variety, which leads to a rather bland start of an otherwise solid title. Neither the platforming 
 or puzzling in Hatsworth is innovative, creative or masterful.
  
  I really enjoyed Hatsworth, and I reckon most other people will as well. I also predict the punishing 
 difficulty and unremarkable puzzling experience will turn many players off, along with a few minor 
 quirks (such as lack of longevity, enemy variety, etc.) . Despite the multitude of irksome issues, 
 however -- all of which are debatable -- Hatsworth proves its worth with strong execution of conventional 
 platforming. It's odd to see a title that entirely relies on conventional video gaming, yet manages 
 to feel fresh; weird. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebvan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  For all that I can remember there have probably been about 2 games (SMT: Digital Devil Saga and 
 Disgaea are the only ones coming to mind) which completely blindsided me where I hadn't even heard 
 of it before it was released, and then became obsessed with it. I can now say I have a 3rd game 
 to add to that list, and it's this crazy little Henry Hatsworth game. I already know this won't 
 be a big seller just because it's coming out in a month with a ton of other great DS games, but 
 it's really the most unique game I've played in a while.
  
  Graphics - The graphics aren't going to reason you buy this game, but they are pretty decent. The 
 things that stand out to me are some of the great colors they use in the game and some of the effects 
 they have, especially when you go into Tea Time (aka Robot-gasm) mode.
  
  Sound - It takes a lot for me to actually care about sound in a DS game, but the sound and music 
 in this game is awesome. Everyone talks in a pseudo Banjo Kazooie language where grunts and mumbles 
 are a language. I find this kind of moronic babbling amusing, but maybe your too high brow for 
 that kind of this. If that's the case, go play Scrabble.
  
  Gameplay - This isn't Professor Layton and the Curious Village. In fact, it's not even close to 
 it. If anything, this is like if Mario and Puzzle Quest had a baby together. The object of the 
 game is to use the top screen to advance through the level (Mario style) , while blocks underneath 
 you creep up slowly which exist to FUBAR your entire game unless you do something about it. Pretty 
 much, you play the game as Henry Hatsworth, you'll notice the screen below you is getting full, 
 you switch (X button) to the bottom screen and clear it up. Also, clearing certain blocks on the 
 bottom screen give you power ups to go towards the top screen so your constantly encouraged to 
 clear those blocks (in fact they glow on the bottom screen to stand out even when your playing 
 on the top screen) .
  
  Some people might think this sounds tedious, but it really makes it pretty fun. Everything about 
 the gameplay in this game is fun. It takes a while to figure out how to do the puzzles in the game, 
 but once you get it you can't put the game down.
  
  Story - The story is kind of lame. Your an old guy who wants golden clothes and to fight another 
 old guy who wants clothes too. Whatever though, I'm not looking for Final Fantasy X in a DS game, 
 I'm looking for a game which I can pick up for 10 minutes, beat a level, and save it for when I 
 have some more time.
  
  Features - There isn't anything in terms of multiplayer. There is a money system though which you 
 use to get stronger weapons and fun stuff like that. If I were to have a gripe with the game, it 
 would be that there is no manual save feature. It stinks that you can't save in the middle of a 
 level and it feels a little weird at first to play without a "saving data, don't turn power off" 
 screen coming up anytime. The game just saves without you knowing it at the end of a level. Honestly, 
 not a huge gripe but hey I'm trying to be critical!
  
  Overall - I never heard of this game up until a week ago. However, this might honestly be my new 
 favorite DS game ever (sorry FF Tactics A2) . The puzzle/platforming gameplay works great, especially 
 for the portable platform. It's easy to play a quick level, or spend hours beating worlds. If you've 
 never heard of this game, and you own a DS, you seriously should look into adding this one to your 
 collection.
  
  PS. Props to EA for developing a good new IP. I know people like to rag on EA, but this game (along 
 with Mirror's Edge and Dead Space) shows that EA is at least trying to move away from just regurgitating 
 existing franchises annually.
  
  MY VERDICT: Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stillwind04
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Dashing, daring, and just an overall jolly good game.
  
  First off, this is NOT comparable to Professor Layton and The Curious Village. I'll admit that 
 this game has the same amount of charm and originality. But other than that, the comparisons stop 
 there. Professor Layton could be classified as Puzzle Adventure, where-as Henry Hatsworth would 
 be more of a Puzzle Platformer. The "puzzle" aspect of each game is also incomparably different.
 
  
  I will be honest and say that I had only recently heard of this game through a podcast. But from 
 those five or so minutes of talking it up; it had definitely piqued my interest. The talk of combining 
 an in-depth and flashy platformer with an engaging puzzle game was definitely something I had never 
 heard of, let alone think of as a smart design choice.
  
  Well I was in for a surprise. Think of Henry Hatsworth as a combination of Castlevania and Planet 
 Puzzle League, sprinkled with some Metal Slug, then add a dash of British charm to top it off. 
 If that doesn't sound appetizing already, you need a better taste in games!
  
  From the moment you first start the game, you will be hooked. The menu music alone is inviting 
 and gives you that "all warm inside" feeling. The feeling you get when you know you are playing 
 something absolutely new and original. The dialogue is Banjo-Kazooie esque and makes you chuckle 
 the first time you hear it, with sentences starting in the stereotypical British mumbling "him-haw's" 
 and ending in abrupt "righto's", "gov'na's", and "good show's". 
  
  The game itself starts you off with a quick series of scenes that briefly describe the setting 
 and purpose of the story; you are an explorer on a quest for a golden suit that grants the wearer 
 a god-like status and powers. This is followed by a dialogue between Hatsworth and his assistant 
 about retrieving an artifact from the jungle. You are then plopped into a training stage of sorts. 
 There are no enemies and you are only able to jump through the first part of the level; getting 
 you used to the way Hatsworth handles and learning basic platforming maneuvers.
  
  When you return, your assistant informs you about the "puzzle realm" and why it exists. He then 
 takes you through a series of trials that get you familiar with the puzzle aspect of the game. 
 After that, it's game on, and you start in world 1-1 dawning your journey to find the rest of the 
 golden suit artifacts.
  
  The integration of each the platforming mode, and puzzle mode, is flawless. You are in control 
 at all times, and switching to one mode pauses the other (a relief for those of you that were worried 
 about multi-tasking modes) . Platforming mode is where you advance the game and the storyline, where 
 the puzzle mode is more for power-ups, getting rid of enemies permanently, and filling your super-meter.
 
  
  I have only played the first few levels, so I don't have much info on boss battles and weapon/meter 
 enhancements; but they are there. There is also a combo mechanic in the platforming, so I can imagine 
 that upgrading weapons will lead to flashier combat.
  
  Other than that, this is a great game and a must-buy for any platformer/puzzle fan. Spread the 
 word so that a sequel may be made! Good job EA! Keep those fresh ideas coming.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
