-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heroes of Mana
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/seikendensetsuheroesofmana/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intuitive interface proves that real-time strategy can work well on the DS.
 Solid unit balancing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Horrendous, broken pathfinding.
 Slow unit speed and constant cutscenes throw the pace off.
 Dumb multiplayer design forces both players to finish the campaign if they want to have a balanced match.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 222 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Brownie Brown
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date: Aug 14, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Heroes of Mana is an ambitious and sloppy game that will both entertain and infuriate you. 

 
  Heroes of Mana is not the first Nintendo DS game to employ PC-style real-time strategy mechanics, 
 but it's the first one to do it so thoroughly. There's a solid basis for a game in here, wrapped 
 up with a terrific and sensible interface that RTS newcomers will pick up quickly. Veterans will 
 also appreciate its simplicity and versatility. However, it can be a frequent disaster, drowning 
 its lofty aspirations in a deluge of appalling unit pathfinding. The bizarre and unbalanced multiplayer 
 setup will also turn off anyone looking to experience it with a friend. You may find some fun here 
 and there, but the game tries its best to hide it from you.  

           Somehow, some way, these units found a way to their destination.      

  Of course, 
 this is a Mana game, so even though the gameplay is nothing like previous games in the series, 
 fans will still enjoy the references and familiar creatures. Rabites and the elemental spirits 
 alike have a role to play, so if you were worried about the new gameplay direction, you can at 
 least hold onto them. The story isn't particularly engaging, but it's pleasant enough. It sends 
 your rebel adventurers down a bleak path, only to gradually restore hope to them when all seems 
 lost. While the narrative is fine, the frequency with which it intrudes upon gameplay is annoying. 
 You'll have to tap your way through dialogue multiple times in each mission, which is a reminder 
 of the series' role-playing roots, but it's a frequent frustration and a blow to the game's already 
 inconsistent pace.  

  As in most RTS games, you need to collect resources (in this instance, gaia stones and treant fruit) 
 and create structures to churn out battle units. Your base is a mobile airship, so it can move 
 about the battlefield, but it must be fastened to an anchor point on the map to produce units and 
 collect resources. Rather than buildings placed on the map proper, structures are contained within 
 your base itself. Once you have enough stone, you simply enter your ship and choose the structure 
 you want to build. Once the upgrade is complete, all you have to do is select the structure and 
 choose which units you want to create, and then they pop right out.  

  These traditional mechanics are held together nicely by an intuitive interface that makes it easy 
 to create units and move about the map. Gameplay takes place on the touch screen, so giving an 
 order is as simple as touching a unit and choosing a destination. You can also issue group orders, 
 either by tapping an icon at the bottom of the screen that chooses all similar units or by drawing 
 a circle around the units you want to command. Getting around the map is likewise a breeze. You 
 can use the D pad for free-form scrolling, but Heroes' best feature is its screen flipping. Tapping 
 an icon swaps the top screen's minimap with the touch screen's gameplay map. You can then choose 
 a destination on the minimap and swap the main map back onto the touch screen to give orders. This 
 system makes it simple to order units around and to move quickly to skirmishes in progress.  

 
  But if issuing commands is quick and easy, getting your units to go where you ask is almost impossible. 
 Heroes of Mana features the worst, most broken system of unit pathfinding ever devised. The map 
 is actually a grid that comprises invisible squares, so units don't move freely toward their destination; 
 they take an insane route based on what squares are available at the time the command is issued. 
 The resulting stupidity may induce tears. If you build enough units at once, they will all crowd 
 around your base until you give them an order, which keeps your gatherer units from returning resources. 
 If a nearby square is already occupied when you issue a command, the unit will brainlessly take 
 a route that sends it to the far reaches of the map, directly into enemy territory. To make it 
 even worse, many of the maps have ramps, walkways, and other features that ground units must traverse 
 to reach their objective. On those maps, you'll watch in agony as groups of units scatter, get 
 stuck, or simply go nowhere because the game is incapable of finding a way to get them there.  
 

  Other development miscalculations also take their toll. In each battle, you choose a number of 
 hero units to lead the way. Yet even with the various loot and spells you can equip them with, 
 they're incredibly vulnerable. More often than not, you'll simply keep them out of the action, 
 lest you lose the one that ends your mission. Pace is also a major factor, because units movesoslowly. 
 Yet other design elements are obviously designed to keep things moving. Resource nodes have very 
 little for you to gather, forcing you to spread out quickly, and missions can be completed within 
 20 minutes or so. Therefore, the tempo feels really off; it's as if developer Brownie Brown decided 
 to extend the game's length by slowing the units down.  

  Nevertheless, as shoddy as these elements are, Heroes of Mana has some nice things going for it. 
 The balance between ranged, ground, air, and heavy units is simple but solid, so you should always 
 be able to counter any given attack with the right unit. Elemental spirits, which let you unleash 
 imposing assaults on your unsuspecting foes, are nice supplements, as are the accompanying cutscenes. 
 The production values are terrific too. Maps and units are colorful, while the touch screen is 
 often overflowing with the explosions of battle, as well as the clockwork movement of gatherers. 
 The sound effects are fine, if a bit tinny, but the soundtrack is lovely and the perfect complement 
 to the fantasy visuals.  

           It seems like a lot of units, but ordering them about is a breeze.      

  In addition 
 to the campaign, you can take on a friend locally, provided that he or she has a copy of the game. 
 This is your chance to play as the Peddan army, Heroes' second faction. As you can guess, playing 
 against a buddy is more fun than playing against the artificial intelligence, but it's too bad 
 that the basic multiplayer design is completely moronic. Both players are required to unlock heroes, 
 units, structures, and maps in the campaign before they can be accessed in multiplayer. This ties 
 your multiplayer tech tree to your progress in the single-player game, which means that unless 
 both you and your opponent have completed the campaign, the match will be totally lopsided. Not 
 only does it limit your map and unit choices, but it annihilates the most important element inherent 
 to RTS multiplayer: balance.  

  You may occasionally find yourself enjoying Heroes of Mana in spite of its shortcomings. At the 
 very least, it confirms that RTS works on the DS. Sadly, vital aspects of its strategy gameplay 
 are deeply flawed, which leaves you wondering what could have been if these major issues had been 
 corrected. It's a step in the right direction, but it's a tiny, tiny step.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: leoleez
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The controls seemed alot like it was from Dune 2 the game or something, where you can control 1 
 or a few units and moving and attack both were horrible, this game exemplifies an early RTS game, 
 if only they were maybe a few decades before hand this would be innovative.
  The game was very innovative in the sense of the playing style of a game, but the controls just 
 ruined the game, made it harder than needed, and then the game was topped off with a huge number 
 of unbalanced units for the enemies while giving you a couple of the cute monsters in the mana 
 universe. Sure it was cool and had some depth, but you kept getting pwned in the gameplay (that 
 was where I gave up at) and there was no end to it. It is cool how it really connects the stories 
 and adds much to the mana universe, but the controls really tick people off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Mana, known as Seiken Densetsu in Japan, is always a subordinate role besides the super star Final 
 Fantasy, but the series still can make its own impression through the version Seiken Densetsu 3 
 on SNES. Despite this fact, Square Enix continued to consider it an experiment, which explains 
 why the next version Dawn of Mana failed. With Heroes of Mana (HoM) , they try to find a new path: 
 RTS on NDS. What can they achieve with such an original thought?
  
  Let's have a look at game play of this RTS. HoM simplies base-building by providing you the space 
 ship Nightswan as the main base which contains other constructions. 2 advantages of this are the 
 flexibility of your base and that you can build without take into consideration the terrain around. 
 Gathering resource is simple because you can move your base to a new mine when the old one has 
 been depleted. However, the limit of troops is 25 so there is no hope for gigantic battles with 
 hundreds of units. Heroes, the main characters you control, can be chosen at the beginning of each 
 play scene. They are basically combat units which can be equipped with items and possess 2 special 
 abilities. Besides workers and heroes, other units fall into one of four categories: infantry, 
 gunner, air force or heavy infantry. Opposite principle is applied for these units: infantry is 
 best against gunners, gunners against air force and so forth... A unit deal double damage against 
 and take only half damage from their favoured opponents.
  
  One strong point of HoM is its comfortable control system. Both Macro and Micro are simple and 
 effective with the support of touchscreen feature of NDS. To select a group, you click on the grouping 
 icon and use stylus to localize the units. To choose all units of one arm, click on icon for that 
 arm. So you may have the feeling of manipulation by mouse on PC. 
  
  Unfortunately, there are still some flaws. Locating and moving ability of units are very poor. 
 Instead of choosing the shortest way, your troops keep running in zigzags. AI programming is dumb. 
 Sometimes units rush to attack the nearest enemies and neglect the objective you specify. Besides, 
 game does not support multi player through Wi-Fi, so you are a lonely in HoM. Anyway, as the first 
 RTS on DS, it's tolerable.
  
  Developed by Brownie Brown which has many experienced developers, HoM show a decent graphics, sound 
 and story line. Background is filled with many bright colors, character model are 2D but still 
 lively, which brings about the feeling of elegent slender. Cut-scenes successfully use Cel-shading 
 technique. Sound effect and music can't be compared to Final Fantasy but can cause sympathy from 
 players. The script contains many interesting characters and details. With 27 main scenes and 43 
 secondary quests that can be unlocked, HoM is lengthy enough to satisfy you.
  
  Though HoM is not an outstanding game from Square Enix, it shows enough effort and creativity in 
 development. As one step forward in a new land, RTS on handheld consoles, it is a remarkable product 
 for any NDS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnix994
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  First off Heroes of Mana is the latest intalment in the mana serie (seiken densetsu in japan) heroes 
 of mana is the first RTS worthy of being mention on the DS. Your leadership is needed to control 
 your heroes and armies in combat. Using a simple and easy to use gameplay using the stylus at its 
 full capacity.
  
  The story starts when five Peddan soldier are trap and embushed on a routine mission. with the 
 only help of your fellow friends heroes and your ship. Your ship also enables you to summon troops 
 (who are actually different kind of monsters from the Mana serie) . and while traveling the world 
 you will meet new allies and new rivals.
  
  Graphic- the graphics uses 2D sprites on a 3D rotating background. the graphics are comparable 
 to the ones seen in Final Fantasy Tactic and the cutscene are animes. Tha cutscene are quite frequent 
 for a RTS and the picture is beautiful.
  
  Sound- As any other RTS you only have a couple of theme songs, it is pretty standard. as for the 
 cutscene the sound as a high quality witch is really good for the DS.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is pretty ruff to get a hang of it but once you are done with the tutorials 
 it actually is pretty easy to get around. the stylus can select troups by freezing the time frame 
 and circled around the troops. you can also select your trops as a quick command by classes or 
 by individual using icons in the bottom of the screen.
  
  in conclusion, This game is well worth it for any Mana fan or any RTS fan but on the bad note, 
 unless you like a really good challenge you will get frustrated because of the difficulty level. 
 you could rent this game but because of the long starting tutorials youll have to start over everytime... it 
 took me an average of 40hrs to complete the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman1995
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Heroes of mana is a tacticall game and i think it is pretty good it can get a bit boring after 
 a while though so yeah. It is kinda like a copy of final fantasy on ds but that still is good because 
 final fantisay is a great game. The game does get really really tricky and confusing you have to 
 try like two times to finish one mission because you need to find strategies withing the game i 
 have came up with a load of strategies for almost every mission!
  
  This game is a good addition the world of mana and so yeah i will tell all abouth the positives 
 of this game; You can summon animals from your spaceship for reinforcements and well there is one 
 more... the game is really fun. 
  Now time for the cons; The game goes to short; Gets a bit frustrating, lcant use very much characters 
 during a mission and well you can get bored of it!
  
  So that is the end of this review i hope you enjoyed reading it. I really dont care if you buy 
 it or not... Seeya!
  
  Sincerely Lilman1995 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolflink001
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  
  August 14th of 2007 another Mana title hit the Ds but differently this time around. It was Heroes 
 Of Mana. Mana decided to abandon the hack and slash adventure game play and go tactical... Hmmmmm.... 
 this was an indeed bizarre move for Brownie Brown on the field! The storyline for this Mana title 
 was unlike any other. Very deep and creatively different in an odd sort of way. Five Pedda troops 
 finds themselves dragged in the middle of a nefarious plot on a reconnsiance mission and they must 
 band together to save the world from a horrible evil that is trying to make its return. This game 
 I must say was much better than its predecessor Children Of Mana. I thought it would be an adventure 
 game but it still was in a very different sort of way.
  
  
  Gameplay: No Hack and slash in this one. Instead you are using the stylus and the touch screen 
 to its fullest. Clicking characters and dragging them to there destinations. The cast of baddies 
 are back but this time they are on your side! That's a big surprise! Fighting is much different 
 also. You are clicking and dragging the Nightswan and company to places on the field. There is 
 also a very large cast of characters in this Mana title. That's what I wanted to see in the next 
 Mana but I did not expect it to be tactical. The missions are all hard and challenging. Protect 
 the Nightswan at all costs! That's your biggest mishap if it starts getting hit!
  
  
  Graphics: The 3-D environments surprised the hell out of me! Big jump for Mana in this one. The 
 environments are very colorful, well developed, and themed! The only thing that they forgot to 
 do something about was the blackness on the outside of the environment! That just throws everything 
 off to me! You got trees, grass, water, people and then everything outside of it all is black! 
 They could have added a themed "background" outside of the environments to make environments more 
 creative.
  
  
  Controls: At little frustrating and hard to master at first but you will get the hang of it as 
 you play on! Just remember to keep a very CLOSE eye on your party characters otherwise they will 
 be standing who knows where getting hit by some damn monster! Use the stylus at all costs!
  
  
  Music: Very nice. 10 times better than Children Of Mana! War is the primary theme in this 
 Mana title so the music must be up to beat.
  
  
  Value: Heroes Of Mana just seems like some kind of fluke but it definitely should have value with 
 it being the ONLY tactical game in the Mana series. For now.....
  
  
  Tilt: Overall, Heroes Of Mana I thought would be a dozy but somehow it managed to deliver in a 
 weird way. The graphics are really nice and the storyline is also well prepared! Nice visuals! 
 And the opening trailer knocked my socks OFF! BadASS! There are cartoon cinematic littered all 
 over this game! This game has Wi-fi but it's not exactly what you may expect. The reason I bought 
 the game was because of the box really. Looked dramatic! Five characters on the front then hell 
 in the background! 27 missions of it! I thought there would be 30 of them but maybe Wi-fi plays 
 a factor. Would I recommend this game? Well if you are willing to pay a whooping $39.99 plus tax 
 that'd be $42 something!!! Or if you just want another Mana then you should go ahead and get it. 
 The game ended really cool but it left me with questions to be answered. Why did they fly into 
 that portal? Who was Yarcheal looking at in that vision? And why was that stupid little green head 
 pansy girl on the reconnsiance mission with them???
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Square Enix has been taking the Mana series into different directions, evolving from a type of 
 gameplay into another. This time around, it takes a turn into the RTS universe.
  
  The story in Heroes of Mana places a group of heroes in the middle of a series of conflicts with 
 Peddan soldiers. The action begins early, with an unexpected turn of events. From there on, Roget 
 and friends stay together to figure out what is behind these events and bring justice to the world.
 
  
  After the complexity of Ys Strategy, I couldn't possibly imagine how another RTS would work on 
 the Nintendo DS, but Heroes of Mana is pretty straightforward. 
  
  The interface is simple enough for RTS beginners, while anyone already familiar with Warcraft and 
 the like will be impatient enough to just skip over the entire tutorial chatter. 
  
  Before any stage, you select a number of characters from those you have available in your army. 
 Each character has certain bonuses that affect units within a certain range, such as higher attack 
 power or range. You being with your party members, a few resources and an airship. Like in every 
 other RTS, you must gather resources before you start building and producing units. There are only 
 two types of resources, Treant Berries (to produce units) and Gaia Stones (to build) , and none 
 of them lasts for too long, so you must manage what you have available. 
  
  After creating a couple of Rabites (your gatherers) and harvesting some resources, you can start 
 building. But unlike other RTS games, your buildings aren't placed in the map. Instead, you build 
 them inside your airship. 
  
  There are specific buildings for each type of unit, and each type of unit has its strengths and 
 weaknesses. For example, ground units are stronger against missile units (archers) , but take twice 
 the damage from heavy units. The relationships of power between the units are explained to you 
 early on and it's where the strategy resides. 
  
  Your party members can also fight alongside with the other units, but keep an eye on their health, 
 since certain stages require certain characters to live.
  
  You can also build special facilities such as a healing building. This means that any units in 
 range of your airship will recover health over time.
  
  At first I couldn't see why the heck I should even need an airship, but the concept grew on me 
 after a while. The airship must be anchored in certain spots on the map, and usually there is more 
 than just one hook so you can move around. While moving, the airship can take damage from enemy 
 units though, but mobility becomes handy especially when resources and enemies are far away, or 
 when you want to group up to heal.
  
  Everything is done by simple touches of the stylus. Tapping the airship takes you to the build/production 
 area. Tapping any building inside shows a menu with the units available for production. 
  
  Tapping any of the icons at the bottom of the screen selects that particular unit. Using the "group" 
 function allows you to draw a circle to select several units at the same time.
  
  Moving them to a different location is as easy as touching the spot on the map you want them to 
 go.
  
  Unfortunately, getting there is sometimes a problem. Your troops will take the longest way to the 
 place you have sent them to and eventually you lose track of them. They will get to an enemy and 
 stand around instead of attacking, because they can't all reach their opponent at once. Or they 
 will be standing there being beaten on, but won't fight back until you remind them. The pathing 
 is just horrible, and it's especially frustrating in areas with platforms, hills, stairs and narrow 
 passages, where your troops will end up scattered all over the map. And even in the fastest setting, 
 the units still move slowly, which makes the battles somewhat tedious.
  
  Opposite the poor AI, there is the great story and beautiful artwork. The character art is fantastic, 
 and so are the little cutscenes here and there. The dialogs are really good, but sometimes it feels 
 like there is just way too much text for small scenes.
  
  The game is presented in chapters, and at the end of each you get to save your game and see a summary 
 of the events, so if you want to skip the dialogs, you can catch up on the story like this. Finishing 
 a chapter will also show a stats screen, telling you how well you did and giving you a final grade. 
 It also tells you what items you have found, so you can equip your party before you start the next 
 battle. There is also an added feature lets you swap the top and bottom screens, which makes reading 
 the chapter's summary, equipping a character or scrolling through the map easier.
  
  There are many reasons for me to enjoy this game: the characters having active and passive bonus 
 abilities, moving the airship around, the presentation and the music, the great story, the simple 
 and easily accessible interface. What really brings it down is the unit AI on the battlefield.
 
  
  But when all is said and done, Heroes of Mana is a pretty good RTS. And even if that many not be 
 what fans of the franchise were expecting, it fits well into the many tales of Mana.
  
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screenshots and videos at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=heroesofmana
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasta_Zergling
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  As far as real time strategy games go, the DS has yet to see many of them. Heroes of Mana, however, 
 aimed to change that, and therefore deserves some credit.
  
  First of all, the campaign mode is decently long and has a very short learning curve. Although 
 the gameplay mechanics themselves stay pretty much the same throughout the campaign, the additions 
 of new heroes &amp; spirits to your party as well as new units and buildings over time manage to 
 keep the game feeling fresh. You will most likely develop a preference to certain characters strengths 
 and abilities, and as a result you will end up neglecting most of the others since you can usually 
 only take 3 or 4 with you on a mission and there are 11 characters total.
  
  The multiplayer battles are quite fun provided both players have completed the game or are at least 
 around the same part. The Nintendo Wi/Fi option could probably have been taken out since all it 
 offers is a ranking system. The bonus maps mode is quite fun since it allows you to replay previous 
 maps from the campaign but with different objectives.
  
  The games main flaw comes from its absolutely horrid pathfinding mechanics. Oftentimes you will 
 find your units either completely unwilling to move or running around randomly without any sign 
 of stopping. The latter bug seems to be caused by the grid based movement system which doesnt 
 allow two units to pass over the same square at the same time, as well as not allowing for a full 
 range of movement (units can only move along the diagonals) . The way your characters sometimes 
 just refuse to move, especially while in battle, still doesnt make much sense to me, and it has 
 caused me too many failed missions where my main hero randomly decided to charge into battle and 
 refused to return to the base to be healed, preferring to wait around in the middle of the battlefield 
 and be killed. Another small flaw in the game is the inability to activate your units spells while 
 they are fighting, forcing you to attempt to make them leave the battle for a few seconds so that 
 you can tap the little icon and then attempt to send them back into the fray.
  
  All in all, Heroes of Mana could have been a great DS game if it wasnt flawed by an atrocious 
 pathfinding system and a few small other bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andraxal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Story: The story is about a young soldier named Roget, who is under the command of Yurchael. They 
 are sent to an enemy territory to scout, to see if they are starting a war, only to find out that 
 the enemies they are spying on seem to think Pedda, Roget's home country is starting a war. Pedda 
 the mysterious and isolationism styled country decides to be ambitious and take over the world. 
 When each of the conquered nations fall a giant black ominous mirrior takes shape over that country 
 called Esina's Mirrior. Operation Psi is used as a code name for an unknown objective which your 
 enemies use on occasions. Turning your back on the country you serve, you make enemies out of loved 
 ones and friends. Within your band of mercenaries is a whole cast of colorful characters, one who 
 is the last of her tribe, one who runs from the truth, another who cannot forget the past, and 
 a king slayer who's hidden their bloody past. The greatest of friends will now turn on you, and 
 hunt you down relentlessly. You must hurry and recover the great Mana spirits to find a way to 
 stop the conquest of Pedda, before all the kingdoms are conquered. Gameplay: The gameplay it's 
 self is very good. It is a traditional RTS game which has a rock, paper, scissors style of fighting. 
 One type of unit is always weak to another, however strong to one as well. You use gathering units 
 to grab materials to build or recruit which can range from little legless bunnies to adorable running 
 geckos. You gather Gaia stones to build bases, alters to the gods, and healing houses. You can 
 also gather berries from Mana trees which allows you to create monsters which will become your 
 army. You can even equip people with the Mana spirits and call on them in battle to do various 
 things. This game does however have a few small hitches. One is that the AI for the units does 
 have pathfinding problems were they try to go around people but some times may go a very strange 
 or long way. The other is that this game is very unbareable if you're left handed. Sounds: There 
 is a vast multitude of songs. There are ones which can get your blood pumping, and those which 
 make you relate to the characters emotions, some will even mystify you. One such song is the song 
 that plays while you battle Celestian, a very fast paced battle song which is not easily forgotten. 
 Each nation has it's own music, and there is plenty to hear, and it is always well done. The tracks 
 are very easily distinguishable. Graphics: This is pretty much the cream of the crop for the Nintendo 
 DS. This game is very good to look at, and it looks like they spent a great deal of time trying 
 to draw the scenery. At times the background really pops out, and grabs you as your jaw hangs open. 
 The anime styled FMV's are something to behold as well, even the still images for cutscenes are 
 beautifully done. Each character has a vastly different sprite, and no two different units look 
 the same. A lot of other games on the DS are behind when it comes to graphics, and this game will 
 really show that off if you have other DS games. Replay Value: The replay value is very high in 
 this game because of the vast amount of different ways to play each level, with different leader 
 characters, different units, the hidden items, new strategies, and of course great story telling. 
 After beating the missions you can also access Bonus levels which allow you to replay missions 
 only with completely different objectives. Final Note: The price is a little high on this game. 
 This game was exactly what I wanted for my DS, and a great RTS nontheless. This game is given a 
 bad reputation because of the AI pathfinding, however this is easily remedied with patience. This 
 game is for someone who likes to strategy games, who can easily pick up and play anywhere. This 
 game is not for children, or those who cannot stand micro managing. However this game is a great 
 game overall, and I'd recomend it to all my friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone_Star47
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  First of all it is one of my favorite games, mainly b/c it is the only rts style game I have for 
 the ds. One of the big problems is the movement of your units. Every time you order a group of units 
 to attack or go somewhere almost always there is at leats one unit (or about half of them) seem 
 to scatter in the complete opposite direction and they go all the way around the map to get to 
 that one spot. It constantly pisses me off. If they could fix that one problem, then I would give 
 it an 9 but for now Im going to have to give it a 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defunct32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  After spending about an hour into the title, I've come to realized, I've a love-hate relationship 
 with this game, I love the art/visuals and presentation the rich colors, surrounding and the animated 
 cutscences, everything is perfect, all the way to the font, yes, the best font I've ever seen in 
 a long time used in a video game.
  
  And so what do I hate? The AI... Yes! The AI Is a little off, I find that more often than not, 
 the AI have some serious issues to settle when finding path to their assigned destination, there 
 are times where I have to manually guide my allies for the shortest route possible, this is a bothersome 
 considering there are so many things going-on in the screen, trying to control multiple allies 
 is even worse, you'll end up with the most disarray formation ever possible, one will go that way, 
 the other go this way and the last few bunch will have an impromptu dance party circling around 
 an area, and get massacred in the end.
  
  STILL, I believe Heroes of Mana deserves a chance (rent it) , I love how somewhat similar this game 
 is to Warcraft (I've only played WC, so that's the only game I can really compare) , you've to build 
 structure and deploy units from it, harvest resources, (rings a bell?) and all that jazz, and to 
 top the icing on the cake, the visuals and artwork (I've repeated this twice, yes, I am impressed) 
 are amazing, the only redeeming point for Heroes of Mana. 
  
  This game in all honesty doesn't actually deserves your money, but at least it deserves a rent, 
 or borrow from a friend, I bought it, but I don't have that oh damn, I regretted buying this feeling.
 
  
  Your call! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I think there's a point where i definitely draw the line as to how much frustration i can tolerate 
 from a game's flaws. there's a lot in heroes of mana really obvious from the beginnning that you 
 play it. The main flaws come from its gameplay. Heroes' unnecessarily slow pace of troop movement 
 and sluggish framerate caused by low DS memory can agreeably test your patience. compounding the 
 frustration next is the AI movement, the fact that movement is based on an SRPG grid system where 
 soldiers cannot be positioned or move within the same panel, causing most of your army to scatter 
 about amongst themselves trying to find room when it's really not necessary kind of realism. I 
 think this should have been more streamlined. If the AI makes bad decisions as to where to go and 
 how to approach enemy territory, then this game souldn't have been an RTS game, but rather some 
 sort of turn based/ RTS hybrid where the player actually had 100% control over their army. Unfortunately 
 there a lot of action that goes on in battles in Heroes and that's sadly not a good thing. There 
 really is no strategy to Heroes, it mostly consists of churning out your MOB or monster soldiers 
 out of the base regardless of that monster's weaknesses or strengths. That is, if you even manage 
 to get your forces to engage the enemy, provided most of them don't go off somewhere else. At times 
 I found it better to exploit my harvesters and scratch my enemies to death through attrition, because 
 they didn't cost anything to spawn and respawn them. When I really was ready to lay the smack down 
 on my enemies that was the time to use my main force. Overall Heroes battles is just one confusing 
 bashfest. I must say the appeal of Heroes happened to be the music, which was really well done. 
 The graphics were decent and interesting hippy cartoon theme to it, but still subpar. The battlefield 
 was well sometimes, they did a good job on the castles, but the textures of some like the ground 
 and grass were really mushy looking. Well, you think this game would be good enough to reccommend 
 but unfortunately it's just too sadistic and punishing. Overall, it feels... underdeveloped and 
 cannot even be considered playable or mediocre. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
