-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Honeycomb Beat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/honeycombbeat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slick production.
 Parlays simple concept into two, distinct gameplay modes.
 Provides a healthy challenge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Look and feel are highly derivative.
 Not much lasting value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.1, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 32 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Hudson
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Apr 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With a simple concept and some stylish design, Honeycomb Beat is a nice game to look at that ultimately 
 doesn't go anywhere. 

  Before Q Entertainment came out with the one-two release of Lumines and Meteos, it had been years 
 since a puzzle game garnered much critical or commercial attention. These two puzzle games arguably 
 traded on slick presentation as much as they did on inventive and addictive puzzle concepts, and 
 with success comes imitators. Hudson's Honeycomb Beat does its damnedest to emulate the look and 
 feel of Q Entertainment's finest. In this regard, it's fairly successful, if patently derivative. 
 The gameplay concept isn't a bad one, and it benefits from having two unique modes with distinctly 
 different focal points. What hurts the experience, though, is a lack of evolution. The game gets 
 harder the longer you play it, that's for sure, but it's missing the hook that makes you really 
  need  to play it for long.  

          Honeycomb Beat is to Lumines what 2 Days in the Valley was to Pulp Fiction.     

  From 
 the name, you might infer that Honeycomb Beat is some kind of rhythm-puzzle mash-up, but in truth, 
 rhythm, or time at all, has little impact on the fundamental concept behind the game. You're presented 
 with a two-tone grid of hexagons. Using the stylus, you can tap (or "beat") any hexagon, and it'll 
 flip over, changing from one color to another -- from "off" to "on," if you will. The rub is that 
 in doing so, it changes the color of any of the other hexagons that it's in direct contact with, 
 which means that, depending on their starting position, turning one hexagon on might turn its six 
 surrounding hexagons off. That's really all there is to it. While the two primary modes of play 
 work with this concept to produce disparate results, both focus on grappling with the six-sided 
 logic.  

  In the puzzle mode, you're presented with a uniquely shaped grid, usually with a few very specific 
 hexagons in the on position, and your challenge is to turn on the entire grid. There's no time 
 limit, but you've got a limited number of beats per puzzle. It's a soft limit, though, and you'll 
 still get partial credit for solving a puzzle even if you go over by a few beats. There are around 
 200 unique puzzles to be solved, though the first 30 or 40 puzzles don't put up much of a fight, 
 with simple grid designs that require one or two beats to solve. After that, the difficulty isn't 
 always consistent, but the puzzles get pretty diabolical, with serpentine grid designs that can 
 require eight or more beats to solve. Additional kinks arise in the form of special icons that 
 affect the way hexagons they're placed on behave. Arrow icons will cause a straight line of hexagons 
 to flip, rather than the usual concentric circle. Other icons will prevent hexagons from flipping 
 until they've been hit with a number of beats or cause the hexagons surrounding it to flip without 
 flipping that hexagon itself. While a number of the puzzles can be vexing, it's not hard to tear 
 through a surprising majority of them in an afternoon's time.  

  Perpendicular to the puzzle mode is the evolution mode, which takes the basic concept and adds 
 a Tetris-style sense of urgency to it. Instead of giving you a fixed grid with a limited number 
 of beats and an infinite amount of time, you're presented with a seemingly endless grid that slowly 
 but surely creeps up from the bottom of the screen. Flipping every hexagon in a horizontal row 
 will cause it to disappear, and the goal is to eliminate rows faster than they can be pushed onto 
 the screen, because when the grid reaches the top of the screen, it's over. Since being economic 
 with your beats isn't as much a concern as speedily eliminating rows, the evolution mode requires 
 a much different strategy and is inherently faster paced. That said, once you figure out a few 
 basic strategies for eliminating the top few rows of the grid, it's not difficult to blast your 
 way through the 10 basic difficulty levels. There's a shoehorned brain-training angle to the evolution 
 mode that judges your performance at the end of each level, presumably based on your ability to 
 clear a number of rows with a single beat. The way it goads you to step up your game by equating 
 you to a jellyfish or a mitochondria from simplistic play is amusing, but the game itself never 
 really demands a particularly advanced gameplay style.  

          Honeycomb Beat isn't a bad puzzle game at all -- it's just kind of harmless.     

  While 
 the playfield itself isn't much to look at, Honeycomb Beat does a pretty good job of sprucing up 
 the presentation with acid-tinged kaleidoscopic visualization effects filling the top screen, random 
 background images behind the playfield on the lower screen, and a dozen or so different electronic 
 music tracks. Your choices for the visualizations, backgrounds, and music are pretty limited at 
 first, though success in either the puzzle or evolution mode opens things up pretty quickly. None 
 of the individual pieces are particularly mind-blowing or original, but they come together nicely. 

  While a lack of imagination could be faulted for Honeycomb Beat coming up short, the real problem 
 is that there's not enough follow-through on the gameplay. The puzzle and evolution concepts are 
 actually pretty great, but the game doesn't explore them enough, and the whole thing runs out of 
 steam before too long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RSG_Angel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  After spending hours (and hours!) on end swearing and throwing my ds across the room as honeycomb 
 beat's evolution mode beat me yet again I realise i'm hooked.
  
  With two game modes i got the first impression that i would get bored quickly with this game, yet 
 i get a thrill out of collecting new wallpapers, colours and visualations by completing the simple 
 to impossibly insane puzzle mode. Out of the two modes my favours definately weavered to the evolution 
 mode; fast paced action racing against the clock to beat those evil little honeycomb! Never have 
 i had a drive to complete a puzzle game, yet evolution mode taunted me until i finally conquered 
 it.
  
  A great game for the casual gamer or a present for the quick-minded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  Once again I feel that GS have been overly harsh on an inovative DS game that makes good use of 
 the touch screen. Honeycomb Beat is a nice little puzzle game that starts off a touch on the easy 
 side and then hits you with some real tough stuff. Basic game play is touch (or beat) a hexagon 
 and it changes colour (flips) as do all the hexagons touching it. In puzzle mode the idea is to 
 make the entire image presented turn white within the prescribed number of beats. There are some 
 200 of these, enough to keep you going for a while. The second mode is a more Tetris style game 
 with the honeycomb grid moving up the screen, the idea being to turn a whole row the same colour 
 to make is disappear. Extra points are earned if you manage to do several consecutive rows the 
 same colour (not necessarily as a multiple) .
  The design on the top screen, music and second colour of the honeycombs are configurable and playing 
 through the modes opens more options up. This is a nice touch and some of the designs are pretty 
 cool.
  In a nut shell this is a must have for fans of puzzle games and equally a good starting point for 
 people new to the genre, since the first few puzzles are pretty simple and encourage you to keep 
 going.
  With it's $20 price tag it's certainly worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EffixC
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  DS is the best platform for puzzle games, maybe. And this 'Honeycomb Beat' may be one of the best 
 puzzle games on DS. I said,'May'. You can say it's nothing but a small hit, and you of course can 
 list your fav DS games. But, if you never played this game, I think you should consider it.
  
  It's not so easy to find a game you really love and, worth a try and the money. When I first saw 
 its cover, I told myself, hey, why not buy it? And since I love DS more than the super monster PS3 
 or sth like that, I should just choose such game to release my brain and fingers. No more action, no 
 more hard time, no more monsters, no more level up just for a little bit stronger, and no more 'Huge' 
 world for me to adventure.
  
  Rules for 'Honeycomb Beat' are easy, every time you click one piece of a Honeycomb-shaped, you will 
 make other pieces around it changed the faces. The final traget is to make all pieces white face 
 up, and in the game, it provides more than 100 puzzles (maybe more) for me to think over and over.
 
  
  After some modes, you can get a short comment about your brain's situation, just like that hot game 
 'Brain Age'. It's funny to be described as a 'Fly', when I first got that ranking.
  
  I saw the rank for Honeybomb Beat here is not very high, maybe we love different types. Anyway, I 
 don't regret that I bought it.
  
  Need break? Tired of 'Hero-Saves-The-World' type? Then put Honeycomb Beat in your shopping cart. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
