-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hoshigami: Ruining Blue Earth Remix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/hoshigami/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 RAP meter and attack sessions are good ideas and implemented well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Steep learning curve and abysmal tutorial leave you in the dark.
 Imbalanced gameplay renders physical attacks obsolete halfway through.
 Stresses level-grinding over actual battlefield strategy.
 Convoluted magic and combat relationships make battles and leveling a lot of work without much payoff.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.7, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aksys Games
Developer: Barnhouse Effect
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hoshigami is an overcooked hodgepodge that's too unwieldy for strategy RPG newcomers and too imbalanced 
 for experts. 

  Some titles beg to be remade or rereleased; Hoshigami: Ruining Blue Earth, the PlayStation strategy 
 role-playing game, is not one of them. It's not that Hoshigami Remix is bad, but it's wildly inconsistent 
 and harshly demanding even on normal difficulty. It's also not a very good choice for a gamer on 
 the go: Battles are long and the learning curve is steep, so short sessions are not only unsatisfying, 
 they are often impossible. There are some good ideas at work here, but the game asks a lot of you 
 and doesn't give a lot back, which makes playing it feel more like work than fun.  

  The main character of Hoshigami: Ruining Blue Earth Remix is Fazz, a mercenary who receives a surprise 
 request for help from the king of Nightweld. The kingdom is under attack by the Valaimians, and 
 he needs a hand from Fazz and his soldiers for hire. As it turns out, there is more to the invasion 
 than meets the eye, and it's up to you to keep the powers of the ancients from falling into the 
 wrong hands. It's nothing new to the world of RPGs, though Fazz turns out to be a bright and resourceful 
 hero, and he'll stay interesting long after you stop caring about the plot. There are also some 
 branching story paths that will determine which characters can join your party, as well as a number 
 of alternate endings. It isn't the greatest tale, but there's something to be said for keeping 
 things non-linear.  

           The RAP gauge is one of many complicated factors to consider.      

  The basic plot 
 outline may not be too complex, but Hoshigami's core gameplay is quite intricate. At first, it 
 will seem simple enough to anyone that's played a turn-based strategy game before. At the onset 
 of battle, you place your mercenaries on the battle grid, and each one takes turns moving to available 
 squares, attacking an enemy, or performing other available actions. From here, the game breaks 
 free from prevailing standards, most noticeably in how turns function. Each character has an RAP 
 gauge, which stands for read for action points. Each action you perform drains the gauge, and 
 the turn is over once the mercenary has fully depleted it. In theory, this means you can move, 
 attack, and use an item all in the same turn, though there are benefits to not consuming the entire 
 gauge: The more energy left in it when you end the turn, the sooner the character's next turn will 
 come. The RAP meter is an excellent addition to the standard gameplay, and fully grasping its benefits 
 is a big key to success in battle.  

  Were it combined with more intuitive gameplay elements, read for action points could have added 
 some nice spice to orthodox conventions. But you'll find other aspects that have been convoluted 
 to the point of unfriendliness. Spells aren't just spells, they are coins called coinfeigms. Each 
 coin is infused with a particular type of magic, such as fire, earth, ice, or lightning, and each 
 type has a number of different spells that can be earned and cast. Mana has an equivalent in the 
 form of coinfeigm points, but the points are applied to the coin, not to the character. As a result, 
 a character's ability to cast the spell depends on how much energy is left in his RAP meter, as 
 well as how many points remain on that particular coin. Coins can also be upgraded by engraving 
 seals on them, and just as there are many different coins available, so too are there a bunch of 
 seals to apply. Seals and coins fit together in dense ways, so where one seal may increase a coin's 
 effectiveness, another may render it almost useless. You can also engrave seals in pairs, which 
 may enhance the coin further than if you applied each separately. How do you know what the effect 
 is going to be? You don't. You will either need a photographic memory, a spreadsheet, or an FAQ 
 to know how seals will affect coins, and to what extent. It isn't as though the game itself clues 
 you in to this or anything else, so you'll be left to your own devices.  

  Confused yet? Well, there's more. Each character is aligned with one of six deities, which impacts 
 how effective their attacks will be on other characters. If your mercenary follows Amu, he'll be 
 strong against followers of Zeneth but weak against Gote. Furthermore, you'll earn devotion points 
 as well as experience points during battle. Once a character advances a deity level, he can learn 
 skills and gain (and lose) proficiency with certain weapons. You can also switch deities, enabling 
 you to gain abilities from multiple gods.  

  One of the complexities, however, is a satisfying one: attack sessions. An attack session is a 
 combo attack, and while pulling one off takes a good deal of patience, completing sessions is one 
 of the few rewarding mechanics in Hoshigami. In standard combat, you time a button press with a 
 battle meter to determine how much damage you'll do. In an attack session, you set up your characters 
 in advance and perform a shoot attack, which knocks enemies backwards. If you time everything carefully, 
 you can bounce an enemy from mercenary to mercenary like a pinball, doing a ton of damage and potentially 
 earning an item for your troubles. It's hard to do, but when you do it, it gives you a real sense 
 of accomplishment in a game that's high on work and low on returns.  

  Complex and detailed game mechanics aren't bad things, nor is it necessarily a problem to aim at 
 a decidedly hardcore audience. But even if you are an experienced strategist and quick to pick 
 up on all of these elaborate contrivances, you're still not likely to enjoy the experience. Keeping 
 track of coinfeigms, deity relationships, and your RAP meter is a lot of work, but you will never 
 feel all that rewarded. You need to periodically stop and level up in towers specifically created 
 for level grinding, because as difficult as Hoshigami is, leveling up your characters and coins 
 is more important than smart battlefield tactics. You will also discover halfway through the game's 
 sixty or so hours that it is incredibly imbalanced. If you make the mistake of putting more effort 
 into standard weaponry, you are in for a rude awakening and likely to throw the game away in disgust: 
 Coins are essentially the only way to finish the game, and about twenty-five hours in, your melee 
 fighters will be useless. Magic is highly overpowered, which means if you concentrated solely on 
 improving coinfeigms, you should be able to eke by without too many issues. If you went with a 
 more balanced party, or worse yet, built it around physical weaponry, you will be easily overpowered 
 and potentially incapable of finishing unless you have a will of steel.  

           You want to live to see her again? Forget physical weapons and stick with magic.      
 

  If you played Hoshigami on your PlayStation and for some reason feel obligated to check for differences, 
 you will find a new playable character, a new (and thankfully improved) soundtrack, and other minor 
 changes. As you can imagine, there is also touch-screen support, yet you'll be unlikely to use 
 it, since variations in map terrain sometimes make it tough to choose the square you want. The 
 game doesn't make very good use of the top screen during battle either, relegating it to showing 
 unit statistics and not much else. The chance to add some flash to the plain isometric visuals 
 was there for the taking, but the unique capabilities of the DS were left mostly untapped, which 
 is just another reminder that some titles are better off left as distant memories. Not that it 
 looks or sounds terrible. The character sprites are fine, and you may notice small details, like 
 the way archers scan the horizon while you queue up their attack. But coin effects are simple and 
 unexciting, so battle has very little pizzazz, and the game is missing personality as a result. 
 Some sound effects are OK, while others are just weird, like the banshee wails that female units 
 emit upon defeat.  

  Needless to say, Hoshigami: Ruining Blue Earth Remix is not a handheld-friendly game, let alone 
 user-friendly. To play it, you need to find a quiet corner, grab your notes, and settle in. Complexity 
 can be a good thing of course, but here, the resulting gameplay is just frustrating without anything 
 to compensate for it. If you're into strategy RPGs, the ideas may interest you, but even the most 
 devout players will decry the unbalanced combat and emphasis on level-grinding over strategy. As 
 a result, this is a game that's not really for anyone.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ireland505
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The first Hoshigami on the psone was ridiculously difficult. One level difference meant the world 
 in that game. You were forced to spend the entire time in the tower of trials doing difficult battles 
 and if your characters died, that was it they were dead. This game smoothens the first one out. 
 The difficulty is way lower creating a more understandable and do-able experience (you're charcters 
 still die but this time you can revive them so they don't die for good) and in turn making the 
 story move along a lot quicker. They replaced a charcter or two with lame, aimed towards children 
 ones but other than that it pretty much stays true to the original well done story line. They also 
 changed the dialogue into less mature and correct sentences to more ash catchem style sentences. 
 But the most annoying thing (it's petty) is they replaced the cooler chique anime figures of the 
 psone game and replaced them with lame modern ones. There sprites remain the same but Fazz and 
 the others looked cool and not gay in the first one but in this one they look like little kids 
 playing with swords. This game is for anyone who appreciates old school trpgs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvilino
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  I got this game because it was on offer for 10 and I thought it might be a good strategy game, 
 especially with the RAP-system for the battles.
  
  However since both you and the enemy share this system battles can go on for a really long time 
 as the majority of the time you are waiting through the enemies turns some of which are just wasted. 
 What also makes the battles really time consuming is the enemies positions, while they are strategic 
 it can keep you stuck in one place of the map for ages, usually when their are a few mages with 
 some melee units protecting them at a slightly high up place and then archers above them you can 
 spend up to an hour trying to get through them because you can't counter the archers whom have 
 a hit rate increase from above.
  
  The level up system in my opinion isn't very good because you and the enemy get experience points 
 from attacking enemy archers can end up being a real pain easily outleveling you characters in 
 a battle. The optional way of leveling up, a tower were you fight a few skirmishes is made obselete 
 by the enemies
  easily reaching the level you spent hours grinding to get to because of the unfair positionings 
 allowing their range units to get shots off at any of your units without fearing many counter unless 
 you take a long route to get to them directly, In one battle I had spent half an hour at one point 
 because 3 archers were doing near lethal damage to my units which I couldn't kill because my main 
 magic users would be torn apart and the little damage melee classes do with CF's were stopped by 
 a mage healing the archers.
  
  This game woul've been alot better if the battle system was a little more fast paced because watching 
 the computer move and getting bored waiting to actually move for myself isn't very fun.
  
  The story is also a bit to cliche' for my liking, a mercenary joining an army against an evil army 
 ran by a mysterious black suited knight.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  Appear for the first time on PS1 in 2001, Hoshigami: Ruining Blue Earth was considered a completely 
 failed project from any view point. It failed because of the late release date when PS1 had demised, 
 the unacceptable difficulty of gameplay, the horrible sound and control... However, with ambition 
 to revive the game on NDS, Arc System Works decided to release a new version with many improvement. 
 It can be said that Hoshigami Remix (HR) is more delicious than its predecessor, but still not 
 enough to become a hit on the market.
  
  HR has significant fix-up compared to the original, especially in the interface and control. Players 
 no longer have to confirm 5,6 times for the character to perform a simple movement or attack; interface 
 is now friendly and informative; map can be rotated with two buttons L&R. In addition, check point 
 is more wisely arranged. The sound part is also re-developed, not excellent but impressive because 
 of fitting in the happenings. Background sound track becomes velvet, expressive and pleasant to 
 listen. Sound effects are plenty, acceptable: weapon collision, physical attacks, burning, exploding 
 scenes... NDS is not very supportive for audio technology so we do not expect much from this part.
 
  
  The story in HR is typical of a fantasy RPG mixed with RTS, based on ancient civilization, magic 
 and savage warfare. The only remarkable detail is Coinfeigm, the magical coins that help human 
 to master witchcraft. It plays a leading role in the war between 2 kingdoms Valaim and Nightweld, 
 the war that makes everybody forget the prophecy of the destruction of the world by using these 
 coins. The main character Fazz, a mercenary, is lure into this war and becomes an important part 
 of this historic period. He, along with some companions, is called Hoshigami with the noble mission 
 of ending the war and all the dark conspiracy behind it. Although the story line is open with many 
 options for players, it fails to make strong impression due to the lack of climax.
  
  With familiar game play on squared tactic maps, HR reminds players of Final Fantasy Tactics. The 
 difference is RAP (Ready for Action Points) system that decides how many movements a character 
 can perform per round. Every action will increase the RAP bar and once it's full, no more action 
 is allowed. If properly exploited, say, your sword man can perform 4 slashes a round, which is 
 a considerable advantage. Although the idea is not original, RAP is a precious feature of HR. Unfortunately, 
 you will soon recognize a fatal flaw, that is, the imbalance between magical and physical attacks. 
 Using Coinfeigm, magic user easily seize control of the game, and upgrading for Coinfeigm to become 
 more useful is not difficult. With the advantage of wide range attack and inability to dodge, magic 
 become overpowering and a wizard can finish a melee unit without effort. So if you happen to build 
 your squad with too many melee factors, the game will become unable to beat later, when you face 
 some powerful wizards. The only choice is to play it again! Conversely, if you form a group with 
 magic users, game becomes quite easy. That's not all the reasons why HR is considered one of the 
 toughest RPG (mixed with RTS) . Although it offers 3 difficulty levels, it seems only Easy mode 
 is suitable for the first time with the HR. Normal and Difficult levels are long mortification. 
 With prolonged main quest and plenty side quests, it takes over 50 hours to finish the game, and 
 certainly only old fans can be that patient.
  
  HR offers many improvement but still suffers from certain problems, so it's hard to consider it 
 a good or bad product. Perhaps the decision depends on your passion for RPG-RTS mixture genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbatish
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  This game ain't perfect but it's definitely good mixing between story and classic battles. If it 
 wasn't for the story it would have got 7 or 6.5. I enjoyed the story and battle abut the battle 
 is hard and story is fun very nice game.
  The nice thing is that your commander can return the dead warriors which make it much easier than 
 buying low ranked mercenaries. It lets you choose between easy normal and hard and of course i 
 started with hard. A lot of battles make it fun but sometimes boring and makes you angry. Nice 
 game i think that my 30$ were worth it. Any person who likes classic games may but not certainly 
 like it but didn't try the multiplayer. i bought this game but didnt naw we move in towns without 
 showing our charecters that wasnt so good but i got over it. It has good graphics, gameplay but 
 sound is repetitive not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffinthraka
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The BIGGEST problem with ths game is lack of instruction, there is an instruction booklet that 
 gives the bare minimum and neglects to mention simple things. This mean s the first few hours are 
 frustrating and it's tempting to move on to another game.
  
  However, there is a very decent game once you have worked out the controls, the use of critical 
 and rap bars are a good idea and the fact that spells (coins) can be custimized is great.
  
  I like this game, I prefer Luminous Arc (and for that matter FF Tactics) ut the game shows 
 promise, once you've worked out how to play it.
  
  My personal annoyance is the equip screen, to see all the weapons you must scroll right and left, 
 but nothing tells you this. I assumed that only certain wapons could be equiped to certain people 
 (like FFT) so nothing was being displayed (!0.
  
  This is a good game but badly thought out, the best ideas are: rap/critical bars, coins, diety and 
 skills (class) , and the ability to rotate the camera.
  
  If you want to play this find an online guide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: My_Name_Is_Sin
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought the original game when I was working at E. B. Games and was extremely excited to play it. 
 I have a tedious (and expensive) hobby of collecting and playing RPG's. When I put this in I could 
 tell it was a knock off of my favorite game Final Fantasy Tactics. With the hope of it being somewhat 
 similar I spent the better part of 8 hours after I got off work playing this game. I remember fondly 
 wanting to give the disc to my dog but then remembered it might hurt him. Seeing as this game is 
 almost exactly like the original I dont suggest anyone buying it unless they like to collect RPG's 
 or if you really have nothing better to spend 30 bucks on. I can honestly thing of some other ways 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xerion_12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is frustrating, too much to worry about. Battles are painfully long and should 
 not be played on the go, you will need at least 15 minutes to sit down and destroy your enemies. 
 I enjoy the soundtrack a lot, the theme is quite catchy and the various other sounds are not too 
 annoying either. I find this game fun to play every now and then, but it's not a classic, and it 
 wont keep me playing for more than one battle at a time. You will need at least a half hour to 
 familiarize yourself with the game, as it has a lot of frustrating elements such as coins, seals, 
 dieties, etc. The only redeeming factor of Hoshigami's gameplay is the RAP system which believe 
 it or not, is not all that bad. Sure it adds to you list of tedious crap you have to worry about, 
 but it adds a slight bit of interest to the battles. You will find yourself aiming for the high 
 critical hits when attacking, this leaves you not just watching your characters attack your enemy, 
 but helping them do it. This game is not for everyone, in fact, there are few people who this game 
 is for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marmin
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I agree with the Gamespot reviewer. It is a very complex challenging game.
  
  I do feel though, that it is worth playing.
  
  Graphics: Visually I think it looks very good 
 on the DS. About as complex a screen as I have seen in any DS game so far. I will say that the 
 perspective can get wonky when you're dealing with similar textures and different heights, but 
 overall the ability to rotate the camera a little help with it.
  
  Sound: Good overall. Sound effects can get a little repeptitive.
  
  Gameplay: I think the mechanics 
 of combat is part of the appeal. They are deffinatly on a steep learning curve but once you get 
 the basics you go from there. And I would say the complexity of combining coins and seals with 
 the different elements is just as complex as the system used in the Pokemon series.
  
  Overall: I would say if you really enjoy tactical RPGs then pick this one up. The missions are 
 long but the custimization is there, and the difficulty is there if you want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666sinboy81
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  i agree with some aspects of gamespot review but have to take into consideration other ds tactic 
 games like this oh wait there arent any ... ive had a ds from the get go and have long awaited 
 for titles like this to arrive , this genre of game is very nicely suited for handheld gameplay 
 ... i find myself addicted to this game and as for lack of payoff as mentioned in site review i 
 have to disagree , i am always pumped when my hard work organizing my team pays off and i am able 
 to clear a hard map hey if you like tactic rpgs like i do and ive played them all this one aint 
 bad at all esp for a ds title i say go buy it if you still can cuz ive seen that it is back ordered 
 on gamestops web site anywho luminous arc will be out soon also and that also looks like another 
 promising ds tactic title its a good time to be a ds owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djammal86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since June 26,2007 and the gameplay on normal mode is VERY challenging. 
 You play a young mercenary (Fazz) that goes of with his mentor from the of the king with a team 
 of men to jump start your journey. this game definitely isn't for anyone who isn't up for a challenge. 
 I've never been into these tactical games, but Hoshigami got me interested from day one.
  
  Pros: The good parts of this game is that it offers three different level to play on. (easy is 
 for the weak, normal is challenging, and hard is frustratingly challenging) . So whatever your taste, 
 as challenges are concerned is, you'll find a difficulty that will suit you.
  
  Cons: The bosses can be too smart at times and if you don't build up your magic power early in 
 the game, you'll be doomed to a stomping over and over again.
  
  Overall, Hoshigami: Ruing Blue Earth Remix is a great remake of the PSX version of the game and 
 will keep you playing for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok I bought this game 3 days ago and got into it for about 8 hours and i dont even think i scratched 
 the surface because the box says anywhere from 50 to 60 hours of gameplay this would be alright 
 if the game was actually good. sure the graphics are good and the sound is good but man talk about 
 a steep learning curve. i cant even began to explain the concept behind any of the coins in the 
 game or blah whatever to much to learn exspecially for a handheld video game. The story is good 
 but theres just something i dont like about this game. i'm still going to give it a shot and play 
 for a few more hours and see were it gets me. Hurry up zelda i cant wait for that release until 
 then i guess i have to keep picking up these so called psone remakes on my ds oh well there probably 
 is a fan base for this game out there but i cant see why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregsid
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  At first glance this seems like a cheap knock-off of Final Fantasy Tactics, but once you finally 
 tap into the game you find it is far from it.
  This is a very fun but complex game. Much thought must be put into each move, for example; if you 
 move a character with half his HP next to an enemy unit of the same level, he can attack your unit 
 multiple times (up to 3-4 times) killing him off. Obviously you can do the same, but you still 
 must be wary not to waste to much RAP (you limit bar to how many spaces you can move and attack) .
 
  Also the magic system could have used a little work in my opinion. It is very unique and creative 
 but very hard to comprehend for beginners. Leveling up your coins magic strength and cost is very 
 time consuming and expensive and will confuse many new players to the game.
  The music pretty lame and I hardly take notice to it during the game.
  The story and character 
 development seems pretty solid. With a few twists and turns and a branching story line, giving 
 you different paths to choose and multiple endings, makes up for the the few short comings the 
 game has.
  Overall this is a fun but challenging Strategy RPG, thats worth at least 1 play-threw. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
