-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hotel Dusk: Room 215
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/hotelduskroom215/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Classic detective noir storyline that's both clever and thoughtful.
 Character graphics are sharp and uniquely styled.
 Puzzle solving is generally quite logical.
 Top-notch dialogue.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Protracted item/people-hunting situations periodically rear their ugly heads.
 Story sometimes telegraphs its intentions.
 Molasses-esque pacing will probably drive some people up the wall.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 65 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,521 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Cing
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jan 22, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hotel Dusk weaves an absorbing noir-style mystery with traditional adventure game elements and stylish 
 presentation and does it all with a deft touch. 

  Something fishy is going on at the Hotel Dusk. A variety of shady characters have taken up residence 
 in this sleepy, Southwestern hotel a few days before New Year's Eve in 1979. They are apparently 
 unfamiliar with one another yet are seemingly bound together by one common trait -- a dark secret 
 of one sort or another. This is the premise of Nintendo and developer Cing's latest attempt at 
 the adventure game genre on the DS. Cing is perhaps best known for 2005's Trace Memory, another 
 DS adventure game and one of the more genuinely creative uses of the system's touch-screen technology. 
 The same types of unique puzzle-solving mechanics that originated in Trace Memory are found in 
 Hotel Dusk, but the focus here is more on the game's gritty detective noir storyline. This is less 
 a game in some respects than a graphic novel with a number of interactive elements -- and that's 
 not a knock against it, either. This is hardly a dumb detective potboiler. This is an engrossing 
 piece of crime fiction that keeps its hooks in you the whole way through, and it's because of this 
 that the slow pace and focus on dialogue over puzzles aren't just forgivable -- they're actually 
 preferable.  

          Welcome to the Hotel Dusk. Bring your alibis.     

  The salty, alcoholic ex-detective at the center of Hotel Dusk's tale (because it just wouldn't 
 be proper noir without a boozing ex-cop at the helm) is Kyle Hyde. Three years prior to the game's 
 introduction, Hyde was an NYPD detective, working a case with his then partner, Brian Bradley. 
 One night, Kyle gets a call that sends him chasing after Bradley (for reasons unbeknownst to the 
 audience initially) . Kyle catches up with Bradley on the docks near the Hudson River and shoots 
 him, sending his body plummeting into the water. Bradley's body is never recovered, and Hyde is 
 booted off the force. A nagging suspicion that Bradley is still alive eats away at Hyde's soul, 
 so he takes up a job as a hired investigator. He's actually a door-to-door salesman, but his boss 
 runs a little side venture, locating things for people who would rather not go to the police about 
 such matters. On this fateful night in 1979, Hyde's job takes him to the Hotel Dusk, a ramshackle 
 flophouse in the middle of Southwestern nowhere. He's tasked with finding a couple of left-behind 
 items for a client but soon discovers that there's a greater, perhaps more sinister force at work 
 within these walls -- one that may lead him to his former partner's true fate.  

  In Hotel Dusk, you hold the DS sideways at all times, using the D pad or face buttons (depending 
 on your dexterity) to advance the cutscenes and using the touch screen for nearly everything else. 
 You lead Kyle around the map by tapping and dragging the stylus ahead of where you want him to 
 go, and when you happen upon an item or person you want to examine, you simply tap an icon in the 
 bottom left corner of the screen to make it happen. For the most part, the gameplay is relatively 
 uncomplicated. When you find an area you want to search, you just tap around on highlighted items 
 and investigate. Periodically you'll need to use certain collected items on hot spots in the environment 
 or even use the DS itself to discover something hidden (for instance, closing the DS to flip an 
 item from one side of the screen to the other to reveal a message on the back) .  

  In these ways, the trappings of old-school adventure games are very much on display in Hotel Dusk 
 (with a modern, DS-specific twist here and there) . However, the focus of Hotel Dusk isn't on arcane 
 puzzle solving. It's the story and characters that take center stage and drive the bulk of the 
 experience. So much of the game is about simply walking around the hotel and talking to people. 
 It becomes clear very early on that none of the hotel guests are exactly who they say they are, 
 and a good chunk of the gameplay revolves around paying attention to the lies and half-truths people 
 spit at you so that you can more effectively dig at the truth. Certain conversations will give 
 you the option of multiple questions you can ask a person, and there are times when you can ask 
 the wrong question. Wrong questions will confuse or alarm the interrogated character and will promptly 
 end the game. Finding the right questions is key, and if you play your cards right, you'll discover 
 critical information.  

          Everyone in the hotel has something to hide. Finding out what that is can be a tricky process. 
     

  One of the really neat things about Hotel Dusk is how the plot plays out. It's not often that you 
 can praise fiction in games these days, but Hotel Dusk is a clever, stylish, well-spun detective 
 novel hiding inside a DS cart. Hyde's drive to find his missing ex-partner seems a little forced 
 initially, but as the game goes on and clues you in on more details about the mystery and conspiracy 
 that ultimately led to Bradley's shooting, you find yourself getting sucked in. What's more, the 
 characters that populate the hotel aren't just half-written caricatures, strictly designed to move 
 the plot forward. These people have layers to them -- legitimate character depth that shines through 
 with each passing conversation. It helps that the dialogue is well written. Every character has 
 a unique personality, and Hyde in particular is highly likable, despite his gruff, sardonic nature. 
 You get exactly the right mix of to-the-point dialogue and stylish touches you'd expect in a piece 
 of noir. There are times when Hyde's Sam Spade-isms will make you laugh, but it's not because they're 
 stupid -- it's because they're so perfect for the character and style of the game. You even get a 
 few little detective-story in-jokes, including a moment or two when Hyde starts channeling Columbo 
 to get to the truth.  

  Along with the characters, the mystery gets deeper and deeper as the game goes on. For a while, 
 it even gets a bit silly. There are enough happenstances and extreme coincidences in this game 
 to make Charles Dickens blush, but it never goes completely off the rails, and for that matter, 
 the game ties everything together nicely in the end. It's not perfect, of course. There are times 
 when the game telegraphs a revelation well before it comes, which leads you to want to shout angrily 
 at your DS as Hyde continues to fumble around the plainly obvious truth. Additionally, the game 
 occasionally gets bogged down with conversation. Very few of the game's exchanges are meaningless 
 in the grand scheme of things, but even when a conversation is on point, it sometimes feels like 
 it's going on longer than it should. You are basically reading line after line of text while this 
 is going on. And doing nothing for several minutes at a time except hitting a button every few 
 seconds to advance the dialogue can be a bit vexing.  

  There are also a few flaws within the exploratory elements of the game, though they're ones that 
 have plagued most adventure games for the last decade or so. The story itself is quite linear. 
 Sometimes you can discover an object long before you need it, but as far as event progression goes, 
 what you should be doing next is almost always the most recent thing put in front of you. Early 
 on you may not realize this and may find yourself trying to complete other objectives that have 
 been introduced, but these will seem insurmountable because the required people are not around 
 or the needed objects are oddly not working. Once you figure out the progression and flow of the 
 game's chapter structure, you'll fall into the groove and rarely find yourself terribly confused. 

  It helps that the solutions for puzzles aren't often troublesome. All the puzzles are designed 
 specifically with the realities of this hotel in mind, so you won't find yourself with any obscenely 
 weird objectives or "tie the cell phone to the cat" moments, nor are you likely to find yourself 
 glued to a walk-through for the bulk of the game. Furthermore, the game is quite good about keeping 
 the next person you need to talk to or item you need to find within a relatively short distance 
 of where you left off, so the amount of aimless wandering is manageable. And even when you do find 
 yourself having to trek all over the place looking for the one thing that will advance the story, 
 the fact remains that the hotel isn't that big, so it's not like you ever have to go far or have 
 that many places to search. That Hotel Dusk mostly manages to avoid falling back on ridiculous 
 item hunts and completely illogical puzzle solutions to progress is a godsend, simply because it 
 lets the storytelling drive the game, and the gameplay rarely distracts you from the mystery.  
 

  On top of having a great story, logical puzzles, and engaging characters, Hotel Dusk has a terrific 
 visual style. All the environments are done with typical in-color 3D, but the character designs 
 are done with a starkly contrasting hand-drawn style of animation. It's a form of nearly colorless 
 sketch design that makes all the people look like they just stepped out of A-Ha's "Take on Me" 
 music video from 1985. It makes the characters look like they're in motion, even when they're sitting 
 idle. It's such a weird and unique design choice that it ends up fitting perfectly with the overall 
 style of the game. It's difficult to take your eyes off the characters while they're conversing -- which 
 is mildly problematic, since you often need to look below them to read the text dialogue.  

          There's a nice variety of puzzles to solve throughout the game, though they often take 
 a backseat to the story and dialogue.     

  In this regard, having recorded speech might have been nice, though considering the sheer amount 
 of dialogue contained in the game, it also probably would have been impossible to fit it all on 
 a DS cart. Still, an occasional "hey" or "wait a second" voice sample to indicate specific starting 
 points or tonal shifts in the dialogue would have been a nice touch. Lack of spoken dialogue aside, 
 there isn't much else to the audio. The soundtrack consists of a number of jazzy tunes that often 
 fit nicely with the mood of the situation, though the variety of songs isn't great, so the second 
 you hear one song or another pop in, you know exactly what's coming.  

  Its few flaws notwithstanding, Hotel Dusk is a nice breath of fresh air for the adventure game 
 genre. It proves that the old point-and-click (or, in this case, point-and-tap) adventure can still 
 hold a bit of water in this day and age when the right amount of care is put into the craft. Hotel 
 Dusk's storytelling is a significant cut above most handheld games, let alone most games in general, 
 and that the puzzle solving and conversational elements play out so intriguingly is a big feather 
 in the game's cap. Of course, Hotel Dusk isn't going to appeal to everyone -- its plodding, actionless 
 nature is certain to turn off those looking for more visceral entertainment. However, if the idea 
 of a slow-burning, character-driven noir adventure sounds like it's up your alley, Hotel Dusk is 
 too good to be passed up.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (135 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Platyphyllum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  The small and relatively unknown developer Cing made its first appearance in North America back 
 in 2005. They were the ones responsible for Trace Memory, an interesting and, in my eyes, underrated 
 adventure game which caught quite a few people's attention thanks to its great use of the DS features. 
 While it was nothing huge, it definitely proved that Cing had the potential to be a competent adventure 
 game developer for the Nintendo DS and the game was a small success.
  
  The team at Cing decided to give the adventure genre another shot back in 2007 with Hotel Dusk: 
 Room 215. It was a title which caught people's attention mainly with its unique art style. However, 
 just because it looks different, that doesn't automatically mean the game is high quality. It needs 
 to contain a solid, interesting, and twisting story that keeps players interested and a solid gameplay 
 foundation. Thankfully, Hotel Dusk: Room 215 contains of all that and more, but strangely enough, 
 it also brings about some new problems that were practically non-existent in Trace Memory which 
 makes the experience a bit more interesting than the aforementioned game but also a bit more frustrating.
 
  
  Hotel Dusk has you playing through the eyes of Kyle Hyde. A character that would probably fit more 
 along the lines of "jerk" and "cold hearted" rather than a heroic protagonist. The beginning of 
 the game is a series of confusing events detailing Kyle's previous life and how he came to be an 
 ex-cop who now works as a door-to-door salesman. This all leads up to him being sent to an old 
 out of the way hotel called Hotel Dusk. Everything here seems to be pretty normal but soon enough, 
 Kyle begins to get involved with the cast of characters, all of which hide deep secrets, and he 
 begins to learn that he might find the answers to some of the questions that have been haunting 
 him throughout his life in the hotel as he's more involved with it than he thinks.
  
  The special quality of adventure games is that they focus more on the story than anything else 
 and Hotel Dusk's story definitely stays true to this. It is, without a doubt, the best part of 
 the game. The writing is nearly impeccable (aside from the occasional typo) . The way that each 
 character has different styles of speaking really makes it feel like you're interacting with real 
 people with lots of personality. There are also a huge number of plot twists and mysteries to be 
 solved. The events leading up to the climax and ending are in particular very exciting and will 
 keep your eyes glued to the screen.
  
  The gameplay department is unfortunately where this game falls slightly. Hotel Dusk is really lucky 
 that it's part of a genre that doesn't focus much on the gameplay because it uses a lot of old 
 and unpolished gameplay mechanics. First of all, unless it's done in a horror style, adventure 
 games and game overs never mix well. Unlike in RPGs and Action Adventures where it might be fun 
 traversing through repeated areas after you've died because of interesting environments, exciting 
 battles, and awesome music, it simply doesn't work in pure adventures. Reading through the exact 
 same dialogue with no alternating paths (which is present probably because of the DS's limited 
 hardware) is not my definition of fun or enjoyment and I don't find it challenging either that 
 you have to start over from the beginning of the chapter if you forgot to save just because you 
 accidentally offended someone once.
  
  Other than that, the game works alright. Just like the Brain Age games, you hold the DS sideways 
 like a book in order to play which makes it seem more like you're "reading" an interactive novel. 
 You control Kyle's movement on a 2D map on the touch screen while the other screen is used as a 
 3D world where you can see small details and choose to examine them and get a close-up look if 
 you're given the option. Conversations with characters are rather interesting but whenever you're 
 given a chance to respond, there's usually only two choices (and one of them usually leads to a 
 game over) so there's not much in terms of branching conversation paths. The game plays solidly 
 but just be warned that some gameplay mechanics will frustrate those not accustomed to the genre.
 
  
  The graphics are one of the more noticeable and attractive parts of this game. On the touch screen, 
 the exploration sequences of the game occur in a simple two-dimensional map where you move Kyle 
 around and are able to see points of interest through small symbols. However, an interesting part 
 of this game is that during the same sequences on the other screen, the game's world is actually 
 represented in a traversable three-dimensional world. Granted, the quality of the graphics in this 
 portion of the game is very low resolution and grainy because of the DS's limited technological 
 capabilities but it's still impressive and one can always zoom into items of interest by choosing 
 to examine them which gives a considerable bump to the graphical quality. Another interesting graphical 
 route that the developers took was the character design. The characters are represented in normal 
 conversations in a pencil sketch style. They are pretty much devoid of colour during these parts 
 and give the game a bit of a film noir style. It was also interesting how during moments of emotional 
 impact or suspense, the characters would actually be given colour which was an interesting effect.
 
  
  Music in this game just ranks above average. Most of the time, you'll be hearing some boring lounge 
 music when exploring the hotel or some boring tunes playing in casual conversations, but during 
 moments of enlightenment and excitement, the game somehow manages to pull out a random track out 
 of nowhere which fits the situation perfectly and actually manages to set a pretty good mood. The 
 sound effects, in contrast, are surprisingly effective. Hearing a random whistle when roaming the 
 halls is very effective and even creepy but it gives you an even greater urge to explore the hotel. 
 Doors opening and closing, phones ringing and loud noises coming out of nowhere all set an effective 
 creepy atmosphere and after solving all certain mysteries, you can't help but breathe a sigh of 
 relief after finding out where those random noises originated from.
  
  With everything considered, Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is an interesting but flawed adventure. There 
 were frustrating moments where I was wishing I was playing the less engaging but more smooth-paced 
 Trace Memory but Hotel Dusk is definitely a step in the right direction for Cing. It's not a world-saving 
 adventure that will get you riled up (its setting is a hotel after all) but it's a small interesting 
 adventure that will definitely have an impact with both you and all the hotel's guests, even if 
 it's a forgettable one. The game lasts a good fifteen to twenty hours so it's definitely worth 
 a try. Some people will find it to be a bit slow paced and after going through the game once, it's 
 doubtful that you'll return to it again (despite the hidden extras) but it still gets my recommendation.
 
  
  Good Points:
  -The characters are interesting with very well written backstory and dialogue
  -The unique visual 
 style looks attractive
  -The story as a whole comes together really well
  -Certain moments in the game are really able to catch your interest and keep you playing
  -Sound 
 effects give off an appropriate atmosphere
  
  Bad Points:
  -Music isn't anything special
  -Game Overs can be frustrating
  -No branching conversation paths 
 or alternate scenarios in the game, although there are a few ending variations
  -There are a few times when conversations will drag on with the characters repeating established 
 facts in which the game does get boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topperdoggle
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  Let's get the so-called "hardcore" gamers' negativity out of the way first. Yes, Hotel Dusk is 
 linear, and the gameplay isn't exactly boundary-breaking. But hand on heart, does the latest FPS 
 really break boundaries in any massively meaningful way? Hotel Dusk is an old-school adventure 
 game, and the genre is generally subject to certain limitations.
  
  Upon loading, the first thing that you notice is the wonderful graphic style, which is stylish 
 and polished. It is one-dimensional though, and later in the game you tend to take the graphics 
 for granted, proving that style is nothing without substance.
  
  Now, onto the substance. Yes, there is lots of walking about, talking to people, finding and using 
 items. Some of it could barely be described as gameplay in the modern, cutting-edge sense, although 
 as an older gamer, I don't get snobby about simple puzzle-solving adventure games.
  
  The substance is in the heart of the game. The plot and characters are excellent, and have significant 
 depth, much more so than in Another Code. There are lots of twists and turns, and even though the 
 environment is small, it does the job.
  
  The puzzles that you come across during the story vary in difficulty, but none are too hard. I'm 
 not as excited as some people appear to be about how they "brilliantly" use the DS's features. 
 I care more about whether I'm enjoying the game, than whether I'm explicitly using the stylus to 
 pretend to be moving a crowbar. Ironically, some of these parts that use the "DS features", are 
 the most gameplay-free moments.
  
  The only issue I have with the gameplay is that sometimes (mostly) it is far too easy to work out 
 what to do, but sometimes it's nearly impossible, and you can finish up walking around randomly 
 until you hit upon the right thing.
  
  The linearity is no more of a problem than it is in a book or an album, and I refuse to judge a 
 game on abstract criteria. I enjoyed the experience, end of story.
  
  Although as with Phoenix Wright and most handheld games with text for that matter, why there can't 
 be an option to automatically continue reading text is beyond me. Not everyone is five years old, 
 and there are usually only ten words on the screen at once.
  
  I wouldn't say it genuinely moved me in the same way as an epic film can, but it's certainly something 
 different in a good way, and that in itself makes it worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:15 am PT
Review:  It's going to be hard to talk about Hotel Dusk without leaving any spoilers, but I promise there 
 won't be anyone here.
  
  "Take control of an interactive mystery novel and discover the secret of Hotel Dusk. Who is Kyle 
 Hyde -- and what really happened in Room 215? Take stylus in hand and navigate a tangled web of 
 lies, betrayal, and murder to learn the answers."
  
  The text on the back of the box is really exciting, I can't deny. The game's a little different 
 of anyone I've ever played. You must hold the DS sideways, just like in Brain Age games and some 
 other ones.
  
  The visual surely catches the attention. The characters seem to be made of paper, their frames 
 keep moving and their expressions change depending on what they're feeling. There aren't many different 
 expressions, but they give a touch of movement to the static dialogues - which are really important 
 in the game. Though all the important things come in red/blue letter and change Kyle's expression, 
 it's a good idea to listen to what the characters have to say.
  
  On the touch screen you'll have a basic view of the area, as if you were on the ceiling. You have 
 to use it to move Kyle and interact with people and objects. For example, when you get next to 
 a door, some icons will appear. So you may knock the door, try to open it, use an item or take 
 note of something.
  
  On the other screen you'll have Kyle's view in 3-D.
  
  The game's a little hard. Additionally, there are some parts of the game that you'll get stuck 
 if you don't do everything in the correct order, so don't be ashamed of looking for a walkthrough. 
 But use it only in the parts you really need, or you won't enjoy the game.
  
  There are a lot of puzzles where you'll have to draw, write, scratch, connect and other actions 
 on the touch screen. The microphone is used only in one of the puzzles. There are some puzzles 
 that you make you to use the DS like you were in the hotel, and they are really cool, I myself 
 had never seen something like that before. There's a couple ones that you have to close the DS 
 and then open it again and another one that you have to look the screen from a certain angle to 
 see the ****** that will allow you to ****** * ******** and discover that ********* is ******* 
 *****.
  
  Oh, I almost forgot. There are the "bosses". Let me explain. The game is basically about puzzles 
 and dialogues. Some dialogues with people will make you to ask questions and guess the answers. 
 If you pick the wrong answer, they will be red for a second and you'll be able to guess again, 
 making this part really easy. But as I have just said, there are the "bosses". The music gets tense 
 and you're about to discover something big. So you have to ask red questions (usually around five) 
 to a certain character. If you pick the wrong answer, it's game over and you have to start from 
 your last save point. If you pick all the right answers, great, you finish the chapter.
  
  The game is great but when you finish it you'll probably ask yourself "Is that all? Uh... You gotta 
 be kidding me!". In the end of the game everything connects and starts making sense. It didn't 
 last a week on my hands, but it's worth its price, I guess.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Telaphone
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes a game comes around that isn't big on people's radar but once it is played it will knock 
 your teeth out. Hotel Dusk is one such game. The game isn't big and flashy but it has it's own 
 sense of style and personality enough to let it stand alone with the big boys.
  
  Hotel Dusk is kind of a throwback to the adventure games of the 1990s. In it you take control of 
 Kyle Hyde, a former detective now door to door salesman working for a company called Red Crown. 
 He's searching for his former partner, Brian Bradley, who had disappeared three years ago. The 
 date is December, 28 1979 and Hyde's boss has a package for him to pick up at the Hotel Dusk. Hyde 
 travels there ready to do the job but also anticipates learning a thing or two about Bradley while 
 there. The story is very good and engaging, and many of the characters are unique and likable. 
 I think the dialog is fantastic. This is a good thing because the game is very story driven and 
 much of the gameplay revolves around the dialog interactions.
  
  This gameplay are slightly reminiscent of early/mid 90s adventure games. It is a point and click 
 adventure in which you point and click with the stylus, or drag your character around with the 
 touch screen. On the left screen you'll see a three dimensional view of your surroundings. From 
 here you can explore the world more closely or interact with human characters. If you choose to 
 explore more closely you get an up-close view of your surroundings and you can then touch specific 
 areas of the room like a bed or a picture. Occasionally a puzzle may spring up to interact with 
 such as moving boxes or picking a lock. When you interact with another character you'll be taken 
 to a different screen where you can choose dialog choices and also see each charter's motions and 
 reactions. That is the extent of the controls, they aren't very complicated, they are very simple.
 
  
  The graphics in this game aren't amazing but they have a unique quality that makes the game interesting. 
 The environments are what you would expect, a semi realistic looking environment. But the characters 
 themselves are a semi-realistic hand drawn black and white drawing that animates as you play. This 
 look catches the eye and keeps things interesting. Also the way some of the story elements present 
 themselves in small little videos is interesting as well.
  
  There is no voice acting in this game. Generally it is hard for me to play a game if there is no 
 voice acting but it is written so well I didn't mind. There are some good sound effects and the 
 soundtrack is good too, that is about as much sound you'll get. But the soundtrack shifts to convey 
 the character's emotion at the time and it works out pretty well.
  
  When all is said and done Hotel Dusk is a very simple game that delivers big. It doesn't have complicated 
 controls or fancy graphics but it doesn't need that. It has charming characters and a great story 
 that will keep pushing you for more. If you're looking for a good time at a cheap price and don't 
 mind reading this is the game to get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is the definition of an under appreciated gem just waiting to be played. The 
 game has an outstanding visual style and good music, but most of all it has a heart that makes 
 up for any of its shortcomings. This is something every DS owner should play, and it's a shame 
 that it's performed so poorly in the sales charts.
  
  The premise of this game is that you follow a washed-up detective three years after he left the 
 force. The game as a whole quickly gets into a routine. Kyle, your detective, is in Hotel Dusk 
 with a bunch of other guests, and he slowly unravels their mysteries as he goes through the hotel. 
 By the end of the game, some may be more developed than others, but you feel as though you almost 
 know them as well as your family. This is good dialog. That's all I'll give away, because this 
 story is simply put, entertaining. This is a classic noir story -- something you don't see too 
 often in games as a whole. You may notice a few inaccuracies in the general story, but you're willing 
 to look past that when you know how much of a heart is in this work.
  
  The graphics are easily this game's shining point. The characters are presented in a black and 
 white form, almost as cardboard 2-D cut-outs in a 3-D environment. That may seem too simple, but 
 the characters are presented with shadows constantly moving on their body -- it gives them movement 
 even when they are intensely static. The environments themselves are a little bare-boned especially 
 when compared against the characters, but they do the job.
  
  The audio is where a few flaws come in. The soundtrack is fairly limited, and although the jazz 
 tunes are memorable and catchy, they repeat themselves far too often. The sound effects are even 
 less memorable and sometimes they can get grating, like the often repeating "door" sound effect. 
 It's probably the weakest point of the game.
  
  Overall, Hotel Dusk adds up to an experience that shouldn't be missed. Pick it up if you get the 
 chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aireannaiel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  The power button is slid on. The familiar ping of the touch screen ushers you to the game menu 
 and you're off. You're clutching your DS, thumbs resting to either side of your touch screen.
 
  
  But you're doing it wrong. 
  
  From the very start, Hotel Dusk invites you to start enjoying your DS and its capabilities. With 
 a slight expression of awe did I slowly turn my DS to hold it like a book. For me this was the 
 first time I was seeing the hardware used this way, and so the impression stays with me. If you've 
 seen it before, I'm sure it'll be less exciting.
  
  Hotel Dusk takes you on a trip that reminds me of the old text based adventures on the first cruddy 
 computers. If you want it, try and TAKE it; if you are in a room, try moving SOUTH. HD pumps up 
 the graphics and game play, but is it all as good as it sounds?
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics here are a combo of beautiful sketch-drawn characters and blas' backgrounds to help 
 those characters really pop. At first I was put off by the background graphics, but continuing 
 to play it has shed light on their purpose. True to a text based history, there are several secrets 
 to CHECK or FIND, and closing in on a particular background reveals much more detail. All in all, 
 a nice and original take on graphics; I have only two grievances here. One: they do tend to use 
 the same graphics over and over to indicate conversations between characters. And two: After a 
 while I started getting a very Tom Goes to the Mayor vibe off of them, which probably wasn't what 
 they were going for.
  
  Story and Music
  
  A classic-esque story takes you searching through Hotel Dusk, looking for clues to not only the 
 main character's past but all of those staff and patrons around him. No big shocker here: everybody 
 knows somebody from somewhere, though if you can get through the end of the game with a great score, 
 it'll all come together quite nicely.
  
  The music serves its purpose always. Though slightly repetitious, it holds enough components to 
 keep it from driving you crazy. Some songs are downright beautiful.
  
  
  DS Mechanics and Gameplay
  
  The DS becomes your journal as you shuffle through the hotel map 
 on the right while watching the real graphics walk by on the left. Very nicely put together, which 
 is why it surprises me that here is where the game lost points from me. Though I enjoyed the two 
 character conversations on their own screens, there were a few mechanics that threw me. Let's get 
 back to that double map. While nice in theory, I just hate the idea of having to split my eyes 
 like that. I always felt like I was trying to watch each screen with one eye. Which can get hard, 
 frustrating, and headache-inducing easily for some people. My other grief was with the difficulty 
 of the game. With no warning you could outright lose only a third of the way into the game, and 
 who knows when you last saved? I feel strongly that without a guide, it gets REALLY hard to get 
 that perfect ending. You have to think WAY far ahead.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Very "text-based mystery" with a fairly beefy storyline, Hotel Dusk will take a little time to 
 get used to. For those that thrive in this type of game play (I'm guessing PC players will feel 
 at home) , this game will be astounding. Fair music and nice graphics seal the deal; it's defiantly 
 worth a play, if only to use it to start imagining what can REALLY happen someday on the DS screen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleHyde_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  If you want a game were you solve mysterious, Hotel Dusk is the answer. The plot gets better and 
 better after each mystery and makes you want to find out the ending. You hold you're DS side ways 
 like a book and use the stylus to move around. The game is in black and white but never thought 
 black and white can look so good. The games protagonist is Kyle Hyde, former member of NYPD, while 
 their he was a Detective for the city, but left after he shoots his former partner Brian Bradley 
 into the Hudson river, his body was never found and Hyde thinks that Bradley is still alive but 
 where has he gone? (The game play takes 3 years after the Bradley accident) . Now Hyde works for 
 the Red Crown as a salesmen. Kyle ends up in a rundown hotel, called none other than Hotel Dusk. 
 Kyle soon finds out that this hotel might be able to give him Whereabouts of Brian Bradley. Right 
 from the start the mystery of the hotel and Bradley gets deeper, Kyle Hyde's name is already in 
 the check in but six months before he even came. Kyle thinks it might be Bradley and wanted Kyle 
 to end up at this Hotel. So Kyle does some searching of the hotel and it seems like the guest at 
 the hotel also have secrets that you able to solve.
  
  The Characters in Hotel Dusk are very unique and all are different. And they all have secrets that 
 Kyle Hyde is able to depose whether they like it or not. There are a total of 10 people (that have 
 a mystery in their hands) , including the hotel owner. Some of the people are connected and others 
 are completely independent. Some of their mysteries help Kyle get closer in solving the mystery 
 of Bradley.
  
  Kyle Hyde has solve some mysteries to save his life and it makes you to act fast and think quickly 
 but this is only on the very end. It only take Kyle a day to solve all these mysteries (impressive 
 huh?) . The game is a great and a excellent mystery game. You hold the game like a novel because 
 it is like reading a novel. The only bad part of the game, is when or if you get stuck in the game, 
 it will take a while to get unstuck but it could be the easiest thing ever. And you would say i 
 should of knew that. Well it made me say that. But other than that the game is filled with great 
 things as well a good ending with a cute looking girl.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Out-Of-Ammo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Okay, this a fun mystery game that has a lot more to it then you would think. You play as Kyle 
 Hyde, a disgraced cop who quit his job as a cop after having to shoot his partner, Bradley. In 
 this game, you wander around Hotel Dusk trying to find clues to your missing partner, Bradley. 
 Each character in this game has a mystery in his or her past that kyle has to uncover with questioning 
 and sometimes even evidence and items. If you do something to upset a character in this game or 
 miss a question during a main questioning time. You will lose and get slammed with a big GAME OVER. 
 Over all, this is a very difficult game with lots of fun and suspense and is a definent pick-up 
 especially for fans of mystery games.
  
  BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT 
 BUY IT BUY IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annimation
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  I thought I'd try something new and different and because Hotel Dusk was so highly rated, I decided 
 to give it a go. And indeed it was different but was it in a good way? Well, for me it was a little 
 too much like reading a book. Now don't get me wrong. I love books. I'm a prolific reader and thoroughly 
 enjoy most books but the limited screen space of the DS doesn't allow for the literacy talent of 
 a writer to blossom very well so it's more like reading a comic with too many words.
  The game is basically a detective story set in Hotel Dusk, a somewhat rundown hotel which, it turns 
 out, hides way too many secrets. At the end of the game, there seem to be just as many questions 
 unanswered as answered which suggests a sequel. To be honest though, I think I'll give any sequel 
 a miss. Towards the end I found it hard to stay with it and only finished it on the basis that 
 I'd paid for it and I wanted to know just how strong or weak the ending was.
  If you are driven by curiosity and love policiers (as the French call them) then you'll probably 
 enjoy this game but if you are looking for action, look elsewhere. Action here consists mainly 
 of moving from room to room, finding the odd object to use later and starting conversations with 
 the rest of the cast. There are one or two puzzles in there but if you are looking for a good puzzle, 
 head for Professor Layton. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  Actual score: 9.1
  
  The good
  * Compelling story;
  * Great presentation;
  * Utilising the full potential of the 
 DS.
  
  The bad
  * Can be slow at times;
  * Aimless wandering to trigger events;
  * No voice acting.
  
  I'm sure that I can place a very safe wager that every human being on 
 this planet have made a wish of some sort; whether it is on a birthday, anniversary, Christmas, 
 lottery or generally anytime. Yet wishes are a strange concept as it commonly arrives from artificial 
 hopes and if granted, this magical 'wish being' will make things a whole lot better than it previously 
 was. Thus far, there are times deep within one's soul that an indisputable wish is kept very close 
 to the heart that absolutely no one knows about, yielding so will provide definitive equanimity. 
 Hence this is what Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is all about; a person's single wish that can really alter 
 the course of their and others lives without acknowledging the wish itself.
  
  So he comes the protagonist Kyle Hyde; a cop running the beat in Manhattan yet due to unexpected 
 events, shot his partner Bradley for which he tumbled into the river and consequently never found; 
 but that was three years ago in 1976. Now in 1979, he's a disgraced cop highly resembling any detective 
 T. V. shows from the seventies (including the mandatory whiskey bottle) Kyle now working for Red 
 Crown under the cover of a sales person with the aim of finding things that don't want to be found. 
 Kyle's latest case is to simply locate two items in a backward dingy hotel called 'Hotel Dusk' 
 yet and unbeknownst to Kyle, Hotel Dusk has many untold secrets and desires that a simple room 
 215 key called 'Wish' will trigger any pessimistic thoughts, including Kyle himself.
  
  Considering Hotel Dusk can be classified as an adventure game, the entire concept is in a form 
 of an interactive novel and what better way to display this format than using the DS; that is playing 
 the DS sideways and depending upon the settings, using the left or right touch screen navigates 
 Kyle to interact, read, move, investigate, questioning and whatever else to uncover the initial 
 task of locating the two items. Kyle will also converse to the many occupants in Hotel Dusk that 
 resembles the ordinary folks of society and like all human beings, there's more than meets the 
 eye.
  
  This aspect was quite an achievement from the creators of Hotel Dusk, Cine. Not only they used 
 real life events, everything about Hotel Dusk seems believable; the secrets, the gossips, the locations, 
 the reactions of other players and so forth brings this game alive and pragmatic. All the characters 
 have hidden agendas and/or secrets that once probe, will get the opportunity to dig further into 
 their issues if asked correctly by tapping the appropriate response. Every chapter will consists 
 of Kyle doing the rounds of Hotel Dusk hoping to trigger events (which can cause frustrations) 
 and once gather enough clues for the task at hand, normally ends up as a showdown with one of the 
 Dusk's occupants and if the player actually took notice of the dealings, will be able to seek the 
 correct responses by precise questioning otherwise it's game over (with nice music to add) . And 
 before any chapter ends, Kyle will 'gather his thoughts' in a form of quizzes that enriches the 
 player's understanding before moving on to the next chapter.
  
  Because the playing style is like a open book, both screens will be fully utilised therefore on 
 one side, a full 3D perspective as if looking through the eyes of Kyle and on the other, a top-down 
 view where the player will be indicated 'hotspots'; e. g. searching, conversing, interact or otherwise 
 that makes the player to provide some sort of action. In addition, a handy map will be at your 
 disposal and a cool notepad feature to add any extra information that comes your way; a clever 
 way of not playing the game but being in the game.
  
  As far as the DS goes, the entire game is beautifully presented as the hotel looks like a run-down, 
 musty feel about it as the entire sets are logically placed and the items are authentic enough 
 for the late seventies. So expect old fashioned T. V. sets, wooden chairs and tables, still life 
 paintings and even that glowing 'Hotel Dusk' sign on the rooftop that reminds you of Bates Motel 
 (too bad there was no shower scene) . Yet what strikes out the most was the entire cast are stylistically 
 hand drawn to give that noir effect with full sets of human emotion so at times you want to tick 
 off the residents just to see their facial expressions. The only grip is that the character's facial 
 styles don't resemble typically from the seventies  a. k. a. where's the moustache on the 
 men? 
  
  Hotel Dusk is not a fast-paced game therefore expect a lot of reading yet the speed of the displayed 
 text is decent enough to get the momentum going; however you do have the option to slightly hurry 
 up the display text by pressing the down button. Also the puzzles are all not too difficult to 
 complete and there's always a second chance if you fail the first (or third, forth) . That 
 said, the game is pretty generous when it comes to playability therefore do expect to spend twenty 
 plus hours to finish it. For me it took almost forty as there was times I placed Kyle at the bar 
 listening to the beautiful music at their local jukebox which incidentally there are many to choose 
 from. Also the ending has two hidden clips that can be unlocked depending upon the actions you 
 have choosen to complete this adventure. 
  
  Hotel Dusk is regarded as an interactive novel and considering this genre normally receive poor 
 reviews, it took two factors to elevate this type; the developers Cine and the uniqueness game 
 play style that only the DS can deliver. With these two features combined immerses the player not 
 just reading the displayed text, but believe in the events and most importantly the main character 
 Kyle Hyde. The entire situations are believable, the problems real and the concepts down-to-earth 
 as this brought a refreshing approach to the constant bombardment of purpled hair lads and over-the-top 
 gorgeous women. Hotel Dusk is a game that will be regarded as a masterpiece as once you leave the 
 Hotel and depending upon the ending you have will almost guarantee a rush of emotion throughout 
 your spirit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is a great game for anyone that likes an adventure with puzzles involved. What makes 
 it so great... let's take a closer look.
  
  First of all, I have to say that I really did like the story. It unfolded very well over the entire 
 game. Not too fast and not too slow... but just right. I found it to be a story that kept me wanting 
 to know more about the characters and the hotel that I was interacting with. There is alot of reading 
 involved in this game and I am not much of a reader, but I still found it to not be to over bearing 
 as some games can get.
  
  I must say that the graphics were quite impressive for this game. You use the touch screen to manuver 
 around a map of the hotel... while you get the actual display of what you would be seeing in the 
 first person view on the other screen. The hotel and the characters are not highly designed, but 
 have an old feel to them. That with the music in the background really did bring a certain feel 
 to the game. While the characters would appear in color on the one screen when you saw them... 
 both they and you would be drawn in an old cartoon type of black and white when you did the interacting 
 with one of them. I thought that was a great addition for this game. Other games would not have 
 been able to do this and make it work... but with Hotel Dusk it was a great addition that added 
 even a better feel to the overall game.
  
  You will be using the Touch Pad with the stylus for this game all the way. I really did like that 
 because I have alot of games for the Nintendo DS Lite that don't even use the Stylus or the Touch 
 Screen at all... and that is one of the main reasons I purchased it. Not only will you direct your 
 character as to where he travels... but you will both manipulate and interact with objects and 
 characters in this game with the stylus.
  
  As much as I was hoping for the puzzles to be great in this game... I have to admit that they were 
 quite easy. While they were fun... I really wish they would have made them a little harder to make 
 winning the game more rewarding. I have to admit that I did save alot but found that I didn't save 
 because of a puzzle I was getting ready to do... but more for the interaction between me and others 
 in the hotel. When you talk to others and ask them questions... you will be given usually two options 
 to choose from. If you choose the wrong one... the person you are speaking to gets mad by having 
 their character turn red. Usually this is followed by you being kicked out of the hotel and then 
 Game Over! I had this happen several times in the game and found it to be more of a task to find 
 the right thing to choose to say being harder than the puzzles.
  
  Overall I would have to say that Hotel Dusk Room 215 is an awesome game. I feel that they could 
 have done a couple of things a little better... but it will not be leaving my shelf of games that 
 I keep. I can see this having a great replay value. If you have the chance to get it... I would 
 not pass it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroGamer34233
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  "Hotel Dusk" pulled me in from the first time I played it - until right about the end. Then what 
 could have been the best DS title took a fast skid downhill. What was a slow, move-at-your-own-pace 
 storyline quickly turned into a "Hey, we're close to deadline and need to wrap this puppy up now!" 
 ending. You spend the last half-hour of the game just clicking to advance dialogue, tying in together 
 just about every single character in the game at one time. And the end dialogue is so long, you 
 can screw it up 20 minutes in and have to start all over.
  
  Graphics - a-ha should be proud. The pencil sketch, "Take On Me" character models are great. And 
 the dark, muddy environments really make you feel you're in a mystery novel.
  
  Sound - The majority of the sound comes from the in-game music. It makes you feel you're doing 
 something bad in the back of a dark alley, but if you're looking for it to scare you you'll be 
 disappointed. Other sound effects (doors opening/closing, etc.) are well-done and don't sound tinny 
 at all.
  
  Controls - Hold the DS like a book, move using the touch screen and click on the screen for an 
 action. Touch-screen controls work better than "The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass," probably 
 because not all the action is limited to that one screen.
  
  Gameplay - Other than the rushed ending, the game is a lot of fun if it fits what you're into. 
 If you don't like slow-moving, text-based games, don't pick it up. You'll be severely disappointed.
 
  
  Overall - Not much else to say that hasn't been said yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_doongy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  So it's time for my not-often-review. The target of my displeasure today is the acclaimed Hotel 
 Dusk: Room 215, accepted, praised, and remade into a greatest hits version, of sorts.
  
  I maintain a bias against Hotel Dusk, let's get that out of the way. I labored through the game, 
 often 15-20 minute spurts at a time to get through it, which is why my review of this game is coming 
 so late. I'm sure many people have reviewed it, know many people have talked about it, and am aware 
 that the general consensus is that this game is off the charts spectacular. But I beg to differ.
 
  
  Most people say that Hotel Dusk plays like an interactive book; an interactive experience in solving 
 mysteries and finding clues to travel through the fairly linear plotline. This is precisely the 
 problem that I had with it.
  
  In a generation that has long forsaken the gift that are books, this is the closest thing you can 
 get to reading a book, without actually reading a book. I on the other hand, grew up reading books 
 in place of television and videogaming. While this wasn't a personal choice, it has certainly brought 
 about a pleasure to my life that I most probably otherwise would not have discovered.
  
  So let's get to Hotel Dusk.
  
  Hotel Dusk is boring. A very text driven game, the words scroll 
 too slowly, and the dialogue gets really cheesy at times. The plot depends too much on extremely 
 convoluted tangents that ultimately tie into the game, but seem too derived from afterthoughts, 
 as if the plotline was all mapped out, and then developers threw in wrenches and sideplots to give 
 the game some more length and flavor.
  
  Simply put, if Hotel Dusk were to be made into a novel, it would be horribly boring and unreadable. 
 Maybe reading books by Koontz, King, Patterson, etc. play into my bias, but I feel as if the bias 
 is a reasonable one.
  
  The revelations (when the sound affect has the rising pitch tone and Kyle Hyde makes that OH MY 
 GOD face) are very.. not revelating? Is that even a word? They are so unsurprising, and often times 
 so tangential that they take away any element of surprise that is supposed to come.
  
  The fact that there are Game Over options really bothered me as well. The fact that such a linear 
 plot could be ended on a wrong decision between two lines of questioning (which needless to say 
 has the polar effect of "absurdly obvious do-not-pick-this" vs. the "this is most definitely the 
 right choice") bugged me beyond belief. I chose obvious mispicks because picking the safer option 
 just got too boring.
  
  And the chapter ending quizzes. Really? Is that necessary? Is Kyle Hyde that stupid? The game revolves 
 around him trying to find Bradley, his missing ex-partner, and he needs to remind himself about 
 looking for Bradley? Goodness gracious.
  
  One can't argue against the presentation though. Stylus use, although tedious at times with all 
 the knocking and tool usage, is well implemented for movement and navigation. The graphics are 
 simple, but its simplicity is its beauty. Mood changes portrayed as a shimmering of colors up and 
 down the characters. The animations aren't full animations, but more step animating, which adds 
 to the quirky nature of the game presentation.
  
  I guess that's all. I didn't like it enough to play it for longer than an hour at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziellich
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  (It's been a while since I've written a capsule review here I know. That's because I write full 
 reviews for diehardgamefan. com and if I reveiw a game there I don't review it here. I've been reviewing 
 most of my games there. If you're interested, look the site up and bring up a review or two by 
 Aaron.)
  
  When I first got my DS, there were only a handful of games I knew I had to have. I spent the first 
 few months jamming out to Elite Beat Agents and solving cases with Phoenix Wright, but there was 
 always a game in the back of my mind that I really wanted. That game was Hotel Dusk. Now that I've 
 played through the whole thing, I can assure you the story is top notch and it is perhaps the best 
 adventure game on the DS. 
  
  
  You play as Kyle Hyde, a retired police officer now working as a "finder" for a man who also runs 
 a traveling salesman business. Kyle's been searching for his ex partner, who betrayed the force 
 three years ago. When he's assigned to Hotel Dusk, he thinks nothing special will happen there 
 at first. However, he starts meeting several people of interst and the mysteries of the hotel start 
 piling up. Being up a quizical nature, Kyle starts looking into these mysteries and gets caught 
 up in a whirlwind of secrets and intrigue that eventually lead him to his biggest desire: contacting 
 his partner. 
  
  The story is told through long conversations between characters and the occasional introspective 
 moment from Kyle himself. During conversations, you'll have moments where you can stop the guest 
 and use of two different dialouge branches. Choosing the wrong one can kill a conversation before 
 the full story is revealed or even cause you to lose the game and see a game over screen. 
  
  The rest of your time will be spent digging around for clues. You hold the DS like a book and 
 use the touch screen to move your character. If you come across something of interest, you can 
 click a little magnifying glass at the bottom of your screen and zoom in. From there you can slide 
 the few to the left or right in order to get the full picture. You'll need to do this in order 
 to find some objects. 
  
  The puzzles are pretty straightforward and there are a lot of them. You'll get things like having 
 to put together a jigsaw puzzle or pick a lock. These use various touch screen controls and are 
 very well done with only a few scattered control issues. 
  
  The game is over fifteen hours long start to finish, which is pretty good for a handheld adventure. 
 There are a few bonus items to collect and a few new dialogues for those that want to play through 
 a second time. Being that you can find a new copy of the game for only twenty bucks, you're going 
 to get your money's worth. 
  
  All told, this is one of the best video game stories I've ever seen. Each of the characters is 
 incredibly fleshed out and has a backstory. You'll learn to love or hate all of them for their 
 uniqueness. Each character has thier own mannerisms and way of speech that really helps set them 
 apart from each other. Even Kyle manages to be interesting despite initial perceptions of him being 
 just a typical gruff detective type. 
  
  There are tiwsts and turns everywhere and you honestly won't be able to predict what's going to 
 happen next. The only problem comes in the fact that the hotel isn't that big and you'll be covering 
 the same areas over and over again. Also, the game takes place all in the course of one night. 
 However, it feels a bit weird that people would move around so much. Characters are coming and 
 going all the time and seem to bump into you every twenty minutes. They act like they haven't seen 
 you in a while. That bugged me a little bit. 
  
  The graphics are an interesting homage to the Ah Ha's "Take on Me" video and do a fantastic job 
 of conveying emotion. From happy to sad to astonished to angry, the emotions are real and just 
 add that next level of depth to the story. 
  
  The music is some pretty cool stuff too. Its not great, but it has a really laid back feel while 
 at the same time capturing the inquisitive nature of Kyle. Its an excellent use of sound to carry 
 the mood. 
  
  If your someone who plays video games for the stories, than you need Hotel Dusk. The rest of the 
 game does a great job of complimenting the narrative, and its an absolutely solid game. This is 
 one of the best DS games I've played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  One of the few good games ever found from a bargain bin.
  
  You hold the DS like a book in this one which is pretty cool, different.
  
  It starts out with 
 a great atmosphere and the atmosphere of a strange, dark yet interesting hotel keeps on during 
 the whole game. Characters are just plain GREAT. Kyle Hyde, he's the man. Lots and lots of twists 
 and knots come undone which makes this game highly addictive. Like reading a book, you just gotta 
 know what happens next and just keep on going forward.
  
  Gameplay is smooth, the character styling is unique, difficulty is just right and it's highly addictive. 
 It's got good puzzle solving and it's not too short. The quick out-of-the-blue game overs and the 
 fact that sometimes you begin to think that there's just too much "coincidences" are probably the 
 only minor flaws I can think of.
  
  It's a great adventure game and you won't regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why I chose this game out of the (now extensive) DS library, but having done so, and 
 having managed to complete the adventure, I now feel compelled to write about my experience with 
 this gray-scale draw-and-click drama. Marketed as a true interactive mystery, Hotel Dusk: Room 
 215 sees players take the role of the anti-social Kyle Hyde, an ex-cop with a sticky-beak and questionable 
 demeanour. Why? Well he's searching for a long-lost ex-partner. Yes, Hotel Dusk wants you to help 
 Kyle find some closure  the past has been haunting this guy something wicked, and, for a reason 
 that's only partially explained, Hotel Dusk is supposed to supply him with it.
  
  On beginning a new game, you immediately notice the stylised artistry. Characters are nicely hand-drawn 
 in a sketchy quasi-realistic style, and their motions and gestures look fairly natural, even if 
 very simplified. Some pretty nice cut-scenes are presented, all with a decidedly low-fidelity presentation 
 (film grain and dust-speckles abound) , but be warned: these cut-scenes are really the only visual 
 story-telling, and it's not long before you've seen the same events unfold so much that they lose 
 their impact.
  
  As Kyle, you check-in ("Check in to Mystery!" the box-art claims) , to the 'Dusk to begin your adventure. 
 So how interactive is this place? Can Kyle scour the premises to the nth-degree, investigating 
 anything that takes his fancy? The short answer is an authoritative "No!" This game is an on-rails 
 adventure, and you're only given access to people, places and items as the game grants you access 
 to them, not a single second before. There's an overwhelming sense of playing this game to the 
 narratives discretion  you're completely at the mercy of the programmer's pre-scripted events, 
 only triggering new content once a certain unspecified and invisible accomplishment is met.
  
  I don't think 'Dusk is a true adventure game; rather, it's more of an illustrated novella, 
 with only sparse and limited actual game play. When these moments occur, you're required to use 
 the stylus in a semi-realistic gestural manner, such as wedging a crowbar under a cabinet. Jerk 
 the stylus this or that way, and the mini-task is complete  unfortunately for CING (the developer) 
 your sense of emptiness and dissatisfaction is just as total. I thought "Professor Layton" had 
 several moments where a sense of accomplishment was achieved, (although it had its own problems 
 too) , but 'Dusk offers none of these.
  
  Really, this game is playing you, you're not playing it. It has its own agenda, and you're just 
 strapped in for the ride. Your big job in this game is auto-scrolling reams of text that challenge 
 the length of "War and Peace", and clicking the occasional preset button/text/item. The mystery 
 solves itself, and there's nothing you can do about! Speaking of which, the narrative itself is 
 very dull, and resembles a day-time TV drama season final. Sure, to begin with, the possibilities 
 seem interesting, but as the story continues, the potential for intrigue is consistently reduced 
 as the poor story-tree goes about its business of winding-up. I'm sorry Hotel Dusk, but I think 
 I checked into Hotel Dull.
  
  The Hotel itself is very empty, although it is full of guests! Unlike most modern adventure games 
 (I'm talking post 1996) , you are not allowed to interact with anyone who is not directly involved 
 in which ever chore you happen to be caught up in this moment. You are directed inflexibly and 
 unreasonably towards the games purposes  you're a tool Kyle (in more ways than one) . I could go 
 on about the games graphical, characters and sonic qualities, but I don't think that will make 
 a difference to anyone who is interested in a true mystery/adventure title - simply because the 
 narrative content is forgettable and routine. Not recommended.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up mostly cuz of the art. I also heard it was an old school type point and click 
 er, tap and.... tap... I also picked it up cuz during the 1 o clock to 3 o clock period of the night 
 when I wait for Red Eye to come on Fox News. Anyway the story is very big and Its like those mystery 
 noir novels, movies. Kinda like the Maltese Falcon and its really worth playing once you get past 
 the very slow pace. All the characters have some great personalities, especially Louis. The animations 
 and the art is really great and its cool how you need to hold the DS like a book. The music is 
 very catchy and i had to look up the soundtrack cuz I need to read some summer books for school, 
 and that was part of the reason the game held my attention. There are some confusing puzzles and 
 I kept having to go to the great guides on GAMEFAQS, plugged, to see what I needed to do. Get this 
 game if you're bored and need something to occupy your attention, but if your not a big fan of 
 long readings and puzzles, I wouldn't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScionofEntropy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  For a certainty, a noir detective story/interactive novel probably wasn't the first thing on anyone's 
 mind when they considered all the things they wanted to see on DS. Most of us wanted to see our 
 favorite tried-and-true Nintendo franchises like Mario, Metroid, and Zelda released post haste. 
 And, of course, after developer Cing's Trace Memory was regrettably ignored by and large, who would 
 have expected them to come out swinging again with another game along the same lines? Fear not, 
 for Hotel Dusk proves that the genre is still alive and well.
  
  The story follows then-detective-now-salesman Kyle Hyde, who's got a head full of questions and 
 a chip on his shoulder. Years before the game takes place, Kyle and his partner on the force were 
 investigating a crime syndicate back east. Late in their investigation, Hyde's partner goes missing 
 and is presumed dead. Back to the present, it's New Year's Eve in 1979 and Hyde is in the Southwest 
 U. S. on business. The ex-cop finds himself in the titular locale of the game, Hotel Dusk. He gets 
 himself a room (surprisingly, 215) which is rumored to possess magical properties. During his stay, 
 Kyle meets all the other guests, many of whom are connected to one another, and some of whom are 
 connected to the mystery of some years ago with his partner and the crime ring. Every step he takes 
 will bring Hyde closer to solving his own mystery, as well as the mystery surrounding the hotel.
 
  
  Simplistic though its gameplay is in theory, Hotel Dusk is clever and unique throughout. Movement 
 through the hotel and interaction with people and objects are all done through the stylus and touch 
 screen, a setup which works perfectly for the point-and-click gameplay. You move throughout the 
 building by placing the stylus on the touch screen map, and an icon that indicates Kyle moves in 
 that direction. The top screen, on the other hand, shows a first-person view of the hotel as Kyle 
 walks through it.
  
  As you'd expect from the type of game, there are a lot of puzzles in Hotel Dusk. Early on, most 
 of them are extremely simple, but they gradually pick up in difficulty, and many of them become 
 familiar logic puzzles, to anyone into that sort of thing. A lot of puzzles in the game involve 
 context-sensitive actions executed with a found item and the stylus, and some are solved by actions 
 like blowing into the microphone or closing and opening the DS. The controls during these puzzles 
 are all very responsive and do exactly what you want them to most of the time. You might occasionally 
 slip with the stylus or grab the wrong item, but other than that, there isn't much room for complaint.
 
  
  There are a lot of different people in the hotel, and they've all got their own little mysteries. 
 Needless to say, the not-quite-friendly Kyle Hyde spends most of the night digging up dirt on the 
 other occupants and learning about them in order to solve their problems (often quite reluctantly) . 
 Most of your interactions with the characters center around conversations in which you have two 
 or three choices to make when talking to them. If you make a correct assessment, they react accordingly 
 and the conversation continues. Make one wrong choice, though, and you could potentially end the 
 segment and give yourself a game over, forcing you to start from your last save or a point close 
 to it. You're treated to a similar segment at the end of each chapter, in which Kyle recounts the 
 events of the chapter to test your memory (granted, missing a question here causes you to repeat 
 the question rather than instant failure) . 
  
  Each character has their own mannerisms about them, and their personality quirks are reflected 
 in their dialog. Kyle will undoubtedly be a favorite to many for his crass, blunt nature with an 
 undertone of a somewhat reluctant caring nature. Of course, if players don't take much of a liking 
 to him, there are plenty of characters other than Hyde, and though some appear than less, they're 
 all very different.
  
  There are a couple minor problems with pacing in the game. Several times, you'll find yourself 
 wandering from room to room, wondering exactly what you're supposed to be doing. This can go on 
 for a long time, as the game doesn't take you by the hand and lead you where to go; usually, it 
 gives you a vague hint and expects you to know where to go. On some occasions, though, it does 
 seem like the game takes you by the hand a bit too much, and you'll see things like "I should check 
 this room out" happening in a couple rare instances. You'll also run into occasional items that 
 you won't use for a long time, and when you finally do use them, they'll disappear forever when 
 their introduction and how long you had them might have led you to believe they would play a larger 
 role.
  
  Hotel Dusk's graphics are a little mixed. Mostly, the hotel looks pretty good, and the puzzles 
 themselves are particularly well-rendered. Still, some of the textures you see while walking the 
 halls are a bit pixelated and sometimes appear blurry. Objects in motion like doors opening are 
 well-animated and most objects you see like furniture and decorations have a surprising amount 
 of detail, and the majority of them are well modeled.
  
  The characters are all drawn in near-monochromatic 2D, and this adds an interesting stylistic look 
 to the game that fits perfectly with the sort of mystery novel theme of the story. There's a unique 
 motion blur of sorts on the character images that adds an interesting quality to their movements, 
 and even when they stand still they seem to be in motion. The facial expressions are another highlight 
 of the characters, and all of them have a wide variety that runs the emotional gamut. When Hyde 
 says something particularly mean, characters will either fume in irritation or look shocked and 
 hurt, recoiling almost as if they've been hit. If a character who's particularly fond of Hyde runs 
 into him, they'll shout and wave or offer a curt smile. It's a nice touch to have actually animated 
 in little nuances like that with all the characters, rather than just have them appear.
  
  Hotel Dusk's soundtrack has mostly short tracks that you hear fairly often, but each one fortunately 
 sounds rather good overall. It's all got a sort of lounge-jazz style that fits wonderfully with 
 the detective novel story and sounds a lot like the music from older detective shows, and most 
 of the tracks are a treat to listen to.
  
  Sound effects themselves are generally pretty good, and the only real problem with the audio is 
 that there isn't really anything in the way of voices. There's a ton of dialog, so having every 
 line voiced would have been out of the question, but even something like the occasional "Yo, Hyde!" 
 or "Thanks, mister!" sort of like what was used in Wind Waker and Elite Beat Agents would have 
 added a bit.
  
  All in all, if you're looking for a fun adventure/puzzle game, Hotel Dusk is probably the best 
 thing of its kind on the DS. Despite a few pacing problems here and there, and a lot of back-and-forth 
 that may alienate gamers looking for something more fast-paced, Hotel Dusk is a satisfying game 
 that can be recommended to most older gamers. If the puzzles and relative challenge of the game 
 don't keep you playing, chances are the story will have you interested enough to keep playing and 
 find out what happened to Hyde's lost partner. Not to say that story is all Hotel Dusk has going 
 for it; it's a smart, engaging adventure game with a lot of style and a good story besides. Chances 
 are, you should try this one out-before it goes out of print like a lot of good adventure games 
 seem to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demoncannon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk - Room 215 is a very unique game in the way its presented and how the game plays. It 
 may not be as visionary stunning or as colorful like other DS games but this is one of the many 
 things that make this game so great. The story is so fresh and calm as you play as Kyle Hyde, the 
 controls feel smooth and comfortable as this game is reliant to the sensitive screen. The cast 
 of characters is very varying from a simple maid right up to a mysterious man, you'll be thinking 
 on your feet whilst playing this game. The in game mini games that you play might sometimes get 
 a bit cheesy at times but it fits in the the setting of the game. It can be rather annoying sometimes 
 where you find yourself stuck and dont know where to go but inspite of that it really is something 
 to buy. The layout of the game is unique, by holding the DS sideways and you treat it like a book. 
 Not many DS games utalise this style of layout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LForTheWin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  The game is genius with its plot linking with all the characters- but maybe too well, making it 
 feel like a story not real life -but that is its only downfall. Lovable characters and realistic 
 situations adds to my love of the game.
  The touch screen is used well through out, solving mini puzzles and can be an option of moving 
 Kyle Hyde around Hotel Dusk, definitley well thought out! 
  Selecting what Hyde says to his fellow visitors alters his personality and the ending to the game, 
 making his actions feel 'human' and opposed to a game character being pre-programed in his speech.
 
  I love this game so much I played it twice (may not sound impressive but for this type of format 
 of a game it shows true devotion as they are somewhat linear but I think I loved it better the 
 second time around
  
  
  I really wish there will a sequel but that is really unlikely, but without a sequel my love for 
 Phoenix Wright ( and Apollo Justice) will continue to grow. (MEGA HINT FOR SIMILAR GAMES :)
  If there is a sequel though, Kyle and Mila better still be together or else!!
  
  Hotel Dusk 
 : Room 215 FTW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoiSora603
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  First off, Hotel Dusk is an adventure game, not an ACTION adventure game, so if you're looking 
 for a fight, look elsewhere! But if you're looking for a solid story that you have to work out 
 on your own, then you've come to the right place.
  
  The year is 1979, and you play Kyle Hyde, former detective for the NYPD. For three years, he's 
 been looking for answers as to why his ex-partner went bad, and now he finds himself at Hotel Dusk, 
 where every guest seems to be hiding something, and some of those secrets may just lead him to 
 the answer he's been seeking...
  
  Ok, now that I've had my melodramatic moment, let's break the game down, shall we?
  
  The graphics 
 are great. They're not the kind that's meant to dazzle you with its stunning display of technology; 
 rather, it's the style of the graphics that really grabs you. The 3D environments look nice enough 
 for the DS, but all of your characters appear as black-and-white pencil-ins. It is an interesting 
 take fits the overall mood of the game nicely. 
  
  The sound isn't bad, but it's not especially memorable either. The music wasn't stunning, and generally 
 fit what was happening onscreen. The game could definitely have benefitted from a larger variety 
 of music though, as you'll be listening to the same tunes over and over again. 
  
  The gamplay is where this game really shines. It's basically an interactive book, but rather than 
 just having the plot fed to you simply by turning a page, you have to work to solve the mysteries 
 of Hotel Dusk. You hold the DS like you would a book, and then you can use the touch screen to 
 guide Hyde around the hotel on a map, meanwhile, the other screen shows you moving through the 
 3D environment in first-person. A neat idea. I liked it. You can examine just about anything in 
 the environment, and you guide Hyde through his conversations with those that work at the hotel 
 and the guests. But careful not to get to pushy! Acting too suspicious will either result in the 
 hotel owner becoming wary of you and kicking you out before you can stick your nose too far into 
 his business, or it can result in a secret-hiding guest losing trust in you and refusing to give 
 you any more information. Game over, and time to try again. The puzzles in the game range in difficulty 
 from the blatantly obvious, to the "how in the world would I have figured THAT out on my own?" 
 But don't worry, the latter doesn't happen too often and actually, that was probably just me and 
 my denseness anyway. :) My only complaint is that the ending comes at you pretty fast and doesn't 
 really feel like an ending, though it does wrap everything up...
  
  All in all this was a great game. It fits snugly into the Adventure genre and tells a compelling 
 story that'll keep you guessing until the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 (HD) offers an excellent storyline like a real detective novel, which can 
 satisfy the most fastidious fans of Adventure genre. 12/24/1976: the police inspector Kyle Hyde 
 was in New York police office when he received a phone call telling about the dubious deeds of 
 Brian Bradley, one of his colleagues. Following the trace, Hyde caught up Bradley in River Hudson 
 harbour and had to open fire unwillingly. Bradley's body fell down to the river but was nowhere 
 to be found later. Right after the incident, Hyde left the police force when still obsessed by 
 the thought of Bradly's survival. He started his new job in Red Crown - a private detective firm 
 in disguise as a business company but could not stop thinking about the old case, until a day... 
 12/28/1979: three years later, Hyde happened to visit Hotel Dusk to do a simple task. But right 
 there, he unexpectedly discovered the clue to the old incident. Everybody in this hotel had their 
 secret, it was his part to uncover and assemble those details to lay bare whatever was beneath 
 Bradley's action.
  
  With such a mysterious beginning, HD seems to be quite promising to anyone loving investigating 
 game. But once you have started with the game, you will joyfully find out it has more to offer. 
 The truth is broken into many pieces, each of which is hiding inside a character in the hotel. 
 Hence, game play of HD is first and foremost based on lengthy conversations between the former 
 police with these people. Though it really takes time to listen to these conversations, most of 
 them are undeniably concise and informative. You may skip some talks and still can finish main 
 quest line, but to contemplate the whole story, I would advise you not to do so. Normally, you 
 have to choose one out of two questions in a situation, the proper one will save your time and 
 effort, the wrong one may cause trouble or even lead to Game-over. It's where HD requires some 
 deduction from players. Unfortunately, voice play is very poor, making you feel like listening 
 to a typewriter and reducing your concentration on the story.
  
  Besides conversations, puzzles are also an important factor in Adventure game. In HD, both simple 
 and tough puzzles prove quite attracting since they creatively make use of NDS features. Some of 
 them are very amazing, really beyond my imagination. For example, there is a quest which requires 
 to use 2 styluses to control 2 electric circuit breakers simultaneously. In another case, you have 
 to fold and open your NDS quickly to take the message behind a picture. such original ideas are 
 certainly a very strong point of HD.
  
  With all I have said, this is no doubt a desirable game, but that's not all. The absorbing story 
 is presented in a satisfactory graphics. Interior of the hotel is detail designed in 3D, very spectacularly. 
 All character models are built 2D with cel-shading style, each has their own feature. From the 
 small girl Melissa to the old woman Helen has some distinctive countenance suitable to their role 
 in the story. It's not exaggerating to place HD among games with most original and beautiful graphics 
 style. As for sound, besides the horrible voice act, other parts manage to fulfill their task and 
 prove acceptable.
  
  Hotel Dusk is an inspiring example which lives up to all expectation from fans of Adventure genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash10692
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  From the cross hatched black and white drawings, to the fun and varied gameplay, Hotel Dusk: Room 
 215 just oozes class. The game stars you as Kyle Hyde, a disgraced New York cop turned salesman 
 who checks in at the mysterious Hotel Dusk in search of the partner who got him sacked in the first 
 place. Why he does this slowly becomes apparent in a flashback sequence, that has more text added 
 to it each time you see it, revealing a little more of the mystery. In the hotel he runs into a 
 fantastic cast of quirky characters, who all have their own unique story to tell. The script writing 
 here is realistic, and at times, genuinely funny. The main drawback to this game is it's length. 
 About 4 hours will see it completed, which leaves you feeling a bit annoyed, so if you choose to 
 invest in this game PACE YOURSELF. The poor sales of this game mean that there is unlikely to be 
 a sequel in the pipelin any time soon, which is a real shame, but 215 is so classy, it doesn't 
 matter that much anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk can be a perfect example of a game where "plot-driven" is taken to the extreme, you 
 basically will be reading and trying to understand the plot for more than 40% of the game, the 
 story is top notch which can be called only as predictable because it's the most important aspect 
 of the game and easily the most noticeable triumph; the game lacks the basic features of a regular 
 game, like, in Hotel Dusk, for you to get a game over you don't need to take bullets, fall into 
 a fathomless pit, get killed by someone or run out of lives, here you need to be kicked out of 
 the hotel, meaning that you won't be able to solve all the mysteries surrounding that peculiar 
 place named Hotel Dusk, and you can be kicked out out of nowhere, like when you're in some kind 
 of conversation and you choose the wrong answer raising suspicious thoughts from the guests or 
 management personnel, maybe even some time after, like when you give an uncordial answer to someone 
 and this someone goes on to the hotel manager and complains about you, or maybe accused of burglary, 
 even though you will be collecting things and breaking up rooms to get deep into it, so it's a 
 fair accusation after all, but not for your playthrough, of course, so if you happen to get a game 
 over screen, you simply must rethink your responses to go under the radar of the people inside.
 
  
  One of the best characteristics about this type of game, is how the plot develops and how the characters 
 work out within the story, and here we have some great quality characters, all nicely thought and 
 with their own personalities, like the main character who can be considered more like a more or 
 less serious kind of guy, with sharp talk, the type who doesn't look like he give a damn about 
 anything with a reserved, yet, ironic sense of humor; there's the street guy always trying to be 
 the smartass and talking a whole lot of slangs, there's the writer who uses a more well constructed 
 kind of talk, and so on.
  
  You will be entertained for more than 15 hours, some parts of the game are actually quite challenging 
 to figure out; you'll hold the DS like a book to play it, you can control with the pad but you'll 
 most likely use the touch screen to move because it's pretty easy to handle, it's true that the 
 controls won't amaze anyone, but they won't get in the way too, they do the job just right.
  
  Give detailed views of the plot would be pointless, so here's what you'll find, you'll find 
 yourself in a hotel, at first it will look like any other ordinary hotel, and if you think about 
 it, it really is, some interesting persons here and there, but in the end, very regular; then happens 
 to arrive in the hotel Kyle Hyde, he's a mere salesman looking forward to do the job he was send 
 to do and go away, or is he? The plot will develop toward this peculiar being and his unknown past, 
 adding this to a hotel which holds some strange stories and you'll get caught up in the middle 
 of something bigger than it looked in the first place, especially with all the coincidences that 
 Kyle Hyde definitely didn't see coming. One of the best plots available for the Nintendo DS, or 
 any other console or handheld.
  
  The sound keeps up with the actual pace, if you're just exploring, the music will follow and stay 
 calm, if you're accusing, discovering some earth shattering fact, or just in some heat up conversation, 
 the music will turn more "mystery-like" and intense, the musics were pretty well composed and fits 
 right into the game, the main music is the best though, you'll just need a few moments of game 
 play for the song to stick in your mind, and end up whistling around.
  
  One more nice thing, are the responses that you give to other people, sometimes you are asked to 
 give a response to some kind of question the person you're talking to asks, or when you're gonna 
 throw some thought about what happened or what's happening at the time, you can choose between 
 two responses, and depending which one you choose, the game plot can be modified a little, and 
 consequently, the responses will differ the finish too.
  
  It's such a great game, it easily sucks you in, and make you part of the story, it can feel limited 
 at times, but it's undeniable the sheer brilliance of the story, and the fun you'll have unfolding 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  If you've been playing the Nintendo DS for a fair bit of time, you're probably aware that it's 
 appeal is mostly because of it's unique capabilities and different kind of games. Hotel Dusk Room 
 215, fits into this category perfectly and although some people would prefer massive action over 
 story driven game play, it's still hard not to admit there's a lot of charm in this little cartridge.
 
  
  Playing the game is a bit different than most games simply because you hold the DS like a book. 
 For me, it was a bit difficult to get used to and it felt awkward at times but eventually I got 
 the hang of it but I would have preferred that the game gave you an option to either hold it normally 
 or like a book. Another aspect of the game that will become clear very quickly is that the game 
 is almost entirely text driven. If you're not a fan of reading, this game will not appeal to you. 
 
  
  The protagonist of this game is Kyle Hyde, a former NYPD police officer-turned salesman. Currently 
 doing a job for his current employer, he is still hell-bent on finding his former partner who betrayed 
 him shortly before he left the force. Ending up at Hotel Dusk, a seedy looking hotel, he checks 
 in only to find that there's more to the shoddy looking building than meets the eye.
  
  Hotel Dusk is an adventure games setup in a noir-esque sort of style. As Kyle Hyde, you'll be walking 
 through the hotel and though there isn't a lot of different areas, it's the characters and their 
 problems that'll keep you occupied most of the time. As you walk around, you can talk to people, 
 ask them questions and collect evidence. You know, all the stuff an ex-detective would do during 
 his free time. As mentioned already, you'll be starting up conversations with many characters and 
 all of them are key players in this game. 
  
  A large part of the game are the puzzles. As you start and continue your journey through the shady 
 hotel, you'll collect many pieces of evidence and clues, many of which will not make any sense 
 until later in the game but to be able to make sense of it, you'll use the touch screen and the 
 DS a lot. For example, at some points of the game, you will have to pick locks so you'll use something 
 to pry open the locking mechanism. Another puzzle has you using a crowbar to lift a heavy piece 
 of furniture but if you do it too quickly, it will actually topple over, alerting others of your 
 position. The most memorable, and one of the easier puzzles in the game, is where you have to apply 
 CPR to a person. Simply by closing your DS, your face on the left screen will touch the person 
 on the right screen. Very inventive, yet simple.
  
  There are a myriad more puzzles in the game from assembling matchsticks to breaking codes in computers. 
 This is one strength, yet also a weakness of the game. Some of the puzzles are unbelievably easy 
 to solve, while others seem to test your patience as well as your mind. This wouldn't be so much 
 of a problem except for the fact the game is completely linear. You only spend one night in the 
 hotel but the way the story progresses is chunked bit by bit. If you didn't do step A, you won't 
 get cutscene B, and without that, you can't do C. It would have been nice if you could avoid doing 
 some puzzles to change the story but that isn't possible.
  
  Although the game is completely linear in that regard, the story is still very strong and captivating. 
 The game will employ dozens of characters, each with their unique identities, and of course, issues. 
 Without these lovable, and dastardly bunch of souls, the game would have been meaninglessness and 
 intolerable to play. But with them, you get a sense of what great story based games can be and 
 should be about. 
  
  Kyle Hyde is probably the strongest and most interesting character in the game in many respects 
 simply because you can hear what he is saying to himself, especially at the most odd times. The 
 other characters also do a lot of shining from Melissa, the little girl who doesn't get along with 
 her father, or the mysterious Mila, who doesn't seem to say much. You'll be constantly meeting 
 up with them and depending on how you converse with them, you'll get farther into the game, or 
 you'll just anger them to the point that your game can end prematurely with the hotel's proprietor 
 kicking you out. But no matter the outcome, it's great to see the different style artwork in black 
 and white. And although there are no colours, trust me, there's more than enough expression and 
 feeling from all the characters. It's hard not to get attached to the personal plight of each character 
 as they travel the corridors of the hotel.
  
  As for the sounds of the game, there are your basic sounds of footsteps and when you open doors, 
 they all end up creaking as if it is a dilapidated hotel. Oh wait, it kinda is... Unfortunately, 
 the game has no voice acting or gasping but as mentioned before, you can tell exactly what people 
 are feeling even without the sound because the animations are spot on but it would have been nice 
 to have the occasional scream or whimper.
  
  The music in the game is very moody and plays well no matter what situation you're in. Changing 
 at the speed of emotion, the game does a very good job at conveying what people are feeling and 
 the tone of the environment. You'll understand what I'm talking about when Kyle Hyde finally realizes 
 something is strange or when he's interrogating someone.
  
  In summary, Hotel Dusk: Room 215 does everything excellent in an interactive story driven game. 
 The writing is superb, the characters are all fleshed out with motives and back story and the music 
 of the game just keeps on reminding you how memorable it is. The only real knock with the game 
 is the completely linear story and other than a few differences playing it subsequent times, there's 
 not a lot of reason to go back. There are multiple endings but most of them are about the same. 
 This is a great game in it's own right and maybe it will breed further interest in adventure games. 
 Hardcore purists will have some reason to keep coming back but for me, this electronic book is 
 gonna find some time on the shelf before I consider picking it up again. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jann_101
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  
  There are Novels, there are audio books, there are Graphic Novels, and now may I present to you 
 -- The "Videogame Novel.." *Ta-Da
  
  Now this game is like 20% gameplay, 80% story..
  
  The gameplay consists of walking on hallways, knocking on doors, looking for items, talking to 
 people and choosing the right questions or answers to give them. 
  
  There are also the minigames that adds fun of its gameplay. Minigames like Bowling, jigsaw puzzles, 
 connect the dots, demolition of walls, scraping off paint, matchstick games, etc. These minigames 
 always come unexpected with new gimmicks and leaves a lasting charm to the game itself.
  
  The story on the other hand is a Hardboiled Noir Fiction. The Black and white sketched presentation 
 gives the whole thing a retro feel bringing you back to the 70's. 
  
  The Characters are so believable that I almost thought they were based on real people. Each character 
 was given a personality that really fits their looks and their Job. i Love the Characters!
  
  The storyline is great. Everything gets tangled up during the first chapters, and then everything 
 was revealed during the game finale. A common cliche on most mystery novels. The story will keep 
 you hooked up for at least overnight. lolz
  
  The only thing a hate about this game is the difficulty in finding certain items. 
  It took me 
 almost a week to figure out that I needed the chalk to reveal the engraved texts on the fountain 
 pen. 
  
  It was a great game anyway
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SophinaK
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  Start with a blunt, sarcastic, disgraced cop who spends most of his time at the bottom of a flask 
 of whiskey. Add some campy detective humor, a cast of memorable characters, and old-school adventure 
 gameplay. The result is Hotel Dusk: Room 215, one of the better adventure games for the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  Hotel Dusk, the titular setting for the game, is a run-down third rate hotel located well off the 
 beaten path in the Southwestern US. Hotel Dusk is rife with secrets, including a ghost story, an 
 unsolved kidnapping, mysterious locked doors, and a room that grants wishes. Its flickering neon 
 sign calls to mind the Bates Motel and other seedy joints made famous by mystery novels and films. 
 In addition to this, it is also the latest destination of Kyle Hyde, a former NYPD detective turned 
 door-to-door salesman after he was fired for shooting his partner, the enigmatic Brian Bradley. 
 
  
  Kyle Hyde is the protagonist of the story, a gruff mannered, down-and-out loner with a scraggly 
 goatee and a checkered past. It is Hyde's niggling suspicion that Bradley is still alive that has 
 led him into his new profession. Though ostensibly a salesman, Hyde's police background gives him 
 the skills necessary to assist with his employer's sideline business: the discreet recovery of 
 certain missing articles. It is this second, clandestine, work that brings Hyde to the Dusk. He 
 is there to uncover several seemingly insignificant items, but every turn leads him to some detail 
 connected with his past and the search for Bradley. The player initially knows little about the 
 events of Hyde's previous career, a series of brief flashbacks shows over and over the climactic 
 shooting on the banks of the Hudson, but much of the background is still missing. It is up to the 
 player to uncover the true events of the past, what really happened to Bradley and why.
  
  This investigation will be undertaken largely as an exploration of Hotel Dusk. The player holds 
 the DS sideways to navigate the hotel, an exercise which puts its dual screen functionality to 
 good use. The touch screen shows an overhead map of the area, with a 3D view of the surroundings 
 on the left-hand (ordinarily top) screen. The player guides Hyde around the maps using the stylus, 
 with options to zoom in to closely investigate any suspicious areas. This portion of the game is 
 very much in the tradition of the classic point-and-click adventure, with the basic mechanic being 
 to tap the stylus on certain highlight-able objects to hear Hyde's observations on them. Some items 
 can be obtained and added to inventory where they will be used as keys in future puzzles, while 
 other objects are dismissed with a cursory (often snide) comment. There are also occasional uses 
 of DS specific techniques, such as scraping or peeling with the stylus or flipping the DS closed 
 to bring an object on the right-hand screen in contact with an object on the left side, but for 
 the most part the simple tap-to-examine method suffices.
  
  The second component to the exploration of Hotel Dusk is the interactions Hyde can have with the 
 hotel staff and other guests. These interactions take place mostly through dialog. The conversations 
 are fairly linear, with Hyde getting the occasional opportunity to interrupt and ask a question, 
 or storing away a keyword or detail to ask more about later. These instances give the player several 
 choices as to which questions to ask or what sort of reaction to emphasize. For instance, when 
 a character reacts strongly to hearing the name "Kyle Hyde" you'll have the opportunity to ask 
 a penetrating question or remark cheekily, "What now, you don't like my name?" In these situations, 
 one answer is likely to get you more information than the other. Skillfully navigating these conversations 
 is the key to drawing out the secrets hidden at Hotel Dusk.
  
  At first glance, the cast of supporting characters calls to mind the stock characters from a generic 
 mystery novel, including the over-talkative cook and housekeeper, Rosa; the ten year old hooligan, 
 Melissa, who tears through the hotel leaving chaos in her wake; and the pretentiously verbose Martin 
 Summer, an author of dubious fame and even more dubious talent. As the story progresses and Hyde 
 begins to interact more deeply with these characters, they reveal far more complexity than what 
 first meets the eye. While the deep, dark secrets each character is hoarding can be a little over 
 the top at times, by the time all is said and done they're a likable and well-written bunch you'll 
 be sorry to say goodbye to. 
  
  The game's art style lends itself wonderfully to the story and atmosphere. Drab, generic looking 
 3D backgrounds highlight the oppressive feeling of the hotel, while the more artistic 2D character 
 designs further enhance the already impressive personalities that inhabit the Dusk. The characters 
 appear like animated pencil sketches highlighted occasionally with subtle washes of color, which 
 for the most part are remarkably fluid and realistic looking. A few of the younger female characters 
 have a jarring anime look which doesn't quite mesh with the otherwise consistent design. The game's 
 soundtrack is equally impressive, with intense jazz styled pieces befitting the gumshoe theme dominating 
 the score. Sound effects are polished and appropriate, if not exactly revolutionary.
  
  The game does have a few drawbacks. It is slow-paced, especially in the early stages, most of the 
 puzzles are easily solved, and a few of the "twists" in the plot are obvious to the player long 
 before Hyde figures them out. Trudging from place to place to unearth clues that will slowly lead 
 Hyde to the conclusion you jumped to ages ago does get frustrating at times. It's at these moments 
 when Hyde exclaims to himself "I never saw that coming!" that you may find yourself wanting to 
 take a swing at him. Another distraction is that occasionally in the course of dialog, a wrong 
 answer leads to an immediate game over. The right answer isn't always intuitive or even logical, 
 so it can be punishing to be forced to pick an answer and then presented with a game over screen. 
 This is especially true due to the easy nature of most of the other puzzles, it's hard to be prepared 
 for the seemingly arbitrary life-or-death choices. Lastly, the game doesn't have much to offer 
 on replay. Once you know how the story ends there's not much else to do. Since it's a fairly short 
 game, this means you're unlikely to get more than ten or so hours of play out of it.
  
  These shortcomings aside, though, Hotel Dusk is a satisfyingly complex visual novel that combines 
 DS-centric gameplay with the point-and-click nostalgia of the old-school adventure genre. It is 
 engrossing, appealing, and outright hard to put down. Even if you're not usually a fan of adventure 
 games, with its great storytelling, self-aware humor, and a unique artistic flair, Hotel Dusk is 
 a decidedly enjoyable game and well worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent application of the DS features in the puzzles; interesting, beautifully presented 
 characters; sharp, remarkable dialogue; unique, superb art-style; bright, vast, immersive soundtrack; 
 good use of the rumble pak.
  
  The Bad: Sometimes the hotel gets suddenly deserted, and you can get REALLY stuck.
  
  Hotel 
 Dusk: Room 215 is an original point-and-click detective game, and even though the genre can appear 
 to be dated and kinda restricted to PC, that's not the impression we get playing this game. It 
 was a matter of time for these point-and-click games being turned simply into "touching" games 
 in the DS, and Hotel Dusk achievements are so interesting that we can expect a new crop of them 
 in the next months or so.
  You play the role of Kyle Hyde, a former LAPD policeman that is searching for an old partner, Brian 
 Bradley. Kyle has a work to do in the Hotel Dusk, but after checking in and as the night rolls 
 over he starts to find out that the hotel holds some clues to his personal chase. The game is entirely 
 played inside the hotel, and during a single night stay. The story is divided into chapters that 
 are written as time goes by and as you solve riddles.
  Hotel Dusk can make an old-style game survive nowadays thanks especially to the brightness of the 
 puzzles. Almost every single task of this kind in the game (when the screen "swirls" and sucks 
 you in) is challenging, or at least lets you with a smile on the face (or wanting to throw the 
 DS in the wall, but after solving the puzzle you'll laugh for sure) . The good use of the DS exclusive 
 features is exemplary, and that's the only thing I can say without spoiling you (but you must trust 
 me) .
  Aside the solid playability, the game presentation is superb. From the animation scenes at the 
 beginning to the conversation scenes along the story, everything is beautiful and unique. It was 
 a great art-style choice to merge 3D environments with 2D, B&W characters, and the result is as 
 much expressive as it could be. A superb soundtrack also helps you to get into the game, and even 
 the tracks that are frequently played don't sound repetitive. A sharp dialogue presented by the 
 almost-always interesting characters and the good timing of the rumble pack (not included) both 
 earn extra points for the game.
  The only thing that bugs me in the game is that many times you can get stuck because people simply 
 vanish from the hotel all about the same time. There are several moments when you can knock every 
 single door in the place without finding anybody; and that means you must solve something with 
 the items or inspect some area again. That's OK, but I think some people could at least answer 
 the door, even if it was to say, "Go away"! The place can't get empty in a wink...
  In the end Hotel Dusk is a great game, and it will open a path (also speaking of good selling numbers) 
 to other games of the genre. But they will be probably worse than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oli_kester
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  You are Kyle Hyde, an ex-cop whose partner has gone missing after a turn of events leading to you 
 shooting him. You were fired from the force, and you took up a job as a door-to-door salesman. 
 Yes, really!
  But your boss has a little job on the side, where he orders to look "for things that do not want 
 to be found". You are sent to places to look for these things and to sell products. You are sent 
 to Hotel Dusk this time, and things are a little different...
  The graphical style in Hotel Dusk is interesting, as it looks like a sketch. I personally think 
 that it is a great style and really suits a mystery game. The character animations are impressive 
 and the puzzles look good. When you are walking around, the rooms in the hotel are 3D, as is the 
 intro movie. I haven't seen a Ds game with 3D graphics this good (Metroid looks good, but it's 
 hardly detailed) .
  The environments are nice  you can explore the Hotel, knock on other people's doors and talk to 
 characters. More is unlocked later on and you can pretty much explore the whole hotel nearer the 
 end. The puzzles are like any other point-and-click  so you use items you pick up on objects and 
 you progress. If these games aren't to your taste then you shouldn't buy this game.
  The storyline is excellent, and you really don't expect what ends up happening at the end. The 
 dialogue is well written and it is interactive, which makes it less boring.
  Now for the problems. There isn't much to do once you've finished the game, so you'll only want 
 to play it once and then it's pretty much useless, unless you have memory loss...
  There is no option to skip text and so if you fail, then you will have to traipse through dialogue 
 all over again. It's also very linear, which makes it surprising that you often get lost and don't 
 know what to do.
  Overall its a fine game with a few things that let it down. Pity, as it's a great idea... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  Playing Hotel Dusk Room 215 feels like reading a Noir Detective Novel. In the game you play as Kyle 
 Hyde, a police turned salesman. But being a salesman, he still does investigating, mainly searching 
 his old buddy who turned his back from the Police Force.
  
  As I have said, this game feels like a Novel because there is a lot of dialouge, and I mean a lot. There 
 is even more dialouge than puzzles to sollve, but that is not a bad thing, because the story is well 
 written. You play the game sort of in a First Person mode, well on the non-touch screen, on the touch 
 screen you will have a small map where you control kyle by directing him using the stylus, basically 
 you hold your stylus on a spot and Kyle will move there. Simple enough controls take you will learn 
 in no time. And as a ex-cop, Kyle will get busy and start questioning guest, sticking his nose into 
 everybodies business, while you question them, you will get different options of what kind of question 
 you want to ask and you choose, but you will also get questioned and will be shown options to choose, but 
 choose wisely or it will be game over, and if you dodn't save, you must start from the beginning 
 all over again.
  
  The art style of the game is very sketchy like, but it looks very artiscally done. It is too bad 
 there isn't any voice acting, it will make the game so much better because the long dialouges sometimes 
 just get really boring, especially if you Game Over and restart it.
  
  I would say this is a great game but it is not for the majority because it is very text based, so 
 unless you are a reader, you should go check out other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  +: Excellent presentation; interesting mystery story; neat use of the touch screen.
  
  -: The puzzles could use with just a little more complexity.
  
  The adventure genre has pretty 
 much lost all of it's influence over the past decade. Once the symbol of great stories, interesting 
 puzzles, and immersion; in an increasingly money driven industry the adventure genre has become 
 notorious for it's inability to attract sales. Although Hotel Dusk: Room 215 doesn't break this 
 trend, it is a fresh and well put-together adventure that presents some interesting uses of the 
 touch screen in addition to it's excellent story.
  
  From the same people that created the mysterious Another Code you would expect a similarly mysterious 
 game from Hotel Dusk, thankfully though it is nowhere near as pretentious nor does it sacrifice 
 that games best qualities. Kyle Hyde is presented as the main character of the story, a depressed 
 and callous (not as if that's a bad thing) ex-cop searching for his missing partner Bradley, whom 
 he shot 3 years ago. The mysterious yet warm atmosphere pretty much kicks in as soon as you set 
 foot inside the hotel, after being prompted to open the front door with the touch screen. The environment 
 is pleasingly unkempt with graphical touches such as eroded floors to emphasize this, what you 
 may or may not like is that you'll be staying here throughout the entire game. Not as if that's 
 a bad thing.
  
  Hotel Dusk is one of those DS games that can be played entirely with the touch screen. Whilst you 
 are moving around the hotel the touch screen acts as a mini-map where you can press down in the 
 direction you want to move. Examining objects and opening doors are controlled by two icons at 
 the bottom left, and will flash white when either of those actions can be performed. It seems like 
 a logical system at first, and mostly it works well if not to immerse you into the experience. 
 Examining is handled well with a trademark double-tap used to go into more detail about objects, 
 occasionally pulling funny one-liners from the lovably sarcastic main character, with a notebook 
 feature for any of you who find simple plot details straining to remember. Moving with the stylus 
 on the other hand is a bit of a chore, but to be fair it's hard to imagine any other way of doing 
 it.
  
  The gameplay design of Hotel Dusk is simple and logical making a worthy interlude between the extensive 
 character discussions. The structure is routine, you figure out what item to use on an object, 
 where to get it, and then you are sucked into a closeup of that object where you figure out what 
 else to do with the stylus. This structure is resemblant of classic adventure design and is both 
 intuitive and logical, but at the same time you'd wish some of the puzzles could be just a little 
 more complex in the first place.
  
  For some the real action of Hotel Dusk lies in speaking with the multitude of characters, which 
 is an essential part of gameplay progress. In another throwback to classic game design you are 
 often given a variety of options to choose from during dialog; but all of those options are in 
 the main characters native language of questions, which Hyde will have in his mind if something 
 mysterious crops up. Questions come in three flavors: white, yellow, and red. White questions can 
 be asked to pretty much anybody, yellow to a specific character; red questions on the other hand 
 are like yellows but far more important, and are dedicated to solving specific problems that arise 
 towards the end of each chapter. Being deprived of the ability to ask red questions often ends 
 up in a depressing 'game over' because they are essential to finding Hyde's missing partner; game 
 over screens can also be triggered by a variety of other conditions.
  
  The story is easily Hotel Dusk's greatest asset because it is so perfectly mundane yet interesting 
 and driven by a great cast of characters. Like any good mystery novel you may be able to figure 
 out the story before the end, but thankfully most of the secrets you uncover are gratifyingly 
 
  unpredictable. The characters in the game are an odd bunch, modeled to scarily accurate personality 
 models, Louis DeNonno being one of the stars as a rascally but somehow suave street-punk and light 
 womaniser. The dialog is highly entertaining and sharply written, although speech is a no-no. To 
 be honest, if reading is a serious problem for you you probably don't deserve full speech anyway.
 
  
  Hotel Dusk's presentation is mostly superb. The visuals combine some of the best 3D on the DS with 
 great character artworks to create one of the most stylish games on the DS. Characters mostly border 
 between realistic and cartoon-like, and are done in this ridiculously cool noir style which blends 
 detailed expression with a distinctively hand-drawn look. The music is also mostly top notch stuff, 
 save for the annoying and repetitive elevator music ironically titled 'play it again' that plays 
 over and over again in most sections of the hotel. 
  
  In the end Hotel Dusk succeeds in being another good adventure game for the DS, if not the best 
 one so far. It's well constructed, original and stylishly executed. It's also a great value proposition 
 giving you a meaty 12-15 hours of gameplay. If you're looking for a peaceful slice of good adventuring 
 look no further than Hotel Dusk. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  An adventure game is a hard thing to pull off. You need to have, above all, a good plot with deeply 
 layered characters, along with clever puzzles and items. Hotel Dusk: Room 215 ticks all the right 
 boxes, although you might encounter a few minor niggles along the way.
  
  You play as a former police officer Kyle Hyde, who was let go due to an incident involving his 
 partner, Brian Bradley. At the start of the game you watch a movie showing Hyde sitting in his 
 office and receiving a call about Bradley. Hyde is then on the docks and shoots his beloved friend 
 Bradley, sending his body flying into the river. The body was never discovered, and Hyde has a 
 suspicion that his partner is still alive. Hyde goes to work for a door-to-door sales company, 
 but the boss (his Dad's good friend) uses Hyde as an investigator, unbeknown to most. His current 
 task takes him to Hotel Dusk, a rundown hotel where he must find two items for a client. All the 
 time Hyde is searching for his friend, but at Hotel Dusk, the people there aren't as they might 
 first seem.
  
  The game is played by holding the DS sideways, giving the feel that you are actually reading a 
 detective novel. On the touch screen you press and hold where you want to go on a detailed map, 
 and Hyde will start walking to that place. Meanwhile on the other screen, a first person view is 
 displayed of what Hyde would be seeing. If you want to interact with the environment or a person, 
 you simply press the corresponding button on the bottom of the touch screen and you will enter 
 that mode. In the look mode, you will be able to touch things and Hyde will describe the object, 
 or perhaps pick it up. In the talking mode, Hyde will be on the left of the screen and the other 
 person will be shown on the other screen - each of their speech will be displayed at the bottom 
 of their screen. 
  
  Throughout the game there will be puzzles to solve, such as tapping in a security code or giving 
 mouth to mouth to someone. All of these are completed using clever functions of the DS, such as 
 closing the DS shut or performing an action on the touch screen. These work really well, and it 
 is a good job that the game isn't overcrowded with them, because it's fun when you encounter one. 
 Typical adventure game puzzles also occur, such as having to use a certain object with something 
 else.
  
  The bulk of the game is taking up with talking to people and discovering the secrets that lie within 
 their hearts, of which there are many. There is a lot of extremely well written speech for all 
 of the characters, of which there are many different faces and personalities throughout the hotel 
 (Hyde himself is a brilliant character) , but some people may get tired of reading it all if they 
 aren't used to the genre. The plot slowly unwraps as you go along, and each character has their 
 own story to tell which will hopefully lead you to your final goal - finding Bradley. As you go 
 along in the game it will keep amazing you how clever and detailed the story is, and just how engrossing 
 it is. You really won't be able to put the game down, just because you want to know what's going 
 to happen next.
  
  The difficulty of the game gets progressively harder of the course of the game, but you won't find 
 yourself shouting at your DS to tell it what you have to do next. If you are wandering around for 
 ages not doing anything, Hyde will think something like "maybe I should go see Dunning" or "perhaps 
 I should visit room 217". There is a minor flaw in picking up objects, in that it sometimes won't 
 let you reach a certain chapter, although this probably helps keep the game challenging.
  
  One of the first things you'll notice when playing the game is the wonderful visual style. The 
 characters are all given a hand-drawn look without colour, and certain parts of the character look 
 like they're moving, even when the person is idle. The environments are in full, coloured 3D and 
 they themselves look nice, especially when you get close to an object. It's a weird mix, but it's 
 pulled off extremely well.
  
  There is no voice acting in the game, and this itself is a two sided argument. Having voice acting 
 probably wouldn't have been technically possible to fit on the DS cart, but even if it had it would 
 have taken away the imagination of making up your own voices for the characters. On the other hand, 
 due to the sheer amount of text, it may have helped move along the game for some people. The music 
 in the game fits well to that of a detective movie, with jazzy tunes which go perfectly to the 
 situation, such as a shift in mood in a conversation. The music can even be played back to you 
 later in the pub, which is a nice little feature.
  
  As with a lot of adventure games, the game is played once and then put on the shelf to collect 
 dust - not Hotel Dusk. The game has six alternative endings, each having their own special requirements 
 to be able to unlock, giving the game real replay value for people who want to know every minor 
 bit of the story. 
  
  If you're a fan of adventure games, detective and mystery novels or not, you'll still absolutely 
 love this game, unless you have a strong dislike for reading. Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is a stunning 
 game, bursting with clever characters and plot twists. Cing really have a winner on their hands 
 with this game, and a sequel would be welcomed with open arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow wow wow, this is one of the earliest games I play on my DS, and I found it quite thrilling. 
 Honest.
  Hotel Dusk has a room, number 215 nicknamed "Wish". Yes, every room (maybe the suite is an exception) 
 in Hotel Dusk, a small, brickstone hotel in the middle of an unknown sandlands, has a name. People 
 said that anybody ever stayed in the Wish room will wake founding his/her wish granted.
  You'll play as Kyle Hyde, an NY cop-turned to be-LA salesman. You represents the brand "Red Crown" 
 and your boss-besides the main sales business-has a side business, he finds and keeps things people 
 ordered. Once a day you was ordered to go to Hotel Dusk to retrieve some kind of suspicious package-yes, 
 this is Ed (your boss) 's side business stuff.
  When you first opened the front door with your stylus, your big adventure begin. Ironically, the 
 hotel is so small. I'd say it's more like a motel. But your adventure inside, well, you'll found 
 it quite preplexing in most occasions. But the fun is there. The owner of the hotel, Dunning Smith 
 handed you the key to room 215 when you checked in. This man hates cops, it's fortunate that you're 
 a salesman now. In the first time he tried to offer you the suite but the rate is just unsatisfactory. 
 So, coincidentally you ended up in room 215; the so-called Wish room.
  In Hotel Dusk, you'll hold your DS so it's like you're "playing" a novel. You'll have to take notes 
 for important things too, the notes aren't being taken themselves. You'll made extensive use of 
 stylus.
  There are other people staying in the hotel, and all of them have their own peculiar, enigmatic 
 stories, which (I don't know whether it's coincidental or not) links to each other.
  The graphics are classical but innovative, combines 3D animation and animated pencil-drawn pictures. 
 The sounds are good, yes the music and effects are synchronized well with the appropriate situation.
 
  Your main objective is two: retrieve your boss's package, and figure out what exactly is the involvement 
 of Bradley with all of this.
  gameplay: 9 graphics: 8 sound: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paslaugh
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are Kyle Hyde, and you've ended up at Hotel Dusk. What appears like an average night 
 at the hotel turns in to an wonderful dark mystery. This aspect of the game is definiely its strongest, 
 and is the best story I've seen in a video game on the DS this year, and maybe on any system this 
 year. I would caution gamers with shorter attention spans to shy away as reading large amounts 
 of text is an integral part of this game. Those gamers that are more patient will be rewarded with 
 an engrossing storyline with memorable, beliveable characters.
  
  Gameplay: This is your average point and click adventure game that reminded me of playing Myst 
 in my younger years. The difficulty of the puzzles is just right (I will admit to consulting a 
 walkthrough once or twice even) , and takes full advantage of the DS' touch screen capabilities. 
 Also your success is predicated on your ability to have conversations with the Hotel residents 
 and staff. If you dont pay attention, and steer a conversation in the wrong direction, you will 
 find yourself with a 'Game Over'.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is average. Some of the tunes are simply elevator music, and can 
 get really tiresome and annoying.
  
  Graphics: From an artistic standpoint the graphics are great. I loved how the 2D character animations 
 were these gritty comic book style sketches. This was very well done and well executed. From a 
 technical standpoint the graphics aren't so great especially when exploring Hotel Dusk, much of 
 the hotel's 3D enviorns are grainy and pixelated.
  
  Overall: This is an engrossing experience that you cant miss for the DS. Older gamers will definely 
 be able to appreciate such a great story on a portable system. Younger impatent gamers probably 
 should stay away, as this type of game may put them to sleep. With an excellent story matched with 
 solid innovative gameplay make sure you check into Hotel Dusk.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaClaw345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Reinventing a genre is no easy task, as most titles tend to take a specific garden variety of gameplay 
 and do nothing to further its overall development. This leaves us with a very sterile and very 
 dull era of gaming - nobody wants to raise the bar. Part of it is the fault of the developers. 
 They see a popular genre or setting (first person shooters and World War II, for example) and then 
 create a billion games about World War II that are told from the viewpoint of a soldier fighting 
 in a first person environment. That isn't to say that there aren't any good games in the genre, 
 but the fact of the matter is all we're really getting is more of the same, which is certainly 
 no plus in my book. The majority of fault, however, is due to the gamers and their lack and inability 
 to embrace change. It's almost as if gamers today want things to remain stagnant, as if they want 
 to shoot another Nazi stooge or take out some alien scum with a plasma rifle. As the cost of developing 
 a game increases, then, developers are less and less likely to take a chance on something new, 
 seeing that gamers are a fickle lot who seem to dwell on one genre alone. However, there are companies 
 that rise to the challenge and attempt to offer something new. Take Cing and their latest game 
 Hotel Dusk: Room 215. Not only are they reinventing a genre, they're breathing life into a species 
 of game that has been teetering on the brink of extinction for some time! Hotel Dusk: Room 215 
 is a model; a paradigm that serves as a sterling example of how to keep a genre fresh and gamers 
 everywhere should put down their shotguns, toss off those hookers they were about to maim and pick 
 this game up and give it a chance - it's that good.
  
  As Kyle Hyde, life hasn't been very good to you. In 1976, you were forced to take arms against 
 a man named Brian Bradley, gunning him down in the prime of his life. That man, once your partner 
 on the police force, was your friend and what you did, you did out of duty. Not being able to move 
 on with your life, you turn in your badge and gun, leaving the force behind after eight long years. 
 After a short while, you've take on a job with Red Crown as a salesman, going door-to-door in an 
 effort to placate middle aged housewives with household goods to make their lives easier, more 
 manageable. You feel as if something fishy is going on behind the curtain, but brush it off as 
 none of your business - you're simply there to sell, sell, sell. Still, there is something odd 
 about you. You feel as if your partner isn't dead, that someone, somewhere, might know something 
 about what really happened that night. Still, you have more important things to attend to. Ed, 
 your boss at Red Crown, needs you to head to a hotel and grab a package he's sent for you and you 
 head down the road in your busted ass station wagon until you see the sign - Hotel Dusk. Little 
 do you know of the mystery that awaits you in this interactive novel...
  
  The marked similarity to a book become blatantly obvious the moment you start the game, as you'll 
 find yourself forced to grasp the DS sideways - as if you were reading a paperback novel. From 
 a cinematic viewpoint, this perspective provides the gamer with an interesting view of the action, 
 allowing the story to be told on multiple screens, but with a stronger emphasis on panoramic visualization. 
 It provides interesting potential and offers some amazing and innovative ways with which to tell 
 a story, as you can use both screens as one large screen (albeit one divided screen) and then switch 
 to allow action to take place on each of the individual screens for dramatic flair and effect. 
 It's amazingly well thought out and works out in favor of the game, allowing for a very rich and 
 powerful story to unfurl itself in ways that really haven't been done before. It's almost like 
 a live action graphic novel, but one in which our interaction will dictate what occurs throughout 
 the story.
  
  On the topic of story, some people may find distaste for the copious amount of text and reading 
 necessary to truly enjoy the game, but those folks would be missing the point. Though some exchanges 
 can be chalked up to being pure fluff, almost all of the exposition within the game serves to keep 
 the story in continuous motion and thus is important when attempting to piece together the many 
 different subtleties that the title has to offer. It's not unlike a good book or critically acclaimed 
 graphic novel - the majority of the enjoyment comes from the written word, coupled with the overall 
 presentation. Sure, we're thrilled to pieces when we're allowed to become interlopers in the world 
 of Hotel Dusk, but the fact of the matter is that the slow, methodical pacing is clearly put in 
 place to allow us to truly take pleasure in the overall storyline, which is done almost completely 
 through the use of in-game text. If you aren't a reader and aren't interested in getting involved 
 in an interactive novel, this is clearly not going to be a title you'll enjoy - it is a game, most 
 certainly, but the amount of text likens it more to a good book first and foremost and in this 
 respect it clearly succeeds.
  
  While there is a clear emphasis on plotline and storytelling, there is an even stronger prominence 
 placed on the part of character development. More often than not, games such as these feature characters 
 whose role is one sided, perhaps being only a minor figure in the overall tale. Such is not the 
 case in Hotel Dusk, as characters within the game are multi-faceted and feature various layers 
 that you'll have to uncover as the story progresses. It's part of what makes the game so amazing, 
 but is also part of the reason that the game becomes so decidedly slow - confrontations with each 
 character can take many different angles and each angle can mean the difference between unlocking 
 part of the mystery or finding your ass tossed back on the street. It's not always clear what it 
 is you're supposed to discern from each and every conversation, but you're allowed to ask characters 
 certain questions, as well as press them for further information on a point they're currently making. 
 While in the midst of a deeply rooted conversation, you may find yourself confronted with a yellow, 
 triangular hand icon. By gently tapping this icon during the course of the dialogue, Kyle will 
 be able to follow up on what a character had just finished talking about. Conversations can take 
 many paths and this is one way in which Kyle can attempt to make sense of what is going on within 
 the hotel. These different paths can take Kyle down different roads, which helps to bring about 
 some manner of replay, so you'll want to try different forms of persuasion and questioning in order 
 to see where the conversation and characterizations take you. However, like I said before, some 
 characters may not feel comfortable with Kyle and may respond negatively, thereby ending the game. 
 It is only through trial and error, as well as careful examination of the characters and the different 
 ways in which they interact and talk to Kyle, that you'll be able to successfully glean crucial 
 information from the many different guests who inhabit the premises.
  
  The gameplay itself is somewhat unusual, though still follows the old point and click adventure 
 rule set. Using the touch screen, Kyle can be guided around using either the control pad (or the 
 buttons if you're left handed) or by dragging him from place to place using the stylus. In truth, 
 the stylus control is actually preferable in this case, but it's purely due to the fact that you're 
 holding the DS like a book. The opposite screen provides you with a three dimensional view of the 
 action and allows you to see what is going on in real time. As you walk around the room using the 
 stylus and touch screen, you'll be able to examine the different areas by simply looking at the 
 other screen and this layout is incredibly convenient and useful. At the bottom of the touch screen 
 are several icons, each one representing a different action that can be performed during the course 
 of Kyle's stay. If you find a door you'd like to try to open, for example, you can click on the 
 door icon, allowing you to directly interact with the door. As you move towards different areas, 
 such as a desk, for example, you might see a magnifying glass icon light up - this is your search 
 ability and is one of the most important abilities required in order to get through the game.
 
  
  Once you've entered search mode, you'll be able to freely interact with items you see on counters, 
 desk, etc. as well as pick up any possible items that may be lying around. Holding on to these 
 items is critical to success in the game, as you'll have to use them in order to make your way 
 through the game, ala any other type of adventure game. Thankfully, however, the puzzles in the 
 game tend to have a clearer focus and apply more to specific situations in which you might have 
 to ponder the situation for a while before the solution springs to life. You won't find any puzzles 
 that require any sort of ridiculous item association in order to progress - you'll simply need 
 to take each item into account and put two and two together. Sadly, some of the puzzles are sullied 
 by a little too much hand holding and obviousness, but for the most part, the game is littered 
 with puzzles that are interesting, creative and innovative.
  
  If you run into an area that you can't do anything with, but feel as if there is a clue lingering 
 in the background, you can always use your notebook to write down a memo. Call me crazy, but this 
 addition is one of the coolest features in the game, as it really makes you feel like you're part 
 of the adventure rather than simply playing a game. You can take up to three pages of handwritten 
 notes, so you might want to use them sparingly.
  
  Visually, the game is stunning, with a heavy neo noir feel to it. All of the characters and animations 
 are done through pencil sketches, which really drive home the graphic novel presentation (though 
 in some ways makes me think back to a-ha's 1985 video "Take on Me") . The different reactions, the 
 different story elements, all of the character portraits - the pencil sketch appearance truly makes 
 them all the more spectacular to watch and work with. The rest of the game, the in-game portions 
 of the graphics, are presented through the use of normal, 3D visuals and this works just fine and 
 is offset by the sketch style quite nicely. Artistically speaking, this is a sensational title 
 and really gives the reader/gamer something unusual to play through. It is a thing of beauty and 
 a game that you won't simply look at and cast away as a "been there, done that" sort of graphic 
 experience. While it may not sit well with some people, the overall presentation is splendid and 
 offers up an experience that is a singular and distinctive and its storyline. 
  
  As for the overall sound, well, there isn't much to be found within the game apart from some swanky 
 jazz tunes thrown in for overall background color. There is no voice acting in the game, which, 
 considering the text heavy conversations, comes as no real surprise. From a purely technical standpoint, 
 there is no way possible to fit that much recorded dialogue into on DS game, though if any game 
 could have benefited from it, it would have been Hotel Dusk. Still, reading is fundamental!
  
  Sadly, the lack of hype surrounding this title, as well as the somewhat lackluster release 
 of the game (I've seen it at a total of one store thus far) are more or less going to keep this 
 title from being anything more than a cult classic, which is a shame given the incredible art styling 
 and storytelling that Hotel Dusk: Room 215 offers up. As I said before, some people may be put 
 off by the sheer amount of reading involved in the game, but those people are sure to miss out 
 on what can only be described as one of this years first Game of The Year candidates. You've had 
 plenty of time to exercise that trigger finger, so take some time out of your life to play something 
 that trains those brain cells a bit! If you're a sucker for a great story and don't mind a slow 
 paced, puzzle filled adventure, Hotel Dusk has a room for you, so come on down, check in and get 
 yourself involved in the mystery of room 215! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  There are some games that just stand out, and you just know from the second you start playing that 
 you're in for something special. For that feeling to stay with you for the duration however is 
 a little rarer and I'm pleased to say Hotel Dusk succeeds in achieving this. I was up until 3:00 
 finishing it, just like a good game should.
  
  Hotel Dusk is a point 'n' click adventure but not quite as you or I are accustom to. Its clear 
 were the developer Cing's previous DS title [I] Another Code [/I] has helped shape Hotel Dusk, but 
 in a positive way. Another Code was also an adventure title with a mature storyline, strong visual 
 styling and interesting logical puzzles which used the full potential of the DS control system. 
 However, only the basic building blocks have remained, everything else has had a massive overhaul. 
 
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215, is set in the early 70's and has a strong film noir theme both in its visual 
 style and story. You play Kyle Hyde a disgraced NYPD detective who has ended up in a back water 
 joint called Hotel Dusk searching for his ex-police partner which he thought he killed several 
 years back. Ominous, dark and gritty describe the opening well, with beautiful black and white 
 animated drawings setting the scene perfectly. This is most definitely an interactive film noir 
 story, an interactive graphic novel if you will.
  
  Hotel Dusk focuses largely on character development as well as puzzle solving, you won't find any 
 action here I am afraid. Luckily both aspects of the gameplay are smoothly done and add massively 
 to the story telling.
  You'll do a lot of talking (reading text) in the game and thankfully it's well written, witty and 
 largely spot on. It does get a bit long winded at times but all in all, clicking the continue button 
 doesn't get too dull. The visuals support the text greatly by bringing the characters to life mainly 
 because of the style, which is largely animated rather than static. When you interact with a character, 
 the drawing shimmers between several hand drawn sketches of the same pose as well as say the colours 
 in their hair. It might sound like it would be really annoying but it actually makes the characters 
 much more real. Changes from one pose to another are done fluidly and do a great job of expressing 
 the mood and emotion. Admittedly if you are not into reading lots of text in your gaming then this 
 will be boring as hell, and will render it unplayable. You'll be missing out though, the tales 
 you must coax from the inhabitants of the Hotel are truly well written and once you start pulling 
 at the strings and unravelling the story, it's hard to stop. 
  
  Questions to start conversations have a tier system, white, yellow and red ranging from causal 
 to very personal respectively. As Kyle hears things of interest he'll make a mental note which 
 appears on the screen next to his head. Most questions can only be asked to specific characters 
 but some are universal. Generally the conversations only need input from you once or twice, with 
 only a binary choice. However, you must be on the ball and reading the character, both in text 
 and also literally. You need to understand the people and their situation and use this information 
 to manipulate them into spilling their guts. 
  
  Misunderstanding a character will end in failure or possibly even game over. This sounds overly 
 harsh but this is what the game is about, understanding the characters and learning how to push 
 their buttons. You are given plenty of time to get to know them before these important interrogations 
 occur, and if you do mess up, it will just put you back to the beginning of that time. The game 
 actually runs at a sort of real-time speed, the whole game happens in one evening from 17:00 to 
 3:00. I think I took about 8hrs to finish but clearly a replay would be faster. There would be 
 a point to a replay as well as there are secrets hidden in the Hotel which can be unlocked after 
 finishing the game and multiple endings depending on how you play the game. I've only seen one 
 so far, but apparently a lot of your decisions effect the outcome. It is all pretty linear however, 
 and some of the teleporting character placement is a bit odd at times. Also, the scripting is extremely 
 tight, and thus, missing a vital clue can have you wandering the hotel like a junkie, frantically 
 searching for the next plot trigger before you throw your damn DS out the window. Thankfully, this 
 doesn't happen too often and as long as your logical thinking cap it on, you'll be fine. 
  
  Like the "Test Your Brain" game, you play Hotel Dusk in portrait mode, holding the DS like 
 a book (you can choose left or right handed modes) which clearly adds to the feeling of "playing 
 a book". The whole game is controlled with the touch screen, there are no need for the buttons. 
 While exploring the Hotel, you have a map displayed on the touchscreen, a red circle with an arrow 
 represents you. Touching in a direction moves you in that direction and actions are carried out 
 using the menu at the bottom of the screen. This sounds awfully primitive but on the top screen 
 you have a 1st person fully rendered perspective which correlates to the map. It's a great system 
 as it allows you to search rooms effectively by using the no nonsense map in combination with the 
 more detailed 1st person view, plus it looks great! The rendering is very good considering the 
 DS system and really gives you a sense of being there. When you find an area that you can search, 
 you can switch the 1st person view to the touch screen so you can explore it with the stylus. The 
 view is limited by a slider but it never feels too restrictive. Kyle takes up the other screen 
 and hands out his gruff smart ass comments as you search the area.
  
  Puzzles are normally introduced during this mode and can require you to do various things. The 
 thing is, it's never really a puzzle (with the exception of some actual puzzles like a jigsaw) , 
 but more a like a task or job. For example you might need to bend a paperclip out so you can pick 
 a lock with it, or wind some tape back into a cassette with a pencil. Most can be solved by using 
 the touch screen, but others require you to be more resourceful with the DS. Compared with other 
 adventure games all of the puzzles are very logical, you won't ever be sitting with your inventory 
 thinking, "what the hell do I combine to solve this?" and you certainly won't find any "Use monkey 
 with water pump" type puzzles either. You might think this a shame, but it all fits in with the 
 mature, more serious nature of the game, rubber chickens on zip lines would have been a bit out 
 of place.
  
  Compared to [I] Another Code [/I] however, I did find them a little easy, but I guess if I'd not 
 played it some of the puzzles would have been trickier. There is a nice feature that Hotel Dusk 
 has which I haven't mentioned yet, the notebook. The game doesn't note everything down for you, 
 so you have to keep track of some things in your book. This is essentially a basic drawing package 
 that looks like a note book, but it's pretty cool and actually useful. You'll also have to use 
 it to communicate with one of the characters, but only they write in it, having conversations would 
 be nuts if not impossible for a wee DS!
  
  Sound is also well presented in the game even though it's mostly the sound of the interface and 
 ordinary sounds such as footsteps, doors closing etc. The music is used more however, and the collection 
 of vibes is good and fit the mood of the game well. Each character has a particular theme to fit 
 in with their personality, ranging from blues and country to funky and more jazzy numbers. You 
 can actually listen to tracks on the Jukebox in the bar as you came across each track, which I 
 rather liked as some of them are quite addictive.
  
  Hotel Dusk is a great adventure game with a strong story, interesting fleshed out characters and 
 inventive logical puzzles. I was a little disappointed that the puzzles were not that difficult 
 but if you take the realistic nature of the game into account, logical puzzles do make sense. The 
 real puzzle after all is the mystery itself and it's a cracker. Presentation is top notch, both 
 the 2D and 3D parts look great and I just loved the graphic novel style of the game, it's just 
 beautiful to look at. Stills don't really do it justice. If you are a fan of point and click adventures 
 and fancy getting your teeth into something a little different I highly recommend Hotel Dusk and 
 I'll be looking forward to their next title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawnClover
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is one of those games you will not want to put down until everything has been solved.
 
  
  If you like misteries and crime stories you've come to the right place.
  
  This was the first game I got for the DS and man what a game, it will remain in my memory for a 
 long long time.
  
  01 - STORY ||
  As usual in this kind of games, the story is the main feature and this one delivers one hell of 
 a ride! Twists will come from nowhere and you will be sometimes left with an open mouth thinking 
 "How did they think of that... Why didn't I think of that?". Here's a little summary: Kyle Hyde 
 is an ex-cop now alcoholic salesman. For his newest job he was sent to Hotel Dusk to gather a weird 
 list of items for the purpose of selling them. 3 years before this, Kyle Hyde, still in NYPD was 
 working on a case with his best-friend Bradley and strangely enough he gets a call that sends him 
 off to chase Bradley, his ex-partner. But something does not smell right on Hotel Dusk, and if 
 it's not the owner, I don't know what it is (what? He looks like he needs some 3 or 4 baths! xD) 
 But yeah, joking apart, something is fishy about Hotel Dusk and the shady characters that are spending 
 the night in there. And it's up to Kyle to figure it all out. I mean, you. || 10/10
  
  02 - GAMEPLAY ||
  You hold the Nintendo DS as if you were holding an open book in your palm (the 
 NDS tilted left) and when you gain control of Kyle you'll have 2 different screens: on the left 
 you will see the whole Hotel in 3D, and on the right touch screen you will see a map of it with 
 Kyle and all the other characters as dots. You control Kyle through this second screen with the 
 stylus dragging him around. You can then check different scenes in different zones of the map. 
 After opening the scene you can investigate it or talk with a character (if he/she is present in 
 the scene) or get some clues/items, etc. Gameplay is very solid and entertaining. It works surprisingly 
 well. Also, puzzles using the NDS's unique features are a huge PRO, get your stylus ready! It also 
 uses some microphone too. || 9/10
  
  03 - SOUND ||
  You'll get some of the tunes burnt into your skull and you'll find yourself wandering around in 
 space (you know, those dull moments) and suddently one of them pops into your mind! It's really 
 good and it fits the environments really well building it up for an even better experience. Sound 
 effects may not be many but they are very very good and realistic (I like knocking on doors lol) . 
 || 9/10
  
  04 - GRAPHICS ||
  As I said on the GAMEPLAY section this game mixes 2D and 3D into one. Left screen shows you a 3D 
 environment, and the right touch screen shows you a 2D map-kind-of-thing where you control Kyle. 
 All the characters are animated like they were sketches in an old note book (it's so freaking amazing 
 art!) and so are the cutscenes in general (there are 2 or 3 that are in 3D though) . A beauty to 
 look at. || 9/10
  
  05 - LENGTH ||
  This is a very long game, and though it took me 7 hours to finish it in game time, it took me 10 
 or 15+ hours to end it because I had to load it lots of times when I went game over. And there 
 will be frustrating parts where you will be running around the Hotel not knowing what to do, but 
 it won't take you long to find out, it's not that big of an Hotel. Big enough though. || 9/10 
 
  
  06 - REPLAY? ||
  Yeah, you'll want to replay this, for the characters themselves, they are SO involving, they are 
 truly well made and written. Though there aren't many secrets left to see on a second play through 
 (there are some) so it depends on your love for the game. || 7/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.5
  
  Excelent adventure for the DS, good replacement for a book too! :P One of my NDS all-time favorites. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  When hotel dusk was first released i dint pay much attention to it, 6 months later i got the game 
 and now i have finished it, i wish i had got when it came out.
  
  The story in the game is fantastic and really sucks you in, with numerous discoveries and plot 
 twists throughout. the characters are equally as good, each with their own little secrets, that 
 unfold as you play through the game
  
  The visuals are excellent as you see everything in hand drawn, black and white noir style on one 
 side of the screen and from the point of view of the player on the other screen.
  
  This is easily one of the best DS games available and I would strongly recommend it. buy it, play 
 it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avaloch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Basically speaking, this is the first DS game I have played that involves a book-like positioning 
 of the DS. This idea is really novel and interesting and it piqued my interest as soon as the game 
 started, asking about which is my master hand (I'm left-handed you see) .
  
  The well drawn and animated characters gave the game the overall feel that was appropriate for 
 the time-frame the story took place in. The sketchy feeling the artists gave to the characters 
 furthermore enhanced the game experience.
  
  The puzzles were relatively solvable with the occasional puzzles which required one to pay more 
 attention to. The innovative use of the stylus and DS screens wowed me and kept my attention on 
 the game.
  Another interesting point about the game is the presence of a notebook which Kyle has. It gives 
 the player the ability to note down anything that he/she deems of importance, giving some freedom 
 to the player.
  
  Most worth mentioning about Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is the storyline. While the whole story takes 
 place in just one night, the events in which the story unfolds through will certainly surprise 
 most players, giving many twists and turns to the story as Kyle uncovers more secrets.
  
  While the game has a replayable function, allowing one to restart the whole night's worth of events 
 after the first completion, I think that the replayability value of the game is pretty low.
  
  To sum it all up, I feel that it is worth owning this game for the sheer fact that its storyline 
 is really wonderful. Apart from the storyline, the puzzles also serve to enhance gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  The adventure genre's been looking for a new home for years now, and it seems like the DS is it. 
 After Phoenix Wright became the cult favorite it is today, Hotel Dusk hopes to make a fine new 
 addition to the DS's growing adventure library. It's a fine addition alright. The strong story 
 is backed by great characters and it follows the traditional adventure template through and through. 
 If you love adventure games, you'll be all over this.
  
  The game starts with an eye-popping cutscene that sets the mood for the rest of the game. You're 
 Kyle Hyde -- an ex-cop who couldn't go on after his partner betrayed him -- and he now finds work 
 as a door-to-door salesman for a not-so-black-and-white company called Red Crown. You're ordered 
 to do a job at a place called Hotel Dusk. Here, you'll guide Kyle through puzzles, characters and 
 hopefully the truth to your friend's betrayal. It's an extremely compelling read throughout, the 
 character are three-dimensional and the writing is razor sharp. Every single character is likable 
 and not likable for all the right reasons. These characters feel real, and it's easy to feel sympathetic 
 or pissed at their character revelations.
  
  The game also does everything in its power to keep you on track by making you take quizzes at the 
 end of each chapter when Kyle reorganizes his thoughts. Excellent chapter summaries also keep you 
 on the road if you happen to take a long break. The only knock is how some of the revelations are 
 extremely obvious hours before they happen, making some of the conversations frustrating. Other 
 than that little knock, the story pushes along at a steady, deliberate pace as you slowly uncover 
 the hotel's secrets and the answer Kyle's been looking for all these years. Hotel Dusk is all about 
 the story, so you're either going to take it or leave it at this point.
  
  The game also has you hold the DS sideways, reinforcing the notion that you're interacting with 
 an excellent mystery novel. The game spans an entire day, and each chapter's divided up into 1 
 or 2 hours. Time doesn't fly by in real-time, though. When you solve a puzzle, find something of 
 importance, etc. time will move on. You move Kyle by tapping on the touchscreen (which is also 
 a map) and Kyle will move to where you're pointing. The left screen shows the actual 3-D world 
 that Kyle sees. It's effective, simple and basically acts as a more free-form version of the point-and-click. 
 Points of interest can be further scrutinized by tapping on the magnifying glass icon, giving you 
 a cleaner view of what you want to check out. Puzzles are fairly logical and most of them will 
 pose little challenge, with a handful of them forcing you to put some thought.
  
  Character interactions too are fairly simple until you start shaking the truth out of them. If 
 you happen to choose the wrong answer, the game will promptly slap a Game Over at your face, forcing 
 you to either load up a previous save or retry at a checkpoint. Overall, Hotel Dusk is an adventure 
 game in every sense of the word, for better and for worse. It follows adventure game conventions 
 step-by-step, so some of the event triggers are extremely obscure and stupid, leaving you hopelessly 
 lost. An in-game notebook that you can write on helps you keep tabs on everything, but sometimes 
 wandering around the halls proves to be the best solution.
  
  Visually, it's totally something else. While the 3-D levels that you navigate are the standard, 
 pixel-laden levels that have become commonplace on the DS, most of your time is spent talking. 
 And here is when the game takes off, visually. The characters in the game look like rough sketches, 
 with sketch shadows constantly jumping up and down. The effect is the illusion that the characters 
 are constantly moving, making them even more appealing than they should be. Their animations are 
 also handled incredibly well, it's quite striking to see even a simple nod or wave goodbye. It 
 looks like something out of a classic noir tale, so it suits the game perfectly. The audio attempts 
 to strike up some jazzy pieces to accentuate the mood, but the for the most part, the music sounds 
 like something when an operator puts you on hold. A couple of pieces feel genuinely classy and 
 rich, but for the most part, the audio never elevates past competent. The game could've benefited 
 from some voice acting, but alas, there is none. A couple tiny snippets would've been nice, but 
 oh well.
  
  Hotel Dusk is an adventure game that does everything an adventure game sets out to do -- tell a 
 compelling story with great characters -- and Hotel Dusk does it with style. The game should last 
 anywhere between 10-20 hours, depending on how attentive you are during conversations. You can 
 also save over a complete game, which will grant you worthwhile extra scenes on the game's ending. 
 Hotel Dusk does little to advance the adventure genre, bringing the same strengths and weaknesses 
 that have followed this genre to a near death, but it's still a great game nonetheless. If you've 
 been itching for a great adventure game, definitely pick this up without hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is a highly addictive game and is sort of like Trace Memory in a way. Kyle Hyde a salesman 
 was a police officer a few years back until his partner got involved in something. After the situation 
 ended, Kyle was fired. Now the end of 1979 (almost 28 years ago in reality, and 2007 will fall 
 on the same date/day that game mainly takes place) , Kyle is about to check into a rundown hotel 
 and do an assignment for his boss.
  
  But a very long and revealing night is about to take place (I hope you packed your bags (don't 
 worry though about a beach towel, this hotel doesn't have a swimming pool) ) . It all starts when 
 Kyle feels some sort of premonition relating to the event that happened a few years ago. And then 
 the desk clerk mentions Kyle's name sounds familiar, and then Kyle realizes and old friend of his 
 works at the hotel. Soon everyone in the hotel is linked one way or another to the events that 
 will unfold and/or took place awhile ago. Although the game is heavily based on text, it has decent 
 puzzles, mini-events, and very cool graphics. The sound isn't even that bad. The conversations 
 and storyline for the most part are quite interesting.
  
  The only drawback is that, a lot of game overs occur after a heavy area of text, so going back 
 and attempting again is like 20 minutes, and might get another game over if your not careful. Certain 
 mini-events too (like using the snack machine and lobby TV) have to be triggered just at the right 
 time.
  
  But overall, this game was definately worth the wait (and I was really getting antsy, even looking 
 at the date on the watch every day until it was released) , and really is a must if you like RPG 
 and games with good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk sees a return to a form of gaming familiar with people who grew up when PCs were first 
 hitting store shelves: the text-based let's solve puzzles with seemingly random items adventure. 
 By updating it with very simple graphics and the ability to use a stylus to control everything, 
 a winning formula's been created that should be fun for all.
  
  As protagonist Kyle Hyde, you've had a tough life. As an ex-NYPD whose partner, Bradley, turned 
 bad, you're now a travelling salesman for a two-bit operation that handles minor detective work 
 and specialty item locating on the side. Arriving at Hotel Dusk on a mission, you're immediately 
 stunned to learned that someone using your name stayed there six months ago. Thinking this might 
 be the work of Bradley, you set out to find the truth, engaging all the workers and guests in conversations, 
 even running into an old street-wise punk you know from NYC. Following an engrossing story, you'll 
 soon discover that nearly everyone in the hotel is somehow linked to someone else, even if they 
 don't know it. From the pompous mystery writer to the snobby actress to the hardworking maid, everyone's 
 got some involvement: a clue to offer; a task for you to do; a story to tell. Using just the stylus 
 you'll move, grab items, solve puzzles, pick conversation choices, and knock on doors. Eventually 
 you'll be lead to the truth, and whether or not Bradley has any involvement in all this... you'll 
 just have to play to find out!
  
  The people you meet and how they're represented are very impressive. Even though they're merely 
 sets of 2D black-and-white pencil drawings, their facial expressions and body language, combined 
 with smart dialogue that never strays from character, do a better job of letting you see their 
 personalities than many games with FMV and Hollywood voice work, and in a detective game, that's 
 everything. Whether you find the fact that so many people in one hotel on one night could be interconnected 
 so much is eerie or laughably outrageous, one thing's clear: a lot of time was spent on the story 
 &amp; fleshing everything out, and you won't be able to help being entranced by it all. The control 
 scheme is solid, as tapping with the stylus to knock on a door feels very natural, as does using 
 it to pound a hammer through a wall or wipe away flakings on a picture. Extra-helpful is having 
 a few memo pages where you can scribble appointments and clues to help you on your way.
  
  Like some other games of this variety, one gripe is seeing items you know you'll need, but not 
 being allowed to grab them until you've found something that requires its use. This leads to a 
 lot of agitating backtracking. Some plot twists your character won't figure out until long after 
 you've done so yourself, and there's a lot of areas where you know there's a puzzle for you, but 
 it only 'magically' becomes available when you need it to advance the plot. The text dialogue is 
 somewhat slow to advance, and protracted plot-advancing conversations will make your hand cramp. 
 There's also some occasional repetition of dialogue within conversations. Death in the game is 
 rarely from actually dying, but usually from a character clamming up on you because you've made 
 too many bad choices in a conversation. It strikes quickly and without a lot of warning, which 
 can be frustrating.
  
  While the stylus is very comfortable and natural to use, the concept of holding the DS like a book 
 sometimes misfires, leading to further hand cramps. Some puzzles also make you carry out the same 
 repetitive task longer than is necessary (or comfortable) . Most zoom-in graphics are VGA-era quality 
 (not bad for a handheld) and the fact that character drawings are actually two or three nearly 
 exact drawings that swap rapidly give everyone that subtle hint of action that lets you believe 
 they're real. The music is competent, though a bit cheesy, and the sound effects are all well done. 
 While you should hit 15-20 hours (depending on how much time you spend searching every tiny nook 
 for clues) , there's very little replay value. By providing a fun, deep story to live out, Hotel 
 Dusk proves that with new technology, there's a lot of value to updating otherwise passe gaming 
 genres and letting them find new fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioFGC
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about the story. Theres this guy who was a cop but shoots his partner. He becomes 
 a door to door salesman who for some reason comes into hotel dusk. There the owner tells him a 
 guy with the same name was there six months before. Sounds odd but I promise everything will make 
 sense in the end. You will mostly scroll trough text and you will move your character with the 
 stylus. Not the best that theres our there but works just fine. Not everything is perfect and 
 there are times when you need to stop playing and take a rest. Sometimes its very similar to reading 
 a book.
  
  In the end if you like good stories, dont need a lot action and dont mind to read trough a lot 
 of text you will enjoy this game a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLhahaDEAD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  You are Kyle Hyde, 33 years old. Former cop turned door-to-door salesman, youre in search of your 
 friend Brian Bradley. Three years ago, he turned on you while you were both on the force and gave 
 special information to the other side. He hasnt been seen since. Your jobs leads you to a run 
 down joint called Hotel Dusk, where Room 215 has a mysterious past, as do all the guests. Will 
 you find your friend, or will you turn up with absolutely no lead?
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is, at its core, a point and click adventure game. As Kyle Hyde, you explore 
 the hotel and learn of the mysteries it and its guests hold. There are a few quirks that make this 
 title shine, while it also has certain drawbacks.
  
  One of the many interesting features of this game is the way its played. For one, you hold the 
 DS sideways, like a book or a journal. On the top screen, you see a 3D view of your surroundings, 
 while on the touch screen theres a map of the hotel with an arrow on it. The arrow represents 
 Kyle and the direction hes facing. You press the area on the touch screen that youd like to go 
 to and Kyle will move there. If you hold it, hell continue to walk in that direction. If you change 
 the direction of the stylus, Kyle will do the same. It feels a bit awkward at first, but it becomes 
 comfortable within 15-20 minutes.
  
  As you walk around Hotel Dusk, youll encounter a number of people to interact with. If theyre 
 essential to your goal at the time, then youll be drawn into a conversation with them. If not, 
 then theyll just say a sentence or two and get on with their lives. Youll also run into many 
 puzzles and interactive objects throughout your stay. The puzzles are good, for the most part. 
 There arent many of them throughout the game, and when you finish one they usually dont feel 
 all that satisfying. Many of them are quite fun, though and require you to think deeply and inventively. 
 Youll be surprised at how many things youll have to do with your DS that you wouldnt think would 
 be essential to the game play, but turn out to fit perfectly once you figure it out.
  
  Youll also get a memo pad in your inventory that you carry around with you. You can scribble in 
 it and take notes on things you might think will be important in the future. Along with the memo 
 pad, youll collect other varied items that are essential to the plot and the puzzles.
  
  The main game play aspect is in the dialogue between you and the other characters. There is a massive 
 amount of text in this game, more than most 30-hour RPGs. This may turn people away, but it is 
 actually the strong point of the game. The boss battles of this game come in the form of intense 
 conversation between Kyle and the character that is mainly involved with that part of the story. 
 As you progress through the dialogue, youll be required to ask and answer questions by choosing 
 from selections on the touch screen. Say the wrong thing, and its game over; choose correctly, 
 and youll advance.
  
  The story and the characters are, quite honestly, phenomenally written. The plot is deep and involving, 
 and the believable characters support it wonderfully. Youll most likely want to keep reading just 
 to find out the smallest details about something. Overall, the story is intriguing and suspenseful 
 and, depending on what ending you get, youll have a very satisfied feeling. Chances are, youll 
 probably play it again to see what you can do differently. Adding to the replay value are a couple 
 side quests that let you get a few extra items and cut scenes.
  
  The art direction of Hotel Dusk is amazing. The environments are in 3D, with full color, while 
 all the characters are in black and white and appear to be sketched in pencil. This adds a nice 
 contrast to the game and really helps add to the detective-like feel.
  
  The sound is good overall. There arent that many tracks in the game, but whats there really fits 
 with the feel of the environment and just the game in general. Whenever you solve a puzzle, theres 
 a nice jingle that chimes briefly, which may or may not remind you of The Legend of Zelda.
  
  Although the game may take you up to 20 hours, itll probably turn out longer because of having 
 to start again after a game over screen, which is pretty lengthy for a handheld point-and-click 
 game. If youre a fan of puzzle solving, an amazing story, or deep characters, then youll probably 
 be pleased with Hotel Dusk: Room 215. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Kyle hide ex- cop on the lookout for a partner who betrayed him. Not exactly groundbreaking but 
 hey! Hotel Dusk is a bit of an oddball in the gaming world. Very engaging but a little slow Hotel 
 Dusk is NOT i reapeat NOT one for the action lover. With logical puzzles and a lengthy gamespan 
 Hotel Dusk give a good lot for its buck. The standout features include a brilliantly written script 
 which enchances the games many charicters and therefore makes the player become more emotionaly 
 involved. Also the brilliant artwork in the really gives life to the charicters. Some clever uses 
 of the DS also come into play.
  On the downside, the game can become a little heavy because of all the scrolls of text to go through. 
 And trying to figure out what do next is a little laborious. Also the game is almost completly 
 linear and offers no different paths in gameplay. Also the music does tend to be a little substandard 
 compared to the graphical quality of the game.
  
  However if a modren day shelock holmes type game floats your boat get it now. And if you are not 
 much of a fan of acion you might find it engaging. Very original but lacking in a few areas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Think of this game as an interactive novel. Because, that is basically what it is. You control 
 Kyle Hyde, an ex-cop from New York. He lost a friend named Bradley in an unexpected turn of events. 
 But that was several years ago. Flash to the present -- Kyle is now a door-to-door salesman. He is 
 on his way to a little hotel called Hotel Dusk. Room 215 of Hotel Dusk is said to grant wishes. 
 So, when Kyle stays a night in Room 215, what will happen? It's up to you to find out.
  You play at hourly intervals (in ingame time) . The game is filled with puzzles, and many innovative 
 uses for the touch screen. For example, at one point you have to do CPR on a fainted girl. Most 
 of the puzzles were pretty hard, but not SUPER challenging. You also have to have one on one discussions 
 with people, when you uncover their secrets. Answer wrong, and you have to start over.
  The characters are memorable. From Mila, a mute girl, to the bellhop, they're all great. And it's 
 your job to find out what they're hiding, and what they have to do with Bradley (or if they do 
 at all) . There are several endings to unlock, so if you have enough time (and patience) , I urge 
 you to unlock all of them.
  Filled with unexpected plot twists and turns, I guarantee you that Hotel Dusk: Room 215 will keep 
 your undivided attention until you finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgab
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Interative mystery that keeps you playing. While you feel compelled to complete the game, the mystery... 
 you will keep thinking to yourself, will this yawnfest ever end?! 
  Kyle Hyde, an ex NY detective, now door to door salesman, arrives at a run-down place called Hotel 
 Dusk. Once there, Kyle soon becomes involved in a 30-year-old mystery that involves lies, betrayal, 
 kidnapping, and murder. Unique dual screen gameplay makes the mystery all the more engaging. You 
 get to hold your DS like a mystery book while using the touch screen to interact with the other 
 characters, and search for clues. With that all said... the conversations with the other characters 
 drag on and on and on. Unfortunately there is NO scroll through to skip or at leasty speed up the 
 conversations, you have to longly wait through them.
  And finally, there is no replay value. Only thing that changes is the passwords for some areas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning artistic graphical presentation; fantastic script; excellent story filled with 
 suspense and intrigue; puzzles use the DS interface well; great length; characters are interesting 
 and deep.
  
  The Bad: Often difficult to figure out where to go; some puzzles are too tricky for their own good; 
 music can get irritating at times; more of an interactive novel than a game (which will turn many 
 people off)
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is a unique title for the Nintendo DS that casts you as Kyle Hyde, an ex-cop 
 who works as a traveling salesman. The story starts when Kyle is instructed to go to a place called 
 Hotel Dusk to pick up a package for his job. He decides to stay the night, unaware of how long 
 the night ahead of him is.
  
  Kyle discovers right off the bat that things are a little strange at Hotel Dusk. First off, the 
 concierge of the hotel recognizes his name because, apparently, somebody checked in several months 
 before under the same name. Kyle is searching for his former police partner, Bradley, and he decides 
 that the place has some connection to his friend.
  
  The kind of crazy twists and turns the story takes are what makes Hotel Dusk such a rich and rewarding 
 experience. It's told with an excellent noir flair and great scripting, which only helps to enrich 
 the experience. By the end, you'll really feel a connection with each and every one of the characters, 
 from the goofy bartender Louie to the troubled father and his daughter. There's so many great plotlines, 
 and they all come together in authentically neat ways.
  
  The way Hotel Dusk's gameplay works is the source of its biggest flaws. It's one of those games 
 where you'll deal with the annoying gameplay just to get to the meat of the story and find out 
 what happens next. For the most part, it's alright to just navigate around and do the occasional 
 puzzle, but oftentimes these puzzles and wild goose chases are too much, and the gameplay starts 
 to drag. There's nothing worse than getting stuck on a near-impossible puzzle just when you are 
 at a key plot point in the game.
  
  Flaws aside, Hotel Dusk is a great game that any DS owner with an interest in excellent fiction 
 should check out. It may have worked better as a digital graphic novel or something similar, but 
 what it is is an excellent piece of work that is easy to appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radik782
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is the latest game from Cing, following closely in the successes of its predecessor, 
 improving them in almost every aspect. If you enjoyed Trace Memory theres little reason you shouldn't 
 fall in love with Hotel Dusk.
  
  Hotel dusk is difficult to put forward as a game and bares resemblance to that of a graphic novel. 
 There is no action or fighting, rather the game play places you in control of Kyle Hyde a worn 
 out ex detective, turned salesman.
  Using the touch screen you move Hyde around the hotel, inspecting anything and everything while 
 interacting with the other characters you meet in the hotel.
  
  The personalities of these characters is one of Hotel Dusk's strongest points, with well written 
 dialogs and imaginative characters you gain a real emotional connection with them, rather it be 
 anger, pity or happiness , Cing has done a brilliant success in bringing these characters to life 
 in a way which draws you in and makes you truly *want* to find out their secrets, and there is 
 no shortage of secrets to uncover in Hotel Dusk...
  
  The storyline may be a little slow for some people and it is very linear, even with free-will to 
 explore the hotel nothing is really going on unless its where you have to be anyway to progress 
 the story. This game should last you a little over 10 hours, although it took myself 16 hours to 
 complete. Everyone has a secret, and a story and its your job to worm the answers out of these 
 people, everything ties together and the missing piece to the puzzle is always out there pushing 
 you forward. There are a number of puzzles in this game which make good use of the DS touch screen, 
 in ways which help immersion, whether its using a door knob, or turning a key or writing in your 
 notebook and interacting with the environment. Although any such puzzles are not very difficult, 
 the kind where if you get stuck its because the answer is so simple you cant help but slap yourself 
 when you figure it out. The DS itself can also be used in imaginative ways to solve many puzzles...
 
  Regardless there is a good mix of these puzzles which help provide a freshing break from other 
 aspects of the game.
  
  Being so linear there is little replayability in Hotel Dusk, although it is not without such an 
 option. Playing through the game again but offering different responses to the hotels inhabitants 
 can easily pass the game through a second playtime, as well as the extra ending for doing so, although 
 this may not be for everyone as the puzzles remain the same and the storyline remains the same 
 overall.
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is just a hugely rewarding game with a great feeling of achievement with every 
 solved secret and story and while it lasts the mystery will draw you in again and again. Just know 
 what you are getting yourself in for, watch some videos of the game and if this is the kind of 
 game for you, you will absolutely love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Every review uses this comparison, but it can't be stressed enough that playing this game truly 
 feels like immersing yourself in a more involved detective novel. The story is very well written 
 and full of twists and turns, just like you would expect from a bestselling crime novel. Most of 
 the characters are surprisingly deep and likeable, particularly the protagonist. The game progresses 
 in chapters, each leaving you with a sort of cliffhanger conclusion making it extremely difficult 
 to put down. Before purchasing Hotel Dusk, you may want to keep in mind the fact that the game 
 is extremely text heavy, with emphasis on the word extremely . When I play a game I almost always 
 look first and foremost for a deep and engaging story, which this one has, but even I got a little 
 tired of all the reading in this game. The good news is that most of the text-heavy segments are 
 interactive, meaning you are directly involved in the outcome of the conversations. It basically 
 comes down to the fact that I felt very involved, and the game really sucked me into its world 
 and gave me a greater appreciation for all of the character development and plot points.
  
  What is so freaking cool about this game is the way that it incorporates touch-screen gameplay. 
 So many DS games out there that are centered around the touch screen seem flawed or gimicky in 
 some way, but Hotel Dusk gets it right by keeping everything varied and thought-provoking. Many 
 of the actions that your character must make are acted out on the touch screen, such as using a 
 crowbar to lift a cabinet, solving match-stick puzzles and various detective actions. It also goes 
 back to the depth of the story line, since you will need to stay keen on everything that has happened 
 in the game in order to remember where you should go and what you should do. You really feel like 
 a detective, and that your choices are important and have a direct effect on your progression through 
 the game.
  
  If you've read other reviews for Hotel Dusk, you have undoubtedly been told that the unique visual 
 style is very cool and atmospheric, and this is the absolute truth. The backgrounds are all 3-dimensional 
 and realistic (for a DS game, at least) , but the character models look like they were scribbled 
 in with pencil. It sounds primitive, but it fits the style of the game very well and adds to the 
 mystique. In fact, I think it would have been a huge mistake had the developers made the character 
 models in the same style as the background, since it would have detracted greatly from the game's 
 originality and appeal. The music is also well done. It stays fairly subtle throughout, but kicks 
 up a bit in big situations, such as during a high pressure interrogation. In every facet of the 
 game, Hotel Dusk excels and creates an overall experience that is my favorite game for the DS so 
 far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tresselrules
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Having never been a huge fan of the lately craptacular adventure games, I was a little wary at 
 picking up Hotel Dusk. The game starts out rather slow, with no real sense of direction. At first 
 I aimlessly wandered around picking up anything item in the hotel and speaking with anyone who 
 would talk. When nothing was left I tried every door handle, finally I started to figure the game 
 out. After those first 15 minutes of frustration I was hooked and couldn't put the game down for 
 the next 2 weeks. Overall this turned out to be a great game for the DS and I hope that there's 
 more to come as well. I know that some of the newer gen gamers don't enjoy these types of games 
 but for an old-schooler, I like it a lot.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBlade753
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk follows Kyle Hyde on his journey to find his ex-partner Bradley to finish some buisness. 
 This leads him to Hotel Dusk, a run down hotel in the middle of nowhere. This hotel is filled with 
 engaging charecters all filled with unique personalities. These are the greatest apects of this 
 game, they story and the characters. Sadly thats most of the good aspects. The gameplay in this 
 game is very similar to old school point and click adventures and thats its biggest downfall. You 
 can go into view and observe basically everything and you have to do this at times to progress 
 the story along. This is all fine for a while but as you go along this becomes a tedious activity 
 as you progress through the hotel trying to progress with the game. And that is yet another problem 
 with this game. There is rarely any good clues as to tell you what to do next. You spend most of 
 your time travelling through the hotel looking for the next story sequence. Hotel Dusk has a superb 
 story but lacks fun gameplay needed to progress the game forward. If you are looking for an old 
 school point and click adventure and are very patient then you can have a great time with Hotel 
 Dusk. For those who like a more fast paced game then look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torsoman3eb
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Ok so when I went in and got this game I didnt know what to expect. I knew little about the game 
 or what it was about. I had only read a few reviews on it and when i did read those i only read 
 the score, but hey I got the game anyway. And I was right it isnt what I expected. The story of 
 this game is all the worth playing. Great storyline, game play is done pretty well and I thought 
 it was fun and different to kind of just sit back and read while you investigated the people of 
 hotel dusk . The only thing i was angry with was the puzzles. Thought there would be more and thought 
 there would be better more challenging ones to play. I dont want to give any of the story away 
 because this game is worth getting for the DS and try playing it at night before you got to bed 
 or something. kind of like reading a book before you go to bed. Thats how i played most of the 
 game. anyways get this one for you DS and have fun figuring the case of hotel dusk out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digilobe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. I have played with other adventure games released from Nintendo before, but, 
 so far, Hotel Dusk is the best virtual novel game ever. I like the way of viewing the screens. 
 It is almost like reading the book. Nintendo has even put the full DS feature maximumly, So, we 
 can enjoy all the unique puzzle games in a DS way. The story wise, it's a bit more for adults. 
 A very intrigue detective adventure story. It is very important to read into what they say. This 
 game is not just a puzzle game. When we get into the deeper side of th story, the whole game is 
 going to be more interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaMantor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  This is an interesting achievement for me, personally. I've always WANTED to like adventure games, 
 yet there are so few that ever manage to engage me. And this one did more than that. I literally 
 couldn't stop playing until the end of the first chapter, and it wasn't until then that I even 
 realized just how much I was enjoying it.
  Hotel Dusk puts you in the role of Kyle Hyde, a somewhat alcoholic ex-detective haunted by the 
 mistake he made three years ago that lost him his job, as well as one of his best friends. Kyle 
 is now somewhat of a salesman, who has an interesting side-job of looking for important lost items 
 for anonymous clients. His job has most recently brought him to Hotel Dusk, a run-down place in 
 the middle of nowhere.
  Little does Kyle know that everyone at Hotel Dusk is hiding something, and that his stay at this 
 place is no coincidence.
  I don't want to spoil anything, because, being a mystery story, this is the kind of plot that can 
 be greatly damaged when spoiled. However, I will say that Hotel Dusk's story is truly the best 
 thing about it. As you play through the game, you may not be particularly compelled by it at all 
 times, but Kyle and most of the other characters are all very likable, and the game's emotionally 
 powerful climax transcends it to new heights. Like any good noir-style story, Hotel Dusk shows 
 the dark, intimate secrets that people hide. It isn't a perfect story, though, there are more than 
 a few unbelievable coincidences, and the fact that the entire game takes place over several hours 
 makes it somewhat silly that these hotel guests are willing to spill their life stories to you 
 after a short interrogation, but in the long run those end up being simple pet-peeves. The dialogue 
 is also so well-written that it often works to suspend your disbelief all on its own.
  The good news about Hotel Dusk's gameplay is that the developers have invented a great way of moving 
 around. On the right screen, you'll see a map, and all you need to do is touch in a certain direction 
 to move around. On the left screen, you'll see a fully 3D version of the area you're exploring 
 from a first person view. (in this game, you hold the DS sideways) Don't worry, though, because 
 there's an option to flip the settings (and the DS) for left handed people. The DS's two screens 
 are also used to the game's advantage during cutscenes. When two characters are talking you'll 
 see one on one screen, and one on the other. In addition, the other screen is sometimes used for 
 flashbacks to allow you to still see that other character talking. It's excellent, because you 
 can see Kyle's reactions to the person you're interrogating when they give you important information 
 instantly.
  Speaking of cutscenes, another one of the game's biggest strengths is its graphics. The characters 
 are animated in a kind of sketchy style, and from looking at screenshots, you'd think that they 
 were static pictures. However, nothing could be further from the truth, these people move, and 
 due to the style they are animated in their motions are very life-like. It's an absolute joy to 
 watch them. The 3D rendered hotel is also surprisingly detailed. If you pay enough attention, you 
 can see the grime on the walls.
  Hotel Dusk does a good job of doing what most adventure games don't even try to do, and making 
 the puzzles believable for its setting. There won't be any ridiculous Use the gum on the hackysack, 
 then combine the hackysack with the chainsaw puzzles here. All of the items that you find are appropriate 
 for their setting, and all of the ways that you use them MAKE SENSE. No ridiculous out-of-the-box 
 thinking here, thankfully. The bad news about the puzzle solving is that you can't do something 
 until KYLE officially knows how to do it. Since you probably didn't get what I meant by that, I'll 
 use an example: Let's say you need to shoot a gun (not a real part of the game, of course) There 
 will be a book that tells you how to shoot the gun, and something your supposed to shoot at. To 
 shoot the gun at it, you'll need to read the book, then take a good, long look at what you're supposed 
 to shoot at before you fire the gun at it. This may give you the impression that some items might 
 not work in certain areas, when they really will, you just need to look at something completely 
 unnecessary first.
  Another problem is that this game is VERY slow-paced, this is NOT for those with short attention 
 spans. In fact, you can swear that sometimes it's almost trying. For example, let's say Kyle needs 
 to get down to the kitchen. First, you'll start to go out of your room, then you might get a phone 
 call. Kyle will have a long-winded conversation with his boss, resulting in him having to do something 
 else. As soon as Kyle leaves the room, he'll have a long-winded conversation with someone who just 
 happens to be in the hall at the time. For some reason, you won't be able to go down to the kitchen 
 until you do what your boss asked you to. After that, you'll get to the kitchen and back with only 
 one or two more long-winded conversations.
  This doesn't happen all the time, but it sure happens a lot. And its hard to decide which is more 
 frustrating: when the game gives you multiple things to do that you HAVE to do in a particular 
 order for no real reason, or when the game doesn't tell you what to do at all. Thankfully, to give 
 some kind of order to all this confusion, you have a notebook that you can hand-write memos in, 
 in case you're afraid of forgetting what you're doing.
  Another thing that makes the pacing slow is the fact that ALL conversations all long-winded. If 
 you don't want to sit through a lot of talking, this game isn't for you. Thankfully, you don't 
 just watch. As a former detective, you're the one asking the questions. All conversations are interactive 
 to a certain extent, and saying the wrong thing is generally how you screw up and get a game over. 
 What I really like is that, sometimes when someone says something interesting you get the option 
 of interrupting them and asking a question of your choice. Sometimes, you need to question them, 
 or else the conversation won't get anywhere, but if you ask the wrong question or say the wrong 
 thing it can get you in a lot of trouble.
  At the end of almost every chapter there's an interrogation of one of the major characters, almost 
 like a boss-battle. Screwing up here gets you a game-over fast, but making good guesses using intuition, 
 and asking the right questions will get you through easily. In that sense, it's really a matter 
 of trial and error, yet despite that grilling someone never feels dull, especially since you always 
 get some interesting information from it, information that you'll care about as much as Kyle does.
 
  Hotel Dusk is a surprisingly immersive and compelling game despite its slow pacing. The gameplay 
 may be fun, but the storyline behind it is reason enough to recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NormieJ
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  I bought this game not too long ago, had it lying around for a while but once I started to play 
 it, I couldn't stop!
  
  This has to be the best adventure for the DS to date and if you like games like Phoenix Wright, 
 this is the game for you.
  
  Hotel Dusk holds many secrets which you need to reveal through finding information and talking 
 to the hotel guests. I don't want to spoil it for you so I won't go into too many details.
  
  The reaction of the touchscreen in this game is superb, it follows your every move. The gameplay 
 is smooth and I promise you, once you become Kyle Hyde and enter the hotel, you will be hooked 
 on this game.
  
  Definitely one of my favourites for the DS so far. If you love adventures and whodunnits, this 
 is the right game for you. You won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  This game can be easily recommended to anyone who likes to try to gameplay styles, great character 
 development or of course anyone who likes a good old mystery set during the late 70's. The game 
 tells the fictional story of an ex-cop turned door-to-door salesmen in Kyle Hyde, who now works 
 for a company called Red Crown. Ed, the company's owner and Kyle's boss, runs a little business 
 on the side that finds missing objects for people. The game starts off with one of Kyle's flashbacks 
 as he seems to be chasing someone and pins up on a dock, where he is forced to shoot him. You quickly 
 learn that he was chasing his partner, Bradley who had recently betrayed him. The weird thing is 
 Bradley's body was never found on the scene. Kyle is sent to this old hotel, called Hotel Dusk 
 to find a few lost items, but he soon finds out the night he is going to spend at Hotel Dusk is 
 the night he has been waiting for; the night he finds out more about his lost friend Bradley. The 
 story is a key component in Hotel Dusk: Room 215. It relies heavily off foreshadowing (Room 215 
 is the room that grants wishes, Bradley's hasnt been recovered) though sometimes a little too much 
 and gives away little bits and pieces of the upcoming twist. The story is still a very good one; 
 it is clear the amount of effort and planning that went into every one of the game's 10 chapters. 
 Without a doubt the best part of this game is the number unique gameplay mechanics. To start, you 
 always hols the DS sideways, like a book. Just like the Gamespot review says, this is more an interactive 
 novel than anything else. To move around you simply touch the touch screen in the desired direction, 
 the further away from Kyle you touch the faster he moves. When you are speaking to other characters 
 in the game you will often be given different options of what to say. Sometimes during crucial 
 questioning, a wrong thing said will cause you to fail your mission and head back to the previous 
 checkpoint. The game has plenty of challenging puzzles to test your wits as well. One has you closing 
 the DS to flip something over and another to put chalk dust on the engravings in a pen to see what 
 they actually say. The sound is good enough but nothing more and while it does fit the noir graphical 
 art style you will probably want to hear less and less of the music because you will hear it so 
 many times before finishing the game. And there is not any voice acting, which is a shame because 
 of all the talking going on. Overall the unique gameplay mechanics, the well developped storyline 
 and character as well as the very stylish visuals are definitely enough to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfsong
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best DS game I've ever played! It's refreshingly different and will 
 hook you instantly... you won't want to put it down!
  
  The gameplay was very enjoyable! You are mainly investigating, solving puzzles and reading... this 
 may sound boring but it's not! The story is amazing! it's a mystery and immediately has you hooked, 
 wanting to find out more and more. I found the story very interesting and well narrated out by 
 the game. However if you don't like books and reading this is NOT the game for you!
  
  The graphics are amazing! The DS is held like a book and on one of the screens is a 3D view of 
 the hotel is colour- the graphics are faultless and I've seen no glitches either which is good. 
 On the other side is either a 2D plan of the hotel or a picture of a person Kyle (the main character) 
 is seeing/talking to. The artwork is beautiful! The people are drawn in 2D but have been drawn 
 and shaded brilliantly making the whole look of the game so good! They are also animated and move, 
 using hand gestures, etc.
  
  The sound is pretty cool- the music matches the different moods in the game and adds to the mysterious 
 atmosphere... I think it's very good!
  
  Overall, I love this game! The storyline is so good and the whole game is very enjoyable! If you 
 like reading and enjoy a good book go and buy this game!!! However if you don't I wouldn't recommend 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noirkitty
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is another smart innovative game by Cing, based on the concept of solving mini puzzles 
 and heavily relying on the game storyline, with various forms of interactions from the player throughout 
 each scenario or chapter of the story to make it convincingly exciting to play.
  
  The game is essentially another 'Visual Novel', and is meant to be played like you're reading a 
 book (the turned sideways DS) but made more exciting with the 'immersiveness' of you interacting 
 the elements of the game and affecting the flow of the storyline via your actions.
  
  Graphically its impressive, the paper-cutout grey pencil illustrations of each character fits very 
 well with the gloomy, film-noir style of the game, and the character's small animations, such as 
 a head nod, are smoothly done in the 'paper' frames. The background graphics are colourful 2D pixel 
 graphics and contrasts well with the black &amp; white of the foreground characters.
  
  Storywise it is quite well written, there is good characterisation. You gradually begin to love 
 each character as you play through the chapters and understand them well once they pour out all 
 their personal stories and tragedies, etc. And it is this point that frustrates me in the end. 
 You love the characters so much you want to find out more and see better, or at least more finished 
 situations from them. Conclusion-wise the game doesn't really finish too well. There are still 
 many questions still left to be asked and many parts of the story could be expanded with more depth 
 (maybe Cing is thinking of making a sequal?...) . Personally, I feel there wasn't enough scenes 
 with / about Mila. There wasn't a good conclusion to the two sisters, the father and his daugther 
 still looking for their mother in the end, why not have her appear at the end? surely that would 
 definately tie a good ending knot to the various relationships between many of the characters. 
 It also seems the game is a tad short, and it would benefit with the extra chapters maybe ones 
 that can explore more about each character and give a clearer ending to each.
  
  Gameplay-wise it can be a tad tedious and repetitive in the later stages of the game, since most 
 of what you do is talk to the characters, search for the right items, talk, search, talk, search, 
 etc. But made better by the fact that the story is pretty engaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuntman_hy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Cing's latest game since Trace Memory, is set in late 1979 in the state of California, somewhere 
 near Los Angeles. The player assumes the role of the abrasive and slightly crooked ex-detective, 
 Kyle Hyde. Three years prior to the game's opening, in 1976, New York City, Hyde shot his former 
 partner and friend, Brian Bradley, who had supposedly double-crossed him. Hyde believes Bradley 
 is still alive and has been following a trail that has long-since gone cold. He is now a door-to-door 
 salesman working for a company based in LA known as Red Crown. The company's owner, Ed Vincent, 
 runs a side business locating certain items for clients that wish them not to be found. Hyde helps 
 out with this business from time to time. His latest job leads him to the mysterious Hotel Dusk 
 which he believes holds some of the answers he has been looking for.
  
  Hotel Dusk contains some appealing gameplay aspects. For starters, the DS is held side-ways throughout 
 the duration of the game. Those who have played last year's 'Brain Age' will be familiar with this 
 feature. The puzzles in the game make great use of the touch screen and even the console itself. 
 Opening and closing the DS is required to progress in some instances. The DS's mic feature is not 
 used once throughout the game however this never really feels like a major disadvantage due to 
 extensive use of other features used to solve the majority of the puzzles. These puzzles usually 
 revolve around using items on certain objects in the environment, though you will never find yourself 
 combining items with one another. Many puzzles in the game are more interactive. These include 
 picking locks, putting together jigsaw pieces and at one point, performing CPR. The player is given 
 the option to play through most of the game using the stylus. Character movement can be achieved 
 by using the stylus with the map that is shown on the touch screen. The top screen displays a fully 
 3D view of the player's surroundings. The textures and 3D models in the game truly demonstrate 
 the technical capabilities of the DS. Moving on from the environments, the game also takes an interesting 
 and impressive approach to the game's cutscenes. The conversations are shown in a comic-book style 
 which works really well for the game. These hand-drawn visuals add a whole new level of realism 
 to the game's characters which wouldn't have been possible to achieve any other way. This added 
 depth to the character's appearance highlights some of the unique aspects found within Hotel Dusk.
 
  
  The game's cutscenes play an essential part in moving the plot forward. Because Hotel Dusk is so 
 story-driven, much of the game is occupied by cutscenes which becomes tiresome at times but usually 
 manages to provide on-going entertainment throughout. The player will soon realise that literally, 
 everybody staying in Hotel Dusk has something interesting to say and their back-stories are explored 
 heavily during Hyde's stay. The game allows the player to interact with conversations that take 
 place between characters by selecting options from a short list. The game is not very forgiving 
 in the sense that a single wrong one turn will lead to game-over. Picking the right things to say 
 and do during these conversations is fundamental for the player to advance through the story.
 
  
  To add to the addicting gameplay and stunning visuals, the game also includes an appropriate and 
 often catchy soundtrack that successfully manages to enhance the mystifying mood of the game. While 
 the game contains a reasonably large and varied number of tracks, these tracks are fixed to certain 
 areas and stages. This could lead to many players finding themselves sick of hearing the same tune 
 over and over. Despite this, the soundtrack enables the game to score back some points that were 
 lost due to the games lack of spoken dialogue. Although this isn't a major drawback, it does mean 
 that an immense amount of reading is required.
  
  Even though Hotel Dusk is a heavily text-based game, which may lead to spaced out moments of boredom, 
 it still proves to be an enjoyable and fulfilling adventure. The game will keep players entertained 
 for a good 10 hours though most people will not find themselves wishing to play through the game 
 a second time. Regardless of this, fans of story-driven, mystery games should definitely give this 
 a go as it could open doors to a whole new experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4yoshi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is simply an outstanding game/book overall. Yes, its pace is a bit slower, but 
 it still is faster than most books. Also, it has an excellent storyline with unique characters 
 (that are NOT stereotypes!) .
  
  Gameplay: The basic gameplay is simple enough. Some may need some time to get used to holding the 
 DS sideways, but it's fine for me. The DS is truly utilized well, so you can expect a lot of stylus 
 movement and some button pressing (and even closing the DS on purpose) .
  This is an adventure game, so you can expect to be moving through a lot of places. However, the 
 hotel is not that large, so random wandering does not often poke its head (twice for me) .
  There is a lot of dialogue in the game. That certainly is not a bad thing as I like to read conversations. 
 The problem comes in when you are faced with a choice between two things to say. Pick the wrong 
 one and the person will get mad at you (and the choices are sometimes almost identical) . A skip 
 to the choice feature would have been very nice here so one does not have to reread the whole thing 
 if you screw up. The best counter is to save your game, which fortunately takes almost no time 
 at all.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of this game are certainly unique, but in a good way. They really go great 
 with the game. It really looks like pictures taken out of a good mystery book. My one complaint 
 here is that one will slowly see a lot of recycled movements. Each character only has about 15 
 movements and with all of the dialogue, some can get old quickly.
  
  Sound: Most of the time, I listen to my own music while playing games, especially on the DS. This 
 is the first DS game EVER that I cannot turn the sound off for! I don't quite know why... the tunes 
 are background normally, but they have a nice beat to them. All I know is that I could not turn 
 off the sound, giving it the coveted 10/10.
  
  Value: This game falls into the same problem as movies and books; if you have a good memory for 
 them (like I do) , you can probably remember the whole story, destroying the value. HOWEVER, the 
 creaters seemed to have thought about this. There seems to be some bonus for beating it a second 
 time, and not everything is necessary (I didn't do anything with the vending machine the first 
 time around or get into room 220) , so you can go back a second time and watch the pieces fall into 
 place (and catching plenty of things you missed the first time) while you try to find out how to 
 use items that you did not finish the first time through. Also, some of the characters, especially 
 Hyde, Louie, and Mila, are so great that you may want to re-beat the game just to listen to all 
 of them again. BTW, each run through takes about 30 hours, give or take a few hours based on your 
 skill level and want to explore (Hyde has an opinion on just about everything, so just about every 
 object is clickable!) .
  
  Tilt: This is a unique game that really pulled out all of the stops. It is one of the few to have 
 been so great that I didn't want to do anything else the entire time. In fact, I would rather be 
 re-beating it than writing this! That alone puts it as a 10/10. I wish 11/10 was possible as it 
 has plenty of other excellent strengths, such as mostly destroying the random exploration that 
 plagues too many adventure games, excellent characters (especially Mila) , and a very engaging story 
 that will have you wondering:
  
  Is it denial or the Nile?
  
  Thanks for reading! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandybadlands
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I finished playing Hotel Dusk last week, and the ending was every bit as anticlimactic as I was 
 expecting after many hours of repetitive gameplay. I enjoyed the game enough to beat it, but there 
 were times when the dense dialogue and easy puzzles made me want to quit.
  
  The learning curve was the most enjoyable part of this game. The gameplay was unlike that of any 
 game I've played before, so it was fun to explore the capabilities of the game, as well as the 
 layout of the hotel. However, since the puzzles start becoming similar after a while and there 
 is really only one setting for the action, it doesn't take long before the novelty wears off. This 
 is especially frustrating when you can read faster than the dialogue appears.
  
  It's true that Hotel Dusk is more like a novel than most games, and the story was complex and intriguing, 
 even though it was predictable at times. However, I did not find the characters as rich as some 
 players did. Their emotional responses seemed to be quite simplistic, and talking to them was a 
 chore at times. The protagonist, Kyle Hyde, was the most interesting character, probably because 
 we were privy to all of his internal motivations and daydreams. Still, the dialogue seemed like 
 a first draft and sometimes made all the characters sound almost like caricatures.
  
  The graphics stood out as one of the good points of Hotel Dusk -- simple but original and eye-catching. 
 However, the music drove me nuts, and I finally turned the sound down halfway through the game. 
 (Luckily, Kyle will tell you if he hears a sound.)
  
  I did enjoy parts of this game, but I guess I was expecting more. After I watched the ending sequence, 
 my overwhelming feeling was relief that I could move on to the next DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I must say that Hotel Dusk is not for everyone. If you are one of those folks that say if I want 
 to read a whole bunch of text, I'll find a book thanks, (or if you just don't like reading in general) 
 you will NOT enjoy this game. The pacing is ultra-slow and the vast majority of the gameplay involves 
 reading text.
  
  Now then, this game really succeeds in most of what it tries to accomplish. The protagonist is 
 very likable, and there are only one or two characters that I wasn't interested in. That's quite 
 a success for a game that gives you roughly 10 characters with distinct personalities and story 
 lines. The dialog and story are both very well written, and even though some of it is campy, I 
 feel like it was supposed to be that way. The graphics are awesome -- whoever did those character 
 drawings needs a serious raise. Overall, Hotel Dusk is a pretty solid package.
  
  The few flaws that I must point out shall follow. The pacing is sometimes TOO slow and makes one 
 wonder, what am I supposed to do now? It doesn't happen often, so it is a minor complaint. The 
 worst part of the game by far is the audio. The few songs that just play over and over become grating 
 after only a few hours. There is also NO spoken dialog. With such a text heavy game, a few lines 
 here or there would have been most excellent in further defining the characters' personalities.
 
  
  So, the verdict is: get this game if you enjoy mystery novels and unique games, and don't get this 
 game if reading makes you sad or slow pacing really gets to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roosnurm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is an adventure game just like the popular Phoenix Wright series. The game takes place 
 in a fictional hotel in the southwest corner of the United States during 1979. You play as Kyle 
 Hyde, a former police detective searching for a long lost partner while simultaneously unraveling 
 the hotel's dark secrets. This game has a hotel full of strangers with secrets, which might just 
 be enough to get you to stick around to hear them all. Hotel Dusk probably won't appeal to every 
 gamer, as it requires a degree of patience and thoughtfulness that only the aged are capable of. 
 However, anyone looking for a deliberate challenge should definitely check it out. It's a class 
 act, despite it being a little frustrating when playing the first time. In conclusion, Hotel Dusk 
 is a game that gives the DS game library a dose of non-casualness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javch
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Im still playing this game, but so far I have spend between 10 to 20 hours on it, and my first 
 impression was because of the animation of characters, it really got me, I like it a lot that the 
 characters have that sketch-cut from paper-kind of southpark look. The story evolution is a little 
 pushed but still believable, not as pushed as in other games that seems forced into the plot. The 
 interactivity s kind of limited but that is not a bad thing because a game with a lot of interaction 
 with its environment sometimes just makes you spend TOO MUCH time trying to figure out what minuscule 
 thing you have to discover or do to keep going in the plot, this happens here in not to much occasions. 
 The music is good, not great, and it really applies to the kind of game. The only thing that keeps 
 me wondering is if the story will end up being a ridicule one in the end, or not that surprising 
 as you always expects it to be. Ill make another entry here when I finish the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanna87
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  I would say this is the kind of game I would love and hope to see in the future.
  It captures your attention right in the beginning when you have to hold your DS like a book, notebook. 
 The way the game introduces the characters is simple yet at the same time a good way to introduce 
 them.
  It captures you more into the game the more you play as you unravel the mysteries behind this hotel. 
 And the reward is well.. The story behind everything and the reason behind everything =)
  I would really hope there would be a follow up on this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andz5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  In Hotel Dusk: Room 215, you play as a ex-cop now salesman named Kyle Hyde, who's looking for a 
 friend and ex-partner who betrayed him. One day he was called out to a job to Hotel Dusk, and this 
 place has been known for it's myths and secrets. Some strange clues show up, and Kyle gets caught 
 up the myths and secrets and eventually has to reveal all the secrets of Hotel Dusk.
  
  The gameplay in Hotel Dusk is pretty simple, easy, and doesn't involve a lot of action, you'll 
 spend most of your time interacting and some if the interesting and sometimes stereotypical characters 
 of the story. You play the game with your DS sideways, almost like an interactive book, where you 
 use the touchscreen or D-Pad to move around and touch to select options. Sometimes in these long 
 conversations you can choose to ask questions and respond in different ways. These however don't 
 really change the game's direction as they can either lead to a slightly different response, or 
 a game over screen. Sometimes there are puzzles to solve, and eventually you get to play some mini 
 games, but for most of the time you'll be walking around the Hotel examining a lot of things.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are very different and unique, it's great how they tried to make a different 
 approach to it. It almost looks like the AHA's - Take On Me music video. The sound is nice, but 
 it would be better if there was a bigger selection of music. They reuse a lot of the music through 
 the game, which is fine! Because it maintains the whole mystery feeling.
  
  The storyline in Hotel Dusk is weird in the way that everything just happens to connect all together 
 in the Hotel. But it doesn't leave you hanging at the end or anything, and satisfies you with a 
 solid ending.
  
  In conclusion, Hotel Dusk is a unique game with an interesting storyline that all game lovers should 
 give a try, you won't be disappointed unless you hate cut scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vandal182
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  At first glance of the box art, you might view Hotel Dusk as some weird survival horror game. Or 
 maybe even a thriller, but of course that's completely wrong. Hotel Dusk is an Adventure/Mystery 
 game at heart, but feels greatly inspired by Point and Click PC Adventure games like Maniac Mansion 
 and Monkey Island.
  
  The game taps you through pretty quickly. You're Kyle Hyde an ex-detective, now salesman. Something 
 terrible happened during your time in the force and it pushed you away from the job. You roam around 
 a hotel, appropriately called Hotel Dusk, on business and you quickly figure out that there's more 
 to this hotel than you could of hoped. Never has a game create so much warmth and interest in characters 
 than Hotel Dusk. There's a definitive feeling between every character and their animated actions 
 boast their personality and emotions. The dialog as well creates a very tight vibe that keep the 
 game interesting and playable, even if you're just running around a hotel to talk to people hours 
 on in. The art style -- which is compared to A-Ha's hit video Take On Me way too much -- is executed 
 quite well. The sketchy off beat style molds almost too well with the games story and characters. 
 It's very easy to get lost in the grey and shady exterior of the game, but once the story gets 
 rolling, which happens right as you start a game, it's very hard to put it down. The story of the 
 game is broken into chapters which segues through each other pretty smoothly. Every minute of the 
 game does a great job of milking this unique storyline. Although the story does lack of incentive 
 direction at some times, the complexity of it all never seems to stop until the last second of 
 the game, where it ties in a satisfiable fashion. Also, as you progress there are puzzles to keep 
 the gameplay fresh and enjoyable to the last bit. These puzzles don't really push the mind to it's 
 limit, but that's just to say most solutions are simple but often not seen at first, so the difficulty 
 is quite vairable.
  
  Hotel Dusk is played as simple as you could imagine. First of all, the game has you hold your DS 
 like a book. The game can be controlled through the touch screen throughout the entire game if 
 you like. At sometimes this can be completely uncomfortable, but thankfully Cing made great use 
 of the face buttons. During times of long, hand-tiring dialog, some carefully chosen buttons can 
 be used to comfortably get through it all. While moving around the hotel, using the d-pad or touch 
 screen, the second screen accompanies you through a first person perspective as you tour the hotel. 
 Half of the time you'll find yourself investigating a room where you then search a 3D area, which 
 you can pan left and right to look around and investigate. The graphics aren't very impressive, 
 but does its job nonetheless.
  
  The game sports a great soundtrack that fairs the mood of every conversation and any situation 
 you're put in. The jazz, blues and classical fusion embraces the art style in a way that enhances 
 gameplay. It's almost like clockwork. There isn't much to say about the sound effects, but that 
 it's all very natural. That's definitely how doors sound like when they are old. Or footsteps even, 
 it isn't noticeable and that's how footsteps should sound like.
  
  It's almost sad to see that this game isn't getting the attention it deserves. It easily offers 
 basic features that most popular games slack away with. An intriguing storyline, interesting characters, 
 and natural dialog. There aren't a lot of games where gameplay relies on it's storyline to keep 
 you going, but this does just that and it does it nearly flawlessly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veeblefester
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  When I read about this game, I was captivated instantly. It took me a while to track down a copy, 
 but I eventually found it at the Nintendo store in NYC on a trip there. It was able to keep me 
 occupied for the bus ride home, but not much more than that. The story is engaging and constantly 
 makes you want to play a little more to see what happens next. However once you beat the game, 
 that's it. There's not much else more to do. Just a few little side-quests. This game probably 
 has the least replay value of all the games I've played. If you really want it, wait until it comes 
 down in price or rent it first. Chances are that you can beat it in the time they give you to keep 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance_C
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is a very unique game created by developer Cing, who also created Trace Memory 
 (Europe; Another Code) . It's an adventure game, which presents a mystery novel in the disguise 
 of a game. The main aspects the game is focusing on are namely puzzle solving, interrogating and 
 finding certain items in order to reveal its hidden messages.
  
  The story begins with Kyle Hyde, a former NYPD officer, receiving a phone call about a man called 
 Brian Bradley. After finding him on the docks he points his gun at him and shoots him. Bradley 
 falls into the water and his body is nowhere to be found. Currently the detective works as a salesman 
 and added to the job description he also locates items for people who don't want to contact the 
 police. One day his employer got him an assignment and he had ordered him to go to a place called 
 Hotel Dusk, a shabby place which seemed almost abandoned. He had to find certain items which a 
 client left behind, but the real thing he has been looking for is the mystery left behind in Hotel 
 Dusk. That's what he realizes after having checked in. And so the mystery novel begins.
  
  First thing you notice when turning on the DS and playing the game is that you hold your DS vertically 
 like a book. It's after all a mystery novel disguised as a game and what better way than actually 
 holding it as a novel. You can either use the d-pad or the stylus to to move your character. When 
 using the stylus, which is probably the easiest and most effective way, you have to tap the stylus 
 to the place you want the detective to head to. When encountering a certain item or a person, you 
 simply press one of the action buttons at the bottom of the screen. Or when tapping onto an item 
 it occassionally zooms in and allows you to investigate the items or the surroundings as a real 
 detective. One aspect of the game is to investigate which leads to puzzles which need to be solved 
 in order to trigger another event. This leads to entertaining gameplay and some variation in the 
 mystery novel. At one point you have to try to read the back of a puzzle and in order to do that 
 you have to flip the puzzle. But it seems your stylus is not working. That's the time when you 
 have to think outside the box. You have to use everything the DS allows you to. Not only the stylus 
 provides what you need, but also the two screens. Closing and re-opening the screen allows you 
 to flip the puzzle to the back, just imagine the puzzle falling from the left to the right screen. 
 This is when the real tricks come out of the closet. Complete use of the DS's capabilities.
  
  But this isn't the only aspect of the game which requires full attention: the story is the 
 one which needs special attention, because it's one with lots of twists, turns and amazing discoveries. 
 It's actually triggering one event after another. You can engage a conversation with a person, 
 talking about all kinds of things. In the dialogue your character automatically picks up certain 
 lines, which he thinks he can press further on. These go horizontal on the screen leaving you with 
 a question mark of a certain color, either white, yellow or red. Also during a dialogue you might 
 be presented with two answers or two questions. Before considering choosing one, it would be convenient 
 to think about it for a short while, because choosing the wrong one or having chosen a wrong one 
 in the past, might result in a 'game over' screen. So you have to make your decision carefully. 
 But when pressing the right buttons, you will occassionally be revealed with the surprising truth 
 or interesting story.
  
  As you advance through the game you immediately realize it's a well thought mystery. Many questions 
 will arise, leaving you with empty areas, which have to be filled. In order to achieve your final 
 goals, you have to talk to the guests who are staying in the same hotel. The thing which immediately 
 attracts attention are the characters themselves. They each have their own unique character, like 
 Kyle Hyde, who is very reliable and helpful, even though he can sometimes be rough and unfriendly. 
 But not only the plot, dialogues and puzzles deserve attention also the graphics demand some. What 
 immediately strikes the eye are the character designs. While the surroundings are in full 3D the 
 characters themselves are not. They are presented as colorless sketches, which seems really fitting 
 to the style of the game. Even though they are just 'drawings' they look lively and the choice 
 for the design makes the game even more than just a masterpiece.
  
  Another aspect which requires a spotlight is the sound. It's not exactly the thing you'd find in 
 a novel, but since it's a game it's a must. Of course you can't expect a spoken dialogue and even 
 that would be a risk. Would it be as good as it is now, if they had done it? Other than the jazzy 
 music with a variety of tracks and the repeating tunes when entering a certain area or finding 
 a shocking discovery there's not much to mention about. They all fit the mood you are in when interacting 
 in the game and that's what the sounds should do. It's more than sufficient.
  
  This game proves once again that the adventure genre is one of its strongest genres on the DS. 
 Adding Hotel Dusk: Room 215 makes the collection within it more than worthwhile. The puzzle-solving, 
 the story and the graphics are all reasons to purchase this game as soon as possible. If you, as 
 a DS owner, happen to come by this adventure game, don't hesitate and purchase it right away. If 
 you don't have a DS, this game might be the reason to purchase one. Even though it's mostly the 
 story you have to enjoy and its text, the general DS gamer will enjoy this game and as an adventure 
 genre fan or a novels fan this is a must for those DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is a new take on the old point and click adventure genre that is done very well. The 
 graphics are nice enough but its more the presentation that won me over with characters animated 
 uniquely and beautifully. The music eventually gets old though and makes your ears bleed but it 
 doesnt detract at all from the titles brilliance.
  
  Theres no action here but more conversation and puzzle solving. The hotel is well designed as are 
 its occupants and the story (while a little convoluted and sometimes convenient) is fairly good. 
 The puzzles are almost always inventive and intuitive while not necessarily simple. Sometimes there 
 was a little too much wandering around with little to no idea what to do next but those
  moments were rare. Another problem is that sometimes a poor dialouge choice can bring about a game 
 over screen, however sometimes its not clear why your answer brought about the result it did. Its 
 hard to put your finger on just what makes the game so great as in addition to what I listed above 
 the game is quite linear. But its also immersive and interesting and different. Each character 
 is well designed and well written, the puzzles make excellent use of the DS, the protagonist is 
 perfect, and the story is great. Not really a very lengthy game but just long enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trinicks
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Well this game is gonna be sure fired i 've played this game and beaten it and it sort of a puzzled 
 game which you must solve .. well everything so get your brain ready because this is like 24! except 
 with the fact that it is NOT 24 Hours i dunno exactly how many hours of game play you get to have 
 but this game is good so i suggest playing it in this game you get to play former cop Kyle Hyde 
 every one seems to think it's a good name so he's just a salesman now he went to hotel dusk to 
 get a package from the company which leads him to one puzzled night he keeps on learning secrets 
 about the hotel the people and his friend he finds lots of dirty secrets inside this hotel and 
 were about to find out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doktorglaze
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is a essentially a puzzle-solving and item-finding game.
  Fans of Myst, Riven, Gabriel Knight, and so on will be happy to see
  that this genre has not 
 disappeared.
  
  The game is rich in film noir theme, from the run-down flophouse
  which serves as the game's setting to the gritty oddball characters
  you encounter. Even the 
 quirky, terse vocabulary is done well, You
  will hear words like dame and so on with satisfying frequency. The
  game also heavily focuses 
 on dialog instead of puzzles. You are trying
  to pump the inhabitants of Hotel Dusk for info, but at the same time
  trying not to offend them.
 
  
  There are a lot of great features that make this unique. Amazing
  attention was paid to each character's personality and unique quirks,
  mannerisms, and vocabulary. 
 The art direction is superb, with a
  first-person view to examine, The people are executed as striking
  police-artist sketches. The 
 background music is interesting and
  evocative. Most importantly there is a great feeling of time and
  place. You get to feel like 
 a tough ex-cop in a dead-end job. You feel
  the squalor of the dirty motel and the hope of its down-on-their-luck
  guests.
  
  Also the 
 game is wonderfully playable anywhere at any time: you use
  the touch-screen for all commands and can fold it closed at a moment's
  notice with no impact 
 on game play.
  
  The only two faults with Hotel dusk are its agonizingly slow pace and
  the poorly-developed, utterly linear sequence.
  
  As for the pace, the game's main focus is 
 on conversations which
  scroll onto the screen at a crawl, and after each sentence you must
  touch the screen to acknowledge 
 the message before proceeding. I am
  not even a fast reader and yet I was always outpacing the text.
  Knowing now about how much time 
 I spent on this clunky interface, I
  would never have even begun the game!
  
  As for the under-developed sequence, this is a tricky thing to
  describe. On the one hand, the 
 puzzles themselves and the writing for
  them is absolutely great. What detracts is the outdated one-way
  sequence of puzzles. Most of 
 them have exactly one solution. Can't
  find Iris' missing envelope? Tough cookies. Don't know what item
  in-game will help you read 
 the engraving on the old pen? Too bad,
  there's no hints. And you cannot proceed past these brick walls. You
  cannot skip the issue, 
 explore some other area, solve a different
  mystery, or pursue hints.
  
  Even the most basic Zork game or Choose-Your-Adventure novel has a
  more interesting horizon 
 for possibilities. It is hard to believe
  that a software developer would waste the time to execute such a
  amateur framework with such 
 great background music, art direction, and
  detailed dialog writing! Video game players got past this amateur
  stuff 15 years ago. I am shocked 
 that this was even released after the
  advent of unscripted games like Grand Theft Auto.
  
  If you are willing to overlook the throwback to the linear framework,
  then you will absolutely 
 love Hotel Dusk. The art, atmosphere, and
  details are positively a pleasure to experience. But if you are the
  impatient type who can't 
 wait for the scrolling dialog and won't want
  to find a walk-through when you get stuck, pass this up. The DS
  platform has plenty of better-developed 
 titles out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 22, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Its definitely safe to say that 1970s gumshoe mysteries arent represented in games very often. 
 So its great that Hotel Dusk manages to blend its unique setting and style with very enjoyable 
 gameplay. Its an adventure game through and through, with conversation and puzzle-solving as your 
 main course. When combined with sharp writing, a distinctive presentation, and exceptional use 
 of the touch screen, Hotel Dusk becomes one of the best games available on the DS.
  
  Hotel Dusk casts you in the role of Kyle Hyde, an ex-cop from New York City who now works adrift 
 for a door-to-door salesman company out west that indulges in some off-the-record detective work. 
 Hydes looking for a man named Bradley, an ex-partner from his police days. A man who Hyde was 
 forced to send plummeting into the Hudson River with his pistol three years ago. Mysteriously, 
 Bradleys body was never recovered, and Hyde had to leave the force. Why did he do it? Where is 
 Bradley now? The clouded past of Kyle Hyde comes crawling eerily back to him during a business 
 trip to Hotel Dusk, a dilapidated building in the middle of nowhere. Throughout the course of one 
 evening, Kyles past and the fate of his partner are slowly revealed, and by the end of the game, 
 you feel satisfied as you realize how far Hyde has come and how his story resolves itself. Advancing 
 through Hotel Dusk revolves around exploring your surroundings and interacting with a small ensemble 
 of characters that work or are staying in the hotel itself. You hold your DS like a storybook, 
 with the touch screen displaying a top-down, two-dimensional map of the hotel and the other a 3D 
 view of your surroundings. Dragging the stylus around the touch screen will move Kyle, and a row 
 of icons at the bottom handle any actions you can take. If you walk past a painting, you can tap 
 a magnifying glass icon to take a closer look, tapping on items you find suspicious or curious. 
 If youre near a door, tapping the door icon will let you walk through it. Its a very straightforward 
 interface thats clean and works sublimely.
  
  As you skulk around the hotel looking for clues to Hydes past, youll stumble upon a host of complex 
 and interesting characters. Although characters in games are typically one-dimensional, Hotel Dusks 
 are astonishingly complete; each has their own detailed back story, mannerisms, method of speech, 
 and a decidedly seedy motive for staying at the hotel. Youll spend the majority of your time interacting 
 with these characters, and although the game slows down the pacing to add in a few superfluous 
 bits of character development at times, its almost always a treat. Youll also need to keep the 
 personalities of the Hotel Dusk patrons in mind; bringing up certain topics or items with specific 
 characters can cause them to become more suspicious of you, or end your game.
  
  The high levels of character in Hotel Dusk are accented with some gorgeously stylized visuals. 
 Each character in the game is drawn in a black and white, stroke-heavy way that perfectly befits 
 the mood of the game. The stroke marks also animate, making a character have a range of motion 
 even when theyre standing still. Think A-Has Take on Me music video. Characters will change 
 positions and emote thoughtfully as the tone of conversation changes, which is a really great touch 
 that never gets old. Youll also see the hand-drawn visuals shift into color for some key moments. 
 The three-dimensional view of the hotel also looks good and is entirely in color. The geometry 
 is simple, and things get pretty muddy when you get too close to them, but overall the memorable 
 design of Hotel Dusk makes it easy to make your way around without too much trouble.
  
  Count on some devious puzzles tripping you up from time to time, though. Hotel Dusk is from the 
 developers of Trace Memory, and youll see the same quality puzzle designs in this game. Almost 
 all of them are firmly rooted in logic and make great use of the touch screen. Youll have to carefully 
 lift a cabinet with a crowbar, pick locks with wire, fiddle with electrical outlets, and more. 
 Sometimes youll even use the DS hardware itself, like closing the lid on the system to flip an 
 item from one screen to the other. The puzzles in the game are so genuinely different from one 
 another that youll really have to think about both the context of the game and what you believe 
 the DS is capable of doing with its touch screen. The exciting use of the DS hardware is one of 
 the best things about Hotel Dusk.
  
  Only a few small issues mar the brilliance of Hotel Dusks excellent noir tale. One is purely subjective; 
 the games pacing. The plot, following in tradition of its Sam Spade-inspired scenario, is slow-moving 
 and very deliberate in exposing information. This is definitely a game thats focused around revealing 
 tiny pieces of information instead of grand, sweeping twists in the story. Sometimes youll have 
 to sit through several long, drawn-out conversations for twenty or so minutes at a time without 
 any action whatsoever. This can potentially make the most patient of people antsy, although the 
 game is typically pretty good about spreading out the story and the puzzles equally.
  
  The occasional ill-conceived puzzle or plot device can also put a damper on things. Youll be required 
 to look for a specific person to talk to from time to time, and although the Hotel Dusk is small, 
 the game will occasionally hide the person away in the most obscure of spaces, seemingly just to 
 pad out the games length. These protracted jaunts up and down corridors can get tiresome. Additionally, 
 theres a puzzle or two that can end up taking upwards of fifteen minutes to complete for an extremely 
 small payoff, which offsets the games typically brilliant balance of work to reward.
  
  The games sound is good, but not particularly memorable. Theres a couple catchy upbeat jazz numbers 
 that score the action, but these songs are limited; the small handful of tracks will become too 
 familiar a little too soon. Theres no voice acting in Hotel Dusk, which is a shame, considering 
 the characters are so lively even with just text. This is most likely a technical constraint of 
 the DS hardware and tiny cartridge system, however. Finally, the sounds of Hyde fumbling through 
 drawers and generally manipulating the environment sound good.
  
  Hotel Dusks slow pace is really the only barrier to enjoying this fabulously designed and intricately 
 detailed noir detective mystery. If you just cant see yourself reading through a good deal of 
 text and becoming intrigued in a complex narrative, then it probably isnt for you. But just about 
 anyone else will be able to appreciate its stylistic visuals, complex characters, and well-designed 
 puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 21, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Developer's Cing last game, Another Memory, was a great game that showcased the possibilities of 
 the Nintendo DS. It had imaginative puzzles that have never been seen before in the videogame medium. 
 The game also had a terrific storyline. However, the game was horrendously short and despite the 
 flashy and innovative puzzles, they were really easy to solve and complete. Now we come to Cing's 
 next major game, Hotel Dusk: Room 215. Is it better than Another Memory? Yes, by miles. It plays 
 in a same fashion as Another Code, except you hold the DS like a novel. The story is a cut above 
 most stories is stronger and more mature in tone than Another Memory. You play as Kyle Hyde, a 
 washed out ex-cop playing detective, working as a salesman who travels to the seedy dump, Hotel 
 Dusk in California. Obviously all is not what it seems in this hotel and pretty soon you'll discover 
 all manner of secrets that each guest hides.
  
  The saving grace of this game is its story. Thought the interface control is as slick, as uncluttered 
 as you can get, it won't appeal to everyone. The reason why is because there's a load of text to 
 get through. Yep, this game is severely text heavy. I think the game took itself to seriously in 
 making an interactive novel, but it's missing quite a bit of gameplay. I'm not grumbling, but most 
 people will be turned away from this because of it's novel nature. That's not to say it's bad. 
 It's just pretty weak. And since the puzzles aren't really a cut above Another Memory, it's a shame 
 to be honest. What wowed with Another Memory is somewhat lacklustre here. The puzzles are once 
 again easy, except for some important conversations when conversing with the many guests and staff. 
 You have to make sure you say the right thing; otherwise your game is over because they chucked 
 you out. This is where one of the biggest flaws rears its ugly head. The text can't fast forward 
 and you have to sit through all the text again just to try the second option. It's not so bad that 
 is spoils the game, but it does destroy the pacing of the story, which of course picks up again 
 after the conversation is over. Exploration is covered by having the touch screen for moving Kyle 
 and examine and interacting etc. The left hand screen is the world through Kyle's eyes and is presented 
 in a slick 3-D graphics engine.
  
  The graphical presentation is astounding in Hotel Dusk. Many have been wowed by it and many compare 
 the character models to the A-Ha music video Take On Me . Which, of course, is entirely accurate. 
 The character models are mostly presented in 2-D, rough black and white pencil like sketches that 
 contrasts with the detailed colourful 3-D world. It works great, has some great animation and makes 
 the game that more compelling. Admittedly, I had some concern over the graphical style but it won 
 me over and I can see how it's fits the atmosphere and mood of the story wonderfully.
  
  The music is a mixture of jazz and blues that goes well with everything else. The sound effects 
 are adequate and add to the atmosphere and make the world more real. The only thing that's missing 
 is some sort of voice acting. But I mustnt grumble, this is not the PSP, this is the DS and such 
 things are only exhibited rarely (such as Resident Evil DS, but that hasn't got as many lines as 
 Hotel Dusk) .
  
  I completed the game just over 10 hours and I'm sure it can be completed quicker. It's certainly 
 longer than Another Memory, and, like that game, it has an incentive to play it all again. If you 
 really want to see the whole game that is.
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is a great game. It should appeal to die hard fans of the point and click 
 genre, could possibly convert a few people to the genre too. It's charming and unique, much like 
 Another Memory, standing strong on its own two feet... If it had any... If the Phoenix Wright series 
 were too camp or loud for you, then I would recommend this game. But if I had to pick between the 
 two, I would go for Phoenix Wright. Both games are good, enjoyable and engaging, and you won't 
 go wrong with either of them. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expert-yeti
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  If you love mystery novels and the occasional point and click adventure game, then Hotel Dusk is 
 the game for you! As with Cing's other point and click adventure game, Trace Memory, Hotel Dusk 
 throws you into the game with someone getting shot; which ALWAYS seems to grab your attention! 
 As you frantically search for your long lost partner, you stumble across a dingy hotel in the middle 
 of nowhere. Everything in that hotel isn't what it seems, and being the detective, you try to uncover 
 the hotel's secrets because you feel it has some connection to your missing partner. The graphics 
 are an amazing set of hand-drawn, pencil shaded drawings that perfectly represent each of the character's 
 emotions and expressions. Even the 3-D engine this game uses is surprisingly smooth and impressive. 
 Accompanying this impressive art style not often found in games, is the groovy 1970s jazz and relaxing 
 music that is super catching, but fun. As the story continues, you will solve puzzles that use 
 the DS functions in unique ways, like administrating CPR or removing chalk dust from a pen. These 
 seemingly little puzzles add much gameplay value to Hotel Dusk. Finally, the game's biggest strongpoint 
 is the story that seems to involve everyone (and their moms) in the hotel. As you explore the hotel, 
 multiple threads intertwine to form a beautiful suspense story; this game honestly feels like reading 
 a book with all the dialogue that you exchange with the other characters. Surprisingly, the characters 
 have much depth along with a unique and interesting personality. Unfortunately, the game's biggest 
 downpoint, the raunchy attitude and intrusive nature the main character exhibits, isn't either 
 nice or realistic, respectively.
  
  Too bad Nintendo didn't promote this game a lot more; tell your friends about this game- enjoy 
 the story and stay awhile! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacojac
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Its a strange place to lay your head, this Hotel Dusk. From the moment I rang the bell on the 
 front desk, I knew there was something different from all the other dumps Ive stayed at. Something 
 special
  
  1979. Youre Kyle Hyde, a burned ex-cop looking for his missing partner. This partner (named Bradley) 
 was infiltrating a criminal organisation until he sold the cops out and skipped town with a high 
 valued painting. In order to find his missing friend, Hyde left the force. Hes now a door-to-door 
 salesman, working for Red Crown, a small company led by Ed, a retired cop and the only one who 
 knows Kyle Hyde plan to find Bradley. Your next stop on Red Crown dime is Hotel Dusk, an old dump 
 lost in the Nevadas desert. You quickly realize that things are a little bit off in the hotel. 
 Somehow, the places connected to Bradley. You detective instincts kick in: the more clues youll 
 find, the closer youll get to the truth.
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is certainly not just a game. Its a chef doeuvre. A noir thriller with a 
 complex history filled with mysteries, secrets and old memories. Actually, the games as much an 
 interactive novel as it is a video game. The game is divided into chapters and to play it you have 
 to flip the DS on its side as if you were holding a book. Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is so different 
 from anything youve ever experienced that it might feel awkward at the beginning, but youll soon 
 get used to it. Its the kind of game that you get so addicted to that you might play non-stop 
 for hours, dying to see whats gonna happen next.
  
  The characters and the way you deal with them is a very important aspect of the game. Its the 
 way you interact with them thatll allow you to make you way through the story. So youll spend 
 a lot of time engaged in dialogues. But be careful. The decisions you make can drastically affect 
 the outcome of the situation. If you dont do the right things, you might be kicked out of Hotel 
 Dusk. But if you listen to what folks have to say, youll find that the conversations are filled 
 with clues, directions and even warnings that will help you avoid the bad ending. If you dont 
 pay close attention, youll quickly find yourself at a dead end. Of course, youll have to read 
 a lot of text. If youre the kind of guy that is used to skip all the text in other games, this 
 games absolutely not for you.
  
  Hotel dusk is full of secrets. Everyone seems to be hiding something, and often you goal is to 
 find what this something is. To do so, youll have to explore every nook and cranny of the dilapidated 
 hotel and enter in conversations with its occupants. To make your way through the game, youll 
 have to deal with a few puzzles. Some of them are easy, but most of them are really hard, mostly 
 because of the fact that youll need specific tools in order to resolve them. Those tools are found 
 in much unexpected places so youll probably spend a lot of time wandering around, trying to find 
 a place you havent been to yet. In order to help you in your adventure, you can use a handy handbook 
 in which you can write down anything that might seem useful. Much of Hotel Dusks mysterious atmosphere 
 comes from the games adherence to a noir style of storyline. It permeates every aspect of the 
 game, from the dialogues to the characters design and music. The characters design is particularly 
 unique and gives to the game a spectacular look. It influences a lot the feeling the player have 
 to be reading a novel instead of being playing a video game. The backgrounds, made in 3-D, are 
 very detailed and represent clearly the old dump that is Hotel Dusk.
  The music is very simple and, somehow, very poor. Its very linear and repetitive. But the sounds 
 effects such as footsteps and phone rings are simply incredible and sound very real.
  
  The game uses the Nintendo DS abilities at its maximum. Games controls are very simple. With the 
 DS in its side, youre given and overhead map view on the right screen and a first-person polygonal 
 view on the left (or vice versa for left-handed) . Youll use the stylus to move around the games 
 3-D environments, searching for clues, knocking on doors, and approaching characters to have a 
 little chat. Youll also use the mic. a few times.
  
  Unfortunately, Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is a very short game. It wont take you much more than a few 
 hours to finish it but still, every minute youll spend playing the game will be a very well spent 
 minute.
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is very different from everything that has ever been made. Its very difficult 
 to review such a game as there arent any bases one can rely on. This review reflects my personal 
 experience and so you might not feel the same way I did playing the game. I think its impossible 
 to really enjoy the game without really getting into it. Thats why some people might not really 
 like it. At least, give it a try. You might be very surprised by the quality of this spectacular 
 noir thriller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaminggeek
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is not a game by the time you finish it, it's more of an experience. It came to a point 
 that whilst playing, opening that DS Lite was less like starting a new play session and more like 
 being magically transported through the screen (A-ha style) and into the actual Hotel for a visit. 
 The walls are grimy, the whole retro vibe is a time warp, the first person view, even with basic, 
 some might say crude 3-D graphics sucks you in. And the implementation of story and character is 
 quite brilliant, adding rich, complex layers to your visit. A reason to love this game is the lead 
 character, possibly the biggest badass in the history of videogames: Kyle Hyde and he doesn't need 
 a gun or steroid injections to claim that title. He has attitude, he has character. This is a man 
 who takes no **** from anybody and frequently sees fit to berate people who annoy him, dominating 
 other people with the implied threat of verbally expunged violence. It's likely that you'll fall 
 in love with this character within the first few minutes when he cheerlessly berates a young child 
 who is causing a nuisance, you can almost sense that he's one step away from clocking her one. 
 But at heart Kyle Hyde is just that: All Heart. And he shows it by helping most of the cast members 
 of this backwater hotel, in a round about fashion and not without drama. The way the game is put 
 together is almost like witnessing psychological therapy, with each character having trauma, conflict 
 and breakthroughs and when they make those breakthroughs you are right there with them, experiencing 
 that high, half crying in joy, as you will them on to the next phase of their lives. Leave the 
 past behind you and go on - you think - no matter how hard it is. It's almost impossible to discuss 
 this game at length because of its reliance on its superb writing, the way that the threads are 
 woven, knotted and de-tangled is quite a spectacle and you'll find yourself totally engrossed, 
 for hours at a time un-weaving them. It will however take time, as your introduction to this world 
 is a tough one; the controls. Navigating in the first person using a touch screen map is easy enough..... until 
 you start looking at the top screen and get very easily dis-orientated. It's Metroid Hunters style 
 navigation, only sideways and minus a D-pad and it can be quite frustrating until you get the hang 
 of it (which you WILL, eventually) . Apart from the story the best parts of Dusk come from it's 
 micro-transactions as I call them: the small payoffs for object manipulation. You are presented 
 with unique situations where you have to manipulate various objects with the touch screen which 
 demonstrate how diversity and versatility embolden the game design. It's both a rare high and an 
 unfortunate highlight of the scarcity of these sections. It needed much more. This game has foibles 
 and they are big ones, the biggest being a statement of fact: This is an Adventure game, pure bred 
 and it has all the associations and benefits and detriments of games of the past. There is a reliance 
 on triggered events, hunting down obscure items, using circular logic, attempting to trigger something 
 you thought had been triggered, some plain unfair disguising of crucial evidence. Before the age 
 of online faqs, this may have been a huge barrier for this game and there are sections which downright 
 pissed me off. You'll find yourself knocking, pointlessly on endless doors trying to trigger a 
 reaction. Mostly it's your own fault, you have a notebook, so use it. Really use it to chart what 
 you've done and what you have to do. Use it often and use is wisely because it will make your visit 
 go much more smoothly. One thing that must be said about Hotel Dusk is that Phoenix Wright comparisons 
 are both valid and not valid in equal terms. Phoenix Wright has the creative licence to do whatever 
 it wants, ghosts, aliens, flying pigs with rockets up its ass, whatever. Hotel Dusk plays it straight 
 down the line so if you're expecting regular wisecracks that have you rolling in laughter you'll 
 be disappointed. Kyle Hyde and co are tragic figures, real people who hurt, deeply in some cases, 
 filled with remorse and trying to understand the world and the hand that's been dealt to them. 
 It's a truly mature game, not in trivial matters like blood, swearing or physical violence but 
 in that it deals with adult matters and serious ones, marital breakdown, physical disability, ageing, 
 murder, abduction, love, loss and regret. And it plays it totally straight.
  
  By the end of the game you wont have even reached a solid resolution, it's a story that leaves 
 you wanting more, that has you thinking back on your stay and wondering what happened to several 
 characters, you learned about during that time. It's not a negative at all, it's like all the best 
 stories, the true ones. It took me 18hrs to beat this game so it's quite substantial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nailerr
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 3, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Reading is good, playing is good.
  Hotel Dusk is as close to playing a book as you are going to get for the time being, exercise your 
 imagination with the story and exercise your gaming on it's puzzles, none of which are hard but 
 are often taxing enough to feel good.
  
  With such novel style the only down side is the occasional frustration that comes with trying to 
 work out what you are supposed to do next and will usually involve searching the same room's over 
 and over again until you notice a hidden difference.
  
  A decent play time even when played at rate, you'll hear people complain about the slow text but 
 you can double it's speed simply holding down any direction on the D-Pad or pressing the stylus 
 to the screen.
  If you can play games where action is not focus you owe it to us all to buy this game, because 
 we need to show that we want more of this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 1, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  This was one of those sleeper games that creeps up on you out of nowere and youve just got to have 
 becuase is different. And while in many ways it is , in others this is your basic linear point 
 and click mystery rigged to a ds touch screen. You play Kyle Hyde a disgraced NYPD officer who 
 now works as a travelling salesman who pays a visit to the mysterious Hotel Dusk for the night 
 and returns to his detective routes as not just one but a series of mysteries unfold during the 
 24 hour period he spends at the hotel, all the guests hae a connection, all of which seems to tie 
 to Hydes own past.
  Sounds better than your average plot for a handheld right?, and to be fair the plot is very good, 
 the gameplay however, while inventive and fun grows tedious quite quickly and the novelty does 
 were off after the 30 mins mark.
  You hold the ds on its side like a book, and based on your own handwriting style, left or right, 
 the touch screen and lcd screen switch to suit your needs. the touch screen is seen in the top 
 down view on a map, your character being displayed as a blue arrow, whilst on the other screen 
 we see the fps perspective of what your character is seeing, in full 3d no less. Whilst this is 
 an enjoyable change and makes good use of the normally clostrophobic feel of fps games on the ds 
 small screen you tend to spend way mroe time focusing on the blue arrow on the map than the actual 
 fps 3d view, so it tends to go largely unnoticed during the game.
  The minigames range from writing with the stylus, to blowing dust off a pen with the microphone, 
 but aside from that there is not much variety, its basically go through the building ,inspecting 
 everything you can by touching the stylus till you find the next clue, which means you may breeze 
 through this game, or it may take a very long time.
  the story itself is seperated into chapters ,each last in game between an hour and 3 hours and 
 there is around 8 chapters of good puzzle and msytery based plot in here. the game lasts ,if you 
 have no problem with the puzzles around 10 to 12 hours on a good paced run through, which is longer 
 than many more big budget and mroe widely advertised console games.
  The graphical style in Hotel Dusk in unique. not only becuase of how you hold the console. But 
 becuase of how the characters are displayed, whilst the game is in full 3d and in colour the characters 
 are like 2d sketches in black and white, further adding to the mystery feel of the film , reminiscent 
 of the noir film movement of the 1940's, though, unless your an older gamer this wouldnt mean a 
 thing to you. but it still looks pretty cool, lets leave it at that.
  Sound wise this game has a jukebox later on that displays all the available songs in the game and 
 the list is extensive to say the least, there are around 40+ different songs in the game in varying 
 styles to suit every situation, nothign was left to chance in this department, though this is marred 
 slightly by the fact that this game has no memorable music that you can hum along to, and if it 
 isnt memorable, then it cant be that great right?
  Value wise this game is ,as i said, a good ten to twelve hours long but once youve played it through 
 once there is very little incentive to play through again, there is no multiple endings, and the 
 linnear point a to b with item c type gameplay means its basically the same experience each and 
 every time.
  
  My reviewers tilt for this is uncertain, its a fine game to be sure, adn a breath of fresh air 
 on the DS and for a nintendo console in general, but with the likes of much mroe exciting and accessible 
 games such as pheonix wright and Trauma Centre I think this game will be too boring for younger 
 gamers and older gamers may enjoy this but i would recommend looking for a pre-owned copy rather 
 than paying fulll price.
  That said it may be lacking replay value but its a nice change of pace and an enjoyable game to 
 play fi your looking for something a bit different.
  
  In short, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rencie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  In reading a preview article about Hotel Dusk: Room 215, two aspects of the game caught my attention. 
 One: the stunning mix of 3D computer generated backgrounds and pencil-drawn character animations 
 as seen in graphic novel pencil sketches; two: the game is played by holding the DS sideways like 
 a book. It was definitely love at first sight.
  
  Sure, you should not judge a book by its cover, but Hotel Dusk: Room 215 really does play as well 
 as it looks  its captivating. The game is a mystery adventure that can be played entirely using 
 just the stylus. (But you can also control your characters movement using the direction keypad.) 
 The simplicity of the controls allows you to immerse yourself into the game like reading a great 
 novel. In fact, I played Hotel Dusk: Room 215 mostly before bedtime, only to find myself still 
 playing 3 a. m. in the morning.
  
  An adventure game can look beautiful, but it is only as good as its story. Hotel Dusk: Room 215 
 features an intriguing mystery filled with well-written characters and a decent variety of puzzles. 
 You unravel the mystery thread by thread as you explore the hotel, and talk and question the characters 
 you encounter. The pacing of the story is perfect for a mystery adventure. New clues are uncovered 
 in each chapter, slowly shedding light on each characters background and motivation, as well as 
 the history of Hotel Dusk.
  
  The characters personalities really shine in this game. Each character is distinct and their dialogues 
 are written sufficiently well enough that you feel as though you have gotten to know them by the 
 end of the 20-plus hours of gameplay. But the dialogues are also the games weakness. In fact, 
 you read A LOT in Hotel Dusk: Room 215. In one or two instances, it is difficult to figure out 
 if the dialogue expresses sincerity, insult or sarcasm, especially when you are given choices of 
 responses in a conversation. Misinterpretation of the text can lead to other characters reacting 
 poorly to your actions and deciding to withhold crucial information. Thankfully, these quirks are 
 rare.
  
  There are plenty of puzzles in Hotel Dusk: Room 215. The puzzles make good use of the touch screen 
 and stylus interface. For example, youll find yourself using your stylus as a lock pick, a pen 
 to jot down notes, and so on. The game also requires you to open and close the DS like a book to 
 solve a few puzzles. These innovative uses of the DS technology and design really make the puzzles 
 unique. It also helps that the puzzles are not overly difficult, since they are logically designed 
 and your objectives are made clear throughout the game.
  
  Like most adventure games, Hotel Dusk: Room 215s storyline is linear, but it is the linearity 
 that allows the games story to be tight and well-told. Although this design limits replayability, 
 I need to point out that Hotel Dusk: Room 215 should be treated like an interactive book. You do 
 not replay the game or re-read a book because you want to discover new plotlines, you do it because 
 you enjoy the story or want look for the nuances that you have missed the first time. This game 
 may not be for everyone, but it would be a shame if you do not at least try the game and see if 
 you would enjoy unraveling the mystery at Hotel Dusk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reece_Boosh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Lets get one thing straight
  
  Hotel Dusk does not have an amazing story, like many people have been claiming. But before you 
 let out a wail of disapproval, it is the unique way in which the games story unravels that makes 
 this so enjoyable, engrossing and praise worthy.
  
  You play (or should that be, guide) Kyle Hyde an ex-cop, whos been out of the New-York force for 
 three years due to some kind of unpleasant incident. Now a travelling Salesman working for Red 
 Crown, you find yourself drifting into the Low priced, if rather drab room 215 - or wish as 
 it is named - and into the fantastic world of Hotel Dusk
  
  On the surface, this is a standard point and click affair with a few now standard gimmicks, touch 
 screen controls, dual screen conversations and movement yada yada yada. And undoubtedly, for many, 
 that is all Hotel Dusk will ever be. A slightly tedious trawl through 1979 America.
  
  Ultimately though, Hotel dusk is so much more.
  
  You hold the DS on its side, like a book, 
 with the left screen showing a 3D view of what Kyle is looking at, and the right screen showing 
 a map of you surroundings, and controls. In the numerous conversations, animated portraits of Kyle 
 Hyde and the character (s) you are conversing with are positioned on either screen.
  
  Whilst they may not sound much on paper, these concepts (along with engrossing dialogue and some 
 thoroughly agreeable hotel guests from all walks of life*) help to transform the genre into something 
 truly breathtaking. As a result - and in no small part due to the heavily stylised artwork - , 
 Hotel Dusk feels more like an interactive graphic novel than a game. It dips into most mediums. 
 A spoonful of broken sword, a dash of sin city, and more than a whiff of Noir Shes a real page 
 turner
  
  I completed it just inside of 16 and half hours over two days and three nights. As the closing 
 moments of the game draw nearer, and the threads of the mystery start to unravel, its hard not 
 to forget the real world of polite conversation as you delve into the darker side of Art, Lawyers, 
 Novels, Marriage and the PoliceBut this level of identification with Hyde and his plight is paramount 
 to your progress in the game.
  
  Hotel Dusk does have its fair share of puzzles and minigames, but it is in the engrossing conversations 
 that the majority of fun (and your fond memories) comes from. You see, Kyle Hyde is not two dimensional. 
 He is a multi faceted character with a mean streak, as well as a gentle side. This comes across 
 fantastically in all most of the plot changing conversations. Early on in the game, you come across 
 a little girl sitting on the stairs. You are meant to help her with her puzzle so that she goes 
 back to her room, and you can pass. However, shouting at her and calling her a brat has a similar 
 affect.
  
  Unfortunately, these slight branches in conversations rarely alter the plot much, as anything that 
 results in something as momentous as a guest leaving will result in one of the games many inventive 
 and often amusing game over scenes. I doubt Ill forget the one where Kyle sits up all night supping 
 bourbon with the normally grumpy manager until they fall unconscious. For those of you who werent 
 paying attention, (or skipped to the end) , Hotel Dusk is, enthralling, fresh and one of the most 
 memorable games available for your two screened friend. And with 15 hours + of gameplay, theres 
 plenty here to warrant a buy. So do it. Buy the game. Buy Hotel Dusk, you wont be disappointed. 
 If you dont have a DS, buy one of those too. Yup Buy Hotel Dusk.
  
  *Truly... theres even an author. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Fantasic wrote story; Easy fun mini games; hold your DS sideways like your reading a book
 
  
  BAD- Mindlessly walking around gets boring; GAMEPLAY-
  When i say that Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is like a game like no other, That it takes you were no game 
 has gone befor, im not kidding, Hotel Dusk is a fantastic game were ever you go, its alot like 
 a book than a game as most of the time you are reading, and what you are reading is about a fired 
 detective called Kyle Hyde who's firend was killed and at this hotel in Room 215 something creeps 
 up about his firends death, does this room have anything in commen with his death?.... its a brilliant 
 well wrote story that you can control and depending on your action depend on the outcome of the 
 story. there is Gameovers in the game if you say somthing wroung to a person so make sure you saying 
 the right thing, there is some mini games like cracking codes and opening locks ect, but the mindlessly 
 walking around gets very boring as you cant run only walk.
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The graphics are awesome, the full 3D world looks awesome and its in a style like a book, like 
 its been sketched its awesome how it looks and the animations are awesome looking too, the only 
 probblem is teh characters, the designs are brilliant but the 2D look is'nt.... in my opinion
  
  SOUND-
  It has nice fluant music and sound effects, something easy on the ears, very dramatic 
 and enging
  
  OVERALL-
  Overall, Hotel Dusk is a fantastic game for the DS, not to be missed out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emiex
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  Brilliant, nice to have something a little less childish on the DS (not that there's anything wrong 
 with good old Mario Cart!)
  Story draws you in, I can't put it down!
  Although at first the graphics may be a little annoying and you may have to put the sound on mute 
 I would say it's a game you can get into.
  The gameplay is awesome, it's just the right amount of more than one thing going on at the same 
 time.
  I would say though make sure to use your notebook if you are going to put it down for more than 
 a day! You may forget little details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  The DS and Wii... hell Nintendo basically right now is on a roll making quite unique styled games 
 - very interactive type story games like Phoenix Wright: Ace Attourney, Trace Memory, Truma Center 
 etc
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is no stranger to this genre of gaming. This genre of gaming being a-kin to 
 that of the old point and click adventures a-la Broken Sword however focuses more on a first perspective 
 view and even in its protaganist narrative.
  
  I have just completed the game and it has taken me 15hours 23mins (according to the game's in-built 
 clock timer) . Now for the review:
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Truly, 
 this games formulae is very easy to access. It is truly an interactive experience, playing like 
 an interactive 3-D crime novel.
  
  Dialogue is easy to follow, scouting for clues and puzzle solving is easy to suss and therefore 
 a very enjoyable experience.
  
  Dialogue is the main key for this game. It is afterall in a way a 3-D crime novel in most respects. 
 Therefore the dialogue quite heavy and for people who want a faster paced type game, may get bored 
 here.
  
  However the dialogue is very believable for the characters its written for. It adds a volume of 
 depth for each character and atmosphere to the plot and any sub-plots during the game's story progression.
 
  
  Puzzles generally are very easy. This may be a downside since i never got a Game Over screen during 
 this game. So i found the puzzles a too easy and in some cases too obvious. However of course this 
 reminds me of how the Phoenix Wright series started and its sequel's difficulty has been upped 
 since... and this has not necessarily been proven to be a good thing!
  
  You can take notes in your note pad which i thought was an excellent idea! However i didn't have 
 to take that many notes to be honest.
  
  Graphics:
  
  For a DS, the full 3D enviroments you navigate through is excellent. Mapped out well, looks believable, 
 but the best graphical feature is the simplistic yet comic look of how the characters are drawn 
 and animated.
  
  Its a nice twist on how the characters are portrayed and animated, it adds to the film-noir type 
 atmosphere showing the high-artistic creativity of the game's creators, yet again making this a 
 very enjoyable experience for the player. The animations of the characters co-operates with the 
 dialogue making the characters seem more believable. Very flawless and a very unique concept!
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Yet again this game excels in its music department. The soundtrack is wonderfully composed to add 
 atmosphere or even convey the mood of whats happening. For example this can range from You found 
 a clue and its made you surprised! - Conveyed simply by a few semi-dissonant notes on a piano.
 
  
  Some laid back tunes and some quite upbeat ones too.... the music is mostly blues/jazz but some 
 of tracks have the most beautiful piano meledies - e. g The Menu Screen music!
  
  Random sounds like doors opening can actually be quite a satisfying sound! The sound or fanfare 
 for finding a clue really makes you feel rewarded.
  
  Basically, the music is as unique as the game's concept and design! Wonderfully wrote and implemented.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Generally this is a very unique game. It pulls off some new concepts and ideas but makes them feel 
 like they are something so familiar and easy to interact with, therefore making a truly original 
 and enjoyable experience.
  
  However the dialogue is very thick and in parts slow moving so some players may be put off by this. 
 Also the interactive puzzles are generally easy and alot of gamers will find theres no challenge 
 or depth in the gameplay side of the game.
  
  However you have to realise this game is a Interactive NOVEL. Your supposed to follow out 100% 
 to what an author conveys in his or her imagery, also therefore it is not really about your hardships 
 through process, but about the reader's determination to find the truth through following the story, 
 which is basically the main character's goal too.
  
  A cleverly implemented and truly different and fun experience. It really is in some ways a classic 
 in my eyes because of how unique it is, with proper press release it would have gotten this status 
 .
  
  In anycase this game is a must-own for those who have always loved mystery games or even novels, 
 been playing point and click adventure games since the Monkey island adventure series or those 
 who want to kick back and enjoy something new which wont force you to do something that every other 
 game has done before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning of the DS' life, there was an unusual game, known as Another Code: Two Memories, 
 otherwise known in the US as Trace Memory. This game revived a genre that without the DS' intervention 
 was almost dead. The adventure game. Popular examples are Sam &amp; Max, and Monkey Island series. 
 Lucasarts announced those games were no longer popular and that the Star Wars franchise was bringing 
 in the most revenue, so they decided to make more of them, and no adventure games. Many screamed. 
 Then Cing made Another Code: Two Memories, and things picked up.
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 takes a different, yet similar path. One thing you'll notice instantaniously 
 is that you hold the DS in notebook style. The fact that the DS supports capabilities to do this 
 is something no less than remarkable. However, its the game design that really gets your attention. 
 While there is colour, there's also a distinct noir aspect to the game, which really adds to the 
 game's dark tone.
  
  You take on the role of Kyle Hyde. He is a disgraced detective who was let go after an incident 
 with his partner, Bradley. During which, he shot him, though his body was never recovered. Three 
 years later, Kyle's still convinced that Bradley's still alive. He now works as a salesman. He 
 gets a job to go to Hotel Dusk, but as he comes to realise, he may step closer to the truth by 
 going to this hotel, than he has ever come before.
  
  The game's interface is highly detailed. Using the touchscreen to navigate through a basic map, 
 you can see yourself moving on the other screen in full 3D, and these environments are highly detailed. 
 This makes navigating through the hotel never a chore. The fact the hotel isn't too big also helps 
 in this factor, since there is a bit of revisiting to do. There are features to help players with 
 characters, items and indeed a notebook to keep notes in. Three pages may not be enough, since 
 you can only edit three, but you do get more clues in subsequent pages. You can't edit these, but 
 usually they're more important. Not only does it look great, but sounds great too. The jazz music 
 that plays really suits the noir tone the game has, and the use of sound effects really helps in 
 its presentation.
  
  The game is largely puzzle and conversation based. The characters really shine here, since their 
 shaded look really adds to the story, and the dialogue is so well written that you're gripped to 
 everything that is said. You get different questions to ask people and depending on what they say, 
 you could either have a breakthrough, or be chucked out of the hotel, or worse, killed. If the 
 negative response is used, it is usually indicated on the character. This isn't explained, but 
 you know it is a bad thing when it happens. One shortcoming is the lack of skipping certain bits 
 if you've already covered it and your choices were wrong. The dialogue doesn't quite move as quickly 
 as one would hope, but it is dialogue that's mostly relevant. The most important aspect of this 
 game, and indeed the most rewarding, is the various puzzles. You have those that involve logic, 
 the touch screen, and more unusual ones which use features that you'd be surprised you'll be using. 
 This makes it all the more special when you solve a difficult puzzle, as you feel more rewarded 
 for knowing your DS.
  
  The whole thing spans over around ten chapters, all spanning throughout different times. Sometimes, 
 the path is obvious, whereas sometimes the path was told to you three chapters before. The game 
 is a real test for your memory, and indeed logic. There are several red herrings, which impeed 
 your progess. The game should roughly take around 10-20 hours for those with a brilliant brain, 
 but longer for those who struggle with logic problems. There are secrets within the game, but they 
 shouldn't be too difficult to figure out.
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 makes many improvements on Cing's last effort, and uses the DS in unusual 
 ways that you really wouldn't have thought possible. The game rewards those who do well with a 
 decent plot, marvelous art style and an experience that shouldn't be missed. It has minor problems, 
 but nothing that would disrupt your experience. While it's not a murder mystery, it might as well 
 be one, because it's gripping from start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whalehome
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is one of the DS games that is actually revolutionary and brings big honor to its name. 
 The touch screen is used very well for the minigames and writing notes to yourself. At first the 
 movement seems somewhat sluggish and clunky with how you hold the DS like a book. After the intial 
 2-3 minutes it seems almost unnatural to stop holding that way. The difficulty of this game varies 
 on how good you are at MYST, if you can pretty much get farther than the docks you can play this 
 game. If it does get too tricky just go to the forums to ask a direction or two, but I only had 
 to do that twice. Moving on, the tunes are pretty catchy and the graphics seem above par to other 
 DS games including some that are coming out now. The speaking and debating with the other Hotel 
 Dusk guest is intriguing but what really will suck you into this game is the plot. If you like 
 the Mario RPGs or Star Wars RPGs or even Shadow of Destiny, you'll love this game and the story 
 seems to really play off you and possibly even your emotions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Since I've finished Trace Memory, I've been longing for another game similar to that. It was so 
 innovative, it used all the DS properties possible (the touch screen, the microphone, and etc.) 
 and it was a very well constructed adventure-puzzle game, with a very interesting story, and filled 
 with mystery... And then comes Hotel Dusk: Room 215 of the same developers with all that and more! 
 It also is rumble pack compatible and it is longer!
  You play as an ex-cop that is now a salesman with a mysterious past that is sent to this hotel 
 by his boss to pick up a package with some items, a client list and a list of objects he is supposed 
 to find for a client. When you arrive at the hotel and the more you talk to the people there the 
 more you learn that this hotel has a strange and mysterious history behind it.
  So you go through the story trying to complete the objectives of the work you were sent to do at 
 the same time you try deal with your own background which you are far from getting over it, and 
 with several other people staying at the hotel this same night, one more mysterious then the other. 
 And you also try to understand the fuss that is behind the history of this hotel.
  The graphics, the gameplay and the sound are fantastic! If you've liked Trace Memory, you'll love 
 this one. If you've loved this one, try playing Trace Memory too.
  This is definitely a game everybody should at least try because it's very different and interesting! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arline6
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  If you play Trace Memory, try play Hotel Dusk. The gameplay is like Trace Memory. There is more 
 plots in this game. Between Trace Memory and Hotel Dusk is more chapters and more characters ro 
 interact. The graphics and music goes well with the premise of the story. The same asTrace Memory 
 but different endiings depends how you play the game. Totally a classic murder mystery. If you 
 like muder mystery this game is for you. It may time to get use the controls but all control by 
 your stylus. Your DS is sideways like a book or novel. You play the main character Kyle Hyde who 
 is looking for answer why his former parnter betray him. You find the Hotel Dusk is full of secrets 
 that is dark and gritty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citanes26
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  With numerous other player reviews and a very good official review, I'll skip the redundant banter 
 about the characters and plot and just throw out my two cents.
  
  The good:
  A long, well thought out and very well written story is brought to life by characters with layer 
 after layer of personality and their own hidden agendas and secrets, background music that really 
 sets the mood (especially the piano bits when you stumble onto something) and it's not overcrowded 
 with meticulous micro-management. The whole game can be played with the stylus, but in longer conversations 
 the R button comes in handy to progress the text, freeing your other hand to hold your coffee or 
 make supper or what have you. If you enjoy a good film noir style mystery you'll find this game 
 very hard to put down.
  
  The bad:
  Let's face it, your average teen that the rating sticker proudly declares is of suitable maturity 
 to play this game probably won't. The story could have been a little richer with more thematic 
 elements and some slightly coarser language, but that's just my taste. The animations, although 
 good, get repetitive, especially the way Hyde keeps lifting his head in that silly circular fashion 
 when he's listening to someone. Some question sessions are especially touchy, and it's not always 
 easy to pinpoint what you said or did wrong to get a game over.
  
  I found this game to be a refreshing break from my normal diet of RPGs and a very welcome addition 
 to the library of a system plagued by game after stupid game featuring collectible monsters. I 
 hope there's more like this to come.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidComputer
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  It gets too old plot wise... you would not want to play it again. I think it would be smarter if 
 you could use weapons. Also They should make it have more of a Pheonix wright Ace Attourney theme. 
 Most games that are fun you want to be able to play where you left of or beat it again. With this 
 game thats impossible. If you really want a mystery buy a book or movie. Dont spend Over 60 dollars 
 on one. Cing's games arnt really poopular, I think this was one of their better games compared 
 to trace memory...... It was a fair game, for Cing it was one of their bests but then again they 
 have not really made some good ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-j
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game shows just how great the ds can be. It takes an old concept (point and click adventures) 
 but uses the ds to make it feel fresh. I found the control to be fluid and fun, and the writing 
 actually had me caring about these cut out characters. I did find the pacing to be a little slow 
 at some points and I disliked the fact that you had to sit through the same conversations again 
 if you answered incorrectly, it would of been nice to have a skip feature. otherwise this is an 
 excellent game and I would recommend it to anyone with a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACbomber
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  First off, it is important that you understand that this game is literally an interactive novel. 
 Expect to spend most of your time reading. The gameplay was quite intuitive, they decided to rotate 
 the display to being sideways, which was proper for this game. Also, they added this notebook feature, 
 which wasnt too useful to me, but could serve as a reminder of where you're at and what's next, 
 especially when you end a playing session. The puzzles were mostly easy, but some were frustrating; 
 I must admit, Im not a big puzzle fan, so I was casually on a gamefaq to avoid any of these frustrations. 
 The graphics were excellent and bare bone at the time, but overall, they werent a problem. That 
 is to say, they mixed 2D and 3D. In the 2D, they had this animation technique that made them look 
 like they were alive. This technique looked more believable that most 3D games out there. On the 
 other hand, the 3D was sufficient to understand that a book, was a book, and that a car, was a 
 car, but it doesnt go any further than that. That is to say, the graphics had low polygon counts 
 and the textures were poor. But overall, this was but a detail, and it didnt get in the way of 
 the storyline.
  
  The sound was good, but sometimes it got annoying, just like gamespot said. The main song that 
 holds you through the game can seem a bit elivator-ish.
  
  As for the Value of the game, I must say that just like any other novel, once you're done, you're 
 done. Once you've finished the game, you can redo the game a second time, but you wont get much 
 more than a few Changed lines. On the other hand, it will take you approximately 30-40 hours to 
 get through the first time, so you've got you're money's worth.
  
  NOW, where the game stands out, is its story. The story brings many, many mysteries on the table. 
 Many problems come out through the first few chapters, and during the last chapters, all you get 
 is a Series of twists and revelations that make everything come together. It's very satisfying. 
 Although there are a few plots that didnt get solved, but that may be because I forgot to do a 
 few things with certain characters (this is a motivation to go through it a second time...) .
  
  Overall, for any person looking for a great story filled with mysteries and twists, this is 
 the game/novel for you. Excellent work, I look forward to this developers next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This Game isn't for everyone, which is why in fact I am surprised that it has received such a high 
 Reader Review Score. The best way to describe this game is Interactive Novel . The game involves 
 lots of walking around and sorting of hundreds of lines of dialog, with a few simple puzzles thrown 
 in every once in awhile to solve cleverly using your DS.
  
  + The Story is Grade A, very interesting and makes you want to find out more. Each character is 
 also very unique and interesting.
  
  + Very original style with the pencil drawn characters
  
  - Story is very far fetched, they 
 all managed to be in the hotel at the same time?
  
  - Game needed more puzzles, and also more difficult puzzles
  
  - Music gets very very repetative 
 after a while
  
  - Small game environment, you spend hours walking around the same 10 rooms
  
  If you are into 
 adventure games, or like mystery novels, you should definately buy Hotel Dusk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is one heck of a splendid game.
  
  it combines a great story, believable and intriguing characters, with smart gameplay and smooth 
 animated graphics to really steal your attention and time. you'll find your trip to Hotel Dusk 
 really pleasant and will be one that you wont forget for quite a long time.
  
  the good of Hotel Dusk:
  a lengthy and great story, wonderful cast of characters, slick graphics, 
 interesting problem solving puzzles, immersive atmosphere, great gameplay that doesnt leave you 
 bored or hanging
  
  the bad of Hotel Dusk:
  poor replay value, a bit too much text to read at times, linear gameplay
  
  overall, its one 
 of the best adventure games released for awhile and if you do enjoy a good adventure game with 
 a good story, you cant go wrong with Hotel Dusk. but if you're into lots of action and not into 
 text driven and problem solving gameplay, you might want to rent it first. but dont miss it, its 
 really very worth a try by all means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Fantastic visuals. Huge cast of likable characters. Intriguing story with well written 
 dialogue.
  
  THE BAD: Puzzles and clues are sometimes overly vague. Traveling around the hotel can be tedious.
 
  
  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is a smart and mysterious caper that proves looks can be deceiving.
  
 
  GAMEPLAY is excellent. Former NYPD officer, Kyle Hyde, is on a mission to find his missing partner. 
 On his journey, he arrives at Hotel Dusk where he meets a cast of peculiar strangers -- all with 
 secrets they want hidden. However, investigating the dilapidated hotel and interrogating its inhabitants 
 will lead Hyde one step closer to discovering the truth.
  
  The mechanics are simple. Holding the DS like a notepad, allows for full use of the touch screen 
 and stylus. Tapping on objects will zoom in for a closer look often leading to a puzzle. Doing 
 or asking things a normal person would not do ends the game, so always think before acting.
  
  GRAPHICS are superb. The character designs are sharp and artistic. When in color, the characters 
 are truly brought to life. The 3D environments, (though not as impressive) create a suspenseful 
 atmosphere perfect for a sleuthing game such as this.
  
  SOUND is outstanding. The music in Hotel Dusk changes with the story. Things will be happy-go-lucky 
 one minute, but catastrophic the next. The sound effects are also top notch from the noise of a 
 door slamming shut to the sound of footsteps walking away. VALUE is good. Exploring Hotel Dusk 
 is quite lengthy taking approximately 15-18 hours to complete. Its save system allows for convenient 
 quick sessions and it does not sadistically punish mistakes. Unfortunately, even though the journey 
 is an amazing one, it is hard to imagine returning to the madness for a second helping.
  
  OVERALL Hotel Dusk: Room 215 does a lot of things right. It keeps the player engrossed and in the 
 dark up to the dramatic conclusion. And although feelings of frustration can arise, there is a 
 lot of entertainment and satisfaction in solving the mystery. Hotel Dusk is simply a one of kind 
 experience any DS owner should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justdarth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk: Room 215 is a great throwback to the adventure games of the mid-90's. This is NOT a 
 first-person shooter, nor is it a cartoony kid's game like Mario.... It reminded me of the Tex 
 Murphy or Gabriel Knight series: It's dark, brooding, but also with some humorous bits. The puzzles 
 are original and interactivity. The only reason I didn't give this a 10 is because sometimes the 
 music is repetitive and the sound played to acknowledge you have hit a button is annoying. I have 
 missed adventure games and I hope they make a sequel (instead of more Elite Beat Agents) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  It is hard to criticize something as a game when it is not really a game in the traditional sense. 
 I find Hotel Dusk: Room 215 to be more of an interactive novel than a video game of any genre. 
 It is extremely text heavy with very few and basic gameplay elements in between.
  
  You play as Kyle Hyde, who is an ex-cop from New York and has taken on the job of being a door 
 to door salesman. His long time partner betrayed him and the police force, and Hyde has made a 
 personal commitment to finding his lost partner so he can learn the truth behind his betrayal. Hydes 
 job brings him to Hotel Dusk, located somewhere in Nevada, and he has no clue that this old run 
 down hotel is about to change his and many other lives forever. The entire story takes place in 
 this hotel, and you will talk to and interact with all the guests of the hotel many times over 
 before the story reaches a conclusion. There are about five guests and three people who work at 
 the hotel, and through a great script, you will learn all of these characters have their own stories 
 and mysterious secrets that coincidentally connect with one another and ultimately to Kyle Hyde. 
 This truly works very well as an interactive mystery novel. The overall presentation is what really 
 stands out beyond anything else. You have to hold the DS so that the screens are horizontal, like 
 a book. In conversation sequences, Kyle Hyde will be on the left, with his speech text on the bottom 
 of his screen, and the person he is talking to is on the right, with their speech text on the bottom 
 of their screen. All of the characters are drawn and illustrated by hand, and so animate in such 
 a way that one would not find in other games. As each character talks, they animate accordingly, 
 which makes following along with the story much more interesting than just reading a standard book. 
 Of course, you dont just read through text while talking to people. Kyle Hyde will always have 
 new questions to ask, and you select which ones to ask. Other times you will have to present items 
 to characters, and other times, you will have to interrogate characters to force them to spill 
 their inner most secrets. In terms of actual gameplay, you will be walking around the hotel, examining 
 the areas for clues, or solving puzzles. Everything will require the stylus, and some of the puzzles 
 are quite interesting due to the fact that you have to use the stylus in unique ways. Examining 
 objects just requires you to touch them with the stylus. A couple of the puzzles are difficult, 
 but the majority of them are extremely basic and easy. I have to hand it to the localization team. 
 The writing is absolutely superb. The entire story has a film Noir presentation to it, and the 
 writing follows along those lines with precision. Even the slang used by the characters are properly 
 used and not overdone. I had a great time reading it, and none of it was boring filler material 
 used to just extend the length of the story. Towards the end of each conversation, you get a pretty 
 good idea of what you have to do next, and since the hotel is rather small, getting stuck in any 
 one part is hard.
  
  Then there is the music. I did not expect the music to be so well produced. Each character has 
 their respective theme song, and the music will dynamically change with the seriousness of the 
 situation at hand. It felt so right, and there came a moment late in the game where I can listen 
 to the soundtrack, which is when I realized how great the music really is. You may not get it at 
 first, but once things get rolling, you will start to appreciate the music. Notice how I used the 
 word story to replace game throughout my review. This was done on purpose because I strongly 
 feel that Hotel Dusk should not be categorized as only a game. Sure, there is plenty of interactivity, 
 but you will be spending most of your time reading. This makes it impossible for me to recommend 
 to anyone who just wants to play the game and not read it. There is no way to skip through the 
 text, let alone the fact that you cannot even speed it up through the first time reading any of 
 it. For those interested in something new, like an interactive novel, or those who like point and 
 click adventure games, this is definitely worth checking out. Hotel Dusk: Room 215 delivers on 
 everything that it was designed to do, and should not be overlooked just because it is a book more 
 than it is a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiloD
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  its a game that you should to paid attention to some details... someone are important and if you 
 dont.... you gonna moving around a ll the time cuz you move back on the lyrics... you need to use 
 the notebook frequently to remind something... its look like a story... but a book story... flashback 
 think about the past... the bad of the game is you cant read back the lyrics when you talked to 
 a person... sometime dont remenber what the person said and you searching a lot and for a long time..... sometime 
 is boring but you still searching cuz you want to know... and some subject are boring too and did 
 things are not interesting.... but still a good game and good mini puzzle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritOf
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Or at least that's what I've been told.
  
  Hotel Dusk is a point and click adventure done in a gumshoe-noirish style for the DS that, when 
 it's hitting on all cylinders, is a real joy to play. When it isn't, it may just lull you to sleep.
 
  
  You play the game as Kyle Hyde, a door-to-door salesman with a secret. That secret being that Kyle 
 is actually an ex-NYPD detective hunting for clues about his possibly dead, most likely dirty, 
 ex-partner Bradley. The clues have lead Kyle to Hotel Dusk , a hotel seemingly in the middle of 
 nowhere where every room is a mystery and where every resident (also) has a secret. Eventually 
 plots and characters collide and the ultimate mystery case is (kinda) cracked.
  
  The controls consist of using the touch screen to drag Kyle thru an overhead map, a map which is 
 also displayed on the top screen in a 3D representation. Cues will light up on the touch screen 
 letting you know that there are items of interest for you look at. Touching this cue will allow 
 you to touch (examine) those items in the 3D environment. Touching items can also lead to the activation 
 of puzzles along the way, which in turn will unlock progression thru the game's plot. The other 
 play mechanic involves conversations with all the other NPCs in the game. These conversations are 
 also intended to move the plot along with a series of Q&amp; As.
  
  One of Hotel Dusk's biggest pluses has to be it's overall presentation. This is a game that, quite 
 simply, could not be done with as much style on any other system outside of a PC and mouse. The 
 game really embraces the unique features of the DS and integrates them into Hotel Dusk in interesting 
 ways. Everything from the touch screen, to the mic, even to the systems sleep function are used, 
 with one or two moments along the way that are simple yet brilliant. I also have to give major 
 kudos to the localization work done on Hotel Dusk. This is easily one of the best translations 
 of any game, ever, and the tone of the conversations is perfect. It absolutely captures the noir 
 vibe that it's going for.
  
  With that said, Hotel Dusk ended up feeling a bit lesser than the sum of its parts. Puzzles can 
 be interesting, but are few and far between, and for the most part the most logical solution will 
 likely serve you well. The game also has a very bad habit of holding your hand. Conversations with 
 others end up being nothing more than the game telling to go *here* and do *that* . The herding 
 in this game really makes it feel that there are very few moments where the actions were having 
 any real consequence on the ultimate outcome of the game. The only real way to prematurely end 
 the game is by asking the wrong questions during conversations, and it seems like the only way 
 to ask the wrong questions is by being a jerk, hence blunting the challenge quite a bit. I also 
 felt like the conversations versus puzzles ratio could have used a bit more balancing. Conversations 
 are dominant in this game and conversations are teeth grindingly long too. So long that the pacing 
 of the story is pretty much ruined. This game and story are REALLY lacking in the big moments department 
 because when they do arrive the pacing lets you see them coming from a million miles away. Add 
 in that the actual plot isn't really all that engaging, and I found myself doing quite a bit of 
 yawning and experiencing a lot of so what moments as the NPC secrets are revealed. I also have 
 to knock a few points off because of Hotel Dusk's unforgiving, linear path. Once you've finished 
 the game there is really no reason at all to go back try it again because it's rigid plot gives 
 the game a big seen it once, seen it all thumbs down. In the end Hotel Dusk is a game that I really 
 wanted to love, and I'd be more than willing to give CING (or anyone really) a second chance, but 
 what's here is pretty hit or miss. It's fun for it's DS uniqueness, and it's a nice showpiece, 
 but that really wears off after only a couple of hours. The interactive story is fun, but decision 
 making is practically nonexistent, as is consequence for any of your actions. If they could tweak 
 the puzzle aspects, speed up the pacing, and even switch up the plot contents, I could see myself 
 having an absolute blast with this kind of game. Give me a Tom Clancy style espionage plot, but 
 with a Hotel Dusk interface, and branching paths and I am SO there. I could even get behind a sci-fi 
 story or even something along the lines of a Silent Hill or Resident Evil. But give me a Mickey 
 Spillane/Raymond Chandler/Dashiell Hammett gumshoe detective in a bland environment with a linear 
 path, straightforward plot, and simplistic puzzles and I tend to lose interest.
  
  Hotel Dusk, at its core, is definitely a unique experience for the DS platform, but the actual 
 game and plot are underwhelming when it's all said and done. Good for a rental, but I can't wholeheartedly 
 recommend it for purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Thanks to Cing, the developers of Hotel Dusk, the interactive storybook just got a whole lot more 
 entertaining. Hold on. Isn't this a game review I hear you ask? Well it's sort of both. You see, 
 the crux of Hotel Dusk is the story and the excellent cast of characters. To help with the storybook 
 feel you hold the DS sideways (like a book) and all the characters appear as pencil sketches. What 
 you end up with is an intriguing noir style mystery that will keep you hooked until the credits 
 roll. Cing have experience with this type of game as they developed Another Code: Two Memories. 
 The similarities between the two are evident the game as you will use your DS to solve all kinds 
 of puzzles where you have to use your general knowledge and 'think outside the square'. Hotel Dusk 
 takes a much more mature approach to the setting, characters and dialogue and is lighter on puzzles 
 and heavier on story. It's a good thing then that the story is an expertly crafted masterpiece. 
 The characters you'll meet are all extremely well written and will leave an impression on you for 
 quite some time. The dialogue is equally well written showing mature, intriguing and often-witty 
 conversations. Besides the odd 'where do I go next' syndrome and the slight lack of puzzles Hotel 
 dusk is a flawlessly executed adventure game. If you're an action junkie then you wont find what 
 you're after in hotel dusk but if you enjoy a good adventure game where the story is laid on thick 
 then you cant go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahpod42
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I have only played a few DS games, so I have a really hard time thinking of another game to compare 
 this one to. There are no action sequences in this gameno quick reflexes are required at all. 
 Most of your time will be spent reading the dialogue that takes place between you and other characters.
 
  
  First off, the entire story takes place in a run down two-story hotel during the late 70s. The 
 theme of the game is that it is a noir mystery where you spend your time combing the hotel for 
 clues and then using the clues to grill suspicious guests into spilling their story. At times, 
 this can be tedious. If youve played Metal Gear Solid, picture the parts of the game where Snake 
 had long drawn out dialogue with other characters over his communication equipment. Only, in Metal 
 Gear Solid you could keep hitting the button to skip through the dialogue to get back to the game, 
 while in Hotel Dusk, the dialogue IS the game.
  
  There are a few puzzles spread throughout the game, most of which are extremely easy, but a couple 
 were tough enough for me that I had to consult one of gamespots walkthroughsof course, I said 
 they were tough for me, so that may not be saying much.
  
  Im not saying this is a bad game. I actually enjoyed quite a bit of it, but most of the enjoyable 
 parts were in the latter portions of the game. I also thought it was pretty innovative that when 
 wandering the hotel, the touch screen is a top-down, 2d map of the area that you navigate with 
 the stylus, while the other screen shows you the first person view of what you are looking at.
 
  
  All in all, this was a pretty unique and decent game, but I cant see myself playing through it 
 more than once. I would really like to see another game of this type, but with a gothic horror 
 or Lovecraftian horror storyline. Also, I think a who-done-it murder mystery set in an old mansion, 
 ala Ten Little Indians, would also be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adventureseeker
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit this game lifted of pretty good but then it took an unexpected turn for the worst. 
 Too much talking Blah Blah Blah! Nobody cares! There were hardly any puzzles in it (expect for the 
 friggin rabbit puzzle) Wasnt even hard, took me less time than Rayman Raving Rabbids! (5 hours approx.) 
 The story turned out okay though. The graphics were good except for the hotel was to boring to 
 walk around in. All the rooms were the SAME! Only 10 chapters. The each have like there own language. 
 Alot of reading! Not for people who hate books. This game looks good but doesnt turn out good. 
 Dont get me wrong though there will be some people that love it. IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddrmaxchick
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Whoever said that a game like Okami only comes once a decade -- they were right. And when I say that 
 a game like Hotel Dusk: Room 215 only comes once a decade -- I'm right. But if you remember a while 
 back there was Trace Memory, but now we're getting sidetracked.
  
  This has got to be one the most endearing, engaging, head crunching, nail biting, amazing game 
 for the DS that I've ever played. Your name is Kyle Hyde and you're searching for your missing 
 partner, Bradley, and you end up at this hotel obviously called Hotel Dusk. You meet a various 
 cast of characters in the game who all have a story to tell. They're not perfect, but they're likable 
 and believable -- I can't think of one character that I didn't like. Anyway, the hotel has a vast 
 array of clues hidden for you to find. You might come across some puzzles that require a thinking 
 mind per-say.... Some are tricky, others are incredibly easy but enjoyable. Your job at Hotel Dusk 
 is to unravel the mystery of Bradley. You might call them sidequests if you will, but you end up 
 helping the other characters in some way that gives you a lead on Bradley. It's cool the way you 
 get to make choices in the game, which can either lead you closer to Bradley or to a complete Game 
 Over. Did I mention you can die? There are some increasingly funny moments in Hotel Dusk -- I admit 
 to actually laughing out loud. Kyle can be funny himself as well, though in a more sarcastic, rude 
 kind of way. But it's how rude he is that makes it so funny. Kyle's a serious guy on this serious 
 mission to find his... serious partner? That doesn't sound right. Anyway, the music in this game 
 is incredibly amazing! Okay, so it's not a live orchestra like in Dragon Quest 8, but it's real 
 music! It totally fits in with the game -- you come across some jazzy music and next you might go 
 into some interrogation music. Just as the music, the graphics are gorgeous! I like this style 
 but at times the gritty movements of their heads/bodies made me want to just die. It's not as bad 
 if you don't pay too much attention to it, but it might just depend on your mood. It definately 
 has that old 70's feel to it, I guess. The ol' finger phone, tv's with ears, a VCR, cassette tapes.... not 
 to mention the black n white character fill in's. This game is heavily text based, so if you absolutely 
 HATE reading, I suggest you take your unappreciative mind somewhere else.
  
  I had a great time playing this game, even when I could only have time to play around midnite or 
 in the morning before class. It's not often I come across a great game and actually beat it. If 
 you're still not convinced to go buy this game -- you're crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aero5555
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  My oh my how I love these adventure games. From the guys that brought us the sleeper hit Trace 
 Memory comes a game with such genius writing and a character-driven mystery plot, it could even 
 compete with a best seller mystery novel. It's been a long time since i've played a game with a 
 story that treats all its characters as having a reason of being in it other than just simple NPC 
 conversation ( and with a classic-noir setting to boot ! ) . It's December 28th 1979, you start 
 off the game arriving at Hotel Dusk while on a journey to find a long lost friend, and from the 
 moment you enter, you feel like you're in for a heck of a ride. If you've played Trace Memory you'll 
 be in familiar territory, the usual exploring and puzzle solving is here, but this time the puzzles 
 take a back seat and character conversations have the spot light. You'll have to go through alot 
 of long conversations ( which are brilliantly documented and paced) with the guests and staff of 
 the hotel, so be prepared for alot of reading, and they won't be simple conversations like in Trace 
 Memory where you just simply read to advance the story, but you'll also have to answer and ask 
 the right questions when prompted to in some situations or else you'll be lead to a Game Over screen 
 (kinda like Phoenix Wright but with only one chance) , while also doing unnecessary actions in game 
 could lead to a Game Over as well, this helps make the game even more enjoyable and fun to play 
 as it allows you to speculate and make assumptions, which ultimately leads to greater satisfaction 
 when something's accomplished and you could say that it makes the game feel longer.
  
  In the end, with such a unique setting, fantastic art, longer than average playing hours and a 
 story with more twists and turns than a best seller, I find it hard not to recommend this. If you 
 like Trace Memory or adventure games in general, definitely buy this. However, if you like your 
 games to have a bit more action in them, I strongly suggest you rent first or don't bother with 
 it altogether, because the story's pacing is as slow as a turtle and if you dunno what to do next 
 you'll get bored in minutes if not seconds, and as with all adventure games, replayability is at 
 a minimum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  To start it off I loved the story. A friend who dissapears, a ex L. A. cop looking for his friend, 
 a Hotel that's more suspicious then friday's caserole, man it's a classic mystery/detective novel. 
 The graphics are unique, everyone looks like a sketch you would see in a police notebook, this 
 gives the story that MYSTERY feeling, if ya know what I mean. The game is long and compelling, 
 you never know what will happen, one minute you're like I really don't care about this the next 
 minute you're like oh SNAP that can't be true, all the dialogue seems to always be connected, which 
 is good because it keeps you interested. There is ALOT of reading involved, it's almost like a 
 book, strange because you hold it like a notebook, that's not bad or anything, but this game does 
 have some real potential into becoming a book series. The puzzles in the game aren't very hard 
 but there are times where you will become frustrated on not knowing what to do., I HATE THAT DON'T 
 YOU! When walking around the hotel the camera seems a bit akward. I spend most of the time looking 
 at the map on the touch screen then looking at the first person view on the normal screen. Since 
 this game does take place in a hotel, be prepared for annoying repetitive hotel music. Alright 
 let's rap this up.
  
  Bottom Line: Although this game isn't flawless it's still pretty good, this is proabbly the only 
 story I have actually paid attention to. If you like mystery, solving puzzles, and a good story 
 you'll feel right at home with your DS on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff16950_demon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, I'll admit that, but it just seems more like a book than anything else. It 
 is a fantastic game-erm, story that is. This does suck you in and make you want more form the game, 
 but once you reach the end-thats it. The end, game over. I can't see any replay value in this in 
 anyway I look at it, unless that is if you're addicted to the matchstick puzzles and like the comical 
 thoughts Kyle has when he looks at Mr. Summers. Heres a small crackdown:
  
  Game play- aside from touching to screen to walk to a place, tapping to make the text continue, 
 and solving a few minor puzzles and tiny (TINY) mini games, there really isn't much game play here. 
 I mean, besides from what i mentioned, sometimes it required you to bend an object, fix a puzzle, 
 flip a switch, peel off a wine label and a few other things. Those things only happen to last a 
 matter of seconds, and in my opinion, would've meant more if they lasted longer, even if it was 
 a tiny bit longer.
  
  Story- the story is great. You will want to know what happens next, thats for sure. The story does 
 have TONS of plot twists to it, so when you think you've figured it out, watch out. Something will 
 twist, oh yeah, it'll twist more than a persons nips in an S&amp; M club. Oh yeah, i went there. 
 Believe it baby. Value- I don't really know what to say. The game does have a great value story 
 wise, but like I said, it's like a book. Once you read it, whats the point, right? That about sums 
 it up. In conclusion, it's a good game, but if it were 'ported' to a book, there wouldn't be much 
 difference, that is if the book included pictures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great plot, Mysterious characters, and is enjoyable... well it lasts. I found this 
 game to be very short and once your done it you find yourself bringing it to EB Games and trading 
 it in. But it still is worth the pick up you won't regret it you will not be able to put it down. 
 The story is that of a award winning mystery novel and the gameplay is fun and really makes you 
 feel like your in the hotel and you really know the people. Though there is alot of reading there 
 are alot of puzzles that make this a game and actually extremely enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soadnick947
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk does what other point-and-click adventure games try to capture, a satisfying storyline 
 that keeps the game going. Hotel Dusk does just that...
  
  So, you play as Kyle Hyde, an ex-cop for the LA PD. He got axed from his previous job from shooting 
 his partner and best friend, Bradley (as the opening sequence cuts in) . Kyle is now a door-to-door 
 salesman, but gets a call from his boss to investigate Hotel Dusk.
  
  Now, this game focuses on the dialogue that ensures and not as much on the puzzle solving. Whether 
 or not this sounds engaging to you is really based on your taste, but believe me, you will really 
 appreciate the story when it starts to pick up. As far as puzzles, they are about what you'd expect 
 from an adventure game of this type, but done a lot more logically than most. For me, this is one 
 of my first adventure games, so I needed a walk-through (strategy guide) , but I'm sure if you have 
 played this type of games before, you should be able to figure out the puzzles and where to go 
 easily because the game lays them out mostly really well. Also, it uses the DS's innovative features 
 such as closing the DS to perform CPR (heh, censored) that just wouldn't be captured on any other 
 platform.
  
  Because the game focuses on story instead of gameplay, you need the characters. The characters 
 in this game perfectly complement the story. Kyle Hyde is an extremely likable character, with 
 his down-and-dirty sense of humor and manners. Of course, when you think about it, how is it that 
 all these people have something in common. As you go through about roughly half the game, you stop 
 and think, man, what a coincidence that so-and-so was knew so-and-so to do so-and-so . But, as 
 the story finishes up, the game has one of the best climaxes and resolutions I've ever played (allowing 
 multiple endings so I hear, but you probably won't want to rip through the whole game to see the 
 alternate ending scene, either) .
  
  Which would be quite understandable for anyone who has a life outside of playing video games, because 
 the game is a monster of a game. And to think, this is all squeezed onto a Nintendo DS cart. Amazing!
 
  
  The game's graphics do an awesome job of stringing together those all-important characters I mentioned 
 earlier. I know the graphics are always being compared to the Ah-Ha music video Take on Me , but 
 that is a really awesome art style to be compared to. The right screen is a basic top-down view 
 and the left screen is the 3D counterpart. This is just one way this game wouldn't have been as 
 good as something like the PC. Even if the 3D display does get murky in some spots, does it really 
 matter when you've got the perfect solution on the right-hand screen?
  
  The game has a good soundtrack. It comes with a bunch of tunes that jazzes up the game, but the 
 tracks are limited. I know this is only the DS cartridge that may be preventing this, but after 
 you've gotten deep into Hotel Dusk, the soundtrack may wear thin on you because you know when so-and-so 
 track is played so-and-so happens.
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed this game. It twists a really engaging story into a game that can't be 
 otherwise described as great. I recommend this game to anyone who likes point-and-click adventures 
 or to anyone who is looking for a good read and slow-paced experience. Hotel Dusk satisfies the 
 detective in all of us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turboking005
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Wow! This game is amazing! Please rate my Review fairly! Here's what I think about it:
  
  Gameplay: You coulden't ask for more! The puzzles, amazing Mystery Story, all that! All though 
 they talk to much in this game.
  
  Graphics: That Boxart is a masterpiece!
  
  Sound: Sweet! The sound of doors shuting makes it realistic!
  
  Value: This is the only DS 
 game I played until I completed it!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I rate it a ten!
  
  Difficulty: Very hard! I had to look at the FAQs almost the whole game or go on the forums! (I 
 didn't need the FAQs or Forums for the first few chapters)
  
  Time Spent Playing: It shows you, and I spent between 20 to 40 hours completing all of the 11 or 
 10 chapters.
  
  Learning Curve: Umm.. Probaley about 2 to 4 hours.
  
  This game is a Masterpiece! I highly recommend this game to you! And I like the way it's like a 
 book and how you hold the DS like a book. Once again, please rate my Review fairly. Thanks for 
 reading my Review on Hotel Dusk: Room 215! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borfina
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is another adventure game brought to the DS by Nintendo and Cing (both makers of Trace 
 Memory) . The puzzles brought to the table this time around are slightly more challenging and equally 
 as fun.
  
  You play as former detective turned salesman/recovery agent Kyle Hyde who is sent to Hotel Dusk 
 to retrieve a couple of items. In the midst of finding them, you find yourself digging up the troubled 
 past and connecting the dots between the hotel and yourself.
  
  This is a basic modern mystery: the main character wants to find his treacherous former partner 
 and get answers to his questions. A rather film noir plot but very fitting to a detective story. 
 However, it is not the basis of the story but the execution that immerses players. The plot twists 
 you've come to expect from the mystery genre do not fail to capture the imagination.
  
  For those players not looking for a good story: this is not the game for you. There is a lot of 
 dialog exchanged, and it's all text. For those undaunted by words: this is an excellent addition 
 to any adventure gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f8al13
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so we have Hotel Dusk here and well I wasn't impressed very much by it. I thought that there 
 would be alot more puzzle solving than bassically just finding someone and talking. It was extremely 
 boring and has no re-play value. All though the graphics are very good with the people being black 
 which was nice but the surroundings were just to dull and boring for me. The sound was alright 
 just alright nothing more nothing less. If you're a man of action ( like me) I highly recommend 
 you pass on this game. Other wise for people who like a good mystery story this game is what you've 
 been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuckSol
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I had to do the cheap Hotel California intro... atr least it's different than everyone and their 
 mom talking about how the game looks like A-Ha's Take On Me video.
  
  It's actually this graphical style that gives Hotel Dusk it's unique look. The game is played while 
 holding your DS like a book (similar to Brain Age) where the drawn characters will have their conversations. 
 While there is a 3D, first-person view used for exploration of the hotel and for looking for clues, 
 you'll spend most of the time talking to people and using the stylus to select the types of questions 
 to be asked.
  
  While graphically it's not great, it gets the job done because the main selling point to this game 
 is the story. I'ts about Kyle Hyde, a former NYPD detective on the hunt for someone who he believes 
 is still alive while working as a travelling salesman. He enters Hotel Dusk and runs into a variety 
 of characters who unknowingly help unravel the mystery of this mysterious person he's looking for. 
 Now the story takes some time to get into, as it drags in the beginning. It's ok in a way because 
 it sets up everything for later, but I wish it didn't feel like such a chore to get through.
  
  I can't say more, but I will say the characters range from good to annoying. The story delivers 
 nicely and at the end puts all the pieces together, except there is some dangling loose ends that 
 I suspect will be answered when I play the game again.
  
  You see the questions you ask steer the story into a few different branches... so there's multiple 
 endings. This means there is some replay value to the game, which is quite a feet in itself since 
 once you're done with a point-and-click adventure there really isn't much of a reason to replay 
 it.
  
  The game delivers as a point-and-click adventure because of it's presentation, it's story, and 
 how it uses the DS to solve it's unique puzzles. I highly recommend this game for fans of point-and-click 
 adventure, interactive novels, or for people that want to try something different. If you're curious 
 about it, I'd still suggest getting the game and opening your mind to a type of game, that unfortunately, 
 you just don't see anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishzone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  If you are just a straight forward shoot em up or platform lover, then this game is not for you. 
 But If you want a totally new experience in gaming, then by all means, play this game. The Film-noir 
 esque game is almost entirely text driven, and you need to pay attention to what is said, and you 
 need to mind your manners too, because if not, it's hello highway. Kyle Hyde, a former cop from 
 NYC turned Salesman comes to this shoddy hotel in search for his former partner, Brian Bradley. 
 The events that unfold in Hotel Dusk leads Kyle on his search for his partner, and opens up many 
 other mysteries of the people staying at this mysterious hotel. One wrong action or phrase and 
 you get the bum's rush. Now, granted you only have to repeat from the nearest checkpoint, or save 
 point, but some things can get frustrating if you're not sure what to do. Some of the quests are 
 very fun, one in particular is the one where you have to put a puzzle together, and then flip it 
 over to read what is on the back. All in all this is a really great game that I cannot put down 
 to save my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael754
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk: Room 215. From the guys who brought us Trace Memory, one of the older DS titles, Cing 
 pulls off a simply superb DS adventure. Hotel Dusk can be described as an interactive novel, and 
 what an amazing interactive novel it is. From start to finish, Hotel Dusk (Which will now go by 
 HD) is a story of mystery, lies, and betrayal.
  
  In HD you play a guy named Kyle Hyde, a former NYPD officer in his 30s who now works as a traveling 
 salesman for a company called the Red Crown. Besides going around selling junk people don't want, 
 Kyle also works in a side business ran by his boss Ed, finding things their clients can't. This 
 brings Kyle to Hotel Dusk in December of 1979.
  
  However, there's more then this. In the introduction we find out about a guy named Brian Bradley 
 (who goes by Bradley in game) , Bradley is Kyle's former partner from the NYPD, however he has been 
 missing for the past three years, Kyle has memories of shooting Bradley into the water, however, 
 he sill believes he is alive. Throughout Hotel Dusk you will wonder why Kyle made that shot, and 
 why he must find Bradley.
  
  Upon entering Hotel Dusk, Kyle will meet quite a couple of very interesting characters. At first 
 they'll all look rather normal, but it doesn't take long to realize not everyone is what they first 
 appear to be. HD balances out the timelines for character development very well. It won't be as 
 if you know every secret about everyone ten minutes after talking to them for the first time. The 
 game will only allow you to learn a bit about them at first, but over time they are tied into the 
 story, this not only boosts the character department, but aids the story very well.
  
  As a detective, naturally you ask questions, and search for clues. That is basically what HD is 
 all about. You will search every little corner of the nicely sized hotel for information and items 
 you need. Then you ask people these questions to progress the story. This all sounds rather simple, 
 but it is actually rather difficult.
  
  Searching is set out nicely, a little button on the bottom of your touch screen will flash when 
 you're near an area you can check out, simply tap it. Then by using either a little scroll bar 
 or the control pad, you can look around the area. Find something you want to check out, and double 
 tap it. You will either then receive the item, or get a description on it. What makes it a bit 
 more difficult though, is there's a lot of items you can search. It's not just a couple of items 
 through out the hotel. It's more like a five areas in each of the rooms, with about four items 
 in each of he numerous areas. If you don't know where you need to go, this can prove annoyingly 
 frustrating.
  
  Asking, and finding questions isn't too difficult. When talking to characters, Kyle may think of 
 a question from the things they say, you will then have to choose one of normally multiple questions 
 available to ask, later on in the game you will usually have to pick one of two choices a bit after 
 asking the question, depending on whether you say the right or wrong thing, you may get a game 
 over. Also, you can use items in your inventory, these can help progress the conversation or bring 
 out some secrets of the person you're talking to.
  
  Puzzles are nice in the game. Some are difficult, but after you complete them you'll figure out 
 it's easier then you thought, you just have to think for a minute and you'll usually be able to 
 get it. Puzzles often use items found in the game, though sometimes you just need your trusty stylus.
 
  
  When playing HD, you hold the DS sideways, like a book. This is also done in Brain Age. From there 
 you see the two screens (obviously) . When walking around and everything, the touch screen will 
 be an overhead map, while the main screen is a 3D view of what Kyle sees. When taking to people, 
 Kyle will normally appear on the main screen, while the other person is on the touch screen. There's 
 always some buttons in the bottom corner of the Touch Screen. These are: A door, person, notebook, 
 and magnifying glass. They'll flash when you can use them.
  
  On the overhead map, you control Kyle with the touchscreen. Simply drag the stylus along the map 
 and Kyle will move there, it works very well, I haven't really found a problem with this at all. 
 As said earlier, when investigating. The same works for the door, you can either double tap the 
 doorknob to open the door, or double tap the door itself to knock on it.
  
  The graphics of HD can divided into two part. Conversation graphics, and well, non conversation 
 graphics. When talking to people the graphics are simply beautiful. The characters are drawn out 
 in black and white, although they still move, it looks brilliant. They also feature a large amounts 
 of expressions, so they're not always in the same position. Along with this, a background image 
 of the room is featured, which is a nice addition.
  
  Outside of conversation, the graphics are still pretty nice. The touch screen map is done well, 
 with clearly marked characters, doors, and other items. The 3D map is where the problems come though. 
 For the most part it looks great, however there are two little things that could be better. When 
 you walk up really close to a wall, it just looks all bad and messed up. It's like taking a picture 
 off of the internet, and zooming up on it with MS Paint. It doesn't look right. Also, the characters 
 are bad looking. They suffer the same was as the close up walls, and they don't look good on the 
 3D background.
  
  The music on HD is great. A lot of it is some jazzy sounding stuff, it all sounds pretty nice. 
 The piano music especially is beautiful. There's a pretty large soundtrack too, which can be listened 
 to during certain chapters thanks to a music player. Sound effects are generally nice too. One 
 thing HD is missing though is voice acting, although this is expected due to the mountains of text, 
 so no real problem there.
  
  This game is hard, to put it simple. Unless you use a guide you will often find yourself wandering 
 the halls and knocking on doors. HD does not give you a list of things you have to do in the chapter, 
 so there's going to be trial and error at times, especially when figuring out what to use for puzzles. 
 Later in the game, it's easier to get game over too. Being seen by a wrong person can cause this, 
 and even asking just one wrong question. However I personally don't mind this, and I feel it adds 
 to the challenge, in a good way.
  
  Replay value is actually quite nice. HD offers a New Game Plus sort of thing, where you just continue 
 your file after finishing the game. You'll go back to the start of the game, only it will be slightly 
 different. Some rooms you couldn't reach before will be accessible in this time through. And the 
 dialogue and items can change a bit. Also, HD has multiple endings, so if you want to get them 
 all you'll have to play again.
  
  Overall, Hotel Dusk is a simply excellent game, and I highly recommend everyone to buy this. It 
 will take you about 15 hours your first time through, however as I said, the reply value will want 
 you to keep playing this excellent mystery adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maynardtheman
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Hotel dusk is an immersive story about the unraveling mystery of Kyle Hyde's missing former partner 
 in the LAPD who took a crooked turn before disappearing. Hyde, now off the force himself, is working 
 for Red Crown as a door to door salesman. Sent to Hotel Dusk to find a few items that don't want 
 to be found, the story quickly unfolds into a mystery full of surprising twists. As the hint begins 
 to fall that the guests of the hotel may all have ties to each other, the story is only just beginning 
 to unfold
  
  The well written dialog of the story indicates that the game was designed around the story. Elements 
 flow together well, more like a good novel than a video game. If you are picking up Hotel Dusk 
 of the shelf expecting a game, I am afraid you are gong to be sorely disappointed. Instead you 
 may have uncovered a new medium riding on the wings of the Nintendo DS system, a digital novel. 
 There is more time reading and dialoging with characters than playing the game, so I think the 
 game is misrepresented as a video game. If the title did not have such a well written story, it 
 would surely be a complete failure. However, if you like a good story, Hotel Dusk is a good balance 
 of an excellent storyline, good character illustration work, and a playful three dimensional visualization.
 
  
  Developer Cing should also be praised for its work of normalization for the US market. I don't 
 know what language the dialog was first written in, but assuming it is a translation to English, 
 it is a very good translation. The language is colorful and expressive, lacking any grammar problems, 
 and written in a very natural English tone. Each character has its own voice and personality - 
 perfectly carried in the dialog and illustrations alone, since there is no spoken dialog in the 
 game.
  
  If you enjoy a good story, and haven't picked up an old fashioned paperback book in a while, Hotel 
 Dusk is for you. Just remember to expect a digital book experience and not button mashing game 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serenityveteran
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  I brought my wife a DS Lite for Christmas and found absolutely no interest in playing on it myself, 
 until...
  This deliberately slow-paced adventure plays like a graphic novel. Held sideways like a book, I 
 found myself reminiscing on the old choose your own adventure books I read as a kid (in fact, this 
 would be an ideal format for any project in the future) .
  You play Kyle Hyde, an ex-detective who now works as an traveling salesman who also moonlights 
 as a man who can find lost items. This device is a bit useless , since it makes him sound like 
 a guy who finds a kids lost toy from a vacation, or something... anyhoo...
  Unable to shrug his cop hunches and natural inclination to snoop, you as Hyde, must prowl the halls 
 of the Hotel Dusk looking for clues and talking to the other guests, all of whom have their own 
 hidden reasons for checking in at the same time as you.
  The game is broken up into several chapters, all of which are bite-sized chunks of detective work 
 and stylus-led exploration as you are hindered and assisted in equal measure by the patrons. Keeping 
 the game in these sections is a great asset as it stretches the game life out if you pace yourself.
 
  Hyde's own mission is a unifying theme to all the chapters, so a thread ties all the clues together.
 
  It's a credit to the writing that the dialogue, whilst occasionally stilted in places and home 
 to some strange English slang, can keep you hooked into the story. And since there's a lot of reading 
 to do here, it's great that the developers make you want to continue. During these conversations, 
 you'll be prompted to press on an angle of the dialogue by a yellow triangle that appears when 
 the character mentions something that stirs Hyde's curiosity. Successfully moving the conversation 
 in the correct direction leads to further clues and development of the overall plot.
  The DS is ably used in the puzzles too, with many approaches that force you to think outside the 
 box. Sure, you may find yourself wandering aimlessly from time to time but when you finally solve 
 a tricky problem you can honestly feel a sense of achievement.
  Graphically, the game employs 2-D sprites for the characters and a 3-D rendered hotel to wander 
 about in. The hand-drawn effect used to create the character adds to the graphic novel feeling 
 that this title evokes. Even the muzak that plays in the background is great and unobtrusive, changing 
 when the game shifts gears between pressing people for information and listening to their sob-stories 
 alternately.
  Whilst this game won't set the world on fire any time soon, it's an over-looked title that might 
 make you think you passed on a great opportunity if you neglect to take a look now. Take a chance 
 on this original title that makes you reaffirm how great the DS really is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benway3000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  Been playing it for a few days now, and here are my thoughts.
  
  Starts off pretty amazing. The intro delivers, and the art style + control system feels perfect. 
 While it doesn't quite feel like it's set in the seventies (they couldn't resist giving the hero 
 a slightly anime lead male haircut) , the first hour or so feels great. There's plenty of neat little 
 tricks with the touch screen, including a notebook that you can use to jot down clues and remember 
 trigger events. The hand drawn art style of the characters brings them to life, and while it would 
 be nice to be able to leave the hotel, or at least, have some more variation to leave environments, 
 the 3D is done pretty well. The textures don't look so good close up, but then, it's a DS. Music 
 is alright, although there's only one tune for when you're just bussing yourself around, randomly 
 looking at things and opening things, which is what I tend to spend most time doing in adventure 
 games. Because I'm thick. The puzzles aren't hard really, although they don't tend to 'chain' very 
 well. As in, normally on a good adventure you'd do A to allow B and then C, so you get to D, but 
 here the puzzles are usually isolated, and bookended by characters just popping up out of nowhere 
 when you've completed trigger events, even if the trigger event doesn't seem relevant to that character. 
 They're still good though, and the constant use of the touch screen to orchestrate physical activies 
 such as using tools, writing, searching etc makes them seem natural.
  
  As the game goes on, it becomes less fun, and more about just getting through it. There are still 
 little flourishes throughout. One excellent moment was where you have to flip over a jigsaw puzzle 
 to see what's written on the back - the puzzle in on the left screen, and there is table on the 
 right screen. So you have to flip it by closing and opening the DS itself! That was awesome. Simple 
 pleasures maybe, but it really goes a long way in creating immersion.
  
  The script is.. well.. it's big. There's a lot of text. In terms of character interaction, the game 
 feels less active than phoenix wright. The whole game is set in a hotel, and you wander around 
 bumbing into people, opening and closing doors, and having a LOT of conversations, not all of which 
 seem to advance the plot. Obviously you need character development in there, but you tend to find 
 that they hammer each point home a bit too much. The inclusion of the notebook feature lead me 
 to think that this was going to be like one of the Police Quest games, where if you miss a vital 
 clue, you're finished. But really, there's still a fair bit of hand holding, in the form of repetition 
 and internal monologue. So you're spend a lot of time just moving through screens of dialogue, 
 a la phoenix wright, but without the sense of achievement that you get with those games.
  
  Charaterisation is handled quite well though, and in terms of maturity and complexity, the script 
 is deeper than you might expect, but there's still lots of people going huh? and .... . In terms 
 of subject, it's not Max Payne or anything, but it feels kind of seedy, and the characters are 
 all pretty well drawn for the 70s noir feel.
  
  So, I'm plodding through. The game now is just following cues. Going to this room, that room, searching 
 here, presenting this to them. The cues are usually pretty clear, so you get a sense of being railroaded 
 through the plot, but the chance to go in a new room or solve a mystery keeps a degree of allure. 
 I'd give it a 7/10 - technically pretty perfect, although needs more locations, more freedom, and 
 better rewards. And less yakking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroWingCATS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  Take control of an interactive mystery novel and discover the secrets of Hotel Dusk. Who is Kyle 
 Hyde-and what really happened in Room 215? Take stylus in hand and navigate a tangled web of lies, 
 betrayal, and murder to learn the answers. so says the back of the cover for the game Hotel Dusk 
 Room 215. This game feels, as well as plays, like a book, albeit an interactive one. You even hold 
 the DS differently, similar you would to a book, to play the game. However, don't let that fool 
 you. Some people may say things such as It's just like watching TV or I want to PLAY the game, 
 not WATCH it. Even IF I'd agree to such an argument, I would STILL want to play the game, just 
 knowing how the story is told. But I think its a little more than just something you watch. It 
 feels like you're a detective, trying to find clues, talking to people, solving puzzles such as 
 opening locks, and the like. At first glance, the gameplay doesn't seem like much. Hell, when I 
 first picked up the game I thought to myself Is this all there is? Just a point and click game? 
 However, that is only the tip of the iceberg. This game is innovative with everything that the 
 DS can do, especially when doing things such as solving puzzles. I thought one of the most clever 
 ones was an instance where I had to flip something over. On the left side of the DS showed the 
 item I had to flip over. On the right side of the DS showed an empty table. At first I was a bit 
 confused, but then I closed the DS, opened it back up, and it was actually flipped, like if I was 
 doing it in real life. Almost anything the DS was capable of, this game did.
  The graphics fit very well with the genre of this game. However, I feel that the graphics of this 
 game would recieve similar reponse to the graphics of Zelda: Windwaker. Either you love them or 
 you hate them. Fortunately, I love the graphics for this game. They help set the atmosphere.
  Another thing that always helps set atmosphere is sound of the game. I felt that the sound was 
 very good. Whether you were pressed for time, just figured out something new, or casually walking 
 down the hallway, the appropriate music played.
  Although all the above was important, the most important thing was the fact that I kept getting 
 drawn to this game, even when I would get a game over and had to do everything all over again. 
 The storyline in this game is what really keeps this game going. Small mysteries turn into larger 
 ones, and I love how everything had some connection of some sort. It just made the mystery even 
 better at the end. In the end, I feel that Hotel Dusk is a game that you should have in your DS 
 collection. It is a great game. I am still drawn to playing it even though it is my third playthrough. 
 Some people would say phoenix wright is their favorite game, but in my own opinion, Hotel Dusk 
 is a little better. It's just worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stolen_Kuniva
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Normally, I wouldn't think twice about writing a review, because I think they're a drag. But if 
 I manage to encourage one person to play this game (and enjoy it) , then I will feel accomplished. 
 The story is just incredibly deep and all the characters and their respective stories weave together 
 magnificently. This IS a slow game, but for me, it was well worth the wait. There were points of 
 suspense, parts that had chills running down my spine, and times where I was outright stumped as 
 to what was going to happen. Lately, I've found myself suffering from a lack of games with a strong 
 drive and a sense of purpose, but upon stumbling onto this game, I'm starting to recover. I also 
 like the recap. sequence at the end of each chapter that helps you keep the story straight. It's 
 incredibly helpful, and has cool music while doing it ; )
  
  The ending was fantastic as well, leaving me hankering for more. I found myself enthralled with 
 the main character, Kyle Hyde, just because of how cool he seems to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is a real treat for all adventure gamers out there. I got wind of this game from many 
 gaming sites and it got me excited. So how does this game measure up? Let's head straight to it!
 
  
  The first thing I'm gonna mention is the gameplay. The game is played with the DS in a vertical 
 position similar to Brain Age. It utilizes both screens to tell a story and show you your map (right 
 screen) and the 3D areas (left screen) . Cutscenes are played on both screens to really take advantage 
 of all the space. It's very clever and it made playing the game interesting. I found moving around 
 the game to be quite easy even though I found myself staring at the map more than the 3D screen.
 
  
  The main gameplay elements aside from the new playing position is mainly talking with various characters 
 and using the touch screen to solve a variety of puzzles and events. Anyone who's played games 
 like Phoenix Wright and the like will have no problems getting into this game. Unlike PW though, 
 you'll actually walk around the hotel instead of jumping around in menus. It's a refreshing take 
 since it allows you to familiarize yourself with the hotel and it adds some depth to the exploration 
 segments of the game. And unlike most adventure games, you'll find that you can interact/inspect 
 a huge amount of items and things in the game which was cool. The best examples would be games 
 like Shenmue, Indigo Prophecy and even Oblivion to some extent. I really liked that even though 
 most of the objects you can check won't add anything to the main game aside from being there.
 
  
  Also, talking with the characters is bit more interesting than your standard adventure game. The 
 game gives you choices between responses and questions so you might end up having to redo a conversation 
 because you pissed off the characters in some way. It's adds some depth to an otherwise linear 
 game. Btw, unlike some adventure games, this game has various obstacles that will end with a Game 
 Over screen so you'll probably find yourself having to redo a certain puzzle or section of the 
 game without any warning. It allows the game to be a bit more tense than usual which I liked. The 
 game has some minor frustrating moments but most of the puzzles only require common sense so you 
 won't need a guide for this game. Many of the rare brain teasers were made within the context of 
 the game so you won't find yourself being lost. It's very easy to get through.
  
  So aside from the gameplay, let's go into the graphics. The 2D characters are awesome! They animate 
 very realistic. If you saw that music video by a band called A-Ha then you know what I mean. Not 
 only were their animations very realistic and subtle, but their designs are equally realistic. 
 It really adds a sense of realism to the 2D black and white characters. There were some points 
 where the characters have a bit of color but that's only during certain important cutscenes. Even 
 though the art design is fantastic, it's a bit uneven. The male and older female characters looked 
 quite real but the young females in the game looked more anime-ish. Some people might like it while 
 others might find the difference in designs a bit jarring. It's not too bad. Attractive anime-ish 
 females are always a winner in my book... hehe. The 3D rooms and levels looks okay. They're a bit 
 blurry and very pixelated. The colors are also quite bland and not very interesting. I was somewhat 
 turned off by it and I found myself staring at the 2D map instead. The 2D art is way better than 
 the 3D stuff, sadly. At least they tried.
  
  The sound and music is very impressive. I loved the soundtrack to this game. Some of it is jazzy 
 type stuff while other parts are similar to something in a drama. There's a tinge of modern Japanese-style 
 music that I found similar to modern Japanese TV dramas. I loved it. The sound isn't utilized much 
 but when there's a sound effect somewhere, it's very realistic. Everything from the footsteps, 
 to doors opening and closing to other various ambient noises were done quite well.
  
  Finally, the most important part of the game, the story. The story is AMAZING. It starts off pretty 
 slowly but you'll soon find a ton of cool plot twists and revelations which will keep you on your 
 toes. It's a definite mystery in the beginning. As you progress through the game, you'll find more 
 and more connections until the exciting climax towards the end of the game. It's very cool to see 
 how everyone in the hotel is connected in some way. And the pacing for the story is terrific. I 
 never found a particular part of the story too slow or too fast. This has to do with the awesome 
 characters and writing which I will mention now.
  
  The characters are incredibly well-written. Each one has a very complex history and various personalities. 
 They seem like your typical flat characters in the beginning. But as you question them and listen 
 to their stories, you'll find them to be very real people. Hell, I found them to be much more realistic 
 than some characters on TV and in movies. This is all thanks to the amazing writing and localization. 
 Each character has their own unique voice and style of speaking. A BIG kudos to the English localization 
 team for doing such a great job. ^^
  
  I was really amazed by the story and the characters. I really enjoyed the game and the gameplay. 
 I was totally addicted and I wanted to know more. The ending is somewhat open-ended so I'm curious 
 if there could be a possible sequel. Many loose ends were not tied up as nicely as I liked. But 
 since the story takes place in a day, I don't think they could've added a lot more to the story. 
 I really hope the developers make a sequel so the story can be expanded and many of those loose 
 ends can be resolved. I'm looking forward to a franchise of some kind. Bring it on! :) So, do you 
 love adventure games? Do you like film noir mysteries? Do you like realistic characters? If yes, 
 then buy this game now! It's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is an entertaining game. But at heart, there honestly isnt much to it. Its a plane, 
 bland game that gives what it needs but nothing more. Hotel Dusk is not a bad game, but how long 
 it will last you is a whole 'nother question.
  
  Gameplay
  Hotel Dusk takes the rein of games like Phenoix wright: Ace attorney, and that other game that 
 was launched with the DS (forgettable) . Its a 2D click and play game that has its entertaining 
 moments. There could have been a little vareity too it, and it leaves the gameplay a little bland, 
 but it is still fairly playable, and fun.
  
  Graphics
  The 2D character graphics models are well shaded, and characters well designed. A little more effect 
 could have been incorparated into the game, but other than that, there reasonable graphics.
  
  Sound
  The sound is really nice. No voice overs, but the music puts every aspect of the game 
 into perspective.
  
  Value
  Here's the big probelm with the game, and all games like this for that matter. The lasting value 
 isnt really up to par with any other game, and the replay value isnt really there. But the story 
 and dialouge in the game are great, and although it wont get you play the game immediatley after 
 you complete it, you may come back to it a couple months down the road.
  
  Overall
  Hotel Dusk is really entertaining, great dialouge, story, and intresting characters. The main problem 
 with the game is the replay value, and the lack of vareity in the searching missions that take 
 place. I would recommend giving Hotel Dusk: Room 215 a shot, but i couldnt recommend a purchase 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Well Hotel Dusk 215 is wonderful game to play, I enjoy playing very much and it's really addicting 
 as well. The graphics are wonderful, different from other games. The music is wonderful as well, 
 this game is a lot different from Trace Memory but similar too it. The puzzles can be easy or hard, 
 but I like challenging games so this is the best one if you like puzzles or challenging game. This 
 game is so unique in it's own way, I enjoy this one a lot. Also I like how the set up the game 
 by holding it side-ways the holding it normal way. Even the story line is great as well, the characters 
 are unique. I like how they did the graphics, it feels like that you were in the story. This game 
 feels like a movie trying to figures things out. I also enjoy using the touch screen to move the 
 characters as well, this is great for everyone who either left hand or right hand so you can feel 
 more comfortable to hold and use. This game feel more longer then Trace Memory. I say this game 
 is a must have and have this in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirius_metlhed
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Room 215, a. k. a. the wish room, is your home for one evening, and the player is left to figure 
 out if it's simply fate that has you staying at Hotel Dusk, or if something bigger is at work here. 
 The control is simple -- just tap and touch where you want to go, what you want to search, open, 
 manipulate, or which question you're going to ask. It takes very little getting used to. As an 
 avid reader and a wannabe writer, this one makes me feel as if I'm having a hand in actually writing 
 Kyle Hyde's story, and that I have some control in the overall outcome. Of course, the game is 
 somewhat more linear than that, but the developers did a good job of masking this in the open ended 
 feel of the game play. Gamers who prefer more action and less text in their graphic adventures 
 may find themselves frustrated with the game's pace. The graphics are pretty good. By using many 
 still images with elements that mimic motion, the artwork is able to shine and not suffer the limitations 
 of the DS' graphics hardware. I really would like to see more games like this one that take place 
 in a non fantasy or sci-fi environment, because for this player, it better allows me to connect 
 with the characters and really mentally invest in the game. Final words: set aside time when you 
 play Hotel Dusk because if you do get into it, it will be impossible to play for a few minutes 
 here and there. Hope you enjoy it like I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_MKRPG
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk isn't for everyone,.. if your the type of person that skips the text in fire emblem you 
 won't like this game at all. Most of the time you spend chit chating with strangers, but turth 
 be told it really interesting what they have to say. Nothing is useless or just to waste time all 
 the characters have a secret which you must uncover and are slowing reealed throughout the game. 
 The game also has puzzles and smart ways to use the DS, such as using sideways or closing the DS 
 to flip things over. Its alot of reading but its very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raregamer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  I been playing Hotel Dusk a lot as of lately , the game is very well done and shows why the Nintendo 
 Ds continues to take over the portable world. From the first time you turn on your Ds and put Hotel 
 Dusk in youll notice the beautiful art direction they took this game with its unique design style, 
 the way everything is drawn and scenery is so nice you really feel like your taken back to the 
 year 1970 when everything in this game is taking place. Youll play as an ex cop name Kyle Hyde 
 who is trying to track down his ex partner named Bradley who got shot and was no where to be found 
 after that and your basically looking to answers to what ever happened to him after that night 
 which leads you to Hotel Dusk.
  
  Hotel Dusk takes great advantage of the DS with its beautifully done 3D Hotel in one way it feels 
 like youre playing Resident evil at times how when youll be searching for items and opening doors 
 you cant feel like this has a slight Resident Evil feel to it, yet of course you wont be surprised 
 attacked by zombies. The way you walk around with either the D-pad or Touch Screen is done perfectly. 
 You hold the Ds like a book so when you do walk around youll have a map on the right side (Touch 
 Screen) and on the Left is the whole virtual world which youll be able to see through a First 
 Person view which is very nice to see with the beautifully rendered graphics. The game doesnt 
 stop at its well crafted art and game design it also has a very well written story almost as if 
 you were reading an interactive novel. It catches a sense of mystery and a slight feel of a creepy 
 horror aspect to it at times, with great writing for all the characters youll encounter. Each 
 one is interesting and has their own secrets that you cant wait to read and uncover the truth 
 behind hind everyone and find out what has happened 6 months ago at Hotel Dusk and find out new 
 things from each of the guest currently staying at the hotel. Now as your progress through the 
 game the Puzzle are also quite interesting and make you think a lot at times which is always good 
 makes you feel smart when you complete something. Although I must say the game is hard at times 
 were youre just like how on earth would I know to do that and go there. This is when you'll go 
 to yourself, thank you Gamefaqs. com for helping me on that. Overall I think this is a great new 
 game for the Ds and suggest anyone to give it a try if youre looking for a new thriller, adventure 
 game which is kind of in a category of its own to just relax with and enjoy the story youll uncover 
 with Hotel Dusk.
  
  Sorry for such a long preview of the game from me, but I have a lot to say about it and it really 
 is hard to get the point about the game without trying it. So what Im really trying to say is 
 pick up and give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofdabeach2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Put a compelling story to a point and click and adventure and you get Hotel Dusk : Room 215. First 
 thing you will notice about this game is the fact you have to hold the ds sideways like a book. 
 Which is kool really brings the feeling like you are playing through a book. But I noticed I get 
 so into the game my hands start to get tired of holding it up. Thats a new feeling being that I 
 have never been so compelled to play a game hours on end on my ds. I like having games that make 
 me feel like it was worth getting. This is without a doubt one of them. I will admit the music 
 is kinda corny but its toralble since the premise of this game is in the late 60's. This game is 
 kinda slow going meaning that if you are not into reading alot of text and figuring out puzzles 
 you won't be able to get into this game. So far I have about 14 hours into this game which is nice 
 being that I can barely put the game down from time to time. If you into games like phoenix wright 
 and trace memory don't delay buy this game you will love it. Also if u like reading books and don't 
 mind a slow pace you will also enjoy this game. Now time to get back to playing lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game... well its a story type of attraction. You play it because of the story, but is that 
 all? No, not entirely. For those who have never played a point-and-click adventure, this game makes 
 a great start. For those who love their point-and-click games, you will not be disapointed.
  
  Gameplay: Point and click people! What do you expect here, fried gold? That's what you get. 
 There are little problems in this system, and they are minor to begin with. Some times, you will 
 get stuck (actually, alot) but just remember that you cannot stop searching. When at the end of 
 a chapter, there will be the cross-questionning (just like in Phoenix Wright, kinda) it will either 
 be intense, who am I kidding, it is INTENSE.
  
  Graphics: Two sides to this, the slick anime and the first person perspective. The anime is slick, 
 like I said, usually during conversations it is black and white but very well drawn. The design 
 of the rooms in 3D is nothing but an eyesore, but sometimes; the items are recycled (somewhat annoying 
 but tough to detect) . They are very nice though.
  
  Sound: Nothing special about the sound effects but the music goes along with the suspense. Seriously, 
 I cannot turn down the volume, I'd turn it up more but it cannot (broke it actually) .
  
  Story: Sorry can't say. It is extremely confusing from start to near-finish. Anything I say will 
 spoil the story, just do not trust anyone, they all have secrets that sooner or later link together.
 
  
  Value: Can't find it, expect increase in cost. Hey, that's economics for ya, demand goes up, so 
 does price. But if you can't find it, look hard, its worth every penny and second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sa_jcfan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Trace Memory was one of first few games to fully utilize the DS. The game required you to to close 
 the DS cover or close it halfway to use the reflection and use the microphone for finding clues. 
 Despite it's story and simple visual presentation, the biggest problem was the ridiculously easy 
 puzzles and short gameplay (which you can beat in 5-7 hours) . Cing's follow up, Hotel Dusk, is 
 a much bigger improvement. Here, you play Kyle Hyde, a former cop now working as a salesman but 
 is also secretly to investigate the shooting/disappearance of his partner, Bradley. Kyle stays 
 at Hotel Dusk for business reasons and unknowingly gets involved in the hotel and the resident's 
 secrets, including the truth about Bradley.
  
  Hotel Dusk is a genre that might not seem suitable for the Nintendo DS but thankfully the presentation 
 and gameplay greatly makes up for it. For starters, you hold the DS like a notebook (of course, 
 you're prompted if you are lefty or a righty) . Unlike Trace Memory, characters are somewhat animated, 
 each of them having their own distinct facial and body expressions. Aside from the 2D character 
 animation, the rest of the environment is in 3D and easy to navigate. To show nostalgia (this is 
 the late 70's by the way) , the color scheme of the game has toned down or almost no colors but 
 something this little shouldn't bother you.
  
  Here comes the best part of Hotel Dusk; they way you interact with people. Keep in mind that as 
 Kyle Hyde, you're a salesman, not a cop. During conversations, you are prompted with 2 different 
 answers to a conversation but each answer truly affects how people will react to you. This will 
 result in people dropping hints, prompting you again to ask them either politely or aggressively. 
 Ask or say the wrong thing and you might get kicked out of the hotel; game over. It's extremely 
 important to save each time before encountering someone because there's a chance you might miss 
 out on an imporant clue due to how you answered. Definitely pick this game up for something different. 
 It is somewhat sluggish but if you're patient enough, you'll find yourself immersed in the storyline. 
 Why Nintendo is doing almost nothing to promote this gem is baffling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The game itself, the art and the gameplay are all wonderful and absorbing. Although, I'm only an 
 hour or so into the game, I can play this sitting at home over console or PC games. It is a very 
 good game. I can't think of a modern game (maybe those old Eighties mystery games for the Mac/PC) 
 that plays, feels or looks like this game. The only problems that I've run into are the storytelling 
 method and the sound. If anyone ever read a Picture of Dorian Gray then you can start to have a 
 good idea of the storytelling in Hotel Dusk. Remember that chapter that was just an endless description 
 of item upon item? Well Dusk can sometimes move like that. They could have fixed that, in my eyes, 
 by not having the text type itself out in front of you and just appear complete so you can move 
 faster - if you so desire.
  
  The sound is just boring. A bouncy midi file for a tune plays almost endlessly and it really gets 
 tiring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-stuart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  this is an excellent crime game. Hotel Dusk: Room 215 puts players in the role of Kyle Hyde, an 
 ex-cop that's hung up the badge and has taken up a freelance sleuthing gig. This one's led him 
 to a tiny little town and an even tinier hotel called Hotel Dusk. Kyle's got his own baggage, including 
 the hunt for his ex-partner who he believes isn't as dead as he should be. But at Hotel Dusk, an 
 interesting web of mystery perks up, which starts with the revelation that someone else with Kyle's 
 name stayed at the hotel just months before. Before long you're bumping into a mysterious, mute 
 girl, a quiet, elderly lady, and a blast from the past colleague from Kyle's time in the force. 
 All this happens while staying in a hotel room that's believed to grant wishes to people who spend 
 time in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: str1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk: Room 215, developed by Cing, the developer responsible for 2005's Trace Memory, is 
 an adventure game that steps away from the boundaries of the average point-and-click adventure. 
 Like Cing's previous effort, Trace Memory, Hotel Dusk utilizes almost all of the Nintendo DS's 
 functions to create a series of intricate puzzles that couldn't be executed in the same manner 
 on other platforms, but it's also apparent that Cing learned from some of Trace Memory's missteps 
 to craft a better gameplay experience. The biggest step forward, however, is arguably Hotel Dusk's 
 storyline; a much more complex, mature tale that features a rich cast of personalities.
  
  In the center of that story is a man named Kyle Hyde, an ex-NYPD detective that's spent the previous 
 three years searching for his former partner. In the meantime, he works as a door-to-door salesman 
 for a company run by a family friend, and is occasionally asked by his boss to hunt down missing 
 items that clients want found while remaining under the radar. One such assignment brings Kyle 
 to Hotel Dusk, a rundown hotel that, through coincidence or design, may hold the answers that he's 
 looking for.
  
  At the basic level, Hotel Dusk plays very similarly to Trace Memory. The player still moves around 
 and interacts with the environment using the touch screen, but the DS is now held like a book. 
 The game's puzzles are solved using the various components of the DS, including the the touch screen, 
 microphone, and even sleep mode. Each chapter concludes with Kyle asking himself a series of questions 
 regarding recent events, although none of them are meant to be particularly challenging; they're 
 really just there to make sure that the player has been paying attention.
  
  Where Hotel Dusk differentiates itself from Trace Memory's gameplay is in the underlying structure 
 of conversing with other characters. Most of the game's key moments are brought about as Kyle interrogates 
 the various hotel patrons and employees, and the questions asked could lead to answers, or a firm 
 boot out the door. Unlike Trace Memory, it's possible to achieve a Game Over if Kyle says the wrong 
 thing or presents the wrong item to the wrong person, resulting in him either being tossed out 
 of the hotel or forcing him to stay put in his room.
  
  Those elements aside, where Hotel Dusk truly shines is in its story and presentation. Even though 
 it is a T-rated game like Trace Memory, Hotel Dusk is by far a more mature experience. Kyle is 
 not the same sort of character as Trace Memory's adventurous young teen protagonist, Ashley. He's 
 a grown man surrounded by other adults, all of whom have their own reasons for being at Hotel Dusk. 
 Rather than being dumbed down for younger audiences, they talk and act like real adults. The personalities 
 are all very diverse, and not one of them feels superfluous to the nature of the story.
  
  The game's graphics are fairly detailed and look great. The characters are all depicted in an animated 
 sketch-like manner that shows off each of their various mannerisms and expressions with striking 
 detail. The hotel itself is about what one could expect. All of the rooms are fashioned cleanly 
 with numerous small details that add personality to the environment, particularly to the guest 
 rooms, which are naturally very similar to one another. As a whole, the hotel isn't very large, 
 and so when the player is tasked with retrieving an item or speaking with a character on the opposite 
 end of the building, it won't take long to get there.
  
  The sound effects in Hotel Dusk are clear, clean, and appropriate. Although there isn't any voice 
 in the game, the puzzles and environment feature an assortment of appropriate sound effects. The 
 music is light and jazzy, which fits the noir-tone of the game, but most of the soundtrack isn't 
 particularly memorable.
  
  If there's are any real knocks against Hotel Dusk, its that the game suffers from issues found 
 in most graphic adventure games. Locating the occasional hard-to-find item can become tedious and 
 bog the pace down, and players may be tempted to overthink some puzzles when the answer is more 
 straight-forward. Still, the crimes the game commits are minimal and shared by most every game 
 in the genre, and so fans of adventure games should find little reason to complain. To the game's 
 credit, Hotel Dusk does eliminate a problem present in Trace Memory, in which the player was forced 
 to locate a puzzle before being allowed to pick up a relevant item.
  
  Hotel Dusk is one of the best titles in the growing library of DS adventure games. Fans of Trace 
 Memory will find an arguably more enjoyable experience, and newcomers to Cing's formula should 
 easily be able to slide into Kyle's shoes and start solving the hotel's many mysteries. With its 
 colorful cast, intriguing presentation, and top-notch story, Hotel Dusk is highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferratus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Hotel Dusk is a surprising game. For one thing, it's an adventure game that pretty much uses the 
 same conventions used in the genre 15 years ago and yet it's quite innovative.
  
  The first thing you notice about the game is the art style. The visuals are not exactly incredible 
 and yet they work well. The characters are pretty cool since they have hand drawn animation in 
 a style that's hard to describe. Beyond the artsy look of the characters though, it's really not 
 a gorgeous game. The game makes good use of the DS capabilities. You hold the DS sideway like a 
 book to play the game and play with the stylus. The game's biggest flaw in my opinion is the dialog 
 system. This is an adventure game, so dialog is expected and even welcome. The developers however 
 chose to make each dialog and the result of each action (say you knock on a door) to be non-skippable. 
 It's just so very slow and long. You can hold a button to make the text appear a little faster, 
 but the lack of an option to make it appear instantly is a mystery. I have a hard time believing 
 the developers and tester never saw the need for such an option.
  
  It really is too bad because other than that, the game really is fun. The story so far is pretty 
 good. It's a noir detective story and the gameplay puzzle are pretty well done. It's often difficult 
 to know what to do next, but once you do find out the next step, it always makes sense.
  
  If you love adventure game, this one's a good one to pick up. It's just too bad the pacing is so 
 slow because of the lack of a simple option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  When the DS first came out, I was really hoping for some point-and-click adventure games. Games 
 like Myst, these are easy to pick up, difficult to solve, and are engrossing. They simple fun, 
 like a really good interactive movie. We have Trace Memory and mystery games like Phoenix Wright. 
 Now, we have Hotel Dusk, which has succeeded better than I had expected.
  
  The first thing you'll probably notice is the style. It is very stylish in film noir sense. Cool 
 sketchy artwork defines the characters, and the animations are very good and subtle. It works really 
 well, and it adds a lot of emotion to the characters.
  
  Next, the story. It is decent, and not too over-the-top. It is the kind of story that you want 
 to solve. You play Kyle Hyde, a former cop who quit the force after shooting his traitor partner. 
 Kyle belives he is still alive, and has been searching for him. Hyde now a salesman, and is sent 
 to Hotel Dusk by his boss to do something. While there, he senses this might be when he learns 
 what happened to his partner after he shot him.
  
  The game plays well too. There is a lot of (extremely well-written) text, where you learn about 
 the story and get clues. While you aren't talking to anyone, you can move around and look at things 
 in the hotel, where you gather clues and solve puzzles, and otherwise advance the story. The pacing 
 is very slow, which might put some people off. But, personally, I like the pacing. It's all a matter 
 of opinion.
  
  Overall, the game is great. It's an easy game to pick up and play, has an engrossing story with 
 very well developed characters, and intuitive gameplay. There are several endings and paths to 
 take depending on how you react to people, which adds some replayability to the game. I highly 
 recommend Hotel Dusk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Although Hotel Dusk is a charming point and click style adventure game with lush graphics and well 
 written dialog, it moves slowly and using its interface can be painstaking at times. For those 
 who LOVE LOVE LOVE adventure games, this will probably be a godsend. For those who are not quite 
 so found of slow, plodding adventure games, stay away.
  
  One more point: To me this is overpriced, as much of the DS software is. If it had cost $20 instead 
 of $35 (that's what the local EBGames charged me, anyway) I wouldn't feel so cheated, but this 
 is one more time I feel stupid for trying a game in a genre I don't typically like. The DS, while 
 a great piece of hardware, is quickly becoming a casual only handheld for me. Too many software 
 titles disappoint. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
