-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Inuyasha: Secret of the Divine Jewel
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/inuyashasecretofthedivinejewel/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Each character has a good selection of attacks.
 Characters and attacks are taken directly from the animated series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Exploration and character development are minimal.
 Battles tend to be easy since you usually get to attack first.
 High encounter rate pulls you into a random battle every couple of seconds.
 Graphics and audio more in line with Game Boy Advance.
 Game draws little inspiration from the show.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.9
Critic Score: 5.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Art
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Jan 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Inuyasha for the DS is a lousy Final Fantasy knockoff with mediocre graphics and a ridiculously 
 high encounter rate. 

  It doesn't matter whether you follow the  Inuyasha  animated series or are merely looking for a 
 role-playing game to play on your Nintendo DS -- either way, you're liable to be disappointed by 
 Inuyasha: Secret of the Divine Jewel. The game is a simplistic dungeon crawler that draws hardly 
 any inspiration from the show it's based on. Nothing is fleshed out, the turn-based combat lacks 
 excitement, and the whole quest would barely last a few hours if not for the excessive encounter 
 rate that makes it impossible to walk more than a couple of steps before participating in yet another 
 mindless battle.  

          Secret of the Divine Jewel is a generic role-playing game with the Inuyasha characters 
 tacked on.     

  Previous knowledge of the animated series isn't required to play the game or to understand its 
 story. The game recaps the basic plot of the TV series through comments in the dialogue, and all 
 of the major characters are introduced in such a way that you'll quickly pick up on their overall 
 roles. In the game, a new character named Janis has transferred to Kagome's school in modern-day 
 Tokyo. Janis and Kagome strike up a friendship, and a series of coincidences leads to Janis discovering 
 the magical well behind Kagome's house. Janis climbs into the well and follows Kagome back to feudal 
 Japan, where she accidentally absorbs one of the pieces of the Shikomi jewel that Inuyasha and 
 Kagome have been searching for into her body. Consequently, Janis discovers that she's the reincarnation 
 of a powerful god. As a result of these events, Janis vows to seek out a specific demon that holds 
 the secrets of her past, while the half-human, half-demon Inuyasha volunteers his group to accompany 
 Janis on her journey in the hope that they'll eventually be able to retrieve the Shikomi shard 
 that's been absorbed into her body. It isn't the most intelligent story ever concocted, but it 
 does sufficiently explain why you'll spend the rest of the game hauling a party of six characters 
 across feudal Japan and constantly engaging in turn-based battles with various demonic creatures. 

  The game itself is a primitive Final Fantasy wannabe that mainly involves slogging through one 
 random battle after another as you walk between villages and struggle to find your way out of mazelike 
 dungeons. Exploration is kept to a minimum. Characters always tell you where to go next, and most 
 dungeons require you to locate only a single key item in order to unlock the exit. Character development 
 is also rather limited. You have access to all of their magic abilities from the beginning, so 
 the outcome of grinding levels is merely that their strength, defense, and health statistics gradually 
 improve. You can't change their weapons or clothing. In fact, the only pieces of equipment you 
 can change are the orbs and amulets the characters carry, which you can't do until midway through 
 the story mode. Nearly all of the interactions you have with the game occur during the turn-based 
 battles that are initiated on a random basis as you move across the map. Characters have a good 
 selection of close-up, ranged, and group attacks, and you can command multiple characters to attack 
 a single enemy or to defend one of your own heroes. Battles tend to be boring and one-sided, however. 
 Common enemies use the same attacks and don't dish out much damage. You also usually get to attack 
 with three or four of your party members before a single member of the enemy group has a chance 
 to reciprocate. Often, you'll be pulled into a battle only to end up back at the map screen 20 
 seconds later because you eliminated the enemy group before any of its members had an opportunity 
 to do anything.  

  Those boring battles are made all the more plentiful (and painful) thanks to the game's high encounter 
 rate. In typical role-playing games that feature random battles, you're pulled into a fight perhaps 
 every 20 steps or so. In Inuyasha, a battle is initiated every four steps on average. Occasionally, 
 you'll come out of one battle and end up in another immediately after taking just a single step. 
 That's excessive. It's difficult to learn the layout of an area when the screen transitions from 
 the map to the battlefield every few seconds, and it's no fun to be forced to fight fodder enemies 
 long after you've built up the necessary stats to trounce the next boss. If the encounter rate 
 in Inuyasha were like that of other role-playing games, you could get through the story in roughly 
 five hours. Instead, the encounter rate is so jacked up that it takes more like 20 hours to finish 
 the game. Sadly, most of that time is spent eradicating cookie-cutter enemies that never get a 
 chance to fight back.  

  On top of everything else, the overall presentation is lackluster. Allusions to the animated series 
 are limited mainly to the characters' attacks, which are all directly lifted from the TV show, 
 along with a few bits of throwaway dialogue that reference past situations the characters have 
 experienced. The gameplay barely draws any inspiration from the show. Movement, combat, and items 
 are handled the same way as in every other generic role-playing game. The only noteworthy exceptions 
 are that Inuyasha becomes human and you can't use his magic when the moon-phase clock shows a new 
 moon. Furthermore, the graphics and audio suggest that the game may have been a Game Boy Advance 
 game that was revamped for the Nintendo DS late in its development cycle. The 2D backgrounds and 
 tiny character sprites are colorful, but there's not much in the way of animation or visual effects. 
 On the map screen, the characters walk like robots, and the only life you'll notice in the environment 
 are cloud shadows and the occasional stream. In the battle viewpoint, most attacks consist of two 
 or three frames of animation, tops. Magic use is accompanied by a brief video sequence shown on 
 the top screen. Those snippets are snazzy, but they're nothing the GBA couldn't handle.  

          Thanks to the high encounter rate, you'll sometimes be sucked into another boring battle 
 immediately after taking a single step on the map.     

  Incredibly, the developer didn't bother to record any character speech from the show. Audio consists 
 of a few low-fidelity clash and explosion noises, as well as about a dozen superbly orchestrated 
 pieces of music. Movement and menu selections can be handled with the stylus or the buttons, so 
 there's really no reason that this game couldn't have been released on the Game Boy Advance, apart 
 from the fact that the Nintendo DS is the more popular system these days.  

  Fans and nonfans alike should steer clear of Inuyasha: Secret of the Divine Jewel for the Nintendo 
 DS. The only thing the game has going for it is the Inuyasha license. Otherwise, it's just a crummy 
 Final Fantasy knockoff with weak visuals and audio that requires only 20 hours to play through 
 because of its ridiculously high encounter rate.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  I really do have mixed reactions about this game. I really want to see the horrible aspects of 
 this game, but I just can't. The game lacks certain interesting aspects and brings nothing new 
 to the system, however if you like Inuyasha I think you would like this game. I like the leveling 
 up system and the roaming system reminds me of Dragon Warrior III (which was a great game by the 
 way) . Like I said though, this game lacks creativity, if you have played RPGs before, don't expect 
 to see anything new in this game, it's a simple turn based system with Inuyasha characters. Maybe 
 I'm not hard enough on games, or maybe I just have realistic expectations. I mean if you are an 
 Inuyasha fan like I am, you kind of need to be happy that there is a game like this at all. It 
 may not be the best, and it may not keep you entertained for hours, but it's not like there are 
 a ton of Inuyasha games out there to choose from anyway. Overall I would say that if you are a 
 fan of the anime, then go ahead and try out this game. Maybe going in with low expectations from 
 all the other reviews will let you see some of the good in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Inuyasha- A manga portraying a half-demon male who seeks a jewel that will change him into a full 
 demon and a girl from the future who just so happens to have the ability to sense these jewels 
 who accompanies him.
  Inuyasha: Secret of the Divine Jewel- A concoction of constant battles, bad graphics and a dull 
 storyline.
  Something's wrong with this picture...
  Not only is there little or no connection between the anime we have come to love, but every step 
 you take draws in hordes of demons, the graphics are horrid and the game play is repetitive. To 
 make matters worse, during the full moon, Inuyasha goes human and becomes virtually useless. Sure, 
 some hardcore (VERY hardcore) fans of Inuyasha will be able to wring an ounce of fun out of this 
 train wreck, but for others like myself, this game is a total failure. I'm not sure what Bandai 
 was thinking when they made this game, but I think this will drive away possible Inu-fans, rather 
 then draw them in. Avoid at all costs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drunk_on_Apathy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Though maybe if you're looking for an old-school throwback to the ages of the systems long gone, 
 you could find an okay experience here. Actually, you might need to be pretty forgiving too. But 
 don't get me wrong, I'm not talking about those kind of games that have the old-school vibe, this 
 is no (Blue) Dragon (Quest) , instead you have a game that as far as you know, could have been developed 
 in Nintendo's golden age.
  
  Graphics that wouldn't even make a Game Boy Advance envious, no voice-over, minimal sound effect 
 and music, no real map to speak of and designed with such simplicity it's reminiscent of the firsts 
 Final Fantasy. With all this in mind, you can probably see where the critics are going with the 
 awful reviews. Thing is the reviewers usually don't stop here. 
  
  Too much random encounters? You mustn't have played for too long, because early in the game you 
 can acquire a special item that mostly get rid of the problem.
  
  A mistake to make the game centered on Janis? Oh, come on! We (the fan) had 167 episodes of japanimation 
 and more than 50 (it's ongoing) manga with the story centered around InuYasha and his friends, 
 what's wrong with a change? And playing as Janis, a newcomer, is like revisiting the series all 
 over again and it makes the few, usually funny, nods to the game more interesting.
  
  Yeah, because there is allusions to the show aside the characters' attacks!
  
  Anyway, back 
 to legitimate concerns. The music, despite being extremely limited (as mentioned) , is actually 
 pretty good, the graphics are colorful and respectful of the series look (the magic visuals are 
 a nice touch) , the story is decent, unlike some recent Rpg it doesn't take you for a five years-old 
 (aka it requires a tiny bit of non-assisted wandering) and it has a respectable length (atleast 
 if you do everything you have to) .
  
  Now let's get negative again, or more negative anyway; it has zero innovativeness (aside from one 
 small thing) , the gameplay is paper thin and the difficulty is pretty uneven, being easy for most 
 of the game and sometime becoming incredibly hard, all of this can make the game pretty non-engaging 
 at times.
  
  The only reason I'm giving a relatively "positive" score is because I'm an InuYasha fan (yes, please 
 don't laugh) and because technical issues such as graphics and the lack of voice-acting don't bother 
 me at all. The market is overflowing with quality Rpg and Inuyasha: Secret of the Divine Jewel 
 only succeed as fan service for those who can't get enough, so don't waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Inuyasha: Secret of the Divine Jewel is a game that is based of the Inuyasha anime and manga. Only 
 this game is entirely seperate from both versions of the series. The game starts out when Janis 
 (a new character) moves to Japan with her family. When she starts her first day of school, she 
 meets Kagome and makes good friends with her, but as they talk, Inuyasha comes in and tells Kagome 
 something is wrong in the Sengoku Feudal era (again) . Kagome hasn't attended school in three days 
 after Inuyasha confronts her, so Janis goes to Kagome's home to find out what's going on. Apparently, 
 she gets attacked by a demon from the Sengoku Feudal era before she gets to Bone Eaters well, and 
 she gets confronted by a guy named Monk Sen. Janis goes into Feudal Japan and knows later on that 
 she has special powers called Kamui.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it has a fresh story. Other characters (such as Miroku, Sango, 
 and Shippo) are in the game too. Traveling the map as other Inuyasha characters is good. The turn-based 
 combat is solid.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that it can be confusing on where to go next. Touch screen 
 use isn't very good. Battles can be hard.
  
  Overall, I thought this game is a good turn-based RPG and anime game. But in both departments though 
 it wasn't as good as Harry Potter 2 on the GBC or Zatch Bell: Mamodo Battles on the Gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karatedude22
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  the selection of attacks is ok but it is really easy you always attack first. it does not follow 
 the tv series at all and the graphics are gba. you barely use the touch screen and the enemies are 
 easy to defeat . and they make it so you have so much health that you will not die. also when you 
 start you are a weakling and then you get the group and your unstoppable. gou may die a couple 
 of times but that is it. this is a total let down so do not buy it. it is a wast of money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuki_megami
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Well I don't know the timeline for this. But an girl name Janis who moved from America to Japan. She 
 meets with this monk -sen who tells her that she's the daughter of the kamui. She goes through the 
 well liked Kagome the feudal era of course. Now her journey is to find this demon from her dream 
 to give back the power. At first I thought it was exciting. I mean at first I thought that you could 
 create your own character, and join Kagome and the others on the quests of searching for the jewel 
 shards. But I was wrong. Now this game is sorta disappointing to me. I mean everytime I am walking 
 somewhere I have to fight an demon that sucks really does. It even tooked me an long time to find 
 certain places or certain things to start the event or the story! This is very confusing game. If 
 you love Inuyasha, and you had not bought this game don't buy it. This game is an bit complicated. I 
 will give credit for original game story and new character. But the game I can't tell you what I 
 think. Just passing the time till Pokemon Diamound and Pearl comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokoo
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  Gamespot pretty much got the review for this game right on.
  
  there's barely and character development. the new main character they added to the game isn't really 
 interesting at all. the text can be hard to read at times and the backgrounds for the text box 
 is hideous. Overall the game looks like a really pretty GBA game. I tried so hard to beat this 
 game but i can't stand how often you have to fight, how long it takes for each character to perform 
 an attack and how one sided the battles are.
  
  I really have no problem with the difficulty because InuYasha is supposed to kick butt, but you'd 
 think they could let you unlock some interesting abilities or something.
  
  The gameplay is not very good. They tried to make it so you can use all touch screen controls, 
 but the trade off is a fade in and out from the top and bottom screen of the enemies and your party 
 and even though it only takes a second to do so, it adds up when every 3 steps you take in a cave 
 puts you in a battle. The touch screen movement and interaction isn't the most effiecent anyways, 
 they'd be better just leaving it out and making this a gba game.
  
  I thought playing final fantasy 1 and 2 had a high encounter rate.
  
  oh and the music. WTF. 
 The show has awesome music, why didn't they use any of it. I guess its appropriate but there just 
 aren't any inuyasha themes you can pick out and get pumped about.
  
  the landscape is pretty neat if you were into the series and you will recognize bone eaters well, 
 inuyasha forest, kagome's house etc.
  
  Fans of the series may find enjoyment in this game when they find it on the shelves for 9 dollars 
 or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher78714
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for any fan of the searies! You play as a new girl named janis but very quickly 
 meet up with the rest of the normal inuyasha characters. The game is a great play which is surprising 
 based on all the other inuyasha games out there. There are a few set backs however that can make 
 this game frustrating. About every 10 steps or so on the big map you encounter a random enemy, 
 and when you are lost and trying to figure out where to go this can really be a pain in the butt. 
 However you can buy an amuet to help prevent this early on. The only other real problem is that 
 at times it can be REALLY confusing and difficult to try and figure out where the heck to go to 
 . Other than that it's a great game and a great RPG buy. I say go get ur butt to the store and 
 pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geotio
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I got into it at the beginning but the enemies were so flippin' annoying. That ruined it for me. 
 I really didn't want to play any more and I didn't like the battle system either. The way to flee 
 was horrible and you have your last character flee slower so he would die and you have a game over. 
 I just completely lost interest in the game after this happened a few times... and game wasn't 
 that good overall anyway. The story was boring and to me, i could have saved the money. I guess 
 i'll just stick to the show and leave the games for other franchises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerdemon1486
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  At the start of this game you notice all the flare and good point this game has to offer. Then 
 thirty minutes later all you want to do is take it back to the store, but then you realize its 
 non refundable. The game lacks any strong rpg points and feels like it should have came out 10 
 years ago. The characters are nicely rendered and the and world is colorfull and vibrant but nonetheless 
 the gameplay keeps you from seeing it all. Battles are turnbased which is a new engine for an inuyasha 
 game, but they play slow and lack any fun. Characters dont really need to built up because you 
 already have an arsenal of moves from the start. Theres no character development, no customization, 
 Hey ! there's not even a respectable menu screen. Its just two tabs for status and items.
  Items you collect are unorganized and hard to tell what does what, but its not like you need most 
 of the time anyway cuz your an unstoppable force from the get go. The good thing is does do is 
 utilize the DS's two screens forcing you to switch your eyes back and fourth from time to time 
 but it still doesn't affect how boring this game is. This game would be a pretty good handheld 
 anime rpg if only the entire game was just better. Once again anime fans of this series will just 
 have to wait again to see if someone will get Inuyasha right, lets just pray it happens in our 
 lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doreensum
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I did have some disappointment while playing the game. However, it is not as horrible if you look 
 for good parts. I find that using the stylus to move is more efficient and enjoyable than using 
 th D-pad. One will also spend a lot of time leveling up just to advance becaure the next boss will 
 just whip your ass
  
  My main gripes are:
  -No point in increasing level except to increase characters' stats
  -unable to pan map to see 
 where I'm heading
  -unable to sell redunant items
  -not knowing wat to do next
  
  Plus points:
  -fun using stylus to move around
  -nice music (I'm serious!)
  -cute but good 
 graphics
  
  I agree that this is a game for fans and not for the average gamer. However, it's not as horrible 
 as depicted by most. Maybe I'm just one of those Inuyasha fans. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neko-Zach
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Inuyasha: SotDJ is a competent RPG in it's own right but it doesn't hold up in comparison to some 
 of the DS's other RPGs, which isn't really fair.
  The graphics are just fine, nothing special but nothing bad. I personally think there should have 
 been better profile shots when characters talk, and the sprites could have used a bit more animation. 
 But again there really isn't any thing bad.
  The gameplay is competent but lacks inspiration. For movement in towns, dungeons, and on the world 
 map you can use the touch screen or the d-pad. The touch sceen only let's you use the small rectangle 
 that displays the party's sprites to move around on the maps, which to me is to awkward to use 
 with out continualy watching where the stylus is. There is also a little A button on the touch 
 screen so that you can use it interact with things using the touch screen. I personally found it 
 easier to just use the face buttons.
  My main gripe is the lack of direction and no sense of what to do next. I personally couldn't figure 
 out where to go next, ever, and had to seek help.
  My other gripe with the gameplay is that the game's difficulty jumps up randomly in my opinion.
 
  The sound, oh how I hate the sound. I realize that they were trying to keep the music authentic 
 to the show, but something went wrong, horribly wrong. The problem is that at times it's screechy, 
 and overall there is no variety.
  Sound aside, Inuyasha: Secret of the Divine Jewel is a compotent RPG in it's own right, but I recommend 
 buying it at a discounted price ($20 or less) or maybe used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is so bad it just deserves a good and bad comparison for you to view
  
  Good
  - Very nice sprites. Everyone looks chibi lol
  - Nice work of teamwork in battles
  - Decent 
 controls
  
  Bad
  - Almost no reference to whats going on for new players of the series at all!
  - Theres no info 
 on how to play the game at all. Guess you got to read that manual for once
  - Horrible music, just turn your sound off. Manly the town music kills your ears
  - far FAR to 
 many random battles. I spent 2 hours in this cave lost being smashed with random battles every 
 5 seconds. Even with the amulets its very tough
  - Basically all skills are learned in the beginning of the game, meaning the battles never change 
 in growth. Its like playing a game for the first time but knowing every spell you can? - Difficulty 
 is so waked. First your windscaring guys in 1 move, next your getting your ass owned like your 
 a newb.
  
  Story wise- Your a girl named Janis from america who gets special powers because of the shikon 
 jewel and so inu-yasha and his friends set out to remove it. Basic concept, but feels like a filler 
 episode like many inuyasha episodes made into a game. Overall- I normally wait till I beat a game 
 to make a review but this game I can barly touch as it is and want you the gamers to know the truth 
 before you even think of buying this. DON'T! Even inu-yasha fans will have a hard time enjoying 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krypto74
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Just bought it. I love the Anime it's based on, so I had to get it. The Good.
  1. Sprites are excellent.
  2. Great Music (none from the anime) .
  3. Plays very smooth.
  
 4. Feudal Japan, Blond haired American... Ganguro jokes aplenty.
  
  The Bad
  1. There is a frackin exclusive character to the game (Janis aKa Mary Sue) .
  2. It's difficult 
 to learn, as there is no in game tutorial. The documentation is as helpful as most manuals.
  3. It feels like they did nothing special for the DS. You can literally never pull out your stylus 
 and be able to play the game. Except for the second screen, it could have been a GBA game. The 
 Ugly
  1. Janis' origin story is so frackin complicated!!! Mary Sue used to live in Japan, but Dad was 
 transferred to the States. Janis is American. Janis speaks fluent Japanese and Dad is now being 
 transferred BACK to Tokyo. So She should be just fine, but no, she's only got one friend in all 
 the world.. Kagome? Again, this jumps logic because Kagome is always out sick when did they have 
 time to become BFF?
  
  Seriously, I've seen lots of cartoon tie ins do goofy stuff like add new characters, and there 
 must be some executive memo that says games require gamers to leave 30 IQ points at the door, because 
 I signed on to see the Wind Scar (awesome in game graphics BTW) and use the DS to its fullest. 
 If it was a GBA game it'd be a 8 of 10 and I'd give Janis a pass... As a DS game, it's really only 
 a 6/10 because there's no real need for a stylus, it isn't wi-fi (wi-the heck not?) and it doesn't 
 even use the Mic to make you shout out Wind Tunnel when you select a special attack. If you are 
 a fan, it'll be annoying but good. If you're a rpg fan, it'll be a nice way to rest up between 
 FFIII sessions. If you're a general gamer, wait till it hits the 9.00 racks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandyCAcura
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 27, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Since noone posted it here, I will.
  
  It starts really slow in the beginning, because the main character is useless and stands around 
 while the other 2 party members have very limited attack options.. you've heard it before, you'll 
 hear it again: far too many random battle encounters.
  
  To elaborate, I am quite a patient person, but the battle system in this game is so primitive and 
 mundane that I lost my temper with it. There is far too much walking in this game to get nowhere, 
 and walking 2 screens into a dead end, taking 20 minutes to do so over 30-40 battles simply isn't 
 fun for anyone.
  
  Let's say that they had a reasonable percent chance for encounter, even then the battle system 
 is horrible. In terms of statistics, it seems that levelling up gives you linear growth on every 
 character, but it has no real bearing on anything. The skills you have remain the same (until you 
 learn more skills due to plot I hope?) , and every character has similar skills. Regular attack 
 using 1 action point (called EP in this game) , Charge which I think is a powered up attack but 
 with less accuracy for 2 points, Skills/Magic, Defend, Spirit Up (rest a turn to regain EP) and 
 Escape.
  
  I will elaborate on the skills here, you would imagine this is where the interesting things begin.. 
 but it doesn't. All the characters have the same skills, just with different names. Skill #1: Single-Enemy 
 Attack. Skill #2: Multi-enemy attack (radius based mostly, sometimes line based) . Skill #3: Heal 
 someobdy else. Skill #4: Buff somebody else.
  
  They tried to spice it up with 'combo' attacks.. kind of like a ghetto version of Chronotrigger's 
 tagteam attacks.. But basically, if you say.. attack with Inuyasha, you can click on 3 other faces 
 so it's like you attack (nothing cool, when i say 'attack' i mean the regular 1EP attack) with 
 3 people instead of 1.. effectively bypassing their turn.
  
  Don't get me started on 'Escape'.. I don't normally run in RPGs in the first place because i don't 
 mind fighting and levelling my characters... this is the first game that has put me over the edge. 
 I got so tired of fighting the same monsters, in large numbers, over and over again, every 2-5 
 steps i took.. As a result, I wanted to run... by they have you by the balls again. Just when I 
 had given up all pride and dignity, and tried to run from a mud monster, the developers thought 
 of the final way to piss you off. Your characters must all escape, ONE at a TIME. At first, I thought 
 there MUST be a reason to do this.. perhaps you take the chance of running away and leaving 1 character 
 to fend for themselves. This has NOT been the case for me.. There is no reason that I can see to 
 make my characters run away 1 at a time.
  
  Everytime you pick up an item like a healing herb or whatever, the game pauses for like 5 seconds 
 playing a retarded song. At first, I was like cool. Now that I've picked up a fair number of items 
 I am fearful for my NDS, as I can feel my white-knuckled keypad bashing rage building and possibly 
 spiking the NDS in a fury if I hear that damn jingle one more time.
  
  All in all, the graphics are mediocre at best. The music is annoying. The gameplay is one of the 
 worst I have ever seen in any RPG. In conclusion, it seems that somebody very intelligent, but 
 mostly evil has deliberately spent the past few months/years developing this game trying to figure 
 out how to make the most infuriating RPG ever, and see what idiots buy it due to the anime hype. 
 I haven't seen the anime in full before, and this game is making me never want to see it.. I would 
 rather play nothing on my NDS than play this game. If you want a number rating, Here it is.
  &lt;
  Don't waste your money kids. This one is a pass for anyone, all except for the few out 
 there with Inuyasha underwear and that are die die die die die hard fans. Just say no. Please. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
