-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Izuna: Legend of the Unemployed Ninja
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/izunalegendoftheunemployedninja/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun, intense combat.
 Excellent soundtrack.
 Great localization.
 Uncategorically satisfying at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extreme difficulty isn't for everyone.
 Not much variety to weapons and armor.
 Properly using talismans can be confusing.
 Uncategorically frustrating at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.4, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 250 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Ninja Studio
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Feb 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its simplistic nature and barbaric difficulty level, Izuna: The Legend of the Unemployed 
 Ninja can be intensely satisfying. 

  Your sword is cracked. Your armor is broken. You're on the 25th floor of a dungeon, and it has 
 taken you about an hour to get there. You've just stepped on an undetectable monster trap and scads 
 of demons are now bearing down on you. The next time you attack or move, you will die and respawn 
 at the local village without armor, items, or money... again. In short, you're screwed... again. 
 Does this sound like good times? The folks at Ninja Studio apparently think so, and they're looking 
 to bring that joy to the Nintendo DS with Izuna: The Legend of the Unemployed Ninja. While the 
 game's barbaric difficulty will undoubtedly be agonizing for some, those with a high threshold 
 for pain will find a perverse delight in hacking their way through this dungeon crawler.  

          Please put the gun down... you've died enough as it is.     

  In Izuna, you'll crawl 
 through a randomly generated dungeon, scrounging for weapons, armor, and items to help you survive 
 just a little while longer and make it to deeper and darker depths. Combat is turn based and as 
 basic as it gets; you and the monsters surrounding you take turns beating on each other until you 
 or they keel over. Even if unemployed, Izuna is still a ninja, so she can dish out serious damage 
 with her fists. However, you'll also find battle claws, which are stand-alone and have both an 
 attack and defense rating, as well as swords and armor, which can be equipped together but each 
 only have an attack or a defense rating, respectively. The battle claws, swords, and armor come 
 in different varieties, but for the most part, what you're able to find in the first dungeon is 
 the same as what you'll find in the last, so there isn't much variety. These items also have what's 
 called an "SP" and a love rating. The SP rating comes into play as you find talismans, which are 
 essentially magical runes that you can either stick on your equipment or cast as a single-use spell 
 to give you stat boosts or other benefits. Each talisman has a specific amount of SP attached to 
 it, so you'll be able to layer them onto your equipment in accordance with how much each item is 
 able to withstand. Of note, item SP is not to be confused with Izuna's personal SP rating, which 
 acts as energy points and is consumed by using talismans in their single-charge capacity, as well 
 as when you're hit. As for each item's love rating, well, let's just say that you probably shouldn't 
 get too attached to any of your gear.  

  Many of Izuna's rage-inducing moments are inspired by the permadeath system it employs. Instead 
 of humanely ending your game with a game-over screen and the opportunity to reload from your last 
 save point, Izuna autosaves every time you enter or exit a dungeon. When you die and are forced 
 out of a dungeon, the game saves and you respawn at the village, naked as a newborn (which is to 
 say, with an empty inventory) . So that awesome sword you found with a really high attack rating? 
 Kiss it good-bye, because it's gone forever. But, hey, live to fight another day, right? Technically, 
 you do have the option of exiting dungeons with a special talisman (assuming you can get your hands 
 on one) to store certain items you'd like to hang on to in town, and you can also find a talisman 
 that can send your gear back to the storehouse when you die; but these aren't very practical, because 
 first, there's no way to get back to the floor you were on after you exit a dungeon other than 
 fighting back down, and second, most items have a very limited amount of SP, and you're not going 
 to want to waste it on superfluous talismans. So in practice, you're better off just rolling the 
 dice and hoping to survive as long as you can (which typically won't be very long) .  

  For the most part, death is avoidable if you're careful, and you can very easily regain all of 
 your health when no monsters are in the near vicinity. But all too frequently you'll step on an 
 invisible trap that slams you into a wall for half your life just as a horde of baddies rounds 
 the corner. Or, you survive that horde, take one step, and land right on a monster-summoning trap. 
 Traps are both a boon and a bane, as they add a lot of spontaneity and unpredictability to the 
 otherwise random yet similar dungeons, but it's really frustrating that you have no way to detect 
 them.  

  The game doesn't really come into its own until you've reached the fifth of seven dungeons. The 
 first four dungeons essentially involve you being repeatedly and unceremoniously slaughtered in 
 interesting and unlikely ways by monsters named Language Barrier and Super Marimo (which are typical 
 of text-based games) . Since the amount of damage your attacks wield decreases as your personal 
 SP lowers, and pickups that increase your SP are few and far between, using talismans that drain 
 SP isn't a particularly viable option in these early stages. However, by the fifth dungeon you'll 
 probably have gained enough levels so that you'll have some SP to play around with, and you'll 
 also start finding talismans that boost the SP capacity of the equipment you find. It's at this 
 point that you can really start layering on talismans and experimenting with different combinations 
 to create some really powerful, unique items -- though, again, this makes it all the more devastating 
 when you die and lose that pimped-out sword that you couldn't find a recall talisman for. For the 
 sick and twisted among you, there is also a bonus eighth dungeon, which resets you to level one 
 and has you dungeon-crawling until, presumably, you're taken away to the funny farm, much like 
 in older games of this ilk.  

          No! Now shut your mouth and just try to stay alive for  five minutes .     

  Izuna's 
 anime-inspired storyline will either bolster your spirits or crush them completely, depending on 
 whether you can get onboard with its brand of humor. Izuna, who is a flirtatious, vivacious 16-year-old 
 girl, accompanies her recently pink-slipped sensei, Grandboss, and two other companions to a small 
 village. Upon arriving, Izuna promptly angers the village's gods, who curse the entire populace 
 except for Izuna with various maladies. It then becomes your job to right your actions, appease 
 the gods, and convince everyone that life is A-OK. Getting through the main storyline could take 
 you anywhere from 12 hours to several weeks, depending on how long it takes Nintendo to repair 
 and ship back your DS after you've snapped it in half in a moment of weakness. To publisher Atlus' 
 credit, the story's script was expertly localized and is quite witty. Further to the publisher's 
 credit, the decision to leave the short phrases and clips of audio in Japanese goes a long way 
 in keeping Izuna's battle cries and townsfolk's well-wishings from becoming repetitive and annoying. 
 The game also has a great soundtrack that, while not particularly memorable, features some well-composed, 
 digitized tunes that are soothing and have a suitably Asian aesthetic.  

  In a sense, Izuna is what it is. Your ability to weather its unfriendly difficulty is the key factor 
 in determining whether you'll be able to put up with this game or not. Its use of a permadeath 
 system heightens your sense of risk-versus-reward to an extremely intense level, so as frustrating 
 as it can be, it can be just as satisfying when you finally do emerge victorious from a particularly 
 insane situation. Plus, the dynamic nature of never knowing when your items are going to break, 
 where the next trap lies, or when yet another enemy will round the corner alleviates the otherwise 
 tedious single-button combat mechanic and repetitive-dungeon feel. For those who like games with 
 bite, Izuna brings the pain.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: draftrough
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people dont like this game because when you get knocked out in a dungeon you lose your 
 on-hand items and money, but if they didnt take those away when you lose then their would be no 
 punishment or downside to losing and no need for a health system all together. 
  This game is fun with Wonderful Characters and Graphics. 
  The graphics are sprite/tile based 
 to be more old-school RPG like, and they did a very good job especially with the Character sprites, 
 although the dungeons are all very similar and uninspired. 
  The Character nicely drawn and very funny, each Character is believable and you could see them 
 in real life. 
  The Story is not very epic but its funny and for a portable RPG it gets the job done. 
  Izuna 
 and her Ninja Family are recently unemployed and looking for a place to stay and work, when they 
 find one Izuna steals a juel That symbols the towns respect and worshiping of the Gods and so everyone 
 gets cursed, causing Izuna to have to go through the various dungeons to ask the Gods individually 
 to end the curse.
  Gameplay is nothing special but fun, You find weapons and talismans a lot and when you get knocked 
 out you lose them and your money, but the game is made so it doesnt really matter if you lose your 
 stuff cause you find new items lying around to be used, and if you want to keep your stuff so badly 
 you can keep them with the priestess till you want them back. 
  The fighting system is ok you basically equip a weapon and find an enamy walking around and press 
 the a button in a turn based way to hit or miss, you can use talismans to do special attacks or 
 put and burn them into a weapon to make it stronger and give it effects. 
  All Characters and enemies alike all only walk or move while you move Izuna, so if you stand still 
 enemies wont be able to come after you and attack, and while moving you slowly regain lost health. 
 
  You can only save your game at the INN or when you find the stairs to go down a floor in the dungeon 
 your in. 
  There isnt much for replay value but its still fun to run through another time, and after the final 
 dungeon there is a bonus special dungeon with 100 floors you can go to if you figure out how what 
 to do to get there, All in all this game is fun with a funny story likeable Characters and simple 
 but good gameplay. 
  Dont forget Izuna 2: The Unemployed Ninja Returns is coming out soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: able_to_think
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Izuna: Legend of the Unemployed Ninja takes a very simple concept and turns it into a very entertaining 
 and immersive game. I you like dungeon crawlers or hardcore RPGs this should be a no-brainer to 
 pick up. I have never played a dungeon crawler so I'm a n00b at this genre but that hasn't stopped 
 me from having a good time with the game. It's a good game to kill time on a long car trip or plane 
 ride because you don't it makes the time fly by. 
  
  The graphics are nothing too special. The GBA could probably do this, but having your stats and 
 the map on the top screen really helps when you're wondering around a dungeon looking for the exit. 
 
  
  You've probably heard it, but the dungeons are all randomly generated. I never found this to be 
 a problem, in fact I kind of liked it because it changed things up a bit when I keep dieing, which 
 happens allot in this game. The difficulty is merciless, but if you don't mind grinding then it 
 shouldn't be a problem. The weapon system is rather interesting. You can add seals to your weapon 
 but if you die all your stuff is gone and you have to start from scratch so be careful. 
  
  Over all Izuna is a great game. It's worth the $20 price tag because of how long it is. Go pick 
 it up and give it a try it's fun and well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentlessH52
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  What if ninjas became out of work? If these stealthy assassins end up getting the pink slip all 
 of a sudden after years of service, what would they do? Where would they go? How will they pay 
 their inn rent? This odd scenario is pretty much the setting of Atlus USA's Izuna: Legend of the 
 Unemployed Ninja. Does this little cutie bring you a good time, or does she make you feel horrible?!
 
  
  Story:
  Izuna's journey starts off when she and her other pack of ninjas suddenly become unemployed, because 
 according to her, ninjas are "sooo yesterday!". They end up finding a quaint little village, and 
 believe they can settle down here. Unfortunately, Izuna carelessly touches the gem of the gods 
 and ends up angering the six gods of the village. They end up corrupting the villagers, talking 
 snipe and whatnot to our little heroine. Now, to set things right, she must find the gods and apologize 
 to them. Of course, she's not exactly the nicest girl in the world, so she'll more likely have 
 to defeat them. The story is quite basic, and ultimately, in terms of this type of RPG, it's not 
 all that important, really.
  7/10
  
  Design:
  The structure of Izuna is actually quite basic. Traversing to the bottom of the dungeons and defeating 
 the boss at the end is the bulk of the game. Although at first glance, it may look like a real 
 time RPG, it is in fact turn based. Each move you make, including walking, uses up one turn (for 
 each step in terms of walking) . The enemies then take their turn of their moving or doing an action. 
 This structure will take some getting used to for those who never played a game like this, but 
 it is essential if you want to get through the exceedingly tough dungeons.
  In addition to dungeon crawling, you also find various weapons and armor of which you can use to 
 upgrade Izuna's abilities. These can break, however, after an extended period of time, so if you 
 don't want to lose them, switch to other weapons or armor you have in your inventory or repair 
 them using a repair talisman or going to the repair shop to fix them up. Talismans, as well, give 
 you special abilities that you can use if you're able to or give your weapons and armor stat bonuses 
 and powers by sticking them on. Be sure to watch your weapon's or armor's capacity, however, as 
 if you stick a talisman that exceeds the capacity of it, then it'll break after a few more uses. 
 You can raise their capacity by visiting another shop, but that costs money.
  Izuna is a fairly lengthy game, but most of the length comes from how many times you end up retrying 
 a dungeon you end up losing in. So, if you don't like tough games, you best keep away from this 
 one.
  7.5/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Those of you usually having a stylus at hand when using your DS pretty much have to put it down 
 for this one. Izuna has NO touch screen functions, even for menus. Much of the structure is a lot 
 like a regular RPG. Gain experience by killing monsters, gain enough to level up, and so forth. 
 Attacks, however, actually consume SP, as well as using talismans, so you have to make sure you 
 have an item that restores your SP in case it starts to get low. Also, try your best NOT to be 
 surrounded by enemies, as Izuna can't take much punishment if your armor is not at very high stats. 
 Of course, even if you're surrounded, it is possible to turn the tide in your favor if you strategize 
 at that moment. Remember, this is turn based, so they don't move if you don't make a move.
  Izuna is very difficult, and if you don't know how to think on your feet, be prepared to die a 
 LOT!! The punishment for dying is losing everything you have (except for experience gained) . The 
 game also saves automatically when you die, and if you try to reset the game when you're in the 
 brink of dying, you end up losing everything you gained (including experience) so that it's like 
 you died anyway. This, however, makes it even more rewarding when you finally manage to beat that 
 dungeon you were stuck on for so long. Also, despite the harsh difficulty, the options it has for 
 you makes it feel like it's your own fault for not planning ahead. It also uses the top screen 
 as you map and status, of sorts, and when you're in large corridors, you can see any enemies coming 
 toward you that is not within screen range on the bottom screen, giving you even more of an edge. 
 In short, it enforces preparedness and rational thinking, and those that stick with it will, eventually, 
 be rewarded with great gameplay.
  8.0/10
  
  Presentation:
  Graphic wise, Izuna isn't really much of a looker. It looks a lot like a GBA game ported to the 
 DS, with simplistic sprites and animations, as well as backgrounds. During conversations, however, 
 it does display great artwork on the top screen, and because it's unobstructed by the gameplay 
 at all, you get to see an almost full body artwork, which is quite nice.
  The audio front has nice melodies that sound like something from a real ninja flick, and they are 
 orchestrated quite well. The voice of Izuna is also nicely Japanese, even though you'll only get 
 samples. The sound effects are simplistic but good, though.
  It's biggest strength, however, is the translation Atlus USA has provided. Each character, especially 
 Izuna herself, has character dialogue that is just dripping with personality. They all have their 
 problems and inferiority complexes, and the well translated script makes it feel worth reading, 
 just to see how these guys play out their lines. On the official website, you also get a sample 
 of the writing via little comic strips that they set up.
  While the graphics are quite a low point for this game, the music and the translation more than 
 make up for this little oversight.
  8.0/10
  
  Izuna was mostly overlooked due to the various games with the Final Fantasy name arriving on the 
 DS, but those that have played it know that this game has a charm that can't be matched. If it's 
 a deep storyline and moderate difficulty gameplay you want, Izuna doesn't have the arsenal for 
 that, but if you are tough enough to take on the dungeons and enjoy extremely witty dialogue, give 
 this girl a shot at your heart. Just make sure that she behaves, all right?!
  
  Overall: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cd19
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  The Good : The difficulty is not as hard as people say it is, Simple, yet fun gameplay and plot 
 , Anime style with Japanese voice acting , Solid design as you can't use a FAQ , Pretty good soundtrack, 
 Cheap 20 dollar price tag.
  
  The Bad : No use of the stylus or microphone makes you wonder if this should be for GBA , No side 
 quests or replay value, Dull NPC's. 
  
  You should : look upRogue ". 
  
  Izuna : LOTUN ( are people using that abbrevation ?? ) , is typically synonymous with difficult 
 or hard, when typing it on Google or reading game reviews online. I wouldn't necessarily call it 
 that, as I think it's more time consuming than difficult. You play as a single character throughout 
 the whole game, Izuna, who is the typical naive and sexy anime girl, despite being only 16. You 
 fight turn based style through randomly generated dungeons, which range from about 5 to 40 floors, 
 collecting items, as you level up and collect items until you reach a boss fight. If you are defeated, 
 you start back in the village. You keep your EXP, but lose all your weapons and items. This has 
 been a big knock on the game, but with experience, you will find out how to keep your weapons and 
 items, and also how to leave a dungeon with all your items before death. This leads to you keeping 
 your weapons throughout the game, and you can really spend some time beefing the weapons and armor 
 up.
  
  This game is very basic, and designed well. I enjoy the fact that I can't use a FAQ or walkthrough 
 in this game, which is something I find myself doing too often these days. Also, right when you 
 die, the game saves immediately, and there is no soft reset. This adds legitimacy to the game, 
 as you can't use the old save and reload trick to try things over a 2nd or 3rd time. So you might 
 be thinking, well, I'll just turn the game off right before I die, I'll reload and pick up my 
 progress back on dungeon floor 34 ". Wrong. When you turn the game off, you end up back outside 
 the dungeon. The game is fair, not hard. There are some dungeons that are difficult, but they can 
 be cured by leveling up and using some strategy.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty tight, I particularly like the boss music. I also like how every 5th floor 
 of a dungeon finds you a new track. When you spend over an hour in a dungeon, you don't need repetitive 
 music. If your someone who thinks graphics are an important part of a game, then you may be disappointed 
 with Izuna. The game looks more like a SNES offering, which I personally don't mind. I'm not a 
 huge fan of cliche anime styles, but I think the art form works just fine for this simple game.
 
  
  The big knocks for me were the lack of sidequests. You can tell this is a low budget game by a 
 small company, which of course is good and bad. I wouldn't of minded something to break the monotony 
 of dungeon crawling, as that's all there is to do in this game. You could go around speaking to 
 the NPC's, which I personally found to be a bit stock, and annoying ( I really can't stand to hear 
Irrashaimase ", or read the cheesy dialog by the warehouse girl again ! ) . 
  
  Nonetheless, if you like dungeons, and you like Japan, you will more than likely enjoy Izuna . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 4, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Lengthy dungeon-crawl with item customization and levelling up (of character and items) . Some snappy 
 dialogue. Japanese voice-overs left intact.
  
  The bad:
  Somewhat repetitive by the end, but show me a game that isn't.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  You know, all the kvetching about how hard this game is, how you die and lose everything and blah 
 blah blah..... I almost didn't pick this game up because of it.
  
  What a mistake that would've been.
  
  Look, yes, you lose your stuff when you die, but there 
 are lots of ways to preserve a lot of it.
  First of all, if you have a particular talisman ('scroll' ) , you can warp out of the dungeon any 
 old time. The talisman can be PURCHASED AT A STORE IN TOWN after you've cleared the first two dungeons. 
 So, provided you make sure you have one of these handy scrolls in your inventory when you enter 
 a dungeon, you are guaranteed to survive with your gear. If anything, the first two dungeons are 
 the toughest as a result of not being able to buy this scroll, but the rest of the game is pretty 
 much a breeze, provided you play it cautiously, and make sure you are very buffed up level-wise.
 
  
  Second, you have access (after the first dungeon) to a storehouse where you can keep all the extra 
 gear you want. If you make repeated runs through the same dungeon (which gets easier every time 
 since you are always levelling up) , you can build up a good inventory of extra equipment for those 
 occasions when you find yourself dead.
  
  Third, unless you play like a complete idiot, not paying attention to having enough healing items, 
 or letting yourself get surrounded, you are not going to find this game that difficult. Healing 
 your character involves, wait for it, it's complicated..... STANDING AROUND while the hit points 
 are restored. Sheesh.
  
  Fourth, if you can't seem to get the hang of warping out when in trouble, you can always stick 
 one of the warp talismans on to your gear, so that if you die, the gear will still warp out without 
 you. So, you can feel free to take more chances, knowing that at least the gear will survive for 
 another run.
  
  Finally, what you absolutely need to do is level up at every opportunity, and make sure you have 
 good gear. This is straight out of page 1 of the RPG player's survival guide, and it's just as 
 true here, since you will for a while anyway, be flying without a safety net to bail you out of 
 bad situations.
  
  The problem people are having with the 'difficulty' of this game is due to something I've said 
 many times before: they never really learned how to play an RPG properly, since on-the-fly saving 
 makes death a triviality. This game restores death to it's rightful place: a serious consequence 
 of acting like a moron in a dangerous place. So, don't act like a moron, take death seriously, 
 and play this game as though YOU are the one in the dark dungeon with monsters everywhere... bet 
 you wouldn't just start running from dark room to dark room without checking. Heck, I bet you don't 
 even like going into your own house's basement after dark. This game is meant to be played with 
 extreme caution. Doing so will result in a rewarding 25-35 hours of dungeon-crawling. Izuna rocks. 
 'nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redbirdslayer
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  A Great game following the footsteps of many other rouge genre titles, But can get simplistic in 
 its difficulty as over time it all boils down to how long you can last redoing the same dungeon 
 over and over till you reach the level needed. A somewhat great addition that kind of fizzled over 
 was that when you lose you lose all your items, This gets intensly annoying as you can only stick, 
 and use items in the field of battle. While you can still buy the new tags in town. The learning 
 curve itself starts at about 0-30 minutes then jumps to almost over 4 hours, as you are forced 
 to redo dungeons just to get a feel for what to avoid, and what to fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ariolander
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  With a short learning curve but a hard difficulty this game is not for those light of heart. This 
 ain't your little brother's Pokemon Mystery Dungeon for the price of failure is... well everything. 
 You die (faint really) and a villager has to carry your body out of that dungeon you will loose 
 everything on your person, ALL your items, ALL your equipment, and ALL your money. You have been 
 forewarned for games like this break the casual gamer and challenge even the most hardcore of gamers 
 calling for at least a cooling off period before getting back into the flow.
  
  The gameplay controls are very simple A for an attack, B to dash, or X to use shuriken, kunai, 
 caltrops, &amp; bombs, and Y to hold &amp; change direction. It seems simple but can be quite challenging 
 for when you make an action your opponents do as well adding some tactical challenge as well. Then 
 to add some more pressure to the player you can only save in the tavern in town or at the stairs 
 in each level of the dungeon. If you try turning off the game after you made a mistake it will 
 count as a 'death' and the normal death penalties are applied. Dungeons are randomly generated 
 each time you enter so you never know what to expect next.
  
  Beyond simple combat there is a pretty good item customization system. By combining different equipments 
 with talismans you can add different effects, burn in stats and add in more talismans. With effort 
 you can easily make an uber weapon but with loss of inventory upon death loosing your precious 
 customized Giant Claw can lead to quite a bit of mourning. Thankfully there are ways to save your 
 items even with death thanks to the Kikan talisman. Be sure to equip one to any item you customize 
 to save yourself some grief.
  
  The story itself though nothing epic adds quite a bit of charm to the game. Not heavy reading everything 
 seems light hearted and fun enough that it will drive you to keep playing. Thanks to a period of 
 peace little Izuna and her band of fellow ninja find themselves unemployed. Grandboss your leader 
 decides to settle down in a quant mountain town but one thing leads to another and Izuna ends up 
 angering the village's local Gods and cursing the town and her friends. Now you must journey into 
 the surrounding dungeons searching for each of the Gods and convince them to cure everyone... by 
 force if you have to.
  
  Izuna: Legend of the Unemployed Ninja is a charming dungeon crawler for the DS perfect for those 
 who wants a game a bit more challenging than Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. Not for the light hearted 
 or those that do not like dungeon crawlers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigga3456
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  its not a bad game overall but,
  i think there's too much talking going on,
  its just like mega man net battle games much talk less gaming
  u gotta give it a chance someday 
 it could grow out to be a nice game.
  its not a bad game overall but,
  i think there's too much talking going on,
  its just like mega man net battle games much talk 
 less gaming
  u gotta give it a chance someday it could grow out to be a nice game.
  its not a bad game overall but,
  i think there's too much talking going on,
  its just like 
 mega man net battle games much talk less gaming
  u gotta give it a chance someday it could grow out to be a nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EpiLoN
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was not designed to have amazing graphics or amazing enviroment , or complicated gameplay 
 and for those who dont understand that need to learn a thing or two about old school rpg's, and 
 this is NOT the game for you. This game for starters is as old school as you get and quite the 
 challenge, as you begin izuna finds that messing with the god's is a mistake not worth the price 
 when she curses her loved ones. To get them back you must proceed through randomly generated dungeons 
 to get elemental orbs from the gods. The gameplay within the dungeons is pretty simple but in certaint 
 situations very hard. You have your A button to attack or Y to hold postion and change direction, 
 and B to dash, where X opens your inventory. when encountering an enemy you attack, and of course 
 they attack back... simple right? Not quite, enemies from the dungeon can eventually catch up and 
 put you in a 3 on 1 situation, a problem? Yes, for after death you are recovered outside the dungeon 
 and ALL your items gone (the price for failing) , where as you can put the items in the bank you 
 usually need them, this includes your equipped items. Because the dungeon is randomly generated 
 its a new experience with every run. as you progress through the area's you go down a flight of 
 stairs randomly placed in the dungeon till you reach the boss. you have a mass amount of items 
 to use in the dungeon and in combat as well as equip's such as claws and swords. Health is lost 
 quickly at lower levels but can be regained by simply walking around. The mobs within the dungeon 
 correspond their on movement based on your own so when you move, they move, when you stop, they 
 stop. So in the process of recovering health your likely to run into enemies. Getting too many 
 people on you at once is a sure call for defeat, and you can NOT leave the dungeon without a item 
 that allows you to do so. So when put into bad situations you'll usually die and lose all your 
 items. Making this one aspect of the game very frustrating but challenging. Because this game was 
 not meant to look amazing or sound amazing its hard to dish a fair rating. But as for the gameplay 
 itself which shines for those who give it time. i give Izuna as a whole 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vortex21
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The rogue-like genre or at least part of a genre. The genre of dungeon-crawlers. Rogue-likes is 
 a genre that strikes fear into the hearts of casual gamers. What I have to I grind how long??? 
 If I die what happens??!! Egads they say as the curl up into a corner and cry themselves to sleep.
 
  Izuna legend of the unemployed ninja is an excellent example of the rogue-like genre perhaps the 
 most true to for example in a looong time. This hurts it and helps it. Story
  What a funny or corky story quite a contrast to the difficulty (I think every review has said something 
 similar to that line) It's not too deep, but some of the npc's have several layers of development 
 that youll enjoy unlocking as you progress through the game. Well the initial story begins as 
 your ninja clan gets the boot because there is world peace... doesn't that suck, personally several 
 years ago America and Russia would of been pissed all that money down the drain, hell America probably 
 would be pissed even today. In an attempt to find a new life Grandboss the leader of this ninja 
 troupe decides to find a small village to settle down in, Izuna, her sister and what Izuna considers 
 her slave (because she believes him to be a loser) travel with grandboss. However the troupe angers 
 the gods and wouldn't ya know in classic pagan tradition curse everybody. Now it's up to Izuna 
 to save her ninja troupe and inadvertently the town from the curse ['s] . The story isn't deep, but 
 it's funny and thats enough for it to make you want to keep on playing, props to Atlas for the 
 localization and does every game need a fan service such as the infamous picture on the main site. 
 Difficulty
  I'll be damned if I told you, you wouldn't stop playing after a death or two, you may want to cool 
 off after loosing some sort of super weapon you invested lots of money into. It difficulty is hard 
 to explain. In truth it's moderately difficult, but like a cold day the wind chill factor can make 
 the day seem a lot colder, this wind chill factor being dying. Dying in this game robs you of all 
 your loot, that includes weapons and armor. Even your money goes as well. This can make the game 
 to hard to handle if you grow attached to a certain weapon and didn't equip a Kikan talisman (talismans 
 will be explained in the battle system section) . The difficulty is probably the largest reason 
 one can classify this game as old school... ever play rogue or other ancient rogue-likes? Game 
 play
  Hard as hell, if your not careful. I should first mention the game pretty much gives you a fast 
 forward function, thats a good move lets you kill a lot of the monotony that often comes with 
 dungeon crawlers. There are several dungeons in the game they consistently get longer and much 
 harder as you progress. They are also randomly generated and have plenty of traps so each dungeon 
 isnt as straightforward as one may hope or not-hope depending on the person.
  If your unfamiliar with rogue-like games each floor of the dungeon is set up like a grid every 
 time you move or perform an action so do all the enemies. Considering this more often than not 
 you should carefully consider your moves when nearing multiple enemies, you DO NOT want to get 
 surrounded if you do theres no such thing as a recommended level and with some enemies having 
 the ability to seal your ability to use talismans your a goner. Talismans, for 60% of the game 
 I felt they were mildly useless, over train your way to victory that was my motto, but by the fifth 
 dungeon your going to learn using them how to use them for tactical advantage. Not necessarily 
 using them, but equipping them. A Kikan (allowing to escape a dungeon instantly... also the only 
 way to escape a dungeon aside of dying) can be equipped onto a weapon to send it to the storehouse 
 if you die. I don't care what master plan you have for your favorite weapon equip it on the weapon 
 theres no plan with no weapon enough said. Also the ten'i is a useful talisman that will randomly 
 teleport you to anywhere on the floor use it wisely it will save your life. Ok the healing items. 
 They are very important. They heal you and they save your ass. Keep in mind not to go into a dungeon 
 with loads of them you might die with several of them on you and you loose them, keep care to store 
 them and take them out when you need them.
  The weapon customization in this game involves some guy you pay sh$% loads of money to make it 
 so your weapon increases it's sp that allows it to hold more powerful talismans thus leading you 
 to become far more effective and have a much better chance in later game dungeons. This is a tough 
 game most of your money will go into this don't be afraid to blow all your money it's expected 
 that you farm and grind a lot. Graphics
  A few might consider this the worst part of the game... there graphic whores... ok maybe not. The 
 graphics are very outdated, but this game is low budget and you know that from the start. The graphics 
 are classic snes 16 bit. You know what that looks like, it doesn't look good, but it's manageable 
 and at least wasn't half assed.
  The dungeons all look different, but every floor looks the same this for the most part isn't good, 
 but they all look different and generally nice, but 10 or 20 floors of the same background can 
 kill the magic
  There are plenty of enemies quite a few are dungeon specific and give good life to each dungeon, 
 you learn which enemies to hate, which ones to run from and which ones to completely wreck they 
 all look like individuals and thats really nice.
  Now the portraits of the characters are an extreme contrast to the 16-bit world, they are top-notch 
 anime driven. They alone show the emotions and feelings of the characters... more often funny emotions, 
 but still emotions. It should quickly be mentioned that the talisman graphics are pretty nice... 
 just mentioning.... Sound
  The sound in this game is actually pretty good. The dungeon music is enjoyable to hear and doesnt 
 disturb your focus and thoughts.
  There are even a few sound bites. Theyre in Japanese, but this is a low budget game and it's nice 
 to have a little culture. All in all it's as much as you would hope for in a low budget game so 
 theres no complaints, but then again theres no astounding praise. Value
  If you rush this game expect 15-20 extremely difficult hours which is decent for a portable. If 
 youre a rogue-like fan expect a lot more. Grinding isn't as boring as it may seem and after you 
 beat the game there is a 100-flor dungeon... tradition old school style. You start it at level 
 1and have no access to items. If your not a rogue-like fan don't even bother you'll lose your mind 
 when you hit floor 88 and die tear .
  Unfortunately there are not side events to speak of and the game really could of used them, un 
 less your like me and helped sell the game by telling people theres a Bobbie mini-game... which 
 there is... i promise keep on looking Top screen
  There isn't any activity up her but it's used very well. The map, dialogue, your health, money, 
 experience is all easy to see thus it isn't cluttering the bottom screen. To be honest they couldn't 
 have used it any better Tilt
  I a rogue-like fan feel this is a great example of what a rogue-like is. It isn't going to attract 
 any fps fans or action adventure fans, but it may drag some dungeon crawler fans one step deeper 
 to their more patient and difficult brother genre.
  Props for Atlas for bringing this over a fine example of what a rogue-like game is
  
  Pros
 
  -Simple and difficult game play that will test your patients and skill
  -Funny story with funny characters that may even make you laugh out loud, thats right no dame 
 contractions here
  -Fun and simple weapon system and talisman system
  -Randomly created dungeons (very smart idea)
  -Rogue-like fans will love
  
  Cons
  -Difficult 
 and frustrating game play will turn some people off to the game entirely.
  -Very simple story someone who's looking for a deep multiple layered story won't find it here, 
 but hey it's a portable
  -Graphics aren't exactly up to date with todays standards even if this is old school they probably 
 could have done much better
  -None dungeon crawler fans will more than likely hate it.
  
  Well after 2 hours Ive edited this enough and Im very tired, I wanted to give this game a fair 
 review (also help it's score on gamespot) and hopefully let people know if they want this game 
 or not, hopefully the earlier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  There are some things in this world I tolerate. People arrive late to work as long as they notify 
 ahead of time, waiting a little while longer for the check, or people calling the wrong number 
 and apologizing. What I dont tolerate is how every month you have to update your computer with 
 new graphics cards or sound cards, or even a joystick for that matter. Fortunately, none of that 
 has to deal with Izuna: Legend of the Unemployed Ninja.
  
  I like some dungeon crawler games. Theyre interesting, theyre strategic, but most of all they 
 can be fun. For the first five minutes of Izuna, itll wrap you in this little world with all kinds 
 of possibilities, right until you get slaughtered by one of the easiest enemies in the game to 
 kill. Then you realize what youve gotten yourself into. Izuna, at heart, is a dungeon crawler 
 game thats taken Pokemon Mystery Dungeon, took out the Pokemon and added Ninjas and monsters. 
 Did it fix the flaws in Pokemon Mystery Dungeon, you ask? Well yes and no. Instead of worrying 
 about separate moves and trying to rescue Pokemon, youre sent off to the several dungeons in the 
 game to challenge the gods and cure the curse that has befallen the village and your companions. 
 What are still left are the randomized dungeons, items, and the fact that if you die, you lose 
 all your items and money. Graphically this is a GBA game stuck on the DS. It even sounds like a 
 GBA game, which isnt bad, though the level of difficulty really hinders on the fun factor in this 
 game. Once you get passed the second dungeon and understand the basic strategy of the game, you 
 can blow through it in about five hours, assuming you dont stop to restock in weapons, items, 
 cash, or experience. Combat is simple, all you do is smack the A button to attack, much like Pokemon 
 Mystery Dungeon. You can access your inventory with X, have an array of sub-weapons by holding 
 L and selecting a button, that is if you have any, and press the B button to move faster in the 
 turns.
  
  This game isnt bad. If you can get passed the difficulty and the uninspired game play, you can 
 find a strategic dungeon crawler thats not as bad as Tao but makes Pokemon Mystery Dungeon look 
 like the greatest dungeon crawler on the DS. All in all, if youre looking for a decent dungeon 
 crawler for your duel-screened buddy, wait for this one to drop in price before picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  The DS isn't known for having the best RPG on the market and Izuna is one of those cold cases. 
 It has a quirky sense of humor as well as a nice anime design to it but overall fails in both replay 
 and gameplay, so I'll give it a whirl... in the commode!
  
  GAMEPLAY ~
  Izuna is the Ninja downgrade to last years Children of Mana. So you'll be expecting to run through 
 randomly generated dungeons, level up your character and hack and slash away at everything in sight.
 
  As that is how ever encounter is taken, as a hack fest. You and your enemy meet face-to-face and 
 attack each other until the enemy dies... or you run away to heal. Healing is an interesting idea, 
 as you can recover your health by running or walking around the dungeon. Interesting, but time 
 consuming.
  Another issue with battles is the enemy encounter rate, they flock to your position and never give 
 in, so that is how you will feel like when playing Izuna, smashing the A button in a turn based 
 motion... lame. The leveling system works nicely, thought I just know after I beat a number of 
 enemies I level up, cause I didn't understand the concept or base of how the exp. is accumulated, 
 so I'll say it worked fine.
  In Izuna you are given a whole range of different weapons and talismans to thwart enemies in your 
 path. From swords and claws to orbs and pictures that recover HP and SP (like MP... but with an 
 S instead of an M) it's basic RPG fanfare. A nice change is that Izuna can move and attack diagonally, 
 trying to actually maneuver her into the diagonal position isn't easy and that leads me into my 
 last section on gameplay... Touch screen! There is no touch screen, it is almost a complete void 
 in the game...
  Overview, good RPG element, randomly generated dungeon is cool but it's been done, enemy encounters 
 are boring and aren't worth fighting if the leveling wasn't essential and another DS game with 
 no touch screen... real lame...
  
  STORY ~
  Izuna and her family are Ninjas, but Ninjas just arent cool no more, so now they are roaming Ninjas! 
 They stop at a small town, Izuna steals the villages crystal seal of the Gods and the whole area 
 goes to Shiite. Story in all... non-existent.
  
  GRAPHICS ~
  The easiest way to explain sprite design is to mix the re-release of Shining Force (GBA) with Magic 
 Knight Ray-Earth (Saturn) and you have sprite design. Chibi sprites. An the portrait design of 
 each individual character is nicely design, giving motion in the form of wacky anime actions! you 
 know. Mainly, the portrait is there to exit Anime fans with a young Ninja girl who is well endowed 
 and overtly sexual. Nice try Ninja Studios that won't save your butt!
  You still gotta pay for the crappy randomly generated dungeons!
  Unlike Children of Mana with 
 its highly detailed RGD design, Izuna offers no eye candy in dungeons. The dungeons all look and 
 flow the same but with a different color scheme and all the same blocky main areas and worming 
 side sections which only lead to entrapment. By the third dungeon there are an abundance of traps 
 with some having wacky anime action like a tub-pan falling on your head! SO FUNNY!
  Nothing else in this game is worth thinking of.
  Izuna does offer a crude map of the dungeon, 
 once you are in any room you'll notice a swarm of spinning red arrows flocking your way, those 
 are enemies! An those downward blue arrows? Items, and lets not forget that side triangle! Yup, 
 the stairs! But where is the trap sign? There is none... and there isn't any talisman which will 
 reveal them, so to find them, you'll just have to step on them! FUN!
  Ninja Studio... you suck!
  
  SOUND ~
  The soundtrack is a nice mixture of bass and drums 
 with ancient Japanese instruments! It's ok... but it is still a portable game, so I don't really 
 have to bash it much for it to feel the pain! Other than that you'll hear the same slashing noises 
 and Japanese schoolgirl screams each time Izuna gets hit. Annoying. An you might thin Hey this 
 is a DS game! Gotta have voice-overs! well, it does! Just not in English! So the point of not getting 
 in a few people to do voice-overs... I guess they knew that only suckers would be buying this game... 
 and yes... I am one...
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  First and foremost I need to mention the saving. What a crock of crap! First off you can only official 
 save at the INN, second off the only other time to save is once you reach a set of stairs. Once 
 there it gives you three options.
  
  A) Don't Descend!
  B) Descend!
  C) Save and Exit!
  
  Thanks... so once you choose save and exit you are back at the opening 
 menu! There is no official saving in this, because if you turn off the power after you reload your 
 game, it doesnt being you back to your last save, it is seen as a game over and you are returned 
 to the town... itemless...
  F-U!!! NINJA STUDIO!!!! F-U!!!!!
  The difficulty was set high for the first few encounters in each dungeon but once you learn to 
 run away! Its easy peasy lemon squeezie!
  Other than that there isn't much worth remembering in Izuna. Most levels are only 6-8 areas long 
 and the boss fights are just ridiculous you'll be wondering why you are still playing this game. 
 There might be more after the initial 4 hours I spend playing this game but I couldn't see myself 
 progressing any further than where I was... it just started getting very repetitive and ultimately 
 boring.
  
  OVERALL ~
  The only game to compare it to is Children of Mana, and even that was a better conceptualized idea 
 than this soon-to-be budget title. If you have any shred of dignity within your soul, try and take 
 heed of my words and do not purchase this game!!! 30 dollars down the drain!!!!
  
  This is what happens when an outside company thinks it can profit off a current trend (Naruto) 
 without actually ripping it off!
  You get... mediocre! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djammal86
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  I've got a chance to play this game a couple of days ago and It didn't appeal to me at all. The 
 game play is nothing new, compared to today's standards in RPG gaming. The fighting system for 
 this game is mediocre at best and just copy's a lot of old attempts at an average RPG game, that 
 had already been done in the past.
  
  The storyline is unispired and will only appeal to most anime fans. The game anime spunk was not 
 enough to make up for the lack of good game play. I felt that this game was less than average compared 
 to other games in the RPG genre.
  
  When it comes to RPG's there are definitely several better choices for the DS than Izuna. I honestly 
 could only recommend this game to only hardcore anime fans, who'll look pass it's presentation 
 and lack of creativity, when game play is concerned. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
