-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jam Sessions
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/jamsessions/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Turns your DS into a guitar.
 Guitar effect actually sounds like a guitar.
 Controls work well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough songs included.
 Could use more chord options.
 Can't record your voice.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 257 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Plato
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Sep 11, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jam Sessions is neat if you want to turn your DS into an acoustic guitar, but that's about all it 
 does. 

  Jam Sessions is not a game. There are no high scores, no 1-ups to be found, and you can never die. 
 You see, Jam Sessions lets you turn your DS into an acoustic guitar. There's really not much more 
 to it than that. Those waiting for a Guitar Hero clone will need to keep waiting, but people looking 
 for a neat piece of software to help them with their songwriting or to scratch the guitar-playing 
 itch when there's no guitar around will be satisfied with Jam Sessions.  

           Grab your DS and head to the subway to perform for the masses. It's time to make some 
 crazy money!      

  Here's how it works. The bottom screen has a horizontal string going across it that represents 
 the six strings of a guitar. You strum your "guitar" by strumming the stylus up or down. Strumming 
 down will play the chord starting from the low E string, while strumming up starts with the high 
 E string -- just like on a real guitar. Strumming without pressing a direction results in a muted 
 strum. Chords are mapped to the eight directions of the D pad, and all you have to do to play a 
 chord is hold a direction while you strum. It takes a few minutes to get used to the mechanics, 
 but once you do, they work well. It can be tough to hit the diagonal chords with 100 percent accuracy, 
 but you can always remap the buttons to limit the number of times you'll have the chance to screw 
 up.  

  An additional eight chords can be selected by holding the left shoulder button down; this brings 
 up eight more chords for a maximum of 16 per song. When you're not in the free-play mode, you can 
 map chords to specific directions, as well as swap out preset chords for different ones. There 
 are 120 different chords to choose from, which is a nice amount, but there are still enough missing 
 that you might have to get creative when trying to play some songs. You can only save two palettes, 
 but it doesn't take long to change them up, so it's not a huge limitation. There are other options 
 that can be changed as well. You can add effects, such as delay and distortion, change from righty 
 to lefty mode, swap backgrounds, or tweak the strum responsiveness.  

  So what do you do? That's up to you. You can write your own songs and record up to five of them 
 on the cartridge. If you have some guitar tabs (chord progressions for songs that can be found 
 online fairly easily) , you can play just about any song you like. Or you can play one of the 17 
 songs included in the software, such as Blind Melon's "No Rain," Coldplay's "Yellow," Bob Marley's 
 "No Woman No Cry," and Nirvana's "Man Who Sold the World." Yes, we know "Man Who Sold the World" 
 is originally a David Bowie song, but the game gives Nirvana the love. There are actually 20 songs 
 listed in the manual, but "Wild Thing," Tom Petty's "Needles and Pins," and Brad Paisley's "I'm 
 Gonna Miss Her" are supposedly only available if you buy the game from certain retailers. Input 
 up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right, from the free-play screen, and they're all yours. 
 Thanks Konami code!  

  Too bad unlocking a few new songs doesn't add much to the overall experience. Essentially, all 
 the songs are the chord progressions you can sing along to with lyrics. Unless you know the song 
 well, it's going to be difficult to play here, even with the metronome on, as well as helpful markings 
 showing you when and in what direction to strum. This is because the lyrics are all on the left 
 side of the top screen and not placed with the beat on which they fall. The first 10 songs have 
 a demo that you can listen to, but for some reason that's not available for the other songs. The 
 manual says that it's because you should be good enough after learning the first 10 tunes, but 
 it just feels like the developer got lazy.  

  The feeling that more could have been done pops up frequently during Jam Sessions. There's no technical 
 reason you shouldn't be able to record your own voice because the DS has a built-in microphone, 
 but the game doesn't allow it. There are only 20 songs included, half of which even have self-playing 
 demos, so there should have been more songs included or perhaps a way to go online to download 
 tabs. Other than a metronome, there isn't any way to play along with rhythm or drums. It also would 
 be nice to build your own chords, but you can't do that either. Some more structure would have 
 been nice and would have given you a reason to come back every day, like with Brain Age. Even with 
 these oversights or omissions, Jam Sessions is a useful and unique bit of software, so it's hard 
 to get too down on it.  

           Want three more songs? Enter up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right, from the free-play 
 screen.      

  The extremely basic visuals in Jam Sessions don't do its presentation any favors, but it does keep 
 things simple and easy to use. Of course, looks don't really matter here -- it's all about the audio. 
 The good news is your guitar actually sounds like a guitar here; albeit a very quiet one. You'll 
 really want to play with headphones or with your DS plugged into speakers or an amp. While the 
 basic acoustic guitar sounds fine, the additional effects don't sound very good at all, so you'll 
 probably fiddle with them once and then forget they exist.  

  Jam Sessions is a neat idea, but it's going to appeal to a very small group of people. Musicians 
 and wannabe musicians looking for another creative outlet will likely get a lot out of the "game," 
 but it's not for everyone.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Killacoal
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  If you happen to own a guitar. you are better off with that. Jam Sessions is the most stupidest 
 game i have ever own. ITS POINTLESS TO GET THIS GAME. you should get another game or save up for 
 a real guitar. the game is weird and just plan pointless to waste your money on. 
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET 
 THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET 
 THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET 
 THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  DON'T GET THIS GAME DON'T GET THIS GAME
  
  i am begging you all DON'T GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3rma
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  THERE IS NO WAY THIS IS A GAME. YOU DO NOTHING. YOU CAN HARDY HIT THE NOTES. I LOOKED FORWARD TO 
 PLAYING THIS GAME. TOO BAD IT ISNT A GAME. GUITAR HERO WORLD TOUR WAS BAD BUT THIS EXCEEDS IT. 
 THIS IS THE WORST "GAME" I EVER PLAYED. THIS "GAME" HAD A LOT OF POTENTIAL BUT THERE IS NOTHING 
 THIS GAME  
 
  
  WORST GAME EVER WORST GAME EVER
  WORST GAME EVER WORST GAME EVER
  WORST GAME EVER WORST GAME EVER
  WORST GAME EVER
  WORST 
 GAME EVER
  WORST GAME EVER
  WORST GAME EVER
  WORST GAME EVER
  WORST GAME EVER
  WORST GAME EVER
  WORST GAME EVER
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zvan92
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  this game gives people the idea that they can really play guitar, which is great, because jam sessions 
 really DOES make it easier to play music (on a virtual instrument) . unless you have a knowledge 
 for notes, chords, and progressions on a real guitar, then you probably wouldnt have much fun playing 
 this game.
  
  this means that its good news for people who really know how to play guitar inside and out, and 
 have a thorough knowledge of theory and ear training to go along with it. the recording feature 
 is nice, and can come in handy often. the customizeable effects that are included in the engine 
 are good as well. however, through all of the distortion, reverb, and flange you can still hear 
 the subtle sound of an acoustic guitar playing a full chord. this isnt really realistic, considering 
 that a person wouldnt play acoustic chords on an electric guitar with distortion.
  
  the controls are awesome... it gives you the feel that youre actually playing a guitar by strumming 
 the simulated string on the touch screen with the stylus, and holding down the buttons on the d-pad, 
 to simulate holding down the right strings on the proper frets to play a certain chord.
  
  next time, they need to work on the visuals and how they present the game... the interface was 
 very bland, making the game look incredibly cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  It seems rock is making a comeback with people and it's mostly gamers. Jam Sessions puts a guitar 
 in the hands of the DS player. But don't be expecting a guitar hero experience instead be ready 
 to strum along to songs. Theres included songs that show how much to strum and with a little practice 
 you can make it sound just like the song. Theres also free play where you can upload cords onto 
 the D Pad and play your own songs. Again don't expect you just pick up and be a master at the game 
 it takes practice to get the strumming and timing down. Theres lots of cool stuff to JS like practice 
 and warm up. There you can hear the sounds of cords, get the strums down and other useful stuff. 
 Theres also effects to add to the songs. Jam Sessions is for guitar players who want something 
 to play on the go. it's for hearing out that little riff in yuor head, or trying out new ones. 
 It's alot of fun if you really get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neontope
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  INTRO
  No, it's not Guitar Hero for the DS. It's not even a real game. This game simply turns your DS 
 into a virtual guitar (more acoustic than electric) . You 'strum' the touchscreen while choosing 
 the chord with the d-pad......... thats about it. 
  There is no story mode, no scoring system and no music or vocals. Most of the songs included, I 
 have never heard of. The songlist includes Bob Marley's 'No Woman No Cry' and Jimi Hendrix's 'Wild 
 Thing'. 
  
  
  Graphics - 6
  Games like this aren't really bought for their graphics, however Jam Sessions does have some nice 
 2D graphics. There are over 60 themes for you to choose from, ranging from pictures of hearts to 
 pictures of anime cartoons. You are also able to choose different effect for the strum bar, which 
 is a nice touch and allows you to personalize the game a bit. Then again......... It wont be winning 
 any awards for these effects.
  
  Sound - 5
  The chords sound like real guitar chords, what more could you ask for....... Well maybe some backup 
 music and vocals would have been a nice touch. Nothing but guitar sounds........ nothing....
  
  Playability - 4
  I really would only recommend this game to people who are at intermediate 
 level or above on guitar. People who have never played guitar before will simply get bored very 
 quickly. This is not a good place to start learning how to play the guitar. Musicians may find 
 Jam Sessions a useful tool in car journeys etc. when playing the real thing is not possible.
  
  Fun - 5
  If you like playing a real guitar you may find this fun for 5mins here and there, 
 but if youve never hold a real guitar you may find it to be no fun at all. The lack of scoring 
 system is real let down. Including such a system would have made it much more fun for everyone, 
 but alas, none was included. With nothing to achieve gamers will find it pointless ro play.
  
  OVERALL - 5
  If you enjoy playing a real guitar you may find some fun in Jam Sessions, if 
 you dont, stay clear of this game....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game (which is not a game at all) turns your DS into a guitar-like instrument, where you can 
 strum the visual string on the touchscreen, and actually make some funky chord sequences. And that's 
 all about it.
  
  You can configure the sound of your guitar, by adding some reverb, delay, distortion and other 
 different kinds of common guitar effects. Then you can play some songs, which don't have any backing 
 tracks (making them kinda dull) . The amount of songs is not impressing at all, and the list of 
 titles is even less impressive. Some songs consist only of 3-4 chords, which loop in the same sequence 
 for a couple of minutes. The only variety given is the presence of lyrics, but they're not synched 
 with the shown chords, so you'll never know how to sing a song if you've never heard it.
  
  On the positive side - Jam Sessions has a couple of chord-recognizing tests included, which really 
 can help you if you're a musician-in-making. But that alone doesn't make the game worth its price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: **/10
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Controls: 5/10
  Graphics: 5/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 3/10
  Overall: 5.6/10
  
  One of the greatest aspects of the Nintendo DS is its versatility 
 in terms of genres and the gameplay included in those genres, so you're always able to find the 
 newest and most innovative titles on the market for your awesome little handheld. Jam Sessions, 
 developed by Plato, is like that in many ways. It combines a unique gameplay experience with a 
 very accurate sound presentation that literally transforms your DS into an acoustic guitar. Unfortunately, 
 Jam Sessions ultimately fails at providing this experience in an engaging way, and even the biggest 
 guitar fanatics out there wont be able to find much to enjoy with this title.
  
  So you want to be a rock star? Well this might not be the best place to start. Jam Sessions really 
 isn't a game, it's essentially a handheld guitar application. The basic premise of the game is 
 to slide your stylus up and down the screen in order to strum the guitar sting, all while you use 
 your other hand to hit the chords on the D-pad. You can go into the settings and turn the lefty 
 controls on; this just switches the fret buttons from the D-pad to the letter buttons. While this 
 seems like a neat idea at first, the feeling quickly fades when you dig a little deeper and find 
 out there isn't much else to do. There is a tutorial, warm up, a song list which is rather lackluster, 
 and free play. The song list ranges from Jimi Hendrix to Avril Lavigne, and comes with twenty songs 
 in all. Not very impressive. But since this is more of a guitar simulator rather than a game, free 
 play is where most of the value lies. This lets you play whatever you want, for as long as you 
 want. Any musically inclined person could easily create their own songs note-by-note. There is 
 also a built in recording feature that lets you record small segments to the game's memory that 
 you can play back at anytime.
  
  There isn't much that needs to be said about the game's visuals, because there really aren't any. 
 You see the string, the notes, and the background. The string animates nicely when struck, and 
 emits a wave of vibrations that shows how long the note is going to last. There are a number of 
 themes you can choose for the game, most of which look pretty cool, but other than that there's 
 nothing to write home about.
  
  Aside from the game's unique gameplay, the sound is its only saving grace. This virtual guitar 
 sounds just like an actual acoustic guitar would, especially when you're plugged into a good pair 
 of headphones. There are some effects you can put on the guitar such as distortion and echoing, 
 but these settings sound pretty bad and you'll likely mess with them once or twice before forgetting 
 they ever existed. Why mess with something that is good to begin with anyway? Needless to say, 
 the sound in Jam Sessions is the single greatest aspect the game has to offer.
  
  As you probably could have guessed by now, Jam Sessions lacks the certain intangibles that are 
 required to have a proper game, and by doing so hinders the game's value in such a way that it's 
 probably not even worth your money. There is no score, no multiplayer, certainly no objective, 
 and it's just simply an uncoupling "game" plain and simple. What this game does best is serve as 
 a below average acoustic guitar, and playing it over a real guitar is just silly. It's a great 
 place to begin your journey into guitar competence, but aside from that this game is most definitely 
 a rent first.
  
  Plato certainly has the idea and the direction, but when it's all said and done, Jam Sessions for 
 the DS is just not there yet. It provides an interesting outlet for your guitar needs, and it sounds 
 really great in the process, but there just isn't enough game here to keep anyone's attention. 
 As a whole, Jam Sessions doesn't appeal to everyone, and only someone looking for a way to play 
 an acoustic guitar without an actual acoustic guitar should even bother with this game.
  
  By Mike Pelletier, Project COE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatty4games
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Okay, we all know this game is no guitar hero, thats not the way it was made.
  It was made mainly for musicians to make a masterpiece... or TOTAL flop on the road, and school, 
 at a picnic, or were ever you like by yourself or with a friend.
  
  Now that was the plus, and the only one I have for this game, so take it in.
  Now to the wrongs, 
 They came from one angle at a time and all at a VERY fast passed speed. Starting with the distortion 
 and effects, they had little selection, leaving one with a smaller then expected experience from 
 a game that was made by Ubisoft, the same people that brought us Assassin's Creed and the Tom Clancy 
 games.
  
  Second, Strumming sucks... badly.
  it wasn't horrible, but every other 2 minutes or less the strumming would skip a beat or miss a 
 strum, and if it does it every time one would go to record, well you might understand why someone 
 could get mad.
  
  you have to know notes to be able to play.
  Simple as that, i didn't and that is why this game is getting the rating it is.
  
  It was a 
 good attempt at making a game that could help musicians well into their lives, but to the people 
 that want a game that we can actually play, and not take a chunk out of our lives to learn something 
 we might not use again, well... i'm not down for the cause. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1k3m
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Jam Sessions is pretty much a guitar simulator for your Nintendo DS.
  
  -Gameplay:
  You pretend you are strumming a guitar string by rubbing up and down on the touch screen and it 
 works perfectly. Then you hold down a direction on the D-pad to choose which chord you are going 
 to play. The controls work absolutely fine. The game comes with 20 different songs and 10 of them 
 have a demo that you can listen to. Then chords and the direction you have to strum are shown on 
 the top screen. You can also do things like change the distortion. The songs are pretty good and 
 the demos are good but I don't see why the heck Ubisoft didn't include demos for all 20 songs. 
 Then you are allowed to record up to 5 songs of your very own. They are allowed to be about the 
 length of an average song so its a pretty cool little feature. There are NO challenges in this 
 "game" because it is not a game, it is a tool.
  Gameplay-8
  
  -Graphics:
  Nothing really. It keeps a very clean aesthetic and you can choose your own background that shows 
 up everywhere on every screen. Some of the backgrounds are really cool looking while others are 
 meh. Nothing impressive, nothing butt-ugly.
  Graphics-7
  
  -Sound:
  Awesome! The chords actually sound real and people could honestly think you were playing a real 
 guitar. When you mute a chord it sounds perfect too.
  Sound-10
  
  -Value:
  This one depends a little. For an avid guitarist it will last you way more hours than it did me. 
 Keep in mind that I do play guitar but this only kept my attention for a little over 10 hours. 
 If only there were demos to all 20 songs...
  Value-7.5
  
  -Overall:
  It's a pretty fun tool to fool around with for you DS. If you like guitar I would say to pick it 
 up.
  Overall-7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted to turn your DS into a guitar? Now you can with Jam Sessions. Jam Sessions is more 
 of an application than a full fledged game. You aren't really doing anything more than stumming 
 guitar chords. There is a mode where you can play songs by various artists such as Beck and Coldplay 
 but the game doesn't punish you for screwing up the songs, it just waits until you get them right.
 
  
  Basically you use the bottom screen to strum and you press the shoulder and face buttons to pick 
 chords. You do have the option to customize your own chord palletes to pick whichever ones you 
 like the best and you do have the option of adding effects such as distortion and flanger to your 
 simulated guitar. For what it's worth Jam Sessions does a good job at what it's mean't to do and 
 does sound like a guitar but being unable to play individual notes means lack of shredding for 
 some players.
  
  It's a good app but not something you can really spend hours playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stayinalive84
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  You want to be a rock star, dont you? Come on, admit it. Somewhere deep in the inner recesses 
 of your subconscious, a bushy-haired spandex-clad 1980s Mick Jagger wannabe is just waiting to 
 burst out. You can see yourself standing tall in the middle of some stage, singing your soul out 
 to a sold-out stadium crowd. Maybe your fans have their Zippo lighters raised to show their feverish 
 adoration of you. Perhaps theres even a fresh stash of alcohol, drugs, and groupies waiting for 
 you offstage. A bit too much for you? Dont worry about it. That whole sex, drugs, and Rock &amp; 
 Roll thing is overrated anyway. Besides, have you ever actually touched a real guitar, let alone 
 played one? The closest experience most gamers have had probably involves Guitar Hero. But for 
 DS owners that are craving a chance to show off their musical prowess, Jam Sessions just might 
 be what theyre looking for. Lets be clear about one thing, though: this is not a handheld version 
 of Guitar Hero. There is no audience to please (unless you want to impress your friends by gathering 
 them around your DS) , nor will you be graded on your performance. There is no fake Gibson guitar 
 for you to fondle, either. Instead, youll be able to simulate your strumming by running your stylus 
 over the Touch Screen. While theres only a single string shown onscreen, you can play different 
 chords by keeping your thumb firmly over the directional pad and pressing the area mapped to each 
 chord. While this probably sounds awkward (especially for DS owners that havent switched to Lite) , 
 the game displays the chord denotations on the top screen and how they correspond to the controls. 
 While inexperienced players may not understand what all the little letters and symbols mean, guitarists 
 wont have much trouble with the transition. There are no expectations, no preset difficulties. 
 The only learning curve youll ever face is self-imposed. Its just you, a bunch of chords, and 
 all the time in the world. But if you want to test your skills on some pre-made music as opposed 
 to experimenting with the Free Play Mode, the Songs Menu provides plenty of choices. Youll find 
 a selection that spans across the likes of Bob Dylan, Nirvana, Coldplay, and James Taylor. These 
 arent the actual songs in their entirety, but just the guitar chords that correspond with them. 
 Though youll be able to play along with the lyrics as they crawl up the top screen, you dont 
 have to worry about achieving high scores; the song will stop until youve played the right cord. 
 Youll probably perform terribly on the first playthrough, but constant practice will go a long 
 way in perfecting your song challenges. While the gameplay is nowhere near as intense or stressful 
 as other musical games, it is disappointing. There are only twenty songs available, and there are 
 far better choices than what youre given here. Bob Marley, Johnny Cash, Janis Joplin, and Jimi 
 Hendrix are welcome sights on a guitar emulator, but why are Avril Lavigne and Death Cab for Cutie 
 here? Where are Eric Clapton, Jerry Garcia, and Carlos Santana? Jimmy Page and Keith Richards would 
 have been awesome here. Some Van Halen, Metallica, or even the Allman Brothers could have worked 
 as well. Its not like there are full songs crammed into the DS cart; couldnt Ubisoft at least 
 have included a few more titles to their arrangement? Would it be so bad (and perhaps elitist, 
 according to some folks) to have the most highly regarded guitarists as part of the lineup? The 
 limited song selection reeks of wasted potential. You probably wont spend much time in the Songs 
 Mode, though. Youll be too busy tinkering with the extra options and customizations. Since you 
 can hook up your DS with an amp, feel free to give your buddies an impromptu concert. If youre 
 feeling confident in your abilities, you can record your playing session and (if youve got the 
 right connections) transfer it to another recording device. Or if you just want to mess around 
 or work on some tune, the game will record a set number of strokes before ending the session. But 
 if youre getting sick of the pre-set chords and how theyre mapped onto the controls, you the 
 customizable palettes are a huge benefit. Should you feel the need to go crazy and start experimenting, 
 youll be able to modify everything from the Tremolo, Flanger, and all those other musical terms 
 that you probably dont know. Instead, youll probably spend more time poring over the dozens of 
 selectable images for your screen wallpapers. While such things dont add much to the experience, 
 itll make your DS look pretty. For those of you that are considering adding Jam Sessions to your 
 collection, be warned: this is not a game. Instead, its a program that basically turns your DS 
 into a makeshift guitar. It fulfils that job well; the sound is remarkably crisp and accurate, 
 the controls are easy to pick up, and guitarists will appreciate all of the little tweaks and customizations 
 available. But when it comes to the other gameplay aspects, Jam Sessions falls flat. The list pre-set 
 songs is mediocre at best. With so few songs and no incentive to replay, it feels rushed and tacked 
 on. Indeed, much of this title comes off as lacking; Ubisoft focused so much on emulating a guitar 
 that they abandoned any concept of a vivid or entertaining presentation. But hey, at least this 
 is cheaper than the real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Branzolis
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I think this tool is usefull and something to do when all else fails.... I will mention some things 
 good about this tool and somethings that are bad......
  
  Good
  
  1. Something you can just pick up and play the songs included or find some at ultimateguitar. com 
 that are not included.
  
  2. Something good for someone who cant play the accual guitar but likes the sound of one and wishes 
 they could play the real one :) .
  
  Bad
  
  1. Only about 20 songs included with only about half of them with a demo of what it sounds like 
 included.
  
  2. Doesnt really have the option to play the electric guitar but you can add distortion and some 
 other things to atempt to make it sound like an electric guitar. (woulda been awesome if you could 
 have the option to make it sound like an electric guitar) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkup90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Let me just get this out of the way and say that Jam Sessions isn't really a game. Jam Sessions 
 is a tool or software application for the Nintendo DS that allows you to learn to strum a guitar. 
 There is only one string and you can strum up and down. To start you off there is a tutorial that 
 shows you how to do some basic strumming. Then you have four options to choose from in the main 
 menu. Free Play is the mode where you can strum to your delight, record you songs, and of course 
 practice. You can also turn on the DS mic (when using external speakers or headphones only) to hear 
 yourself sing to your strumming. Tutorials menu will give you tips and show you have to play a 
 song. It also includes ear training so you can tell the difference between chords. Then you have 
 Song mode where you can select a song and sing it. In Song mode the lyrics are displayed and about 
 a third of the songs have a demo to watch and learn. Some songs in Song mode are difficult and 
 with others you can play within hours of using this software. There are themes for the background 
 of your virtual guitar. Distortion to bring in some of that rock sound as while as other option 
 to change the sound or your virtual guitar. No power chords, but you can change the palette of 
 existing chords and save them. Also you can use the L shoulder button to switch to a secondary 
 set mid song. There are also options to switch strumming up to down and down to up. Options to 
 change the sound coming out of your DS because of how quickly you strum to where you strum and 
 more. You can save five of your creations and then play them back later with effects like Delay. 
 If I had to score Jam Sessions like a typical videogame it would get a 3/10, but as a software 
 application it gets an impressive 8.5/10. I've also written this review for pricegrabber to get 
 the $5 rebate, which isn't a bad idea if you want the game for $24. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Although the game itself holds little substance the potential in it is tremendous. 
  
  The graphics of Jam Sessions mostly comprise of very clean, very sleek looking menus like a lot 
 of our modern games and computer programs and it pulls that off well here but the game also offers 
 more than 50 backgrounds and also contains a few alternate strings, although there could be more 
 strings it ultimately gives you a wide opportunity to customize the game to your own liking which 
 is always a good thing. The game doesn't give you the sense of a real guitar being there visually, 
 instead it just offers one giant string to look at but that is probably a good thing as the rest 
 of the game likes to keep things simplistic too. 
  
  But what is this game about? Holding a control pad button corresponding to one of the palette chords 
 (which can be easily changed) and using your stylus to pluck a string on the screen, this is a 
 mechanic that works very well and you'll even find your skill with using Jam Sessions just like 
 learning to play a real guitar, it really is amazing. The real highlight of Jam Sessions is what 
 the user can input of course, as with a number of cool, adjustable effects once you actually get 
 enough practice in you'll be able to play your favourite tunes and even record them for future 
 playback. Although with all the effects in the game it does make you wonder why they only offered 
 you an acoustic guitar as an electric guitar would have been such an excellent feature to the game 
 and really made the possibilities endless. Of course Jam Sessions is not a game you can just pick 
 up and play right off so the game does help introduce you although doesn't really give any order 
 of difficulty and some songs don't even offer the chance to demo them before you can play so although 
 they managed to put together a really sweet track list with the likes of everyone from Bob Marley 
 to The Pigeon Detectives, unless you know what some of the tracks sound like you'll just have to 
 guess how they go and the game doesn't offer any kind of score or grading system at all, in fact 
 you don't even have to pull off the right strokes to play the song, needless to say this is not 
 what we want from such an otherwise in-depth experience and the game requires more than your fair 
 share of self-teaching once your beyond basics. 
  
  The sound for Jam Sessions really makes you thankful of modern handheld sound quality and it actually 
 sounds like a real guitar, no joke. Overall it can be really great if you have the time, patience 
 and effort to put into teaching yourself because the game developers sure couldn't be bothered 
 to but this is still worth at least looking into further for anyone who loves innovative games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udnoe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't review game, I bought this game because I like playing guitar since I'm a truck 
 driver I don't have space and time to learn guitar, but with this new gadget well hell I'll be 
 playing guitar in no time, well maybe in a while, I love everything about this game except the 
 controllers they are so hard, I wish they could make a device that makes it feel like a real guitar. 
 I guess that is why I gave it an 8. I sure this game is a groundbreaking game a synthetic guitar 
 wow what's next a synthetic BASE guitar, unreal and not to mention a the piano and the drums all 
 that is here, oh by the way electric guitars are not synthetic they are hybrids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jazzgod
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Jame Sessions has a lot of potential. Unfortunately, the developers quit on the job a little too 
 early. They did a good job of making a realistic sound and the effects options were a nice addition. 
 However, there is no incentive to play along with the songs in time (you can really just hit each 
 chord once and get credit for playing 8 bars of music) . If you havent heard a song that doesnt 
 have a demo you have no real incentive to try it out other than to get through all the songs. Your 
 chord options are also very limited. Don't expect to be able to play along with your favorite guitar 
 book. You are limited to basic Major and Minor chords with a few sus, 6, and 7 chords thrown in 
 for good measure. You do not have the option of an open or bar chord. You cant drop d or make an 
 open or special tuning. In the future, a mode that actually has you playing the guitar part of 
 a song (along the lines of EBA) , and something to allow you to build your chords, sting by string, 
 fret by fret would be great. Adding those things would but this title into a 9 rating easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  yes, its not a game!
  
  so what??
  
  why does anything you use your DS for have to be a game?? hmmm??
  
  for those of you using 
 R4s, M3s and whatever-else Supercards, i'm sure you have video, music and texts on your card to 
 be USED ON your NDS.
  
  sooo.. how wonderful, fun and exciting that you can make and play music ON your NDS! more than 
 that, you can play popular music with a guide on your NDS.
  
  jam sessions, allows you to make and record you own guitar music. complete with sound distroions, 
 amplifier settings and background changes. the sound quality is excellent. it's an improvement 
 on the japanese orginal M-06 game.
  
  so, so what that it doesn't give you a high score, or let's you unlock a hendrix or mccartney secret 
 character when you play 'no woman no cry' perfectly! LOL the point is that its fun. it spends your 
 time having fun, while 'creating' (your left brain will love you) . and above all..
  
  it's NDS taking us in another direction with what our lil NDS's can do in ability and design. and 
 that's exciting. guitar hero is coming out on NDS, how do you think that design will be? most likely 
 fun..
  
  keyword: fun!
  
  LOL
  
  so, go play your music in the park and create some music to play for your secret crush or spouse! 
 you'll gain cuteness points guaranteed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostwraithe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, you have to remember Jam Sessions isnt a game. Once that is clear a lot of 
 issues can be straightened out. This title is meant to be a guitar simulator, geared towards people 
 who are musicians, or wanna be musicians. I bought this title because I am a wanna be musician. 
 I thought the idea was great, play the guitar when you are on the road without taking up all the 
 space in the car. I was going to try this thing out with my dad, him playing lead me playing the 
 rhythm through an amp. Some problems arise. First of all, the diagonal buttons work horribly. Maybe 
 its my bigger fingers, but I cant hold the diagonal buttons at all. Also while transitioning between 
 chords, the music cuts out. Now I play guitar and my music doesnt cut out while shifting chords. 
 Also, the DS speakers are very tinny and cheap sounding, I have not tried playing through an amp. 
 Lastly, there is no option to play individual strings. It would be nice to play little solo's with 
 this bad boy, but nope, only chords. The touch controls are flawless, down strokes vs upstrokes 
 sound as they should, different. The menu is easy to navigate through and switching chord palettes 
 is a breeze. The song list isnt that strong, or long. More choices would have been nice. I find 
 myself putting this aside and playing my real guitar, its easier and more rewarding. For a songwriter 
 this title makes sense.
  
  Try the A6 chord, there is a hidden message after the chord plays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serj_tankian05
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  After about 30 minutes of jamming ...... your done.... So what now?
  Well i feel real bad for you if you bought (or are going to buy rather) the amp edition... cause 
 you ain't going to use it much... Although the game does deliver a short lived sense of excitement, 
 it does not have much to offer.... I personally play an actual guitar so take what i am saying with 
 a grain of salt... My satisfaction is not easily pleased with a couple of good songs and some free 
 play style chords... But if you like to customize a bunch of useless things, this game is for you...... The 
 game has about 60 backgrounds and 10 types of strings along with the ability to change the sound 
 of the guitar.... Not my bag baby..... But on the positive side of things.... This game has the potential 
 to teach a first time guitar player some tricks and chords.... So if you want to learn to play, 
 i do recommend this..... But if your a gamer who likes music, i do not recommend this..... Just wait 
 for Guitar Hero DS..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazycoffeeguy
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 19, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  I was very disappointed with the in game presentation of the game. Very plain and bland. The strumming 
 seems choppy. The effects are there... but poor. Its a fun little thing to play around with. But 
 the thrill only lasts about 10 minutes at a time. It might be fun to use at a coffee house show 
 if your a performer for a gag.
  
  Another down side to this game is that even tho there are over 100 chords to chose from, that doesn't 
 include / chords such as D/F#, G/B, A/C# etc. Which eliminates A LOT of songs you would be able 
 to play. As well as rules out the possibility of really writing any songs using this.
  
  For those of you out there who don't play guitar at all and want to pick up this game, don't. It 
 will very likely turn you off to music because it just gives you some sounds to mess around with. 
 If you really wanna play guitar, save your 30 bucks, get about 30 - 80 more. go to a guitar store 
 and just buy a cheap guitar. so much more fulfilling than this game. You can bet as soon as Zelda 
 comes out i'll be trading this game in for that. What a waste of 30 bucks.
  
  HOWEVER I do feel obligated to say some good stuff. They do a good job getting the sound of an 
 acoustic guitar. they did give options of effects to play around with. They did a heck of a job 
 advertising for it... uhm... yeah. The game still feels like it was in the middle of its developmental 
 stage when they released it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ropponmatsu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Those picking up Jam Sessions looking for a fun music game ala Guitar Hero will be surprised and 
 more than likely underwhelmed. Jam Sessions is not a video game, it does exactly what he says, 
 it turns your DS into an acoustic Guitar. There is only a dozen or so songs who's only purpose 
 is to make you used to how to play Jam Sessions. After you've gone through most of the songs the 
 main concept of Jam Sessions becomes clear, play the songs that you've always wanted to. Go find 
 some tabs to your favorite songs, load the chords onto the palette and have fun making music.
 
  
  Jam Sessions is meant for the creative and musically inclined. If you like either and are looking 
 for a dumbed down version of a rhythm game then this isn't for you, go play BeatMania or something 
 that your low IQ can handle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkey-squable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  what do you get when you mix a guitar and a ds together im going to give you a minute to  
 jam sessions duh! jam sessions is from ubi soft the people who made Splinter Cell, GRAW, and the upcoming 
 title asasssins creed, but where not here to talk about those games where here to talk about jam 
 sessions.
  
  gameplay: game play is only done with the Dpad and the touch screen here you choose the notes by 
 using the Dpad and strum by the touch screen soo not really difficult.... you might think it does 
 have a steep learning curve, it will prolly take some to make there own song a few hours some maybe 
 a week it depends but overall a 8/10
  
  sound: the speekers on the ds dont really complement the game so to get the full sound expiernce 
 get head phones or an amp butt overall a 7.5
  
  well since thats the only things i can review the game on im going to the conclusion: any body who 
 took guitar or just wants something to do loook no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phlegms
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  When this game was first announced Ubisoft made claims that they would be able to make you're ds 
 an acoustic guitar. They told us from now on wherever we were be it on the plane, the bus or simply 
 chilling at home, we would now be able to rock out to some of our favourite songs using only our 
 ds. And to some extent they achieved this, i mean they did technically turn my ds, albeit it briefly, 
 into something that resembled the sound of a guitar. But in no way did this game enable me to fulfill 
 my Rock star fantasies or Rock out to any of my favourite songs.
  
  The game starts of as you would imagine with the obligatory introduction to the game and some of 
 it's basic functions. Fair enough. From then on you are pretty much left on your own, you don't 
 get told any objectives, there are no missions, and there are no high scores. The game itself is 
 pretty easy to pick up with the d-pad serving as some sort of fret board, and you guessed it, the 
 touch screen serving all your strumming needs. The menu is fairly simple to navigate, and you shouldnt 
 have any problems figuring out where to go. The display is pretty average, with a few lackluster 
 background providing something pretty to look at while you strum you troubles away.
  
  One of the few things that surprised me about this game is the track list. It is surprisingly varied 
 and has some recent hits sch as Yellow by Coldplay as well as an Amy Winehouse Track stuck in there 
 for fun. It also sports a few oldies such as Wild Thing and even a Jackson 5 track was put in for 
 seemingly no good reason. The only stand out track that i can think of is
  The Man Who Sold The World as it is the only track that really sounds like the original, in this 
 case it is Nirvanas Acoustic cover of the song. At a mere 20 tracks, this proves to be maybe an 
 hour to 2 hours playtime on just these songs which by todays standards is just not good enough.
 
  
  One of my main annoyances with this game was the incentive to play, or lack of in this case. As 
 I previously mentioned there are no objectives, missions or even high scores, For example, you 
 are not even required to actually finish any of the songs, you can skip to the end and it automatically 
 congratulates you. Even though Jam Sessions isn't really a game it's more of a creative tool, it 
 comes across as a fairly poor one.
  
  I'll admit it, when i first played the Japanese version of this game a while back i guess you could 
 say I was fairly excited about this game. For months i fantasized about what this game could have 
 been, and i slowly began to have faith in ubisoft making something fresh and interesting. But nothing 
 annoys me more than when a company promises much but produces little to back up these claims. The 
 game while momentarily fun fails to deliver any real enjoyable gaming experience to anyone other 
 than guitar players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMartinLee
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Jam Sessions is not a game, or a guitar simulator for the DS. It's a strum simulator with some 
 built-in songs to act as a tutorial. That's really all the included songs are for, since there's 
 no scoring or challenge as you play along with them. If you don't already know how a song goes, 
 Jam Sessions doesn't help you out too much. It shows the lyrics below the chords, but does nothing 
 to show rhythm or melody beyond a simple metronome which you can toggle and some mildly useful 
 up-or-down strum suggestions. So that's the bad news. The good news is that the acoustic strums 
 sound really good, and the cart supplies you with a lot of chord, strumming, effect, and performance 
 options. I honestly expect to see DS players showing up at open mic nights soon. I'll probably 
 be one of them... I'm a musician &amp; songwriter, and while this will never replace my real guitar, 
 it's a pretty useful little workshop tool that bends my mind and ear differently enough to inspire 
 me in some new directions. I think even non-musicians will have fun playing with the included song 
 charts and learning to make music, and that's a big part of Jam Sessions appeal. Anyone who puts 
 in a little time can enjoy the simple reward of playing some songs and sounding pretty good doing 
 it. Finally, there is plenty of room for improvement here. I've seen suggestions for single-note 
 picking options and the option to create your own chord shapes. Or to be able to strum at different 
 speeds. I'd personally like the effects to sound better and the muting still doesn't sound right 
 to me. Still, as DS Guitar v1.0 this is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonahb914
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Admittedly, this game is not meant for casual gamers, which is why it is not likely to appeal to 
 the faux rawk star guitar hero crowd. You are not judged on ability to play songs, and there is 
 no rock-o-meter. Now, I love guitar hero, but if you review this game with that as a starting point 
 you're bound to be disappointed. The people who this game is meant for however, will find it amazing. 
 For those musicians on the go who want to jot down an idea to work on later at home, or to drill 
 music theory in the games ear training mode Jam Sessions comes through in spades. From designating 
 a part of the fretboard for palm muting to offering a bunch of effects parameters (to turn up the 
 rock) this game delivers on many levels. Additionally, I haven't come across a song yet which Jam 
 Sessions didn't have the chords needed to emulate. Unless Gamespot is trying to play old jazz standards 
 with B#6dimadd4 chords, this game has a more than sufficient amount of chords. ... I should stop 
 calling it a game , though. And it shouldn't be reviewed as one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devoo55
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow is all I can really say in this sentence. This game is truly amazing.
  
  Game play: [9/10]
  The game play is beautiful. You can choose from Tutorial, Free Play, Options 
 and Play With A Song.
  Tutorial tells you exactly how to play the game, nothing more. No, it does NOT teach you how to 
 play the guitar.
  Free Play allows you to just jam out with any song you may know or any song you are learning. You 
 can create your own songs and record them to play again later to yourself and friends.
  Play With A Song allows you to play with one of the 20 listed songs. Some songs include Jack-Ass 
 and Wild Thing. The game gives you sheet music on how to play the song on Jam Sessions.
  The Options allow you to go through and change pretty much anything about the game. Whether it 
 be distortion, the background theme or change your chords. Jam Sessions does not allow any Multi-player.
 
  
  Price: [7/10]
  The price is fairly high but it is a great game and I do not regret paying what I payed for it. 
 Canadians pay $39.99 while Americans pay $29.99.
  
  Sound: [8/10]
  The sound is very important in Jam Sessions. You will need it to be loud enough for you and others 
 to hear you play. Jam Sessions does make the cut for this. if you have an AMP or good earphones, 
 the sound will be much more pleasing.
  
  Difficulty: [8/10]
  This game is not difficult at all if you know what you are doing. If you are not much of a music 
 player or anything like it may be a little bit harder. All you really need to know is how to keep 
 a beat and not go too fast or too slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claffert
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Ok, let's get straight to the point.
  
  If you are looking for a typical music game and want to mash out Perfects and get High Scores, 
 then Jam Sessions is not what you are looking for. However, if you think you could find it in yourself 
 to enjoy an innovative and customizable title that allows you to use your DS as a musical instrument, 
 then you might be in luck.
  
  If I had to rate this as a game, I'd have to give it an awful review. The gaming aspects of this 
 title are severely lacking to non-existant. Really, it wouldn't even be worth bothering with if 
 you are looking for a Game . In fact, even if you buy into the using your DS as a guitar aspect 
 of it, don't look for quick and easy short-term gratification here.
  
  However, the free play mode in this title is simply amazing. You can jam out and create some impressive 
 tunes by using your DS as a musical instrument. There are many customization options to choose 
 from, both interface and sound-wise. Plus, even a non-musician like myself can manage to make some 
 nice sounding music. Don't let me mislead you, it can still take a little time and practice, but 
 if you stick with it, I think you'll suprise yourself.
  
  I'm a music lover, but not a musician, and I'm simply having a blast with this title. I want to 
 give this a 9, or maybe even a 10, I really do. I really love this title, but I have to confess 
 that it could have been done a little better. The game-aspects of it should be reworked or tossed 
 out entirely. The chord selection is pretty good, but being able to create your own chords or pick 
 out an individual notes, or slower strums or something would have been nice.
  
  However, despite any shortcomings, I'd highly recommend this to music-lovers, musicians, aspiring 
 musicians, or even the music-curious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marajade312
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game rocks. Literally. I had always wanted to play a guitar and this game sounds just like 
 one!!! The sound is amazing. When I hooked it up to my amp the neighbors that we were having a 
 party and to turn it down!!! Even though you can only play acoustic, they have special effects 
 that can change it into an electric guitar. Graphics are good, and they have over 50 backgrounds 
 to chose from. The strumming feature is a little hard at first, and not all the songs have demos. 
 So if you don't know how to play a particular song, and there's no demo for it, you might have 
 a problem. But all in all, this is a must-get game for all music lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jBusiness
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Maybe you have seen or used these personally, but some places have stairs or tiles on the floor 
 that chime a certain note when depressed. These are entertaining and all but there is no way to 
 perform anything interesting on them. This is like Jam Sessions, only the stairs/tiles are free. 
 I feel it proper to mention before I continue my review that I am a big fan of music, and I am 
 also a big fan of music in games. I like the ultimately pointless music creation games, such as 
 Electroplankton and the piano in Mario Paint, I like games where music is the point (Guitar Hero) 
 or mostly the point (Rez, Lumines, Meteos, Everyday Shooter) or even the key factor in looking 
 stupid (DDR, Taiko Drum Master, Donkey Konga) . But there are things in Jam Sessions that make it 
 so I cannot place this game with the above. The gameplay in Jam Sessions just doesn't sit well 
 with me, and I think that my main problem is the chords. You have four chords on the cardinal directions 
 of the d-pad, and in between you have minors/majors or flats/sharps. If you hold the L-button down 
 then you have a different set. This makes for sixteen total sounds, and eight of them are variations 
 of the prior. That sounds like a great deal until you use them for about five minutes. There are 
 no single notes, and you can't draw the chords higher or lower on the scale. If you want to change 
 the note, cut the first and strum again. You can't necessarily make songs like this. You're playing 
 really basic rhythm, like BORING rhythm, in a three-chord song a la old Green Day or something 
 like that. To further that point, the songs that you can 'jam' along with include 'Yellow' by Coldplay 
 and 'No Woman No Cry' by Bob Marley. I like both of those songs but they're kind of simple. So 
 naturally, playing pre-made songs is only so fun when it's like reading tabs. You can play it as 
 wrong as you want until you want to progress the song down, and you aren't graded, so it's pretty 
 much a background change. You can record your own jam sessions, which is awesome for the approximate 
 sixty seconds that you have. That makes for rad ringtones. So you can't jam as long as you should 
 be able to or jam on as many different sounds as you should be able to, or jam wirelessly. Effects 
 like distortion and reverb are there but the timeframe kills it. There are a few suggestions that 
 I would have, were they making a Jam Sessions 2 or were I able to change the game. *Individual 
 note strings: That way you could strum the chord or tap (top, middle, or bottom) for individual 
 notes. Left or Right would mean higher or lower on the scale. That triples the variety of notes, 
 and it's still simple.
  *A Scale Setup: plan the notes that you want and set them up, kind of like Mario Paint. In one 
 sense it defeats the purpose but you could train your fingers to the song and then perform it without 
 the scale. Or you could put more notes in than the typical setup allows.
  *Longer 'Jam' Sessions: The time that you have is enough to get a neat pattern, keep it for a little 
 while, slightly mess it up, and then usually just dissolve back into just frantic strumming and 
 swirling your thumb on the d-pad. It makes noise and that's fun but not $30 fun.
  *Wireless Jam Sessions: I don't believe I need to explain this further. That would rule.
  Jam 
 Sessions is lacking some serious material that I think is almost necessary at this point. It's 
 kind of like Electroplankton's minimal control, only in an environment where you need all the control 
 you can get. It's limiting, and for being all about music it really can't afford to be. Next time 
 let us do more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMellow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty simple, it doens't need a huge review. You can play a song while your on break at work, 
 sitting in the front seat of a car, flying on a airplane and even save it to show off later. It 
 has loads and loads of features and even lets you play real songs other artists have made up. Here 
 is my favorite part... You can plug it into your amp and play along with your band and it WORKS... 
 WELL. Even if you're not a musican, its still a fun little game to play around with however it 
 is really aimed at the musically gifted. But its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EGGNOG4073
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out with a quick tutorial, showing you what to do, then immediantly throws you 
 into the menu screen. At this point there are a few options. There are only two out of four that 
 you will only really use. These two are songs and freeplay. There are a total of 17 songs that 
 have a good variety, but arent that much fun to play, also they dont sound extremely similar to 
 the original. When you play the game, you strum with the stylus and change notes with the dpad (duh) 
 The freeplay mode has a couple other things that you can do i guess. There are a few effects, all 
 of which dont sound great, but are somewhat worthwhile. Then you have the option to change the 
 background, change the notes, record, or use a metronome. As far as gameplay goes, that.... pretty 
 much it, but theres still some cool things to do. If you have an amp or an effects pedal or any 
 pedal, you can plug you ds into it (i happened to have the special converter, some amps dont nees 
 it though) . Messing with the wahwah and stuff was kinda fun i guess. Also, getting chords for some 
 of my favourite songs is kind of cool also, but agian, there are just chords, so it doesnt really 
 replicate the original song. This game is definitely good, but is more of a small toy/tool because 
 there just isnt much to do with it. Sure, it is very innovative, but it feels like a minigame. 
 The only reason id really reccomend this game is if your a guitar enthusiast (me) or you cant get 
 a guitar..... other than that.... theres not much else to say 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
