-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Juiced 2: Hot Import Nights
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/juiced2hotimportnights/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You won't believe how nice the 3D cars and courses look.
 Weighty but forgiving car handling, and a decent sense of speed.
 Course layouts offer a good mix of straights and drift opportunities.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 CPU drivers are too predictable.
 They could've included a few more customization options.
 If only there were an online mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 65 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Juice Games
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Sep 17, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Superb 3D graphics help make up for the otherwise unremarkable racing action. 

  There's nothing especially remarkable about the racing action in Juiced 2: Hot Import Nights for 
 the Nintendo DS. It's just another Need for Speed: Underground knockoff in which you collect cars, 
 trick them out, and race them against other car buffs to earn prestige and wager money. Nevertheless, 
 the courses and car handling are solid, and the graphics are probably the best we've seen to date 
 out of a 3D racer on the DS.  

  You'll find all of the usual event types and customization options you've come to expect from games 
 like this. The career mode is split into 10 different leagues, each of which contain a number of 
 different circuit races, eliminator races, perfect-lap challenges, and drift competitions. Winning 
 the events you enter is your main goal, but you also need to accomplish specific criteria-related 
 goals to unlock new cars and move on to the next league. These goals typically involve winning 
 bets, tailgating specific opponents, and reaching certain point levels in drift events. As you 
 go through the career mode, you'll amass a collection of approximately two-dozen real-world vehicles 
 from brands such as Scion, Infiniti, Lotus, and Mitsubishi. With your race winnings, you can buy 
 engine and nitrous upgrades for each car, as well as deck them out with different bumpers, spoilers, 
 hoods, and side skirts. You can also edit paint schemes and design your own logos freehand using 
 the stylus and touch screen.  

           Detailed 3D graphics and a smooth frame rate will help you ignore the predictability of 
 your CPU opponents.      

  Car handling is best described as weighty, loose, and extremely forgiving. You'll find it easy 
 to drift and slide around corners when you need to, but not so easy that you'll ever spin a doughnut 
 unless you're actually trying to do so. Bumping into guardrails and overpass supports won't slow 
 you down all that much, and your car's plentiful nitrous supply ensures that you can accelerate 
 back to its top speed in no time. Generally speaking, the courses are small, but they contain a 
 satisfying mix of straights, twists, and curves that will give your fingers and the D pad a workout. 

  Each race involves a total of four competitors, including you. That number seems about right, considering 
 the size of the courses. However, the CPU programming is robotic and predictable, to the extent 
 that you will often feel as if you're really competing against your own ability to finish the event 
 without making too many mistakes. Computer-controlled opponents always follow the same racing lines, 
 and they finish in the same pecking order every time. For instance, Hiro is always the best CPU 
 driver in the first few leagues. If he zips ahead of you right at the beginning of a race, you 
 immediately know to quit and switch to a better car. Conversely, if you speed ahead of him and 
 he doesn't catch up in five seconds, you know you're a lock to win. One particularly interesting 
 wrinkle is that you can spook CPU drivers by tailgating them. They'll spin wildly out of control, 
 which can really help you jump out to a commanding lead. All told, the predictable CPU doesn't 
 kill all of the fun, but it's still rather disappointing. Obviously, you won't experience that 
 problem racing against friends in the multiplayer mode, although you will need to convince your 
 friends to buy their own copies of the game if you want to race against human opponents.  

  If graphics are a big deal to you, the game's super-polished presentation should help you forgive 
 its shortcomings. Juice Games, the developer, has concocted a 3D engine that pushes a crazy number 
 of polygons out of the DS, at a frame rate that's almost always silky smooth. The cars and roads 
 exhibit a good amount of detail, and the structures and buildings surrounding the courses look 
 clean. Unlike so many other racing games that have come out for the DS, objects such as guardrails 
 and signs rarely look blocky or distorted. This is definitely one portable racing game that lets 
 you admire the car you've customized and the course you're driving it on. Unfortunately, the audio 
 isn't as elaborate, but the generic thrash rock music and canned engine noises do at least suit 
 what happens on screen.  

  Juiced 2 for the Nintendo DS is one of those rare cases where sweet graphics actually elevate an 
 otherwise unremarkable game into a worthwhile purchase. Racing around courses that look this good, 
 in cars you can actually admire -- on a portable game system that's not known for its graphical horsepower -- is 
 very, very nice, even if the AI and multiplayer options aren't quite up to snuff.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lauder_now
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  After playing a few games of Need for Speed Pro Street DS with a friend, I convinced myself that 
 I needed to get a good 'serious' racing game featuring hot cars and hotter girls - something a 
 bit more 'mature' than the good old Mario Kart. After a few hours of contemplating which racer 
 to get, I initially decided on getting Juiced 2: Hot Import Nights. 
  
  Now after playing it for a few weeks, I've got to say that it's quite good. The Car selection is 
 great (only because it includes my favourite car - the Nissan Silvia s15) , the courses are nice 
 and interesting, and every loading and menu screen features a hot scantily dressed chick. 
  
  I'm not saying that this game is perfect, no instead I'm saying that it's a quite high in the 
 Lauder_Now scoring system, high enough to entertain for hours, not enough to be classed as a classic. 
 The primary reason for this decision is mainly due to the extremely weird difficulty curve. The 
 first few levels in Tokyo are extremely easy. No, I mean extremely easy. I managed to win all the 
 races while barely using any Nitrous. Enough said, just wait till you get to the next few race 
 tracks. All of a sudden, the drivers aren't using crappy stock Audi TT's anymore, they're using 
 some high powered exotics like the Lotus Exige. It now comes to pure skill and timing with the 
 Nitrous.
  
  Another gripe I had with this game was the fact that all the cars handled the same for example 
 an all-wheel-drive vehicle like the Subaru Impreza WRX drifted and turned exactly like a rear-wheel 
 drive Silvia S15! This took away all strategy when it came down to drift tracks and straight tracks, 
 you simply chose any car with high acceleration and top speed, as all handling was the same.
  
  This was the major flaw of the game which prevented me from giving it a score above an 8 - 
 a serious racer with realistic cars, girls and tactics is what I was looking for. Going down a 
 track with heaps of curves you need to drift across means you choose a car like a Skyline or Silvia, 
 going down a straight track calls for a Sagaris. No, none of that in Juiced 2 Hot import Nights, 
 the developers got lazy. I do suppose that the exceptional graphics and genuinely fun racing makes 
 up for it though.
  
  By Lauder Now
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KJA94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  First of all I think the game is awsome as hell, but they should've made more tracks and more racing 
 events. The graphics are perfect espesially for the DS. The gameplay is fun as hell but they could've 
 probably added more things but its still great. The sound is good but they only have one song which 
 plays in the menu its an ok song but they could've added more songs to the game. JUICED 2 HIN for 
 the DS is an awsome game. People who like racing and a good challange should buy it. You could 
 order it online at EB GAMES and you will get a BONUS DVD that shows interviews and alot of other 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasted-yuthe
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Ok, the AI probably isn't the best, but everything else makes up for it.&nbsp; The graphics and 
 sound are great, as is the track and car variety, and the control is spot on.&nbsp; The variety 
 in your tasks is good too, from having to earn so many drift points, to winning a one on one race, 
 to having to spook your opponents a number of times through a race. The game starts off quite easy, 
 which suits me fine. Then it slowly gets more and more challenging, and puts up quite a fight towards 
 the end.&nbsp; The only thing I would have wanted is more variety in how your cars handle.&nbsp; 
 They all look different, but all handle exactly the same- even upgrading only increases top speed, 
 acceleration, and nitro- they don't make the car grip the road more or less for example.&nbsp; 
 Still, for a simple, addictive, and fun arcade racer, you can't go far wrong. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
