-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Justice League Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/justiceleagueheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good mix of heroes and supporting characters.
 simple controls and combat-focused design are easy to grasp.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Heroes are functionally identical.
 combat involves fighting the same two robots hundreds of times.
 environments are plain, and there's hardly anything to do in them.
 blocky 3D graphics and jerky animation are less than flattering.
 doesn't capture the feel or flavor of the license.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.8, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Sensory Sweep
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Oct 17, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Justice League Heroes is a halfhearted beat-'em-up game that does very little to make you feel as 
 if you're controlling your favorite comic book characters. 

  You'd think superheroes and video games would be a match made in heaven. However, games that are 
 based on comic book heroes rarely live up to expectations. That's certainly the case with Justice 
 League Heroes for the Nintendo DS. This 3D beat-'em-up game lets you control four of DC Comics' 
 most popular characters, but it also homogenizes their superpowers to such an extent that you never 
 get to experience what makes each individual character unique. On top of that, the bland levels, 
 cookie-cutter enemies, and the overall half-hearted presentation make the game feel less like the 
 superhero homage it ought to be and more like a generic hack job.  

  A flimsy plot focuses on the travails of four Justice League members as they track down a mysterious 
 mastermind that has plunged the world into chaos with a two-pronged attack of killer robots and 
 mind-controlled superbeings. Character selection is sometimes limited by events that happen in 
 the story, but you generally have the pick between Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, and The Flash. 
 The game is broken up into roughly a dozen missions that contain 40-or-so separate areas, which 
 all together take about four or five hours to get through. Beyond that, you can always go back 
 and replay individual missions or kill some time with the two minigames that unlock after you complete 
 the main quest. The 3D top-viewed environments are packed with robot enemies, which you need to 
 fight while seeking out checkpoints and accomplishing optional collecting tasks. The environments 
 aren't terribly expansive, however, and there isn't much to do in them except for smashing decorative 
 scenery and fighting the robots that appear. You don't have to worry about jumping over gaps or 
 pushing switches, because the checkpoints are clearly labeled on the map. And the optional tasks 
 are never more complex than finding or destroying a few objects per level. By and large, this game 
 is all about pummeling robots with the four superheroes.  

  It's unfortunate that fighting is the game's main emphasis, because the enemies and the heroes 
 are painfully generic. The same robot enemies are carbon copied dozens of times per level, and 
 they don't do much more than hobble toward you and toss an energy blast every few seconds. You'll 
 encounter brainwashed supervillains and heroes at the end of some levels, but beating them requires 
 nothing more than firing projectile attacks and running away to let your power meter refill. Worst 
 of all, the four heroes are functionally identical. They each have their own melee, super melee, 
 and ranged attacks, as well as a unique superhero special power. And although these skills look 
 different, they all lead to the same effects, regardless of which character you use. You can swap 
 between your two chosen characters at any time by tapping an icon on the touch screen. Because 
 they're functionally identical, there's no incentive to do so except when one is running low on 
 health and you want to give the character a break. Another icon lets you call in one of six other 
 Justice League members to put up a brief shield, give a health boost, or fire a few projectiles 
 at nearby enemies. Those support cameos inject a hint of flair into what is otherwise level after 
 level of mindlessly punching the same robots over and over again.  

  The halfhearted presentation further drags things down. Although it's far from a 3D powerhouse, 
 the Nintendo DS can do better than the sparse environments and chunky characters this game doles 
 out. Environments are laid out with flat streets, as well as rectangular walls and buildings. And 
 apart from the flashing lights on some overturned police cars, there's nothing going on in them 
 visually. Because of the ridiculously low polygon count and ugly textures, everything looks blocky 
 and distorted. The tightly zoomed top-view camera angle doesn't help either. Familiar characters, 
 such as the Justice League members and key bosses, are reasonably detailed, but the robots you 
 encounter hundreds of times throughout the game resemble green and brown clumps. Animations are 
 clunky and stiff, which makes sense for the robots. But it's disturbing to see living characters 
 like Superman and Batman jerking from one attack motion to the next and walking as if they're underwater. 
 Outside of gameplay, the nondescript menus, static conversation scenes, and text-only dialogue 
 convey the impression that not a lot of time or money went into the game's production. There's 
 no spoken dialogue whatsoever, not even short snippets for the characters to utter while fighting. 
 For what it's worth, the punch-heavy sound effects and dramatic music come across like the sort 
 of stuff you'd hear while watching one of the Justice League cartoons.  

  Justice League Heroes for the Nintendo DS is a prime example of why video games that are based 
 on superheroes get such a bad rap. You may think you're bringing home a game that lets you play 
 as your favorite Justice League characters. But in reality, all you're getting is a generic, mediocre 
 beat-'em-up game that has been decorated with some logos and still-frame pictures to make the product 
 seem legitimate.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Batman_Vengence
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite boring. Most of the enemies look the same, and will piss you off how often you 
 have to fight them, and you should never feel this way about a fighting game. However, this game does 
 have great sound quality. Good music and sound effects are one of the only good things about this 
 game. I guess this game is also good to have if you like DC comics and you desperately want a game 
 including heroes of the universe. This game isn't atrocious, but it isn't a good game. Running around 
 levels can become tedious as well as punching the same friggin' robots over and over again. It also 
 REALLY sucks you can't play as the "support characters". I mean really. Four heroes to choose from 
 is pretty lame. There's not really a point to maxing out you're heroes. I only play as Batman and 
 the Flash, though, so I haven't really analyzed other characters. And the cut scene art is FUGLY. 
 I'd stick to the console version of the game, for they are much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abubakr_nadir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  The game is perfect fun but it lacks a little in graphics. The environment is huge and sometimes 
 we get confused that on which way should we go. The story is very good according to the cartoons. 
 The powers have been chosen wisely but there should have been a villian from batman's world like 
 the joker or mr. freeze. The villians are not that difficult and in the comsole versions there 
 were more bosses but in the ds version there are only 7 or less. But in overall the game delvers 
 the message thjat it is the best and will remain the best forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listlurker
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight right off the top -- Justice League Heroes for the Nintendo DS is 
 clearly the runt of the litter of the Justice League Heroes games. If you're a Justice League fan, 
 or you're really hyped to play this game, I can tell you right now, go with the PS2 or Xbox versions 
 instead.
  
  It's not that Justice League Heroes (JLH) sucks -- it doesn't -- it's just that you can tell pretty 
 quickly after starting the game that a **lot** of things were cut out or scaled down in order make 
 the game concept fit onto the DS. There's no voice audio; cutscenes are still pics with scrolling 
 text. The art is simplistic and cartoony (N64 level) and the writing and level design is so stripped-down 
 and generic it has to be aimed at young kids.
  
  The developer of the console versions didn't develop JLH DS -- it was Sensor Sweeps instead of 
 Snowblind -- and the console story writer, comic book and JLA cartoon writer Dwayne McDuffie, is 
 also nowhere to be found in this version.
  
  The DS JLH follows the big, general plot of the console versions, but the levels and gameplay here 
 are clearly designed exclusively for the DS. The art design has occasional bright spots, but the 
 levels can feel pretty repetitive. You tend to get a series of levels where you battle minions 
 -- destroying their dispenser points as you go -- along with side missions. The side missions are 
 almost always either Rescue 4 endangered civilians or Destroy X bad things . Bad things are items 
 like bombs, mind control devices, and the like. After a few minion screens, you battle a super-villain 
 boss, and the plot advances through more (unskippable) still pic and text cutscenes.
  
  Probably the most disappointing aspect of the DS version of JLH is that you don't even get access 
 to the full seven member roster of the JLH console versions as playable characters. You start off 
 with Flash and Wonder Woman, and then add Batman, and then Superman, in that order. While you get 
 your four core heroes fairly early in the game -- they're all you get. Other JLA heroes appear 
 as Support Heroes only. You start off with Green Lantern (John Stewart) and Zatanna at first, and 
 can add others -- Green Arrow, Huntress, Hawkgirl, and Aquaman -- by finding their hero icons hidden 
 in the game.
  
  You can't play Support Heroes. You summon them momentarily into the game to either buff your hero 
 (Green Latern creates a bubble shield; Zatanna heals) or to execute an attack. Oddly, whenever 
 I summoned Green Arrow, my game controls would instantly reset to the game defaults, making me 
 a sitting duck in combat. Needless to say, I stopped calling on him.
  
  In the DS version of JLH, you choose two heroes before each mission and play one at a time. You 
 can swap between your two heroes by tapping an icon on the DS screen. Swapping between your heroes 
 is a good way to keep a hero in trouble from dying. Summon your second hero at full points to finish 
 the fight, then bring back your favorite when all is well. Switching between heroes is also a good 
 way to keep their experience points and levels even.
  
  For all it's cut content, weak writing, and uninspired design elements, the actual gameplay is 
 surprisingly fun. Despite the repetitive level structure, it IS fun to whomp bad guys as the core 
 Justice Leaguers. The controls are good -- I use the DS Lite stylus configuration -- and when you're 
 battling, it's surprisingly fun. I've been playing the game constantly since I bought it.
  
  So, it's a good game at core with lacklustre design elements. Those who are only looking for 
 the next hot or outstanding DS game probably won't like it. Comics fans, superhero fans, and JLA 
 fans will probably find things here to love -- but honestly, the console versions will give you 
 more of what you're looking for, if you're interested in this game. Buy those instead, if you have 
 the option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schpenke
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  You get to bash things as Superman, punch people in the face as Batman, zoom around really fast 
 as The Flash, and whip your bracelets at people as Wonder Woman. The controls are simple and game 
 play is easy to understand. Way points are easily recognizable and goals are remarkably clear.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Complete lack of character customization. Sound effects are horrible. Music is almost as bad as 
 the sound effects. The graphics are poor and the lack of screen space inherent to the DS cause 
 some interesting problems; such as being completely blinded when picking up a car to use as a weapon. 
 The game's scarce control set quickly makes strategy simple and boring. Although the controls are 
 easy to master sometimes the attack combos lag a bit. Almost no replay value.
  
  Overall, the game was fun to play but I'm not satisfied with the purchase. Should you pick it up? 
 Probably not. I'd recommend this as a rental only. GameFly it, play it, beat it, send it back and 
 be glad you didn't drop $30 on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgab
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  The game was fun mainly if you enjoy DC super heroes or like the cartoon Justice League. Able to 
 fight many enemies to level up and acquire new powers or moves. Such as the Batmans batorang or 
 grappling gun to Supermans heat vision or super breath. But the game does get repetitive really 
 fast, while the enemies change slightly, its the same over and over. Kill off enemies firing at 
 you, get to their teleporter to stop more from coming. Once in while find some hostages or disable 
 some enemy device ( destroy spying device or a generator) .
  Also, the game is too easy. There is no game settings to increase difficulty. I bought the game 
 on a friday, and finished it on sunday. Thats with playing it an hour or two a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  So the big selling point the marketing department decided to push for Justice League Heroes was 
 the fact that you can, in the SAME GAME, play as Batman, Superman, Flash, Wonderwoman, etc.
  Well, I wasn't exactly dreaming of the opportunity, but it does make for a little more variety 
 in what is otherwise a somewhat plodding beat-em-up. To call this an action RPG really pushes the 
 definition of RPG, since there is no way to tailor your heroes or boost characteristics manually 
 at all. The only hints of RPG come when your character 'levels up', which results in a slight autoboost 
 of traits, and sometimes unlocks a new superpower. Otherwise, you have no say in determining the 
 makeup of your heroes. Other reviews appear to liken this game to the X-men incarnation of the 
 PSP, and while there seem to be some superficial similarities, JLH lacks the character-development 
 depth found in the X-men, but this fact may not be noticed by some folks just itching to try out 
 Wonder Woman's Golden Lariot. However, I'm not sure what right they have calling this an RPG, since 
 that phrase seems entirely to mean that you play as a superhero instead of yourself. By that logic, 
 Pacman and Pong are RPGs, since you play as a small yellow globe or a straight line.
  So lets call this what it is: a theme-based beat-em-up, where the theme is superheros and their 
 traditional enemies, and you take your character through largely linear maps of buildings, streets, 
 rooftops, and so on, slaying everything in your path. Without the character development, this game 
 gets a little dull after a while, although on-the-fly switching between an assortment of heroes 
 results in a different 'feel' . Flash runs faster, hits faster, but is ultimately weaker; Batman 
 is sluggish by comparison, but packs a huge punch, and can stun his enemies. Superman isn't indestructible, 
 but does take more damage, and has the ability to fly. You get the idea: each character will still 
 punch, kick, and use a special power, but in a slightly different way, resulting in a slightly 
 different experience when you switch out.
  There is a story, driven by text and nicely rendered stills; something about a meteor hitting, 
 and all these robots attacking various locations. As you play, the mystery of who is controlling 
 the robots unfolds. There is no on-the-fly saving, just an autosave before each new section of 
 the story (with their collection of 3-5 maps) begins.
  Strangely, the first ten minutes or so is actually the most difficult in the game, as you wade 
 in with Flash, try to beat up the first few robots, and discover your characters aren't really 
 *that* super at all; I had to re-start the first level several times before finishing without one 
 or both of my heroes (you can select two to take into each map, and switch between them at will) 
 dying in the process. Essentially it entails you running up, hitting a bad guy a few times, then 
 running away and waiting for your hit points to regenerate (which they do automatically, or with 
 powerups found by smashing boxes etc) . Once you begin to unlock the super moves, however, the game 
 gets much simpler, since they are quite powerful (one hit kills) , and can often occur as ranged 
 attacks (like Superman's heat vision) , meaning you can stay out of harm's way and deal damage. 
 Each map ends with a boss, who are not that difficult if you have levelled up sufficiently, and 
 have a few special moves. So, the game becomes hit, special move, hit, wait to heal, kill the boss, 
 get the next sequence of story, hit, special move, etc. etc.
  Luckily, the sound and graphics are smooth, clean, and easy on the eyes (VERY similar to PSP's 
 X-Men Legends) , so this repetitive process doesn't really get on your nerves at all.
  Also, you can go back and replay finished sections with different heroes, just to make sure everyone 
 levels up evenly; finally, there are subquests in some levels, which end up being find the four 
 civilians in the map , or destroy the four beacons . Nothing too serious, and does not side-track 
 you from your main quest of finishing, since it all takes place in the same map.
  In summary, it is a decent but slightly short theme-based fighting game, with good graphics and 
 sound, an OK story that keeps you guessing whodunit, and mildly repetitive gameplay that is tempered 
 by being able to select between a half-dozen different recongizable heroes. Being one of the cheaper 
 DS games released recently, it is worth it, if only for a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Justice League Heroes for the DS isn't strictly a port, though its uninteresting gameplay and slipshod 
 presentation might have you thinking otherwise. Somewhat in the spirit of the Xmen Legends games 
 before it, Justice League Heroes brings the other major comic franchise to the gaming world, but 
 the DS version offers little. Characters do gain experience and additional abilites are unlocked 
 over time, as levels increase. The number of abilities, however, is small and the process of character 
 leveling offers gamers no degree of customization. A further frustration arises as experience is 
 acumulated with not parirty for unplayed characters. If you use Wonderwoman solely throughout the 
 beginning of the game, the Flash is left at a sever disadvantage, having acquired no experience 
 or levels himself. Gameplay, which happens from a top-down perspective, is intensely repetitive 
 and the graphical presentation dull. The DS is cabable of brilliant colours and animations, but 
 what appears on the dual screens from this game leaves you wondering why you didn't simply buy 
 the GBA cart. The well animated introduction and backstory to the game leave you a bit incredulous 
 that the cut scenes are portrait only and lack any voice acting. The environment in which gameplay 
 takes place is an interactive one -- virtually every object you come upon is destructable. As with 
 the enemies you encounter, though, these objects quickly become repetitive and uninteresting. You'll 
 may find yourself wondering why the heck there are, yet again, three wooden boxes in the road next 
 to the mailbox. The game makes little use of the unique features of the DS console. I'm thinking 
 here, obviously, of the touch screen. The upper screen is ocupied by the level map, the lower one 
 with gameplay. You can leave your stylus sheathed. Not to stand out in any way, the sound is similarly 
 disappointing. Though the score that plays in the backgorund is well done, what few audio effects 
 there are sound tinny and repetitive. So, is it a game worth buying? Probably not. Even for hardcore 
 JLA fans, this one's hard to swallow. Rent, try it, sure. But save your shekels for the XBOX or 
 PS2 versions of the game. Or better yet, go out and buy Ultimate Alliance. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
