-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kirby: Canvas Curse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/kirbycanvascurse/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good, interesting control over Kirby and the environment.
 Great presentation.
 Good amount of variety, lots of unlockables.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No multiplayer component.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.7, 65 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,526 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: HAL Labs
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Jun 13, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Canvas Curse couldn't really be done on any other platform, yet it doesn't sacrifice its gameplay 
 for the sake of short-lived gimmicks. 

  Three months ago, Nintendo released a DS game called Yoshi Touch &amp; Go, in which you had to 
 draw lines on the screen for Yoshi to walk on. It was a really clever concept, but the concept 
 wore thin because there just wasn't a whole lot to the game. Now, just three months later, Nintendo 
 has gotten it right. Kirby Canvas Curse takes the concept -- drawing lines to create pathways, bridges, 
 ramps, and the like -- and completes it, delivering a full game that feels fresh and has a lot to 
 it. It features a fun, interesting use of the touch screen, and it also does justice to the Kirby 
 legacy. He's not as famous as Mario, Link, and Samus, but Kirby's starred in plenty of surprisingly 
 great games, such as this one.  

          Kirby's been a ball before, but this isn't a pinball game.     

  There are no D pad 
 or button controls in Canvas Curse; you only use the stylus. In the game, Kirby is placed in ball 
 form, and he rolls around. Your only direct control over Kirby is accomplished by tapping him. 
 If he's in regular Kirby form, this causes him to perform a dash attack. If Kirby has any copy 
 abilities, tapping him will perform a special move specific to the enemy he's copied. This lets 
 you take on some cool skills, like the ability to turn into a rocket to fly in any direction, or 
 a tire that quickly moves along the ground and smashes anything in its path.  

  But your main interaction with the game exists through indirectly controlling Kirby using ink to 
 draw rainbow-colored lines. These lines have a few different purposes. You can draw walls to change 
 Kirby's direction. You can draw pathways or bridges to get Kirby from place to place. And you can 
 also use rainbow walls to block attacks from objects, like laser beams and cannons. Overall, your 
 control over Kirby and the environment is a satisfying part of the gameplay that, despite a few 
 similarities to that Yoshi game, still feels unique and innovative, though some may find it to 
 be a little too simple for their tastes.  

  Canvas Curse is broken up into a handful of different worlds, each with three levels, and each 
 with its own look. You'll roll through machine worlds, head underwater, blow through the obligatory 
 ice world, avoid lava in the equally obligatory fire area, and so on. At the end of each world, 
 you'll take on a boss, but which boss you face is up to you. You're given a choice of three different 
 boss fights. Each world gives you the same three choices, but the fights get more difficult as 
 you choose them. So if you stick to one type of encounter, it gets much tougher as you move forward. 
 One boss fight has a sort of bounce-around, pinball-like motif. Another presents a race in which 
 you grab fruit for speed boosts. The third features a tracing contest where you have to draw specific 
 shapes on the screen to come out ahead. Each is interesting in its own way, though with only three 
 to choose from, they do get a little repetitive over time.  

  Outside of the main game, there are a few more options to choose from. Rainbow run lets you replay 
 segments of levels you've passed in the main game with different challenges. Beating these timed 
 or line-based challenges earns you medals, which can be spent on items in a shop. Through this 
 process, you'll unlock a variety of items, like songs for the song test, or more meaningful stuff, 
 like another notch for your life meter or new ink colors. Noticeable by its omission is support 
 for any kind of multiplayer. The concept seems like it could be adapted for either cooperative 
 or competitive play, but unless you're interested in competing for faster time-attack scores, the 
 game is strictly solo. But with plenty to do already, and even more if you get into trying to collect 
 every single medal possible and unlocking all the additional modes and characters, Canvas Curse 
 is a great value.  

          With its unlockable characters and lots of medals to collect, Canvas Curse might last you 
 a pretty long time.     

  Graphically, the game has the same sort of bright, colorful look that you'd expect from an entry 
 in the Kirby series. Additionally, each level has a specific look that makes it stand out, and 
 enemies are just as lively as Kirby himself. It's a great-looking game. The audio is equally as 
 good. The music is upbeat and adds to the overall character, and the sound effects also fit with 
 the action just fine.  

  All in all, Kirby Canvas Curse does a lot of what you want a Nintendo DS game to do. And it couldn't 
 really be done on any other platform, yet it doesn't sacrifice its gameplay for the sake of short-lived 
 gimmicks. So if you're in the hunt for a new DS game, Kirby Canvas Curse is a great choice.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (164 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Axman89
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is charming and fun, and the gameplay is innovative, I feel like I'm missing something. 
 Kirby is a ball? Since when? Wha...? I was sort of hoping for more than a shallow explanation on 
 the back of the box. I mean, they could have at least had some kind of a premise movie, or something...
 
  
  Anyway, after the initial shock of a storyline that has somehow fallen into oblivion, the game 
 has two obvious stand-outs: The drawing of rollercoasteresque lines for Kirby to travel upon, and 
 the series-old standby; Kirby's ability to steel enemy's powers. Everything else revolves around 
 these two lovely features; the bad guys and uh... "line features" are top notch, but the level 
 design, extras, and the aforementioned storyline (or lack there of) were surprisingly lackluster. 
 The Boss fights were okay.
  
  This is essentially a must for Kirby fans, but if there's anyone else out there like me, they might 
 find themselves saying "Wait.... What?"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: collinhall
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:51 am PT
Review:  I am a big Kirby fan and this game was not an overall letdown. But, some parts of the game are just 
 too hard! I know that is silly to say for a Kirby game, but come on, mazes? I absolutely HATE gamemazes. But 
 the game does have lots of positive aspects too. Like the artwork, the games artwork is absolutely 
 amazing! Some of the backgrounds are so amazing that it looks like Picaso painted them himself! 
 Another good feature is the medal swap, which is pretty much a shop but you pay the shop owner 
 medals instead of money which is unusual for a Kirby game because most Kirby games do not have 
 shops! But shopping is a still a nice feature to the game. Overall this is a cute platformer Kirby 
 game and a must buy for DS owners and Kirby lovers alike so pay Nintendo your 30 dollars and have 
 fun drawing lines for everyones favorite pink puff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse was one of the early great games on the DS during a time when there were few 
 games on the DS that could be called great. Nintendo could have just made another Kirby game where 
 King Dedede takes over Dream Land and Kirby has to save the world again. However, instead they 
 decided to take advantage of the DS' control scheme and create an innovative, fun and unique game 
 that anyone can play.
  
  However, this is Kirby, and nothing should come as a huge surprise. In this game, a witch named 
 Drawcia casts a spell over Dream Land, turning it into a world of paint. She then goes back to 
 her world via a portrait-portal, but Kirby follows Drawcia in there as well to restore Dream Land 
 back to its normal state. Upon following the witch, she turns Kirby into a ball-like object. The 
 Magical Paintbrush then goes to the aid of Kirby to help Kirby on his quest. Like I said, nothing 
 surprising and everything pretty simple.
  
  The big change in this game is the control scheme. I applaud Nintendo on creating this unique method 
 of playing Kirby when they could have simply used the the D-pad like all other Kirby games. The 
 players use the stylus (aka "Magical Paintbrush") to control and direct where Kirby. Kirby automatically 
 moves in the direction he is facing, but the stylus can "paint" lines that can direct or block 
 where he goes. Painting these lines uses up paint, so if you use too much you will run out quickly, 
 which could pose to be a serious problem (fortunately your paint reserves restore automatically) . 
 These lines aren't simply ramps or barriers (although they work perfectly fine as those too) , Kirby 
 will attach to these lines, even if they are completely vertical.
  
  You can also tap Kirby, which will make him do a little dash forward. Combined with a well painted 
 ramp, and you can launch Kirby to new heights. Dashing into certain enemies will also make Kirby 
 copy the enemy's abilities. There are only a handful of enemies in that you can copy, and to use 
 their abilities, you simply tap Kirby again. Tapping is used quite often, as it also stuns enemies 
 and destroys blocks, which could potentially halt your progress. It doesn't seem like much, but 
 it is important. The entire game is controlled by the touch screen and stylus, and it works excellently.
 
  
  There are 8 stages in the game which makes a total of 22 levels (counting the final boss) . After 
 you beat a stage, you will face a boss. Unlike many previous Kirby games, this game actually has 
 plenty of replay value. Throughout the levels, you can have Kirby collect Medals, which can be 
 used to unlock bonuses or new content. The bonuses include soundtracks or unlocking other players 
 (which have their own twist while playing them) . The new content includes new levels to be played. 
 There are also the Rainbow Road challenges, where you can do time trials to see how fast you can 
 beat a portion of the game, or you can do a line challenge where the object of the game is to use 
 as little ink as possible. If you do well on then, you will be rewarded with more Medals to unlock 
 more content.
  
  It must be noted that Canvas Curse sports the same music nearly all other recent Kirby games sport. 
 There isn't much variety either among the levels. But generally you won't be focusing on the music, 
 and will be frantically scribbling or trying to figure out how to collect the most recent medal 
 you found. It is pretty disappointing though.
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as Canvas Curse's GBA predecessors as well, which isn't a 
 problem. The entire game is in 2D, as expected. The top DS screen displays a map of the area and 
 other vital information (such as ink levels, ect) , and the bottom screen is, obviously, where you 
 will be drawing your lines and controlling the pink-puff ball.
  
  There is one problem that seems to follow all Kirby games, and follows this iteration as well. 
 Kirby Canvas Curse, despite all its fun, has a level of shallow-ness to it. Despite the decent 
 replay value, the game still doesn't offer very much. If you are just trying to blast your way 
 through the levels, it could take you on an upwards of 3 hours to complete the story. I tried to 
 get many of the medals along the way, and it only took more about 5 hours to complete. The fact 
 that there are very few enemies to copy is also a problem, maybe 6 or 7 different types in the 
 entire game. There are few outstanding levels as well, and far too many water sections, which can 
 be frustrating and down-right annoying. If you are a Kirby fan, this shouldn't be a problem though. 
 This does make the game very accessible though. Everything is pretty quick, which makes for a good 
 pick-up and play game.
  
  Overall, Kirby Canvas Curse is a great game for the Nintendo DS and a great Kirby game as well. 
 The game is very well polished, and if you are trying to unlock some of the extra content, isn't 
 as easy as most Kirby games tend to be. Kirby fans will welcome this game as a breath of fresh 
 air, and DS owners looking for something new should also check out this game. Canvas Curse is a 
 truly unique game on the Nintendo DS, and, when it came out, a much needed relief to the DS line-up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatelowfatmilk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse is amazing!
  
  Gameplay: You use your pen to move kirby around and like in the game "Yoshi". Sounds simple but 
 is very very fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are the best graphics in the "Kirby" series. Kirby looks awsome and the 
 enemies look even better!
  
  Sound: The sound is like the sound in any kirby title.
  
  Value: You can play hours and hours trying to unlock all the things in this game But I still wish 
 that there will be an online mode.
  
  Al (difficulty) : Just right, depends if you are used to using the stylis. 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: 
 Overall this game is an awsome game for the nintendo ds and you should buy this game.
  
  But, if youre a MGS fan or you fancy Grand Theft Auto, this game might not be your game. But hey, 
 I play Bioshock and enjoyed it.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Now this one came completely out of the blue. A non-traditional Kirby game that actually fits within 
 the main series? That's like a Mario Kart that actually occurs during the timeframe of the main 
 series! All jokes aside, Kirby Canvas Curse does for Kirby what Zelda II: The Adventure of Link 
 did for the Legend of Zelda... only better.
  
  This time around, Kirby finds himself in an odd situation; Dream Land has been cursed by a witch 
 named Drawcia, transforming it into a world of paint. Giving chase, Kirby himself is cursed by 
 the peculiar witch, stripping him of his limbs. Kirby, now merely a pink ball with a face, is stranded 
 in Drawcia's own paint-filled world. But he has an unlikely ally: you. That's right; the Magic 
 Paintbrush (read "your stylus") requests your aid to help Kirby save Dream Land once more.
  
  In Canvas Curse, Kirby is not controlled in a fashion similar to any of his past games. That 
 might spell disaster for other games, but this is executed deftly in Canvas Curse. Your only means 
 of controlling Kirby are the touch screen and stylus. Poking Kirby will force Kirby to dash, allowing 
 him to move and defeat (most) enemies. Tapping on (most) enemies will briefly stun them, making 
 them vulnerable to an attack from Kirby. Using the stylus also allows you to draw lines of rainbow 
 ink, which creates various pathways for the formless, powerless hero. Of course, if you run out 
 of ink (just like every other painter) , you'll need to wait for your supply to replenish before 
 drawing anew. 
  
  Kirby does retain his copy ability, but it functions slightly differently this time around. Upon 
 defeating certain foes, Kirby will automatically utilize their power (which either works in tandem 
 with the dash, or replaces it altogether) . If Kirby is damaged, he'll lose his ability. It's also 
 possible to manually forfeit an ability by touching a button on the bottom left-hand corner of 
 the screen.
  
  As usual, Kirby must traverse through several different worlds in order to finish his arduous quest. 
 Since he now lacks limbs (and by extension, the ability to do anything on his own) , the game's 
 challenges are built around Kirby's "dependency" on the player. For example, a later level requires 
 that the player maneuver Kirby quickly enough to avoid being swallowed up by an ever-rising body 
 of lava. Sounds simple, right? In Canvas Curse, everything isn't as easy as it sounds on paper. 
 In another typical Kirby fashion, Kirby must do battle with several bosses at the end of each world. 
 Like with the platforming aspects, there's a twist; with the exception of the final boss (which 
 is a traditional battle) , all of the boss battles are more akin to minigames (i. e. a cart race 
 with King Dedede) .
  
  Canvas Curse also features collectibles in the form of Medals. While most of them are scattered 
 across the levels, out of the way of the "normal" path, some can be obtained through alternative 
 challenges and minigames. Collecting (and subsequently cashing in) these Medal yields rewards in 
 the form of extra characters (Waddle Dee, Waddle Doo, Dedede, and Meta Knight) , each with their 
 own strength, flaws, and quirks.
  
  Canvas Curse features (virtually) the same graphics as the last two Kirbys. The 2D graphics are 
 crisp, detailed, and (dare I say it) cute, so there isn't much that you say in a negative tone.
 
  
  The music is what you've come to expect from the series. Like most series, Kirby usually doesn't 
 stray from the norm. The tunes are charming and pleasant as usual. Maybe my memory is just foggy, 
 but the music just isn't as memorable as past games. Don't misconstrue me; the music's good, but 
 it just didn't stick with me.
  
  Kirby: Canvas Curse might very well be that much-needed breath of fresh air in what is one of gaming's 
 most overused genres. Canvas Curse breaks the traditional mold of a platformer, and the risk is 
 well rewarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse is Kirbys first outing on the DS and it is splendid in its touch screen features. 
 I'll just start off by saying that this one of the best DS games I have ever played. That is how 
 fun this game is. 
  
  So let's start with the touch screen. In Canvas Curse, Kirby is a ball and you control him by drawing 
 lines for him to go. You can even tap enemies and switches and do all kinds of stuff with the touch 
 screen and it is really cool. You also use it in various ways with Kirbys copy ability feature 
 and its cool to see each Kirby element changed in this installment. For example, the levels are 
 much harder since you control Kirby with ease and can destroy the enemies easier.
  
  Kirby was also given some new modes, a time attack mode and a non line mode, the former obviously 
 being a race and the latter being a race in which you must draw as little lines as possible. These 
 are both challenging and fun to play and many levels use the power ups in this way.
  
  One downer here is that there are only 10 or so power ups which is lacking compared to other Kirby 
 games, but eh, this game doesn't focus on power ups.
  
  The bosses in this game are also cool, because it was given a Megaman flavor and each time you 
 are given 3 bosses and choose which one you want to fight. All of them have almost no fighting 
 and instead neat touch screen challenges that are fun to do and can be unlocked as minigames.
 
  
  The story is just like every other Kirby game pretty much. The secrets in this game are medals and 
 can be used for the normal Kirby unlockables. The difficuly and length are pretty normal, it's 
 like the other Kirby games.
  
  The music in this game is real cool. It's like Kirby tunes but with a techno mix to fit the DS 
 and I really like them. The old tunes can also be unlocked and used when you play which is real 
 cool too. The graphics are similar to other Kirby games, although it's cool to see Kirby [SPOILERS!] 
 Waddle Dee, Meta Knight, and King Dedede [END SPOILERS] as a ball. :P
  
  This game seemed to get complaints for multiplayer, and while I guess it could've used multiplayer, 
 I don't really see how you could with 2 touch screes. I guess it could have minigames, but who 
 honestly plays the minigames in Kirby games?
  
  In conclusion, Kirby Canvas Curse uses the touch screen wonderfully, it makes the game feel fresh, 
 the new modes are fun, the music is awesome, and basically, Kirby Canvas Curse made me love the 
 touch screen. If you're looking for a fun new game, buy it. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shecra_Namenca
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I actually love this game. From the first few levels, it was already pretty fun. The way of using 
 the stylus is a new take on the touch screen. The paintbrush feature lets you draw walls and ramps 
 so kirby can get up to different platforms etc, which i've never seen in a game before, so i was 
 intregued from the start. 
  
  The graphics are cool, and the music isn't too annoying, so that's a bonus. Although some of the 
 levels are pretty tricky to negotiate, that just adds variety to the gameplay. Its kind of annoying 
 when you run out of paint in your paintbrush. it seems to run out too quickly, meaning you fall 
 or make mistakes and end the level by losing a life. The levels have been well planned, and you 
 never really know what to expect next, and I found that trying to get past level seven was a nightmare 
    I think this game would appeal to anyone really, because it has a range of difficulties in the 
 levels, and its friendly for pretty much any age group. 
  
  this is an addictive game that i'd recommend to anyone who likes side-scrolling games like mario 
 cause it's all pretty cool. Very good for boring journeys or weekends =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a Kirby game, and that's an argument that would make a lot of people not 
 take this game seriously, sure the game holds no mature nature, but that's not necessary to make 
 a good game, and whatever it is that makes a good game, is certainly found on this game!
  
  We can consider something about the game, it succeeds on everything it tries to achieve, for instance, 
 look at the game mechanics, not only great use the DS exclusive functionalities, but also one of 
 the best usage of the DS touch screen still for these days! A platformer like no other for sure, 
 you control Kirby and you have an ink meter, you can draw on the screen, and make whatever shape 
 you like with it, in contact with the ink, Kirby will follow the track, you don't have a jump button, 
 but with the lines drawn in the screen you can make Kirby climb onto high places, surpass dangers, 
 and avoid enemies as you see fit, as for enemies, you can stunt them by simply touching on the 
 enemy, just a few enemies can't be stunned, and if you successful stun someone, you can defeat 
 it by going through it, if you go through without stunning you'll lose health.
  
  If you think about it without further knowledge, another game comes to mind with this kind of feature, 
 Yoshi Touch & Go, but compared to Kirby, this game has not much dept, Kirby is really more dynamic 
 and end up being an overall more satisfying experience, thanks to the dash technique, if you touch 
 Kirby on the screen you'll do a quick dash receiving a momentaneous boost, which can be used in 
 cooperation with the lines you draw to achieve various stunts and perform various kinds of maneuvers, 
 resulting in a game where you're not forced to follow the game's speed.
  
  In fact, if you plan on getting 100% on this game, speed is one of the requirements, because the 
 has a time trial mode, in which you're gonna have to complete certain parts of the stages in a 
 predefined amount time, the best you do, the more medals you receive in a total of three. You also 
 can find a line trial mode, where you're gonna have to use less ink as possible, again there's 
 three waiting for you depending on how you do.
  
  The difficulty fits perfectly, it's not a walk in the park, but it's not bearing impossible either, 
 it will surely keep you on it for some time, especially if you try to get all 250 medals, chances 
 are high that you're gonna feel like doing it.
  
  Another good thing to see in a game is secrets, and here you have tons, unlocking stuff with coins 
 collected, unlocking stuff by completing certain objectives in the game, new characters, and new 
 courses.
  
  The graphics are great, the design of the courses are basically the good old stereotype, like fire, 
 ice, forest, but strangely they all have a uniqueness into them, they don't look like regular course 
 found in several other games, and the music certainly adds much to it, it one of the best soundtracks 
 for a DS game, it really grows into you, even if you don't really like it in the beginning.
  
  The story, which is the game's biggest flaw, can be skipped entirely, some mentions in the 
 presentation and in the end, between all that lies only action, non-stop action and nothing more, 
 who needs a story for a game this good anyway? If you wanna know a little about it anyway, here's 
 the deal, Kirby was living peacefully in Dream Land, suddenly a bad witch comes and transforms 
 the land into a painting, when she sees Kirby she flees into a vortex, Kirby gives a chase, he 
 find himself inside of a painting, he challenges the witch, who transform him into a ball escape, 
 now all the hope lies within the Magical Paintbrush you wield! Believe me, you don't need that.
 
  
  Another thing I would like to mention is the final boss, not the actual bosses from the stages, 
 because they're pretty uninteresting, but the final boss, without any spoiler let me tell you that 
 it's a great boss, and a good challenge, nothing like the bosses seen on 2D platformers usually.
 
  
  It's a pretty solid game that succeeds in everything it tries, uses the DS touch screen like heaven 
 and throws some good challenges at the player, the only bad thing would be if there's no sequel 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Good Stuff: 
  .One of the greatest uses of the touch screen yet.
  .The first ever hard Kirby game.
  .A quite long game.
  .Nice graphics.
  .Great music.
  
 
  Bad Stuff:
  .The same environments are used over and over.
  .The bosses shouldn't be minigames!
  .A bit too hard.
  .The storyline isn't too good.
  .My 
 touch screen was dogey back then =)
  
  OK. By all means this was a nice game and it was fun to play. It just didn't live up to the other 
 Kirby games.
  
  First I'll get over the bad stuff. The first thing I'll go over is the fact that the same environments 
 are used over and over again. I know this shouldn't be too big of a flaw but It makes you want 
 to stop playing the game as you'll just be going though the same old town where houses look like 
 TVs for example.
  
  The bosses in this game are actually minigames and they are kinda fun but bosses just shouln't 
 be minigames. The only good minigame/boss are those races against King Dedede as well.
  
  This game is a bit too hard as well, especially by my dogey touch screen too back then. By my touch 
 screen, already hard bits are near impossible as the only way to move Kirby is by drawing rainbow 
 lines he slides across.
  
  I'll go over the storyline in the summing up. Here's the good things about this game. The touch 
 screen uses in this game are some of the most imaginative and best on the DS so far. One of the 
 things I don't like about Kirby games is that they are way too easy but that's no more with this 
 one. It proves to be one of the toughest challenges on the DS! 
  
  The game is actually quite long. Instead of the usual 6 worlds in a Kirby game this one has 8 and 
 although each world has only 3 levels, the levels are very long and challenging.
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are quite good but they are still 
 GBA graphics though. 7.5/10
  
  Story: One of the bad things in this game. Kirby is just walking alound Dreamland untill... BAM! 
 Kirby's now a ball randomly by some evil random wizard guy and that's where Kirby's adventure begins. 
 6.5/10
  
  Sound&Music: Some of the best ever in a Kirby game! 9/10
  
  Gameplay: Kirby this time around is a ball and you have to help him by sliding him and drawing 
 rainbow lines he can slide across. The touch screen ideas are some of the best on the DS but other 
 things like Bosses being minigames and other stuff keep the gameplay down. 7/10
  
  Overall: It's worth a rental or buying at a low price but it doesn't live up to the other Kirby 
 games but eh, it's a spinoff after all. 6.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Back in 05 Kirby CC was a very innovative game due to the fact that we haven't seen the DS touch 
 screen used like this. Even today there still hasn't been a game to match this. Kirby CC is controlled 
 on the DS touch screen only. The top screen is used as a map or menu. You'll spend the whole game 
 building a rainbow bridge for Kirby to guide him to safety, not only that you'll also be destroying 
 blocks, stunning foes, and even blocking attacks Kirby can't handle. Levels are broken down to 
 sections. You need to find the door to get to the next one. This means simply going from point 
 A to B. Or hitting switches and looking all over to open the door. There are tone of things to 
 keep you from your goal things like spikes, cannons, waterfalls, darkness, and so much more. Theres 
 a boss at the end of each world but it's only one of three. The boss battles are just miney games 
 that get harder with each time you play it. It's either connect the dots, draw lines to bounce 
 Kirby up higher, or a race. Not to creative and not to much fun. As the game goes on it can get 
 really hard for the kid target it trys to be. Later levels can really test your patience. Also 
 the game is short only being 7 worlds and three to each, but the levels are long and theres things 
 to unlock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  Ever since Nintendo's DS first came out and people started playing the launch lineup there have 
 been those who've been "dissappointed" with the lack of truly stellar games available. Other than 
 the odd Yoshi's Touch n' Go or Feel the Magic, there wasn't really anything to show the DS's full 
 power. At least nothing that did this in form of a full game that didn't feel like something hastily 
 built on a gimmick. Well, another interesting DS game has come along in the form of the latest 
 entry in the Kirby franchise. Is this the killer app that proves the DS?
  
  Story:
  The storyline of Kirby Canvas Curse, told out alomst completely through rolling text and background 
 art, is pretty simple. When the evil sorcress Drawcia comes to Dreamland, changing it into a painting, 
 Kirby immediately rises to confront her, but Drawcia uses her magic to remove Kirby's arms and 
 legs, effectively turning him into a ball. However, when Drawcia leaves behind a magic paintbrush, 
 it magically transports to you (yes you!) and you must use it (your stylus) to guide Kirby as he 
 rolls along on his path to defeating the sorcress.
  
  Presentation:
  Now other than him being my favorite character in Super Smash Bros., I've never really been a big 
 fan of Kirby. As such, other than The Crystal Shards on N64, this is really the first Kirby game 
 that I've played actively, much less purchased. So throughout this review I really won't be able 
 to make big comparisons between this and other Kirby games. What I do know is that with Kirby being 
 a pink ball and all, his have usually been associated with various bright and pretty colors. Y'know, 
 stuff befitting a "Dream Land". This of course means very colorful and artistic environments filled 
 with creatures that could be considered "cute" with names like "Kracko", "Waddle", and "DeDeDe".
 
  
  Personally I think that the environments in Canvas Curse are some of the best looking on DS. Even 
 though the game's levels are split up into "sections", therels actually a lot of variety between 
 the levels, even the ones sharing the same section. You may go through a stage that features a 
 lot of machines and technology first, then right after that go through another level that's of 
 a winter theme. Yeah, there are cliche-themed levels here, but they are spread so that they have 
 a very good variety of occurrence. The actual foreground environment and characters may be pretty 
 simple, but I actually like the way they "painted" the backgrounded a lot. The menus in the game 
 are designed to be as colorful as can be and (in some cases) move around quite a bit. One amazing 
 thing is that since Super Mario 64 DS, this is the first DS game I've played where you can completely 
 navigate all the menus with the stylus. Actually that's kind of strange for a system like the DS! 
 One thing I really liked though was the level select screen. All of the levels appear on a whell 
 that you spin around with your stylus. I tell you I could spin it around for hours! Other than 
 this, the presentation and art direction of Kriby Canvas Curse is really little more than just 
 enough to get the Kirby world across to the player and get it across well.
  
  Visuals:
  Being a 2-D title on the DS, the visuals of Kirby Canvas Curse are fairly simple from the technical 
 standpoint. The only real exception are some of the nice 3-D effects presented during the final 
 boss. Being the game that it is, most of the attraction in the game's visuals are in the artistic 
 area and not the technical area. So other than the pretty environments and backgrounds explained 
 above, this game pretty much has GBA-level graphics. Now you could argue that Nintendo could have 
 used the DS's hardware to get some 2-D effects that may not have been possible on the GBA, but 
 as likely as this is, it wouldn't make much difference, as this is a game where visuals are not 
 at all a big piece of the game's appeal. The animations of all the characters and other things 
 are certainly fluid enough and the whole game pretty much runs at a constant frame rate all the 
 way through. Canvas Curse is really the kind of game that is never really obligated to bring much 
 on the technical side so this simplicity is understandable.
  
  Gameplay:
  Now this is the real meat of the game. Probably making up virtually all of the total games appeal. 
 So older people who are interested might have to loop past the game's presentation to get to this. 
 Although this game is a platformer, you don't have direct control over your character. At least 
 not over the character themself. However, the DS stylus - the only thing you play the game with 
 - gives you a control over where your character goes that feels easier and more direct than in 
 any other recent game. You see, the premise of Canvas Curse is that since Kirby is a ball that 
 just keeps on rolling, you must use your stylus to draw lines for Kirby to roll and land on to. 
 You tap Kirby himself to make him dash and use aquired abilities that you get from defeated enemies, 
 and you tap enemies to stun them and obstacles to destroy them. That's it. A pretty simple premise 
 that could very easily have ended up being just another gimmick. But luckily, this game has a lot 
 to back it up.
  
  First of all, this premise alone gives you a really nice amount of freedom in terms of where you 
 want Kirby to go. As soon as I started playing I was already bringing him all the way up into the 
 sky and back and forth through the first area rather easily. Drawing a ramp (or elevated platform) 
 for Kirby is probably more affective than just him jumping. As I went through the first, relatively 
 simple area, I was already striving to defeat every enemy, get every one of those little stars, 
 and get to every secret. Why? Because this game's control scheme made me feel like I could. This 
 whole mechanic is further reinforced by excellent level design on HAL's part that really forces 
 some skillful use of the stylus out of you. Although I felt in control most of the time, it was 
 not very long before I found myself facing bigger and bigger challenges despite the level of control 
 that was involved here. Videogames that have that dual sense of making you feel in control like 
 never before while at the same time challenging you like never before tend to get my higher reccomendations.
 
  
  Now to first learn how all this really goes, the game puts you through an optional tutorial before 
 you get started with the real game. This is probably the longest tuturial that I have seen in a 
 Nintendo-developed game but it is quite effective in showing you what to do and allowing you to 
 figure things out from there. Despite this though, I always wondered if they could have just put 
 more things like indidators in the game to kind of "hint" you into what to do as you go along so 
 that maybe no one would have to go thorugh any tutoral. But then again it's only like 5 minutes 
 of your time before you play the game. After going through this, the only other real leads that 
 you get in the game are the "arrows" that may point you towards things that you need to touch. 
 But even these usually only occurr on things like canon buttons and maybe some of the really serious 
 obstacles. All in all, given a little time, I am confident that almost anyone could learn how to 
 play this game seeing as it does not at all involve any of the DS's buttons.
  
  The levels in this game are all split up into worlds. Seven of them (eight if you count the last 
 one which really just the final boss) . Each one having three stages. Each of these has a great 
 variety of obstacles and puzzles and such that all help create the game's excellent level design. 
 This is all done with things like pinball bumpers, cannons (different kinds) , turbo schutes, switches, 
 blocks, bombs, bolders, color-coded doors, spikes, fans, lazers, and the like. All of which you 
 can touch to switch, drive Kirby around (or into) , or draw lines to shield Kirby against. These 
 things are all very well placed to create levels that require some of the most skilled use of the 
 stylus on the DS yet. You will be required to draw Kirby over bridges, up (and down) ramps, and 
 through loops while at the same time being ware of enemies and trying to get to the end of the 
 level, not to mention finding secrets.
  
  Another element of the levels is the enemies. Other than the powers Kirby aquires from them (a 
 Kirby game staple) after defeating them, there isn't much to them. There are ones that walk, ones 
 that jump, ones that swim, and ones that fly. The ones with the special abilities actually aren't 
 as big a part of the game as you may think. Maybe once or twice in each level you may getto a part 
 where defeating an enemy and aquiring his power may be very helpful but not at all essential. However, 
 the various powers you get are still pretty cool. The first one you encounter is a beam-like ability. 
 Then there's a "wheel". After this you go on to do things like turn into a snowball, a rock, a 
 spikeball thingy, a ball of fire, and a balloon, among other things. All stuff to help you for 
 a moment, but defeating enemies and absorbing their powers does not at all feel like an essensial 
 part of the game.
  
  In the middle of some levels you may encounter a "mini-boss" like puzzle. These may not take very 
 long but they can be quite challenging and they differ from each other a lot. After you finish 
 each whole world go advance to the "Boss GAme" where you must choose between three bosses , each 
 one being a big puzzle in iteslf. One where you much draw trampoline-like lines, one where you 
 must win a race, and one where you must draw different designs. Each one is fairly difficult. However, 
 since there are three bossses and 7 worlds, you must fight each boss twice and each one gets harder 
 the second time around.
  
  The only thing about the gameplay in this game that felt especially odd was the fac that (at first 
 at least) I didn't look at the top screen too much (all the action is on the bottom screen) . All 
 that's on the top screen is a sort of map of your surroundings (only useful for possibly plotting 
 routes and spotting medals) and your healthbar as well as a display for your lives and stars. Now 
 depending on who you are, the map's usefulness is questionable but I guess the top screen is the 
 only place you could have put the healthbar.
  
  With a nice, innovative and simple new control scheme that feels very direct and natural, plus 
 amazing level design to back it up, the gameplay scheme of Kirby Canvas Curse is one that makes 
 you feel more in control than ever before while at the same time challenging you like never before.
 
  
  Audio:
  The Audio presentation in Kirby Canvas Curse is naturally pretty simple. It's all MIDI music that's 
 really just retooled versions of some classic Kirby music (that I had never heard before this game) . 
 Each theme of level has it's own music and I have to admit that some of it is pretty catchy. I 
 also like the little medly played as you finish each stage. The sound effects in the game are miminal. 
 There's a sound for you drawing the rainbow, one for you stunning/killing enemies, and some more 
 for minor puzzle effects like switches, door, and explosions. The only "voice" sample in the game 
 is Drawcia's evil laugh I believe. I probably won't go out and download any of the music in the 
 game, but it is pretty nice as it fits the Kirby world and sounds fairly catchy. By the way, be 
 sure to check out a Kirby Remix Collaboration called Rise of the Star. Find it at http://kirby. ocremix. org.
 
  
  Replay:
  Even after you've defeat Drawcia, the game's not anywhere near over yet. When I beat the game, 
 it still said I was only around 20% done (one thing in games that actually kind of ticks me off) . 
 With the extra characters involved, you'll probably have to go through the game at least two more 
 times with the extra effects of those characters. While you are going through the game, you will 
 have to find these "Medals". Three hidden each level and 250 overall. Some are quite out of the 
 open, but others will take some serious drawing to even sight. On top of this, you must also go 
 through Rainbow Run, which is a combination of time trial and something called "Line Trial". Time 
 Trial is basically just going through levels as fast as possible. Line Trial on the other hand, 
 is where you must get through a level while drawing rainbows as little as you possibly can. Going 
 through these also involve medals so you'll be doing this a bunch too if you want to get everything 
 in the game. After this, there's Medal Swap, where you actually spend those medals to gain unlockables. 
 Stuff like extra health, more tracks for the sound test, different designs for the lines you draw, 
 and much more. The only thing this game doesn't have for the replay is multiplayer, the lack of 
 which is probably the game's only major shortcoming. But I honestly couldn't imagine what kind 
 of multiplayer they could have put into a game like this. To put it short, this game will probably 
 last you more than a dozen hours.
  
  Closing Comments:
  Kirby Canvas Curse is probably a game that should have launched with the DS hardware because it 
 definitely shows that the DS touch screen is actually worth something. That it can actually bring 
 interesting new kinds of gameplay without sacrificing everything on gimmicks. It uses the DS's 
 innovation to create an excellently designed game that feels new, direct, free, and challenging 
 at the same time. Kirby Canvas Curse is probably the first legitamite game on the Nintendo DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolatepoo92
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Story: Witch turns Kirby into a ball and you must guide him to the witch with your Magic Paintbrush.
 
  
  Controls: There is no button-use in this game. You just use the stylus to guide Kirby. It works 
 pretty damn well, too.
  
  Sound: The sound is excellent. Some of the best music in a DS game I've ever heard. There's a level 
 towards the end of the game. It's an ice level. The music in that level is mind-blowing. Absolutely 
 wonderful.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are GBA quality, which is fine because it works for this game. Looks almost 
 exactly like Nightmare In Dreamland. The backgrounds are beautiful.
  
  Gameplay: Wow. You stroke the stylus under Kirby to guide him and you touch Kirby to make him dash. 
 You touch enemies with the stylus to stun them and if Kirby touches them while they're stunned 
 than you absorb thaeir traits. The boss battles are underwhelming, but the boss fight with the 
 witch at the end of the game is stunning, not to mention difficult.
  
  Conclusion: This is the most innovative DS game I have ever played. I picked it up for $19.99 at 
 Blockbuster new and what a bargain. Well worth your time and cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowChu
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  In Kirby's latest adventure, Kirby Canvas Curse, you must forgo the traditional control scheme, 
 and instead control Kirby by drawing. I was slightly put off by this at first, but once I actually 
 started playing the game I really enjoyed it. The story is rather simple, but serves its purpose. 
 Kirby gets sucked into a painting and must draw his way out of it. The game sounds good, and is 
 visually inspiring. Some of the boss fights are a little uninteresting, but the final boss is worth 
 playing through. I wouldn't say this game is a must-have, but if you're looking for an innovative 
 game, look no further. 
  
  In Canvas Curse, you control Kirby by drawing lines, and this may sound strange at first, but you'll 
 get used to it. Kirby is basically a ball and he rolls down the line you draw, like an ordinary 
 ball would. You can tap Kirby to make him do a defensive roll, and you can also draw a loop to 
 give Kirby a boost, making him go faster. The boss fights are fairly straightforward, save the 
 last one, which is a lot of fun. The level design is very diverse and exciting, about what you'd 
 expect from a Kirby game. Most of the enemies will be familiar if you've played a Kirby game before, 
 but considering the experimental control scheme, some familiarity is good. The game is by no means 
 lengthy, but will take a fair bit of time to play through. The only drawback to the overall game 
 play is that controlling Kirby can sometimes be difficult, making the game somewhat frustrating 
 in some places. This doesn't happen that often though, as Canvas Curse isn't very difficult. The 
 only other drawback would be the repetition, as it feels like your doing the same thing over and 
 over. Still, the levels are diverse enough to shake this feeling. Canvas Curse delivers a solid 
 experience. 
  
  The story is rather simple, Kirby gets sucked into a painting, and he must get out by drawing lines. 
 Kirby games are not known for elaborate stories, and this one merely serves its purpose. Don't 
 expect a complex plot, or any surprises. The story really isn't good or bad. It's rather average, 
 but it does get the game started. You most likely aren't going to be playing a Kirby game for the 
 story anyway. The story does kind of pick up at the end and it makes the last few levels of the 
 game interesting. The game is also short enough, that the story doesn't make a big difference. 
 
  
  Kirby has never looked better, and on the Nintendo DS, he shines. Visually the game is very impressive, 
 and the level design will really suck you in. The backgrounds are varied, and offer a lot of layers. 
 You most likely won't get bored of staring at the same stuff over and over. Most of levels are 
 very different from each other, mainly only being grouped together by difficulty. The graphics 
 fulfill their role in every way possible, making the game a pleasant experience. I couldn't really 
 find any real flaws, but at one point some of the menu screens begin to look really repetitive 
 and simplistic. This is minor though, and doesn't detract anything from the game. The bottom line 
 is: Kirby looks great!
  
  Canvas Curse is untraditional and that may throw some people off, however, the game is fun and 
 enjoyable. The control scheme would be the biggest issue for skeptics, but I didn't have any major 
 problems with it. The game play is great, and the levels are varied and interesting. The story 
 isn't a real issue, and it does what it's supposed to do. The game does get more interesting at 
 the end, so that's kind of a bonus in a way. The game offers extra modes once you beat the game 
 once, adding some replay value to it. Kirby looks good on the Nintendo DS, and there are no real 
 flaws with the graphics. If you're new to the Kirby series, this might not be the game for you, 
 being different from Kirby's previous installments. Veterans of the Kirby series will probably 
 find it a pleasant change. If you're looking for something new and exciting, featuring Kirby, then 
 you've come to the right place!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  If you're not a fan of Kirby's other games, you might like this one as it is completly different! 
 This game features a great use of the stylus, superb graphics, an incredible sound track, and a 
 long lasting game.
  
  If you look hard, you could find this game for 15 bucks. Which is an unbeatable price because this 
 game will have you playing for hours and hours. Whether it be the minigames, the story, the sound 
 or whatever, there will be something in this game that has your calling.
  
  Surprisingly, the graphics are good. Especially for a Kirby game. As I said earlier, the sound 
 is definitely worth noting as well. If the game was just a little big longer, then this game would 
 be perfect. But finding every hidden item slightly makes up for it.
  
  I definitely reccomend this game to anyone. Kids, Adults, Teens, you will all have a blast playing 
 Kirby's latest adventure! All I can say is Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  This realy isn't much like the previous kirby game, mostly due to the extremly altered gameplay 
 and supurb controls. But it is still an amazing game, if you like kirby and your ok with it being 
 different, it escentialy is the same game you have come to know and love, but with a few big differences.
 
  The controls are fine, so don't worry about that. And the game is pretty long for a kirby game, 
 which are usualy pretty short. The game however looks pretty vibrant, dosen't do much in the way 
 a visuals, it looks good, but nothing past good. All in all I think that most people who are willing 
 to give the game atry will be happy that they did. I give it two thumbs up!
  
  Good: Controls are great.
  gameplay is unique.
  long enough.
  
  Bad: not super long.
  visuals 
 are underwhelming.
  every once in awhile, you might get a little frustrated with the controls, but in the end it's 
 always your fault, not the touch-screens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Maniaco
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Losing its appearance 2D Kirby Canvas Curse brings a new way of if to play, Kirby lost its arms 
 and legs and now depend exclusively on stylus for everything. The use stylus for everything, to 
 make ways, to break blocks, to paralyze enemy... Kirby still can absorb to be able them of its 
 enemies, but that they do not help in such a way as in its other versions of the game. The Graphics 
 had not very changed Kirby and its enemies had only turned 3D , the game were perhaps more pleasant 
 if it was only in 2D, but its movement continues same, the attractive one and the main one to be 
 able of the Kirby that was to absorb its enemies loses a little since everything with stylus becomes 
 and to be able they finish being useless helping them few times. The Minigames that all game of 
 kirby has now is obligator you needs to win one of the three minigames in the house end phase where 
 also it has has a bond of where you can gain life extra. Although to lose a little of its style, 
 Kirby still is an excellent game of platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse / DS / 9.0
  
  
  Kirby is back in another adventure. This time he rolls up to a ball and rides rainbow colored ink 
 in order to defeat Drawcia and save the day.
  What you do in this game is to simply to draw lines for Kirby to ride. You can draw the lines as 
 walls, loops, ramps or just simple escalators, it's up to you! Kirby's ability to absorb powers 
 is back as well.
  This unique game split up in different worlds with 3 levels each. There are also different challenges 
 and characters to complete the game with. You can get coins for unlocking new stuff all the time 
 as well. 
  The story is irrelevant because drawing rainbows is fun anyway. Countless unlockables will keep 
 you coming back for more. The graphics are really good and are not ugly at all. The artistic look 
 makes it original. 
  Canvas Curse game has decent sound effects and good catchy tunes. I think Intelligent systems could've 
 made more levels. The existing ones are top-notch though. A multiplayer mode would also make this 
 game better.
  
  Superb game, you'll play it for long!
  
  
  Real Score: 9.0
  
  //Smithy92 - contact me if something's bad or wrong
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a game that uses the Nintendo DS in ways that should have been thought of 
 before. Canvas Curse takes the Kirby universe and adds a new style of gameplay to the mix.
  Canvas Curse has all the same graphical greatness that its predecessors had. The game is shown 
 in full 2D, hand-drawn styled graphics. Kirby has never looked better. The quirky design of the 
 enemies remains true to the roots of Kirby. Each of the areas in Canvas Curse has a completely 
 different feel and theme, corresponding to the world.
  All the original musical motifs of the Kirby universe are present in Canvas Curse. Some levels 
 have remixed versions of previous game's music, which fits nicely to give you the nostalgic feeling 
 of playing a classic franchise.
  One of the great things about Canvas Curse is how the game plays. The game is run through the stylus 
 and touch screen. Breaking blocks, making Kirby dash, using his copied abilities, among others, 
 are all stylus driven. To control Kirby, you must draw a path for him to follow, which uses up 
 some of your rainbow meter. If that it completely depleted then no more paths can be drawn until 
 it regenerates. That mechanic gives the game somewhat of a strategic feel, making you decide where 
 and how to draw Kirby's path. By drawing a loop, Kirby will automatically dash around the loop 
 and shoot off the end of the path.
  The boss battles are more like minigames that are also touch screen based. One has you racing King 
 Dedede and you must move a block around that controls how Kirby moves while dodging enemies and 
 obtaining food, increasing your speed. Another has you playing a brick breaker-esque game to defeat 
 enemies and eventually Kracko. The last has you draw lines through specific points to form a picture 
 in your battle against Paint Roller.
  Overall, Kirby: Canvas Curse has some new gameplay mechanics to freshen up the series, while remaining 
 true to the Kirby formula. Although it is not as in-depth or as difficult as the other Kirby games, 
 it is a new and enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Kirby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a Kirby fan, and when I heard about this game I was positive that I wanted to 
 buy it. I got it used at EB Games, and was not disappointed... 
  
  Gameplay- 
  
  The gameplay is deifinetly one of the best things about Kirby Canvas Curse. It's simple: you use 
 the stylus to draw a path for Kirby. To defeat enemies and obtain their power (which Kirby is known 
 for) you either tap Kirby with the stylus to make him roll into the enemy, or you tap the enemy 
 to stun them. All in all it works wonderfully. 
  
  Story-
  
  The story was okay. A witch turns Kirby into a ball, he uses a magical paintbrush to get around... 
 It's nothing too special, but it's nice to have. 
  
  
  Graphics- 
  
  I personally loved these graphics. The backgrounds are cute, yet somewhat detailed, and very attractice. 
 Kirby is just pink round ball, though. 
  
  Difficulty- 
  
  The difficulty was pretty easy to me for the first six levels or so, but the game slowly began 
 to get harder. Finishing the game would probably be a snap for most gamers, but getting all the 
 medals in the game and in the Rainbow Runs is harder. I found the difficulty just right for me, 
 but a little on the easy side. 
  
  Music- 
  
  I loved the music in Kirby Canvas Curse. It was noticable, but not so noticable that you were distracted 
 from the game, and never seemed annoying. I'm pretty sure that some tunes were re-used for other 
 levels, but it fit well for whatever level it was. 
  
  Overall- 
  
  Overall I give this game 8.5 out of 10. The touch screen use was well-done, and didn't feel gimmicky, 
 and I loved the music and graphics. One thing I would have like would've been for the game to be 
 a little longer, perhaps. I highly recommend Kirby Canvas Curse for any DS owner looking for a 
 game that makes good use of the touch screen while still being a good platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Kirby platformers are usually a pretty standard affair. Like Sonic they have a basic formula and 
 stick pretty close to it. That is until you play Canvas Curse. The fundamentals are still there, 
 but the control scheme is so drastically different that its easy to forget you are playing a Kirby 
 game. The whole game is controlled with the stylus. Kirby is perpetually in ball form and you control 
 him by drawing a path or line in which he travels. Other touch controls include stunning enemies, 
 removing obstacles and/or activating Kirby's special abilities. These controls work really well, 
 but aren't as refined as the recent Zelda on DS. Kirby will often spin out of control if you miss 
 your mark by a millimeter, sometimes causing instant death, but after a few hours of play, you 
 will focus more on the obstacles to clear than the conscious effort to draw the lines that you 
 started the game with. 
  
  Most levels are exceedingly easy and can be quickly conquered with very little thought or difficulty. 
 Their are a few levels that are strikingly hard and seem uneven to the adjacent levels but overall 
 none of them are too frustrating. The final boss is appropriately the hardest thing to complete 
 in Canvas Curse. 
  
  An area that really shines in the game is the art direction. Many of the environments are lush 
 with color and can be distractingly beautiful. With a game that's theme is heavy on paint and artwork, 
 the stunning visuals are right at home. The sound matches the Kirby sounds you know and love but 
 isn't nearly as great as the look of the game. Canvas Curse also has a fair amount of unlockables 
 and each level has hidden coins. This coin hunt is similar to the coin hunt in New Super Mario 
 Bros. are is less forgiving at times. With the coins adding hours upon hours of gameplay, you will 
 stay glued to your DS for quite sometime trying to knock out all the bonus material. 
  
  Kirby games can be fun but very predictable, Canvas Curse breaks this mold and establishes the 
 DS's touch screen as a viable gaming tool that can be used for more than just a point and click 
 tool. Kirby fans may be initially turned off by the control scheme, but I promise if you actually 
 sit down and try it, you will love it. Anyone curious to see what their DS is truly capable of 
 can pick this up to see the future of portable gaming in action. It's not perfect, but for a relatively 
 new platform (at the time of the game release) Kirby Canvas Curse sets the bar high enough to get 
 your attention, unlike the god-awful Yoshi Touch and Go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Kirby's 1st DS outing took the series in a slightly new direction with the controls, the same basic 
 kirby ideas are still there but the new controls make it feel like a fresh experience.
  
  
  Story: 9/10: An evil witch named Drawcia has invaded kirbys world and has turned kirby into 
 a ball. Its up to kirby to stop her and return back to normal. Its not big, or serious, but its 
 still enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10: Kirby has a same basic style over and over again. You progress through a level, 
 inhale enimies to gain their abilities, and then fight a boss after a few levels. The difference 
 is now you use the stylus. Kirby is automatically rolling forward. You draw rainbow paths and ramps 
 to guide him, tap enimeis to stun them, and run over the stunned enemy to kill them. If the enemy 
 has an ability, you gain the ability once you run over them. Tap kirby to dash, or tap him to use 
 his ability. Its refreshingly fun and usually simple with unique puzzels like drawing a line to 
 block a lazor or tapping a switch to turn on the lights. The only problem is the water levels. 
 Kirby likes to float so you must keep drawing above him to get him down. Bosses now 3 different 
 minigames. You choose one of the games and they will start at level one, but when you come back 
 for a 2nd boss the previous game you played will be a level 2. It wouldve been better if they were 
 actual bosses but the minigames are really fun. 
  
  
  Graphics: 10/10: Bright, colorful, fit perfectly in the kirby universe.
  
  Extras 9.5/10: There 
 are 2 other modes. Time trail and line trail. These are unlocked after youve played a level and 
 either test your speed or give you a limited amount of ink. As you play through the game you can 
 obtian medals through the levels on all modes. Medal swap has loads of unlockables: Music, sound 
 affects, and even more characters like King Dedede and Meta Knight. Theres plenty to find and plenty 
 to purchase in this kirby game.
  
  
  Kirby Canvas Curse is one enjoyable game. Its his classic game which was fun to play but the new 
 style makes you come back to it once more.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse is not your typical Kirby game. In this, Kirby is a pink ball this time. He 
 can blame that on the witch who did this to him. You hold the Magical Paintbrush (stylus) which 
 allows you to control where Kirby goes in the game. If you poke Kirby, he'll do a dash, which can 
 be helpful in destroying your enemies. You poke enemies, you stun them, when you stun them, lead 
 Kirby to the enemy for him to copy the ability. You use ink to make lines that you want Kirby to 
 stop or go on to lead him through the level. It does run out, but it refills fairly quickly -- especially 
 on platforms.
  
  This game's storyline does not last long. Thankfully, there are a number of coins to collect in 
 the game which allows you to "purchase" or unlock music, characters, ink designs and color, etc. 
 That helps the game a lot in value. There also mini game boss battles, and Time Trials. 
  
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is recommended to everyone because it is just fun, and SLIGHTLY more challenging 
 than previous Kirby's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerisol
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  the only reason i started playing this game was because i was bored one day and after looking around 
 gamespot i found that it both used the DS's new features and didnt have a crappy score, infact 
 it had a reasonably good score. when i started playing i was suprised that drawing lines to make 
 a lil bink blob move was actually a pretty fun way of controling kirby, you could still do all 
 the things that made the previous games great except now kirby is just a ball and there are whole 
 new ways to fight bosses and move through levels using the stylus. the graphics are about the same 
 as the gba kirby games, maybe theres a little more color now. the sound is good and you can buy 
 tracks to listen to in the Sound Test mode. the gameplay is great, it is new and still has a similar 
 feel to the previous games. the only things i didnt like about this game was that the game was 
 a little bit too easy and the levels seemed short, but other than that this game is a great new 
 addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse was one of the first DS games to show the touch screen gimmick had potential. 
 And to this day it continues to be one of few games that truly uses the DSs capabilities that 
 cant be replicated on any other console.
  
  Canvas Curse beings with the witch Drawcia appearing out of now where and she literally turns the 
 world into a painting. Upon seeing this Kirby gives chase to the witch, but she disappears before 
 he has a chance to attack. But she left behind an important item: the magical paintbrush. With 
 the power of the magical paintbrush Kirby sets off to destroy the witch and restore peace to Dreamland.
 
  
  Kirby Canvas Curse is unlike any platformer or Kirby game to date mainly because of its unique 
 touch based control. In Canvas Curse you dont directly control Kirby. You see in Canvas Curse 
 Kirby is just a sphere; he doesnt walk instead youll draw paths anywhere on the touch screen 
 for him to follow. You can do all sorts of things with these paths. You can use them to move Kirby, 
 do loops (which increase your speed for a short time) , guard yourself from enemies and much more. 
 But the paintbrush does have some limits. Firstly your paths dont stay there forever; they disappear 
 after a few seconds. And you work with a limited supply of ink for your paths. If you make too 
 big of paths or do too many paths at one time youll run out of ink and must wait for it to regenerate.
 
  
  But of course you still have some control over Kirby. If you tap him while he doesnt have any 
 power ups hell dash forward. You can tap him to dash forward and hell destroy enemies if he hits 
 them. If the enemy has a power youll gain that power up and you can use the power by tapping Kirby. 
 Kirby can get a lot of different power up such as a fireball, a balloon, a rocket, a beam attack, 
 etc. You can also tap enemies to stun them. That way Kirby can roll right up to them and hell 
 destroy them without being in a dash. And thats really as far as direct control you have in the 
 game goes. The rest is all done my manipulating Kirby by drawing paths.
  
  Because of the unique controls of Canvas Curse there is a bit of a learning curve, but the game 
 realizes this so the first world is on the very easy side. There are seven worlds with three levels 
 in each world. At the end of the third level you have a boss stage. There are three different bosses 
 besides the final boss and you get to choose which you play. There is a cart racing one, a connect-the-dot 
 one, and a Brick like game. But there really isnt much to the levels though. There is a lot of 
 verity to the levels and they have nice designs, but most of the levels are easier then they should 
 be. Just simply beating the levels is a piece of cake, so it would have been nice if then increased 
 the difficulty a notch. And of course there arent that many levels to beat which many leave you 
 thinking there isnt much replay value to the game, but actually there is a bit if you want to 
 unlock everything. Each level has three tokens you can get to unlock extras such as music and levels 
 for Rainbow Run (see below) . Some of the tokens are fairly hard to figure out how to get them, 
 which is a welcome relief to this otherwise easy game.
  
  Canvas Curse also has some extras such as Rainbow Run. In this mode you go through each level and 
 try to do it as fast as possible or use the least amount of ink possible. If you do well enough 
 you can earn tokens to unlock more things in the game. You can also unlock other character to use 
 instead of Kirby which is a good incentive to replay the levels. Each character plays significantly 
 different then the rest so the levels fell semi-fresh. Besides supporting a unique control scheme 
 Canvas Curse also has a sty] ized look to it. It the same stuff youve seen in past Kirby games, 
 but it looks as good as ever. The game also has a map on the top screen along with other info. 
 But the map is a very basic blocky design to it; it would have been much more helpful if it had 
 some more detail to it. And of course the musical score is what youve come to expect from a Kirby 
 game. I dont think it is quite as catchy as classic Kirby tunes, but it has the same affect and 
 is nice. Overall Kirby Canvas Curse is a fun game with unique controls only available on the DS. 
 But it is a on the easy side and is a bit short. Its a fun game and is a good choice if you want 
 another platformer for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a fun game in which you move Kirby around with the DS pen. Kirby gets his 
 arms and legs ripped off by an evil witch. You bounce through a bunch of levels you the stylist 
 to move Kirby. You basically use the stylist for everything in this game. The game has a few worlds 
 which average about 5 levels. You basically go through the levels and then fight a boss that takes 
 advantage of the stylist. The game lasts a few hours and is a fun experience. It has a little bit 
 of replay value. There are a few mini games in this game like in all Kirby's but they are not really 
 that fun. If you are looking for a grand experience on the DS than play Kirby: Canvas Curse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PecansAreNuts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canva's Curse is a unique game to say the least. In this portable adventure, our cuddly 
 protagonist, Kirby of Dreamland is turned into a ball. Using Kirby's magic paint wand, you have 
 to slide and glide to the end in adventure that is not even the least of tedious on the DS. The 
 DS's touch-screen interface has a completely natural feel in Canva's Curse, and is the prime example 
 of Nintendo's somewhat forgotten slogan: TOUCHING IS GOOD!!!
  
  Canva's Curse is not only a good example of the DS's controls, but it retains the feel of the classic 
 Kirby formula, while bringing some new s*** to the table as well. I think we all can remember playing 
 Kirby's Adventure on the NES, and maybe spending a little time on the Nintendo 64 playing Crystal 
 Shards, eh? The DS now has a little bit of the Kirby spirit in it, and hopefully you'll play it.... 
 please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxkkoik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  THis is just about the sickest kirby game up to date. First of, instead of being a pink ball with 
 feet, your just a pink ball. Also, you move by making lines with your paintbrush or stylus. So 
 this starts out with a witch pouttin a curse on you. big whoop! soon enough (like 2 hours) your 
 back kicken her butt. but then you unlock a new character and feel the need to keep playong. I 
 beat this game 2 with every vcharacter and LOVED IT!
  THere are a total of four different characters, two who have abilities that differ from kirby's. 
 
  P. S. SEQUELL PLEAS!!!! I beg you reallyt i do i am on the ground typing this right now
  
 
  
  
  
  P. S. P. S. Sorry for the bad spelling.
  
  P. S. P. S. P. S. 100% accurate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koldewyse
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Kirby. Where to start? He has permeated many aspects of the gaming world, appearing in fighting 
 games, racing games, and a plethora of incredible platformers. With such a great reputation, how 
 does Kirby stack up in this game?
  
  Kirby platformers have always had a reputation for excellency. Kirby: Canvas Curse only exemplifies 
 the excellency standard Hal Laboratories has set for its games. Exploiting the touch screen to 
 its fullest extent, Kirby Canvas: Curse will allow the gamer never a moment without the stylus 
 in their hand. This aspect of the game works extremely well, as it offers a fresh take on a classic 
 genre. You use nothing but the stylus to guide Kirby throughout the colorful world of Dreamland.
 
  
  Kirby Canvas: Curse is the first platformer to take away boring traditional D-Pad gaming and replace 
 it with a vibrant style of stylus gaming. In this game, he's been turned into a ball by an evil 
 witch using the Canvas Curse (hence the name) . The controls work well, and are pretty realistic. 
 Tapping him speeds him up invincibly (almost) , while dragging the stylus along the screen draws 
 a rainbow. The rainbow function is a marvelous example of the work put in to making the game's 
 physics so much fun. Rainbows demonstrate an array of functionalities, including walls to protect 
 Kirby, escalators to elevate Kirby, and much more. Tapping obstacles will break them, and tapping 
 enemies will paralyze them.
  
  Some enemies hold onto specific powers that Kirby can acquire and utilize; a Spark ability for 
 example, will enable Kirby to send out a shower of electricity in 360 degrees. A Tire power-up 
 can turn the little guy into a speeding wheel to zip along paths and bash into destructible environments. 
 A Bubble pick-up will inflate Kirby and let him float and bounce around the levels. These power-ups 
 give Kirby (and players) the upper hand against enemies in a level, as well as give a lot of variety 
 in controlling the little guy. But, more importantly, they're also used to gain access to much 
 more hard-to-reach areas. What's the advantage of accessing those areas, you ask? Well, it's all 
 about collecting coins.
  
  Here's where the game branches off into numerous categories. Three bronze coins, called medals, 
 are strategically placed in every level. Finding them often requires you to play a level multiple 
 times, refer to the radar on the top screen, and use acquired powers. If you collect enough, you 
 can trade them in for unlockables in Medal Swap mode. These unlockables include everything from 
 extra songs to secret characters.
  
  As contrary to the regular gaming experience as the main game is, so are the extras. Boss battles 
 require you to race against the king of Dreamland, connect the dots, and play breakout, among a 
 variety of other things. And to increase the replay value even more, there's the Rainbow Run mode. 
 Time trials reward coins for speedily completing a level, while line trial rewards the player for 
 using the least amount of rainbow ink, used to draw rainbows.
  
  There is so much gameplay in Kirby Canvas: Curse that it's impossible to put down. Hal Labs seemed 
 to have exploited all of the DS's new functions except for one: wireless multiplayer. If some wireless 
 competition were put in this awesome game, it would have completed the package.
  
  Overall, this is a great game, especially for Kirby fans. Its only real weakness would be its lack 
 of multiplayer.
  
  Pros:
  + Good ol' Kirby platformer fun
  + Good replay value
  + Great 2D graphics
  
  Cons:
  - No multiplayer
  - Generic, reused Kirby soundtrack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  The game is controlled entirely with the stylus, which leaves you to be totally creative with how 
 you progress through the game. Kirby is a little ball who will flloat around and with your stylus 
 you draw rainbows (seriously) to guide him. As corny as that sounds it works very well. Kirby will 
 slide along your rainbow beam and go through the level, allowing you also to tap kirby to attack, 
 stun enemies so kirby can simply roll into them, or draw a circle around kirby and watch him shoot 
 through the loop with a powerful boost. All of the tapping of switches is handled with the stylus 
 and the control makes for some very inventive gameplay. But you won't be able to rainbow forever 
 because the meter needs to be used a bit sparingly, and will regenerate slowly but constantly. 
 As in other kirby classics, you can also kill certain enemies and gain there powers. Some examples 
 are ice kirby, flame kirby, thunder kirby, etc., although unfortunately they don't combine in this 
 game. The stages can become frustrating on occasion for lack of not being able to see some enemies 
 before they hurt you, but that gives the game a level of difficulty that most will find enjoyable.
 
  
  graphics: 8/10
  With the DS hardware, Kirby: CC pulls off some nice-looking environments that although aren't amazing 
 from a technical standpoint, look great from an artistic one. The various areas span from volcanoes, 
 to underwater, so frozen expanses, which all look sufficiently decent.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  The basic midi-tunes you'd expect from a handheld platformer. Some sound pretty good and others 
 are just meh. Most of them fit the area pretty well, however, and never become annoying.
  
  Value: 8/10 Kirby has 24 levels, put in clusters of 3 for convenience. The main game takes about 
 10-15 hours, but there are tons of unlcokables to get which could get a potential 30 hours of gaming, 
 not too bad. The side games are pretty lame, however, and aren't really worth mention. Reviewing 
 tilit: 8/10
  This game demonstrates why the DS is such a great handheld. This game is a refreshing experience 
 and is worth probably a rent for most and a purchase from kirby fans. / Seth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljio14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse is a showcase of not only innovation, but it sticks to its roots as well. The 
 main adventure feels, looks, and plays like a Kirby game. Even though you have indirect control 
 over Kirby by drawing paths for him like in Yoshi Touch &amp; Go, the action is fast paced and 
 frantic. Touching Kirby will make him dash, which can defeat enemies if you've haven't tapped them 
 to stun them already. Taping certain objects will perform different actions as well, such as breaking 
 rocks, or activating certain switches or buttons. And the map is very useful, actually, especially 
 when you're trying to get the medals which you can use to unlock items. The levels start off easy 
 and get increasingly difficult, especially in the last few levels. This is a great game for both 
 beginniers and masters of video games because of the easy learning curve, but only masters can 
 unlock the few unlockables, which include extra characters, new levels, extra life for Kirby, and 
 even ink colors. The sound is great on the DS. The background music buries its roots from the classic 
 Kirby games ranging from the Kirby's Dreamland series to Kirby's Avalanch, to Kirby 64: The Crystal 
 Shards. All of the classic music fits in their corresponding levels. The sound effects are classic 
 Kirby, except that I'm a bit disappointed that Kirby's little screams aren't in the game because 
 the GBA was able to pull it off. Yes the graphics are 2D, but that doesn't hinder the fun. Actually, 
 the concept art for the levels and painting-like backgrounds are very well done and beautiful. 
 A little 3D was welcome though, but the current 2D was just right for the game. The story isn't 
 so great, but who plays Kirby games because of it having a great story? The story kind of just 
 sets the stage for Kirby's adventure in the cursed canvas. There area few flaws in the gameplay. 
 Sometimes drawing a loop won't register as a loop and Kirby will do things you didn't want him 
 to do. Sometimes, Kirby will just bounce off the line you drew instead of following it, and most 
 of the time going the wrong direction. Lastly, sometimes, Kirby will just go through a line that 
 you draw if you drew it too late, or you drew the exact beginning of the line where he will exactly 
 be. Although they are minor flaws, the get annoying once you try to be quick in time trial, or 
 try to conserve ink in line trial. Conclusion Well, this game was a great success. It's fun, and 
 fast paced, and it's perfect for all types of gamers. The graphics are pretty well done, and the 
 music is great classic Kirby. The few flaws don't realy hinder the main game, but they stick out 
 in the time and line trial modes. Overall, I highly recommend this game to every Nintendo DS owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icettx
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas two years ago and started playing and the kirby fan i am i liked 
 it. the day after i complete the story line, 11 hours ^^ not such a record ive played easierbut 
 i thought the origanals were more impressing. one year later i play it if im bored i like it but 
 its not kirby as we know him, lets say to much of the reviews ive read have told me it was the 
 best kirby game ever, great change for kirby and better than the old games. i disagree. im a old 
 shool kirby fan since 1992 he was great its that one kirby game i seem to dispise. The best bit 
 to the game was the swell graphics, theve never stopped to amaze me (lets just say small thing 
 please small minds) most kirby games are simply 2D thats it, but but this one seemed to be 3D in 
 a way, the way the waddle dees (so cute when they run in fear MWA HA HA HA) threw there little 
 spears with the shading covering them getting darcker as it goes. Speaking about darcker the last 
 boss didnt seem so dark as most kirby games (maby the hippys didnt see the darkness like they used 
 to. The best bit was the music probably so damn catchy woo and modified king de de de tune. This 
 is so great i had the king de de de game tune in my head for ages *drools* AHH were was i ahha 
 i just loved that song even in nightmare in dreamland. The bosses now dont get me started the mini 
 bosses GONE T. T and the bosses were sucky mini games One... i mean one real boss in the whole game 
 i hated that grahhhhhhhhhh. anyway thats bout it in all i sum it up to be overrated. that was howdee 
 and now good boo from me icettx bye'z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the Kirby series. One of the Nintendo's flagship franchises that has been running strong since 
 the NES and original Gameboy. Kirby has definately had some solid entries in his series, but hasn't 
 been in a groundbreaking game that will put him up there with Nintendo's crowning acheivements 
 such as Mario, Zelda, &amp; Metroid. That all has changed with Canvas Curse however. Canvas Curse 
 takes full advantage of the DS's capabilities with phenominal results. In fact, I am willing to 
 say that this is the greatest game in a long running series that, for the most part, has been consistently 
 solid. In Canvas Curse Kirby is a helpless little pink ball of cuteness that needs your help to 
 draw him rainbows via the stylus so he can travel through Dreamland. If the game is sounding a 
 little too cute for your own good, I beg of you not to be shallow enough to allow the game's fantastic 
 artstyle and graphics scare you away. Kirby can still steal some of his enemies powers but he doesn't 
 suck them in and swallow them to do so in Canvas Curse. It's actually just as simple. By simply 
 tapping the enemies with your stylus you will stun them for a few seconds. Then you just simply 
 draw a rainbow for Kirby to ride into enemy and viola! You have their power. Tapping Kirby himself 
 makes him use his new stolen power. And when you're tired of that one you just simply tap the powerup 
 name in the bottom left corner of the touch screen to get rid of it. You use the touch screen to 
 do everything in Canvas Curse and it all works perfectly. The boss battles are a bit unusual but 
 pretty interesting. They play more like mini games than actual boss battles. There are eight worlds 
 in all if I am not mistaken. Each world has 3 levels. Some of the levels are pretty lengthy and 
 some are extremely short. As a whole the game is relatively short but has some nice replay value 
 to it. There are some nice unlockables that you can purchase with the medals that you collect throughout 
 all of the stages. The sad part is that you have no idea of what you're buying until you buy it. 
 All the unlockables show a price tag beside them and are labeled as Item 1, Item 2 .. etc. Some 
 of these unlockables are very cool and some of them are very disapointing. Anywho, Kirby is definately 
 worth your time if you own a DS and want a true DS game that takes full advantage of the handheld's 
 capabilities then Kirby is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a good game. It has many unique and fun ways to use your stylus and touch 
 screen.
  
  You have to use your stylus for the whole game witch is ncie because thats the point of the DS. 
 There are fun levels and bonuses. Not very long though. But it is very worth checking out. It's 
 one of those good quality kirby games so check it out.
  
  The graphics are pretty good even if it's 2d. The sound is good too. The value is worth it so borrow 
 it from a friend and see if u like it? Or just buy it because it's a good game.
  
  Kirby is back and this time he needs the help of your magical stylus and touch powers to save dream 
 land!
  
  Kirby: Canvas Curse deserves every bit of the rating I gave it and it's a game nintendo and DS 
 fans should seriously pick up.
  
  i very much enjoyed this game and it's intresting touch controls. though i sold it and quite regret 
 it. pick it up, give it a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Released: June 13, 2005
  Developer: Nintendo, HAL Labs
  Game Genre: 2D Platformer
  
  Story
  A truly lacking aspect of this game. At first glance, I see a huge contrast between Kirby 
 and Super Mario. Super Mario has no storyline but gets away with it. Kirby has no storyline and 
 has repetitive qualities because of it.
  
  In Canvas Curse, the evil witch Drawcia has taken over Kirbys land and turned everything into 
 a painting. When Kirby tries to go after her, Drawcia turns him into a ball. So now Kirby cannot 
 move on his own. It is up to you, with the Magical Rainbow Paintbrush, to help him defeat Drawcia.
 
  
  The reason the game gets repetitive is because the storyline is mentioned twice. Once at the beginning, 
 and once at the end when you finally beat Drawcias Soul. The rest of the game goes on, 8 levels 
 in all, with no other reminder of the storyline.
  
  Gameplay
  Different from all the other Kirby games, Canvas Curse is run extensively on the touch screen. 
 Kirby is just a ball in this one, so its up to you to tap enemies (shocks them) , and draw bridges 
 and paths for Kirby to follow. Its a great idea and its easy to get the hang of. There are 8 
 levels in all, with a boss at the end of each one. The bosses are a bit different in this game. 
 In the first 6 levels, you choose between three different subgames that act as bosses. In one, 
 you draw paddles to bounce Kirby into blocks and defeat enemies. At the end, you try to defeat 
 a boss (Kracko Jr. in level 1 and Kracko in level 2) . In the second subgame, you take control of 
 a generator carrying Kirby and race King Dedede. Collecting fruits speeds you up as you dodge enemies 
 and etc. The third minigames is the best, in my opinion. Facing off against the color painting 
 dude whose name slips my mind, you copy his paintings before the enemies catch up with you. You 
 speed up after each successful painting.
  
  Level 7 has no boss, and level 8 basically is one (the final battle with Drawcia, plus a couple 
 normal game screens before that) .
  
  Graphics
  Canvas Curse contains the best graphical qualities out of any Kirby game to date. It maintains 
 Kirbys cartoon style while giving an almost 3D feel to a 2D game.
  
  Durability
  Canvas Curse is a quick game with its 8 levels. Each level has 3 parts to it, aside from the 8th, 
 which just has one. There is no replayability factor and the only bonus it contains are the medals 
 found in the levels which can be swapped for added features, such as different colored brushes. 
 Thats ok with me, though. I hate games with hundreds of things to be unlocked. I just want to 
 beat the game once, you know what I meanwell, anyway
  
  Sound:
  No problems with the sound, it fades into the background because of how focused one must be to 
 draw the bridges and paths for Kirby.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Good to play, but not worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse was probably the first big original DS game. It was a big hit with most critics, 
 but were the review really accurate?
  
  Gameplay: Kirby Canvas Curse when it comes to gameplay isn't really quite the same game you've 
 played. It's rather unique actually. you see Kirby has been turned into a ball.... Well, more of 
 a ball than he was before, and it's your job to help Kirby move around. So the way uo do this is 
 you draw lines for kirby to travel on. with out them, Kirby just moves to the right without stopping. 
 Drawing the lines in special ways will do other things to. For instance, if you draw a straight 
 line going down right in front of Kirby's path, it'll stop him when he hits it. And the touch controls 
 don't just stop at lines. If you tap kirby with the stylus he'll do a speed boost. The lines not 
 only guide Kirby though, it also saves kirby from certain doom, suck as spikes on the ground or 
 bottomless pits. But use the lines sparingly, because you have a limited amount of ink, and if 
 you run out in the wrong place, it's light out for our pink marsh mellow friend. The ink will recharge 
 automatically, but only if Kirby is on the ground. The gameplay works incredibly well, and it's 
 all great fun.
  
  Graphics: It's colorful and all, pretty much what you expect from a kirby game. It's just a shame 
 that the graphics aren't really a step above what the GBA could do.
  
  Sound: The sound effects to are what you expect from Kirby. It's nothing a amazing. the music is 
 pretty catchy though.
  
  Value: this is where the game takes a major hit. While the game is alot of fun, it's really, really 
 short. You'll probably finish the main game in a day. Once you've finished, you get minor unlockables 
 such a new ink colors. And you do unlock other characters to play as, but none of the characters 
 are anymore fun to play as Kirby... Actualy less. The only reason they seem to be there is to force 
 you to play the same darn levels over and over in the hopes that you might actually unlock somthing 
 worth while. But I assure you, once you beat the game as Kirby, you've goten' finished with the 
 fun part. Other than playing the game over and over again, there are is a sort of challenge mode 
 you can do, or a few minigames, but they get old fast. And there are no multiplayer modes unfortunatly. 
 So, this is a fun game, but once the main attraction is out of the way, there is no reason left 
 to keep playing. If that sounds good to you, go ahead and buy it, but you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iused2bahippie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  (PRO)
  This is downright an addicting game, I will tell anyone to get this game if eaither you're a huge 
 kirby fan, or you just got a DS. You will enjoy this game so much, that the replay value is so 
 tremendously great that you will play it all day before you get a slight bit bored. the gameplay 
 is awesome, it allows you to draw paths that kirby can ride on, and has minigames and unlockables 
 that you will strive to get making it a great game.
  (CON) the graphics and sound aren't perfect but they are ok, and there is no real multiplayer value 
 in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Its kinda weird how the different Kirby games are usually the best kirby games. When kirby goes 
 out of his platforming ways and does something different you have a great outcome this game is 
 no short of that as well this time he is a lifeless ball whom you control
  
  Well Kirby is now a ball no arms and legs and you are given a paintbrush to help Kirby in his new 
 adventure. This game can't be done any other system and it sacrifices a little bit. this game still 
 has Kirby taking powers and using them in the game. However once you get hit you lose it all together 
 instead of able to regain it like normal kirby games. It also has some new ones like Balloon and 
 Rocket. This game uses the stylist very well and you must have a stylist to play this or its going 
 to be very frustrating. The game is broken down into i believe 8 worlds and 3 in each and then 
 a boss at the end. The boss battles are a lot different you pick either and very fun drawing game, 
 and mine racing game, and a kinda paddle game its hard to describe. overall they are are fun and 
 you can play them for fun after you play them.
  
  The game is totally on your skills with the stylist. sometimes it gets annoying playing the game 
 and get frustrating because the lines wear-out so quick you have to be very fast and you may get 
 hit by spikes without you knowing it. This game is fairly simple and easy with the exception of 
 a few levels most in water. Because kirby floats to the top like a normal ball (great physics by 
 the way in water levels) it gets challenging to get him moving.
  
  This game has a lot of great things innovative design, large levels multiple characters, and fun 
 mini games i could list more but you get the point. But the one big flaw about this game it the 
 lives. If you play the first few levels and start racking up easy lives so you need them later 
 in case. Once you turn off the game and play it later the lives do not save. I think this really 
 annoying because at certain points you wish you had them back. other then that there is not many 
 BIG flaws with the game. Yeah it would be nice to have multiplayer but the story is kinda Long 
 with multiple characters to play as with there own strengths and weaknesses. Overall its a great 
 DS game pick this one up you guys!
  
  Break down
  
  Gameplay: Very fun and new kinda game you have never played before. Graphics: very nice 2-d graphics 
 with some sorta 3-d twist in there. very colorful and nice
  Sound: its kirby music you know what your going to get
  Value: if without multiplayer it still 
 will keep you busy for a while
  Overall: even though it has some noticeable flaws in the game it still is very fun and great to 
 play. the best DS kirby game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Really nice, clean graphics; excellent touch screen controls; the game is actually challenging; 
 a nice bit of extra features and unlockables.
  
  The Bad: There's no real reason to play through again; some of the challenges are masochistically 
 hard; extra characters are kind of dumb; no multiplayer.
  
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is the best Kirby game ever made. Period. Its difficulty level isn't extremely 
 low, its gameplay is innovative and interesting, and it's just plain fun.
  
  Kirby has been turned into a ball, and it's your job to guide him through the levels with your 
 magic paintbrush! You must tap enemies to stun them, break blocks, get powerups, and defeat the 
 evil Drawcia to turn back to normal. It's a great gameplay mechanic that couldn't be done on any 
 other system, and it really shows off what the DS can do.
  
  A similar game, Yoshi Touch & Go, was released a little while before this. Unfortunately, it had 
 no structure or substance to it, so it was a rather boring and pointless game. Kirby: CC proves 
 that YT&G had the right idea, but could have applied it better.
  
  This kind of sketch-platforming gameplay is really addictive and innovative. Hopefully, more games 
 will be made like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  My 11th birthday...
  
  I open up my gift, knowing exactly what it was. I shreiked. I opened my Nintendo DS and started 
 it up. I was amazed by this!!!
  
  Later on, I began playing Kirby Canvas Curse. If I could only go back in time and tell myself about 
 the game. The graohics I was about to see using great shadowing, awesome special efffects, and 
 ultimate backgrounds.
  
  The gameplay would have me, although only 21 of them, playing each and every level, not caring 
 what. I was about to enter a world where I'd help Kirby, drawing bridges, walls, loops, and stunning 
 enemies. Charging, rolling, snatching, rolling, hunting, rolling, boss fighting, rolling, bouncing, 
 rolling, and much much more. Rolling! And bouncing!
  
  I'd tell my younger self how good the music was, almost never being used twice, great, unannoying 
 sound effects, and catching a great feel.
  
  The replay value will keep me going for 2 years!
  
  I'd also need to make sure I tell my younger 
 self all about the multiple characters by inserting old Kirby games into the DS, the three files, 
 the minigames, the levels, the paint, and it's just too hard to describe! I wish I could go back 
 to the times when I'd be playing it all day; all night; all day; all night -- That ever-rolling 
 Pink Blob never out me down!
  Thank you for letting me share my past moments *bows*. But then my puppy ate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: web966
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse is the game that convinced me that the DS is not a gimmick. When I first saw 
 the DS I was not interested at all, and thought the touch screen would add nothing to the games. 
 Still, I decided to get a DS anyway (I will buy pretty much anything Nintendo makes) . I got my 
 DS in November 2005 with Mario Kart DS, which is awesome but doesnt really take advantage of the 
 unique DS features. I thought the DS would just be a Game Boy with a weird bottom screen that was 
 never used. That all changed when I played this game.
  
  In canvas curse you dont actually control Kirby, you draw lines and these lines guide Kirby through 
 the level. You can also poke enemies to stun them, and poke Kirby to make him boost or use the 
 special skill that he possesses. You acquire these special skills by killing enemies. The skill 
 you get depends on the type of energy you defeat. If you kill a fire enemy, Kirby attacks by turning 
 into a fire ball. The game gets very challenging in the later levels and is quite long. The game 
 works very well and is very fun to play once you get used to it. Each level also has secret coins 
 to find, which unlock extras, such as different colors for your line and bonus levels. Canvas Curse 
 has a great style and every level looks great. The music is also very well done. Canvas curse is 
 a great game that makes great use of the DS. It is my favorite Kirby game, and one of the best 
 games on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse is one of the first games to be released for the Nintendo DS, and appropriately, 
 it was one of the first games I bought for the system. Although it isn't the traditional Kirby 
 experience, it's still a great buy and a fantastic game. In Kirby: Canvas Curse you star as Kirby 
 obviously, and an evil witch has turned your beautiful homeland into a cursed paint world with 
 dangerous creatures and traps slowly taking over. It's up to you to put an end to this nefarious 
 witch's plots and save your home. The story is generic, but it's very cute and told in a wholesome 
 entertaining way. Kirby is played entirely via the stylus, and it's a smooth and entertaining experience. 
 Your alter ego Kirby is essentially just a round ball that you have to manipulate by drawing lines 
 that act as tracks for his movement, you can tap Kirby to make him dash which also allows him to 
 defeat enemies and destroy certain obstacles. The tracks that you draw are limited by how much 
 ink you have, which refills when you're not using it. As you draw more and more tracks, your ink 
 is used up and you'll run out. Fortunately, ink regenerates quickly and it's more or less just 
 a system of conserving enough of it in for short periods where you might be in a situation where 
 you'll have to draw complex tracks that might fling Kirby this way and that way into the air, even 
 leaping onto other tracks hanging in air. Your tracks will slowly vanish, adding a need for speed 
 to the gameplay. You can also pull off need little tricks such as loops that will speed Kirby up 
 for a moment of time.
  
  Traditional Kirby elements still enters the gameplay, such as the ability to harness the powers 
 of defeated enemies. Destroying certain special enemies will allow Kirby to make use of their powers. 
 These vary wildly, from a speed-demon tire type element, or others that allow you to shoot flames 
 or electricity. These all factor into puzzles, and they add tactics to an otherwise simple game.
 
  
  Graphically the game is impressive. For a DS game, the surroundings are very crisp and clear, the 
 various creatures are all extremely well animated, and there's a definite sense of movement and 
 speed as you traverse Kirby through dangers. The different lands that you visit are all beautifully 
 designed, and there's always a nice atmosphere as there's plenty of different things happening 
 on screen at once that enhance the setting itself, such as moving lava, birds flying in the air, 
 and etc. The sound, while not as good as the crisp graphics, is still a nice achievement. There's 
 a ton of it, nearly everything has a very bouncy and cute effect as you defeat an enemy or just 
 make your way through the world. The music itself is very catchy, with some cool remixes of classic 
 Kirby music. While Kirby is quite enjoyable and addictive by itself, the unlockables featured in 
 the game are numerous and interesting. Everything from being able to play as different characters, 
 different colors or patterns for the tracks that you draw, new practice stages, music, or extra 
 health for Kirby, there's just a ton of cool stuff you can uncover. It definitely extends the amount 
 of time you will play Canvas Curse.
  
  While the game is great, there are a few things that could bother you. First of all, it's a bit 
 easy. With some good timing and quick fingers, you can beat most of the levels with ease. Some 
 are quite challenging, but most are a breeze, and the end boss is rather disappointing (although 
 the several mini bosses that you fight in between levels are incredibly enjoyable) and the game 
 can get pretty tiresome after elongated periods of play. Otherwise, there's not much to complain 
 about.
  
  Kirby isn't an essential part of a DS owner's collection, but it's certainly a welcome one, and 
 can be enjoyed by anyone of any age. If you're willing to switch onto a harder difficulty to ramp 
 up the challenge a bit, Kirby can also be a release for the more hardcore gamer. Whatever the case 
 is, you can't go wrong with Canvas Curse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shuoka
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  this kirby game is very different from the other kirby games because kirby is turned into a ball 
 and you have to use your stylest to guide him through the levels and push him under water, does 
 not get hats when you get a power, does not suck up enemies, you can change your characters to 
 waddle dee, waddle doo, king dedede, and meta knight, and you never use the buttons while most 
 other kirby games you only use buttons, kirby sinks under water, sucks up enemies, you can't change 
 your character, and has hats. I say its one of the best kirby games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby456
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Now, I wasn't quite expecting this. Sure you use the stylus to control Kirby, but it's actually 
 pretty easy... once you get the hang of it that is. Kirby Canvas Curse is the little puffball's 
 first game on DS. The story, A witch come out of nowhere and transforms our hero into a ball! (dun-dun-duuuuuunnnnn!) 
 Anywhom, you've got to use your stylus to get Kirby in the right direction or out of trouble. Let's 
 take a good look at the game shall we?
  
  Gameplay: Perfect Score
  
  Quite an inventive control scheme. You use your wand and draw a path for Kirby to follow. Tap enemies 
 to stun them long enough for Kirby to get rid of them, or take their abilities. You tap Kirby to 
 use those abilities or the basic dash attack. It may take a while to get used to, but once you 
 get the hang of it, it's really easy. Graphics: 9/10
  
  It had a slight 3-D vibe to it, with a bit of the same ol' 2D graphics we know and love. The backgrounds 
 are colorful, excellent even, and the character models are superb!
  
  Sound: Perfect Score
  
  I simply enjoyed the music. They were remixed versions of songs from 
 previous titles. I think you'll enjoy the music, and the sound effects aren't bad either.
  
  Value: 7/10
  
  It's pretty good. You'll be tempted to try out the cool time attack and 
 Ink attack modes. Ink attack ( 'cause I forgot the name of that mode.) You must use as little ink 
 as possible, so use some of Kirby's many other moves to help him out! You also earn medals to earn 
 songs and sound effects for your music player and new characters to play as in Story mode: Metaknight, 
 Triple D (King Dedede) and Metaknight.
  
  Reviewers' Tilt: 8/10
  
  I don't see why some people can't except a change to the Kirby series like this! I mean, it's actually 
 good and it's not overrated. Also, it's about time there a different change to the series. Don't 
 some of you remember Kirby Tilt 'n Tumble? You had to use your Gamboy Color and tilt it to move 
 Kirby around.
  
  Overall: Get it right now!
  
  Kirby Canvas Curse is a step forward for the series, as well as a unique way of playing. All i 
 have to say is not bad, not bad at all!
  
  Kirby Canvas Curse: 8.8/10
  
  Good: Unique way of playing, lots of fun, tons of stuff to unlock...
  
  Bad: A bit too easy... once 
 again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amxbox
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  this was a really fun game but it wasnt really that hard so that kind of made me dissapointed.... 
 the gameplay is unique and the first kind for the ds and the kirby series. it dosent take you that 
 long to figure out how to work the game and its pretty simple to play. but the game has a load 
 of stuff for you to work on and takes awhile to get you bored.
  
  although the special powers in this one are really plain and boring and could of been improved 
 alot but it was still very great. so pretty much i would recomend this game and you should at least 
 give it a try youll probley like it =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermezo
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Nintendo made this the firs kirby game on ds which i think is a really dumb idea because this game 
 sucked like crazy. It is way too overrated. This game is really frustrating espicially in the last 
 worlds and if your ds is kind of messed up. THIS GAME IS HORRIBLE! No one should buy this game. 
 It starts off like this a random whitch comes out of no where and turns you into a ball and guess 
 what you have to help kirby with your stylus. It is really boring too. I highly do not reccomend 
 this game to buy or rent because either you are throwing money in the garbage because this game 
 sucks!!!!!!!!! There are many boring and stubid extras. You will never in your life come back to 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse for the DS is one of the most interesting and innovative uses of the DS touch 
 screen that I've seen so far. Kirby, for the uninitiated, is a little pink ball-thing that normally 
 walks around eating enemies, absorbing their powers, and fighting evil. The typical Kirby game 
 is controlled like the typical Mario game, walking, jumping, and using other simple abilities. 
 Canvas Curse is similar, but also totally different.
  
  Kirby in this game is a ball and that's it, no feet. He rolls along and your only input is via 
 the touch screen, drawing lines to guide his way. Kirby about to fall in a gap? Draw a bridge. 
 Kirby has to scale a wall? Draw a ramp. You can also touch enemies to stun them and allow Kirby 
 to roll over them, or touch Kirby to make him dash, but that's about all. It sounds like it would 
 never work, or at least it wouldn't be fun enough to go through an entire game that way. But it 
 does, and it is.
  
  The levels are as complex as any great platformer, and finding a way through for Kirby can get 
 very difficult. Plus, plenty of replay value as you look for hidden coins to buy bonus items like 
 extra levels or different colors for the magic brush strokes. There are also really fun minigames, 
 like a game where you have to play connect the dots on the touch screen as quickly and accurately 
 as you can.
  
  I've always been a Kirby fan, from its debut on Game Boy through the versions for NES and SNES. 
 This is an awesome addition to the Kirby franchise, and as a long-time gamer, having a genuinely 
 new way to interact with an otherwise simple platform game blew me away. Super duper awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marrium1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Kirby Canvas Curse is a very easy game. The learning takes maybe 5 minutes 10 minutes tops. I this 
 game there is a very fun and simple concept. All you do is make little path for Kirby and touch 
 the enemies with your stilus. Some enemies have copy abilities some don't just like most Kirby 
 games. There are 11 copy abilities in all Beam, Wheel, Balloon, Stone, Burning, Needle, Spark, 
 Tornado, Crash, Missile and Freeze. The whole point is to like most games beat the boss. Like all 
 Kirby games the gameplay is fast and easy. Luckily, like all Kirby games there are many levels 
 and options to keep you busy like earning medals to get new characters and trail colors. Rainbow 
 run is a game where you go through your levels to earn medal by using little trail or getting through 
 it fast. There is also a small boss battle after ever world. The bosses you can fight are King 
 DeDeDe, Paint Roller, and Kracko. In DeDeDe you are racing on carts and collecting food, in paint 
 roller you are copying drawings with the stylus, and in Kraco you are pinball through the level 
 and Kracko. The game has eight worlds each with 3 levels. The final boss Drawcia is a lot tougher 
 than you would think then after you defeat him you get to fight his soul which is a much harder 
 concept. I give it a 10
  
  Graphic
  The graphics are great as far a DS goes everything is in fine detail and easy to see. I give it 
 a 10
  
  Sound
  The sound is okay as far as DS goes. Like all Kirbys the game come with a sound check that plays 
 songs from the game. I give it a 9 it would be a 7 without the sound check though.
  
  Value
  Great value. Definitely worth the buy. You can find it fairly cheap around $25-$40 depending 
 on what store, quality, and if it is used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Inferno_Man
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse is a great game. The game appeales to a wide variety of people that will enjoy 
 the game. The game is so much more fun with the new features of the touch screens that the DS has 
 to offer. The game has a wonderful view and amazing colorful screen. The soundtrack to the game 
 is awsome that many Kirby fans will know from the very first Kirby game. The only bad part to this 
 game is that it is short but there is no learing curve.
  The game has not much of the Kirby abilaty fo taking your oppenenst abilatys. (I stink at spelling (Sorry) ) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Kirby has always been a lovable pink circle with arms and legs that could steal the powers from 
 other enemies and use them for his own uses. Kirby comes to the DS, except this time he is nothing 
 more than a ball. Using the magical rainbow paintbrush, you must guide kirby through a fun adventure 
 to restore him to his original shape. At the time this game was released, it seemed like almost 
 every game game had touch screen. It was really quite annoying. But among all of the touch screen 
 games, from back then and today, Kirby Canvas Curse stands out as one of the best touch controlled 
 games. Alright, lets get on with the review.
  
  Kirby Canvas Curse is completly touch screen controled. No buttons at all. It works quite well. 
 If you have played Yoshi Touch and Go, Kirby will seem like a much better controlled version. In 
 Kirby Canvas Curse, Kirby is a ball, and you must use your stylus to guide him through the levels. 
 You can draw a rainbow path for kirby to move on or bounce off of. Once kirby is on these paths 
 he will be propelled on the path, or in other words, the path moves kirby. You can also tap kirby 
 to make him execute his current ability. Unlike most kirby games though, you may be disapointed 
 at the lack of power ups, there are only about 5 or so. Anyways, taping kirby also propels him 
 forward, how far he goes depends on the ability he has. If he has no abilitys, instead of his classic 
 sucking move, he dashes forward. Dashing and the Rainbow paths you make are Kirbys way to manuver. 
 Now, you can also tap certain enemies to stun them for a brief period of time. When enemies are 
 stunned, you can just roll over them to kill em, rather than having to tap kirby to execute and 
 ability. Now this can make things easier, sometimes too easy, at times u can just stun enemies 
 and just move on with the game, rather than having to kill them. But at times when there are a 
 lot of things going on at one time, such as many enemies and traps, it can help you out a lot. 
 There are 7 worlds in the game, each with three levels in them, so you do the math, 3x7=21 levels 
 of fun, most levels take you around 5-10 minutes (minimum) to complete, so 5minutesx21 levels= 105minutes 
 of gameplay minimum, meaning that the game isnt that long. Each world does not have a specific 
 theme which can be disapointing, you will find yourself in a grassey plain in one point and in 
 a volcanoe in the next point. However, one thing that could have been a lot better is the Underwater 
 levels. Kirby cannot swim in his ball form, and he now floats, so you will find yourself constantly 
 tapping Kirby while making time to make paths and destroy enemies. Its quite annoying and could 
 have been executed in a more sutible matter. Another disapointment is the facts that there are 
 no Bosses except for the last one (which is quite easy) . Instead, at the end of each world, you 
 must choose one of three minigames to play. One makes u bounce kirby through a level, the other 
 has you connect the dots and the other has you race King Dee Dee Dee. As fun as these minigames 
 are, they are only minigames and cannot substitue bosses.
  
  Kirby CC does not take advantage of the DS's ability to create 3D games. Instead, it sticks with 
 sprites. But that is not a problem. Infact it looks quite nice. The environments are very colorful 
 (most of the time) and look great. The Backrounds as well look great but at times they look like 
 paintings, which are nice but just don't look right. Aside from these backrounds, everything looks 
 great, from the enemies, to the envioronments to the portals that lead you to and from levels. 
 It also looks like Kirby is 3D, but he's not, he is a sprite but it fooled me (not really but when 
 you look at him you will get what i mean) .
  
  The Music in Kirby Canvas Curse is great, but rehashed. Very catchy and suiting music for what 
 is happening. But like i said before, some the music is from the previous Kirby games, and the 
 ones that arent dont go as well with the levels. Sound Effects sound nice but at times u may want 
 to chuck your DS at the ground from hearing Kirby's Dash move for the Millionth time.
  
  I have said the game is fun, but is it worth owning? For 30$, up to you, but for the used price 
 of like 20$ or somin it is. It is a great and fun single player game. But it lacks multiplayer. 
 The minigames i mentioned could have had multiplayer, but they dont. There are many unlockables 
 such as new characters and Rainbow run (kind of like time challenges) courses but after the single 
 player is done, chances are you will want to move onto another great DS game.
  
  Kirby May stand out as one of the best touch screen games but it does have some flaws and it is 
 quite short. But if you are looking for a great new game, possibly one that you can touch (hehe) 
 then pick up Kirby Canvas Curse, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jts9
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  kirby canvas curse makes great use of the touch screen which is a great thing. In kirby canvas 
 curse, kirby is put under a spell from a witch and is turned inot an actual ball, lol. you must 
 travel thourgh at least 8 worlds with 3 levels in each. the copy- ability is still here, except 
 with a new twist. touch kirby once and he will attack an enemie. if the enemie has an ability, 
 kirby will get the ability. tap kirby with the stylus and he will use the special ability. this 
 game gives a new perspective on the franchise. the old-school kirby was a sidescroller, while this 
 is a mix of the sidescroller, action, and rpg-ish. the only 2 minor flaws are that there is no 
 mulitplayer and not a lot of replay value. but otherwise, this is a great game. if you aren't sure, 
 rent it first. ~jts9 ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  this game was toooo easy.... after about a week i got bored.... it was tooo easy!!!!
  the game in my opinion could have have been more challenging.... at first i was quite happy to have 
 a kirby game on my ds since i loveeee kirby but after finishing the game within a week i wasn't 
 satisfied !!!
  the graphics were cute but they could have done a bit more with the music !!!
  unlocking characters, 
 mini games there were a lot of features but they got old fast...
  to sum it up, this game is good but could have definitely been a lot better !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Kirby Cavas Curse is a 2D game that gives you control over Kirby.... as a ball. That's new, huh? 
 You must draw lines to help him get through the levels, and either tap the enemies in the game 
 to stun them and then roll over them, or just speed up and Kirby will take them out without having 
 to stun them.
  
  You can also draw lines to block obsticles coming at Kirby, like icicles and bombs. The game has 
 nice, colorful graphics and plenty of gameplay that makes you feel that you aren't just doing the 
 same thing over again. You can also unlock extras by collecting medals that you find in the game 
 and trading them for extra content, which will probably keep you busy as there are 250 medals to 
 collect in all. On top of that, you can unlock 3 different subgames to play which are quite fun 
 to come back to and try to beat your old high score.
  
  The music is very nice, it matches the game perfectly and isn't repetitive. In all, Kirby Cavas 
 Curse has plenty of content to keep you busy and having fun for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisisMurderous
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This in not your usual Kirby game and that is not a bad thing. The whole game is played using the 
 stylus and it's one of the most original games on the DS I've played. The presentation is usual 
 fair for Kirby games, nice color 2d graphics and the usual music we've all heard. Even though it's 
 different Kirby fans will probably like this game. It still feels like a Kirby game, with the copy 
 abilities and all. Guiding Kirby through the varied stages with the stylus is much more fun then 
 it sounds. Even after beating the game, I still wanted to play again and get all the unlockables 
 This is a game you should have in your DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetraGold2006
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  This game may be simple when first playing, but this game does get challenging, especially when 
 beating it with five different characters.
  
  The game is basic with 8 levels, 3 mini levels for each and a couple of mini game bosses on the 
 way with one hard boss. Beating the levels are fun and can be challenging especially when trying 
 to get all the coins. The gameplay is smooth and fun for any player who like different types of 
 gameplay.
  
  Basically on the game, your a ball version of the normal characters and bosses on the old Kirby 
 games, some balls such as Metaknight which can go really fast, to King Dedede being a complex ball, 
 Kirby being able to change into his opponents doing his opponents attacks and having very basic 
 characters that just roll. You draw lines to help them on their journey.
  
  Collecting secret coins which are either hidden or can be won on the bonus games let you unlock 
 such things as more life for Kirby and other characters to different lines to give the background 
 a different look.
  
  Even though graphics are not at best, it's suppose to have more of a paint and 2d look which they 
 accomplished.
  
  Since this game can be beaten by five different characters to get a higher percent on your profile, 
 it does have great replay value, even after that, you can look for the leftover secret coins that 
 you haven't found or obtained yet.
  
  If wanting to unlock everything and beat the game with every character, it takes a good 20 hours 
 at least.
  
  This game is suitable and fun for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushgoil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Generally I am not the biggest fan of Kirby games.. sorry to say.. but I do love this one! If a 
 game is going to be on the DS it might as well use the stylus effectively, which this game does. 
 Kirby is easy to control, although there are times when you might find yourself saying: hey! that's 
 not what I had planned!
  The levels are resonably easy, but the water levels pose more of a challenge (as is common in most 
 games) . This game is fun for platform lovers and beginners alike. The graphics are cheery and clear, 
 like Yoshi's Island, Princess Peach or Mario Vs. Donkey Kong 2, which are games I would reccommend 
 if you end up liking this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopfacejonson
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Besides being one of the best games out there for the Nintendo DS, Kirby: Canvas Curse is, without 
 a doubt, the best Kirby game ever made. Though not a platformer in the sense of traditional Kirby 
 games, Canvas Curse creates a whole new, and much more engaging direction for the classic franchise. 
 It also serves to elevate the series from harmless kid-fodder to a challenging romp for even the 
 most experienced stylus user. Some of the tasks in the challenge mode are nearly impossible and 
 will take an extreme amount of precision to complete, thus providing a hardcore completist plenty 
 of long nights worth of gaming. The only drawbacks to the game are the repetition of objectives, 
 the dearth of boss fights, and the overall short length of the story mode. But this game is more 
 an experiment with a newly emerging genre than anything else, so such issues will undoubtedly improve 
 as the format is fine-tuned in the next eventual installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philchill
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I must say that this game really impressed me when I first tried it. Surely one of the best Kirby 
 games.
  
  The graphics are nice and sweet. The colors are vibrant and the game is artistic like. The background 
 is only a picture and it is pre-rendered, though. The rainbows you draw are great.
  
  Here's the game strength : the gameplay. Really simple, but damn great ! You, must push Kirby through 
 various levels with your rainbows. As we know, Kirby can take the special ability of his enemies 
 when he hits them. They are also a lot of things to unlock with coins you find in levels, and in 
 time attack and line attack (Using less rainbows possible) . You can do these mini-games when you 
 complete a level...
  
  They are all the kirby' songs remixed for your pleasure. You can also unlock the old-school theme 
 of them with coins.
  
  With many things to unlock, it's long enough before finishing the game at 100 %. I played for a 
 lot of time now and it still misses me some things... And you will want to replay these levels 
 when you get new characters (Waddle Bee, Metaknight, King Dedede and Waddle Doo are playable, later 
 in the game)
  
  I'm not a kirby fan but I must admit : This game ROCKS. You seriously must to try it out if you 
 have a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBooom
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Use the stylus to paint where you want Kirby to roll. Solve puzzles and defeat the bosses. Each 
 time you complete the games levels you can start again with a different 'Kirby', and the game is 
 a bit more difficult.
  
  Challenging puzzles make the game hard, and sometimes frustrating, but the gameplay shines through. 
 The touch screen control to make Kirby move about is innovative.
  
  Although it is always fun, the gameplay is mostly always the same. The sound and graphics are fairly 
 good, though nothing amazing. The lack of multi-player is disappointing, but there is lots of different 
 styled levels to work through by yourself, which adds life to the game.
  
  A fun, innovative puzzle platform game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Canvas Curse, is one of the first kirby games I've played in a long time, and I have to say I liked 
 Kirby 64 much better, but as with touch controlled games, they are much different. You have to 
 admire what Nintendo did to make this game, but in the end I feel that the game is focusing on 
 a one trick pony.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  You draw lines, loops to control the ball kirby. Thats it. Oh, and you can tap enemies to stun 
 them for a free kill. There are also puzzle elements and addictive mini games. The mini games have 
 a ranking system that push you to get a higher rank. Its sad though, because I found the mini games 
 have more longevity than the game itself. I had lots of fun on 2 of the 3. The third being boring 
 in every possible way. I'd rather not give away the interesting mini games too much. BTW, the game 
 has multiple difficulties by making you play different characters, but that doesn't make the game 
 any more fun, or worth getting 100%.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Typical sprites. Aside from nice backdrops and paint effects, I found nothing special. I did specifically 
 like everything about the final boss area though. I don't know why, that level looked good, the 
 boss was psycho, and it was just awesome and fit the graphics style.
  
  SOUND
  
  I really can't say the sound in this game was bad. The music was catchy, sound effects average. 
 I can't find anything interesting to say about the music though, except I absolutely love the final 
 boss music for some insane reason that I have yet to grasp.
  
  VALUE
  
  Short game, four characters, addictive mini games. I beat the entire game in the first day one 
 time through. Beat it with two more characters the second day. Got all the coins in the regular 
 mode and one of the special modes on the third day. I play games for several hours a day, so I 
 may have gotten 15 hours out of the game in a week.
  
  TILT
  
  I usually score tilt on the grab of the game, which is usually the story of most games. Well, the 
 story sucked in this game. Even on a childish standard. Its not meant to do much, and a story for 
 this kind of game is absurd to even have. They get points for adding it at all. The game also has 
 an inate quality of making me go back and play it. Well, it used to. Story or no story the game 
 has grab and that gives it a good tilt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Bright and colorful visuals. Unique use of touch screen. Easy to jump into.
  
  THE BAD: Fairly short adventure. Repetitive. Sometimes frustrating.
  
  The lovable, pink hero 
 of Dream Land returns in Kirby: Canvas Curse.
  
  GAMEPLAY is good. The premise behind Canvas Curse is an evil witch has turned the peaceful Dream 
 Land into a painting. Kirby tries to stop the witch but is transformed into a defenseless ball. 
 However, with the stylus you can help Kirby defeat the evil witch and save the day. The mechanics 
 in Canvas Curse are quite simple. You use magical ink to draw lines to guide Kirby through the 
 7 worlds. Each world has 3 stages followed by a boss battle. Unfortunately, the 3 different bosses 
 don't put much up of a challenge and are recycled just like everything else. Although the worlds 
 are completely different from one another and become more difficult as you progress, you can't 
 help but feel the game is repetitive.
  
  What's more, Kirby doesn't get any stronger throughout the adventure. This is definitely one of 
 the big draw backs found in Canvas Curse. Kirby will be stuck at only 4 HP the entire time and 
 although he can use powers from defeated enemies, he will lose the power if damaged. Sadly, this 
 occurs frequently so for the most part you will be drawing paths to get Kirby to the finish line 
 as fast as possible.
  
  GRAPHICS are great. Canvas Curse has a lot of attention to detail. Every world is so unique. The 
 level designs range from beautiful hillsides and snowy mountains to dark mysterious mansions and 
 industrial factories. Fans of the series will also recognize many returning Kirby enemies which 
 all look distinct and colorful.
  
  SOUND is enjoyable. The music for each world fit very well and heighten the whole experience. There 
 isn't any voice dialogue, but the classic Kirby noises and sound effects are all intact.
  
  VALUE is decent. The adventure is about 6-10 hours long. Canvas Curse is great for playing in short 
 bursts and is actually really easy to pick up and play. However, there isn't any multiplayer to 
 speak of and the only worthwhile extras are time trials if you like that sort of thing.
  
  OVERALL Kirby: Canvas Curse is a one of a kind adventure. The concept of using only the touch screen 
 and stylus is very interesting; however, die-hard fans of Kirby will probably be disappointed. 
 Even though Canvas Curse isn't the traditional 2D side-scroller, it is still worth giving a shot 
 as a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game pre-owned on an eb games employee recommendation, he told me i would be surprised 
 at how good the gameplay was. I was, this game is one of the few for the ds the only uses the ds 
 touch screen. The game can become quit challenging at some times though, it can become easily frustrating 
 also. The bosses in this game ar elike nothing ive seen, u actually get to pick the bosses you 
 play, three different ones and u can play them each two times only as the second is more difficult 
 then the first. The final boss, takin some time to beat for me will also become frustrating unless 
 you develop a strategy based on the patterns of her moves. Canvas Curse also puts the coin collecting 
 element in a more fun replay value way. Each map has 3 red coins to collect for which u can use 
 to collect bonus features. You also have another mode called Rainbow Run which appears after a 
 map, 6 red coins for each map, 3 for making it in the fastest time, and 3 for using the least amount 
 of ink possible. For the fact that Kirby uses the ink element and the fact that this game is just 
 so damn fun, id personally give it a 9/10. A must buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game isn't like any other game. Unlike most DS games, this game 
 is played only with the stylus. Kirby is in a ball and the only way to move him is to create a 
 path with your stylus to get Kirby through all the levels. And like the other Kirby games he is 
 also able to use his copy abilites. All you do is tap Kirby and he uses the ability. By playing 
 the game with only the stylus it made the game very enjoyable, and it made it challenging too (The 
 first for a Kirby game) . 
  
  Graphics: Now, the graphics in this game are really nothing special. They basically look like graphics 
 from the SNES Kirby games. 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is like any other Kirby game. The music is really kinda childish, 
 but I don't mind some of the music was o. k.
  
  Value: The game is definitely worth your money. The main game is kind of challenging, but there 
 is so much more to do in this game. Like in New Super Mario Bros. there are 3 coins to collect 
 in each level. You need these to unlock tons of things (New characters, bonus levels, etc.) . The 
 game can be beaten 4 times with all 4 characters, and all the bonus levels can take a while to beat. 
 You will have your hands full for awhile (literally) . So I highly recommend you buy this game and 
 you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guynamedyeah
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  this game definately keeps the classic feel of the 'kirby formula' with a whole technique of playing 
 it. it doesnt feel like a gimmick what-so-ever and isn't so short that you can beat it in a day. 
 it starts you off in a quick tutorial to give you an understanding of what you can do, then once 
 thats over you go to a sort of "beginners world" where everything gets you ready for the faster 
 paced gameplay.
  
  the graphics, in my opinion are great, mostly because they didnt try and go for 3D and totally 
 ruin it, every sprite works to perfection and has no quirks about them. Very classic and easy to 
 look at.
  
  the sound hasn't changed in kirby games... and i hope it never does, its so happy, cute, and perfect.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avail447
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  yes he is a pink ball without legs but this does not demote him he is a huge hero
  the difficulty is just right
  the game has a tutorial to go through you will learn everything 
 about the controls in a matter of minutes 
  note-the whole game uses touch screen
  the gameplay is amazing 8 levels with about two or three acts in them each plus three mini games 
 and 4 playable characters that must be unlocked though
  the graphics are amazing for a handheld its like a portable sega it looks like it could fit into 
 the history of 16 bit or even higher
  sound effects are great and the music is surprisingly good 
  replay value is high especially 
 trying to get 100 percent and finding 3 special coins in each act of every level
  overall this game is a must buy for your ds 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse
  More of a mild cold
  
  Graphics (12.5%) - 8.25
  Controls (15%) - 8
  Variety (25%) - 7
  Replay (25%) - 7
  Sound (7.5%) - 6
  Depth (15%) 
 - 8
  
  OVERALL - 7.38
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay Outline
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a sidescrolling platformer with a big twist -- you guild a ball using ink 
 drawn by the magic paint brush (controlled by your stylus) . There's a constantly regenerating meter 
 of ink that refills faster when the ball is on the ground, so you have to manage your ink. You 
 tap on enemies to all you to destroy them, but if you don't tap them, you can defeat them using 
 a boost. The game is the first of its kind, so there's nothing previously to compare the way the 
 game is actually played to anything else.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication 
 Metre - 20%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  There isn't 
 a lot you need to put into Canvas Curse to get the most out of it. It's all about the story mode, 
 and that's easy to get in and out of any time you'd like. Where you will have to put some focus 
 and time into is if you want many unlockables -- then you'll have to go through Rainbow Run and/or 
 search out coins in the story mode. For the most part, this is something even the most casual player 
 can enjoy, and is actually more likely to enjoy.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics - 
 8.25
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Visually, Kirby is as vibrant as ever. The animations are rather fluid, and the effects throughout 
 are very well done and increasingly better as the game goes on. The world has a bit of a painting 
 style to match the theme of the game of a sorceress with a magic paint brush, but the developers 
 really didn't do much with the opportunity. Everything's still generally just like every other 
 kirby game.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls - 
 8
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  You control kirby by drawing lines with your stylus that guide Kirby (who moves as a ball would 
 roll) . The direction you draw the line is the direction Kirby will be pulled, although if the slant 
 is too great, it will merely deflect Kirby back in the other direction. You also tap on Kirby to 
 use his power (default is a burst of speed, but there are of course powers he can take on) .
  
  It works quite well, but there are little irritations throughout the game, such as having to 
 tap on various things to break them, which takes you away from guiding Kirby. Also, the "subgames" 
 (which also serve as bossfights) , don't really control well at all. And in an extra mode where 
 you try and get to the end while using as little ink as possible, but tapping Kirby isn't exact 
 and can nickle and dime you out of ink each time a stroke registers off of Kirby.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 7
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In sheer variety of modes, Canvas Curse gives a good offering. There's the story mode where you 
 travel through 7 worlds to defeat the sorceress Drawcia; Sub Games with high score tracking, and 
 Rainbow Run which includes Time Trials and Minimum Ink runs for a section of every level in the 
 game (along with unlockable extra sections) . There are also different ink patterns and different 
 balls to unlock.
  
  However, the only compelling part of the game is the story mode, which consists of only 22 levels 
 that can easily be completed in less than 4 hours (although, merely the time length isn't bad for 
 a platformer, which this is best described) . The levels aren't actually all that long, though, 
 it just takes time to get through them with the particular type of controls used in the game. The 
 other games are throwaways.
  
  There is also a lack of variety in enemies. You've seen them all before and you'll see them all 
 again. There are also only 5 different powers to copy and use, and they are mostly useless. With 
 the theme of the game, the developers had a chance to really get creative and create some wild 
 paint enemies and worlds. Instead we get Kirby with new controls.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Replay - 7
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The best part of the game is the story mode. It's at times excellent, but is bogged down by too 
 many water and dark levels and a lack of enemy variety. If the game were left just as that and 
 sold at a budget price, the game would be more appealing. As it is, the extras to make it a game 
 to go back to are tacked on and worthless. A bonus reason to go back to the story mode, though, 
 is that it keeps track of which levels you've completed with each ball/character (which have different 
 sizes, speeds and hit points) .
  
  The Sub Games are very sub-par. There's a breakout style game where you fight Kracko at the end 
 and try and do it in the least amount of time. However, the boss battle is as boring as they come 
 and really has a lot of luck involved for how often you land a hit. There's a race with King Deedeedee 
 that controls sluggishly and has very little depth (a big disappointment for anyone who has played 
 the stellar Deedeedee race in Kirby Superstars) . And there's a mode where you trace patterns that 
 is very touchy with the controls, exceptionally easy, and has zero depth.
  
  And there's Rainbow Run. Since you can unlock many coins for other unlockables in Rainbow Run, 
 this will get some playtime. You can get up to 3 coins per time trial and 3 per ink mode depending 
 on how fast you finish and how little ink you use, respectively. The problem with these modes as 
 the gameplay of Canvas Curse doesn't fit speed runs or using little ink. Much of the game is about 
 finesse and clever use of ink, not how fast you can get done, which just gets frustrating. Ink 
 mode is even worse, as previously mentioned, you can lose ink just while trying to tap Kirby. You'll 
 also find complications on what angles will launch Kirby forward and which will knock him back.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Sound - 6
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There is a lack of variety in the music, and a general sense of ignorable musak. Nothing stands 
 out, and there's plenty of audio borrowed from previous games in the series.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 8
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  With the ability to use a loop for speed boosts along with some nice level design, there are quite 
 a few ways to go about the game -- you can get quite creative with your stylus. But as I said, the 
 power ups are mostly useless. There is a bit of depth in that there is ink management and reserving, 
 but there are instances where this is just annoying. However, the limited amount of ink is necessary 
 to the gameplay.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall - 7.38
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Canvas Curse as a platformer offers a unique experience. Canvas Curse as an entire package is lacking 
 in many ways. Unless you're really big on platformers or Kirby, this one's probably not worthwhile 
 for full retail price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyrodrag4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  this is probably THE best kirby game yet. the gameplay is great the graphics are great. and so is 
 the sounds. the game is about the world coming into darkness because of a witch and its up to kirby 
 to save everyone.
  the game is controlled by the stylus only, so no b or a buttons
  in use here. the game is very good because of its easy controls and great game play. however the 
 game can get frustrating sometimes so
  that is the only thing wrong with it. i highly recommend it. also there is an
  awful lot of unlockables 
 in the game and i have had a lot of fun getting
  them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse marks Kirby's first appearance on the Nintendo DS. It takes full advantage 
 of the DS's touch screen. Every control you make (drawing lines, touching Kirby to dash, selecting 
 stages) uses the touch screen in some way. Don't worry, there's a tutorial at the beginning that 
 teaches you how to play the game. The graphics and sounds don't look and sound as impressive as 
 New Super Mario Bros., but they fit right for a Kirby game. Many of the songs in this game were 
 taken from past Kirby games such as Kirby 64: The Crystal Shards. The replay value is even better 
 than the GBA Kirby games. There are many metals to collect, and you can spend them to unlock new 
 things. The new method of presenting this game has earned the tilt a full score. If you want a 
 game that uses the touch screen to its full extent, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This is another fun Kirby game, and it was so fun that I couldn't put it down for hours. But, unfortunatly 
 in just about that time I beat the game. Sure it was fun while it lasted, but they could of put 
 more levels in there. And even though it was easy there were some levels that I got stuck on for 
 a while, and they weren't bosses either. So over all I'd say that Kirby is a good game and if you 
 want to play it try to borrow it from one of your friends, and if you can't do that then buy it 
 used from a game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frodnekcod
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  The good: This game uses the touch screen the best that I have ever seen. The controls are super-responsive 
 and the worlds are creative and look great. The levels give you immense sastisfaction when you 
 beat them. This game, despite touch control, remains pretty faithful to other kirby games and the 
 DS utilization is top-notch. The rainbow lines can be made into numerous things and you will develop 
 your own unique way to use it as efficiently as possible. It is a very exciting and innovative 
 experience.
  
  The bad: The game is a tiny bit on the short side but it's not something to cry about. Levels have 
 no saving points so game overs (which happen frequently) start you at the very beginning of a long 
 level you almost beat. Frustrating experiences occur because although touch-usage is creative and 
 immensely fun, sometimes you can do nothing to prevent getting hurt by an enemy. When gameovers 
 happen they are dissapointing more than most games I have seen. The extras are also not worthwhile 
 and rarely fun.
  
  So this game has plenty of good and bad, but it is still a very good game. It is sastisfying, innovative, 
 and sets the stage for future brilliant titles with a similar control scheme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slasher00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Kirby canvas curse uses the touch screen for just about everything. the in game graphics are clear, 
 colorful and bright, making it addictive and enjoyable. The control scheme is a little hard to 
 master, but at a certain point you get used to it. You draw rainbow lines with the stylus under 
 Kirby to move him through the levels, which is fun because you can create different types of lines, 
 making Kirby do different things. 
  The storyline is easy to understand, but you tend to forget the plot when playing the game for 
 a long time. While playing, one of your goals is to collect medals, which are scattered throughout 
 the worlds. There are many things to do apart from beating the levels in story mode. To beat the 
 game properly, you must collect all the medals, and use them to unlock things in medal swap. in 
 medal swap, you can unlock new characters, new ink types, and most importantly, new game modes 
 in which you can collect more medals.
  Kirby canvas curse is highly addictive, and you feel like you don't want to play any other game 
 until you have beaten it. But when you beat the game for the first time, you feel as though you 
 are suddenly bored of it and don't want to play it again. Replay value is this games biggest flaw.
 
  Other than that, if you want an interactive, and just plain fun game, then Kirby canvas curse 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilighted
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Kirby is one of nintendos franchises, so its going to be good. Usually kirby gobbles characters 
 and takes their powers and uses it against them, but in this game he is a sphere. 
  
  The gameplay is very good, u use a stylus to draw lines, the sphere kirby rides on those lines 
 to go places. If u draw a loop there is a boost of speed and u can do other things. Touching kirby 
 does a dash to go faster or to bump in to another enemy to take their power. U can also touch anything 
 on the board if it effects something such as enemys, switches, ETC. it gets hard near the end, 
 but its mostly average, but i dubbed it as hard because it might be for some people.
  
  Sound is very good, basically a kirby style effects. They also redid the original kirby songs like 
 a Remix so it sounds cooler. 
  
  Graphics are amazing, it looks like it was done with paint and painted on the DS screen. 
  
 
  Very good replay value, u have to collect 3 medals per stage and there is 22 stages ( long stages 
 BTW ) . Then there is 5 characters to play as in the game, adding more replay value. PLUS there 
 is mini games, and u can spend ur medals on cool things.
  
  Very good game, every DS owner should have this in there collection, because it is serously a kirby 
 gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Back when this game came out good DS games were still rare (but not quite as rare as good PSP games...) 
 so this was a solid effort. But it just wasn't quite all it needed to be. 
  
  The game is all stylus controlled. Kirby is the little pink ball and he is constantly on the move, 
 your job is to draw him paths where they need to be and tap enemies to knock them out. 
  
  Kirby can gain powers just like in the other games and you can use these to get secret items hidden 
 here and there. It's got all the characteristics of a Kirby game plus a touch screen and some magic 
 line drawing power. 
  
  The line drawing things was made fairly well. You have a certain amount of power you can use to 
 draw the line and after not drawing anything for a few seconds it will quickly regenerate for you 
 to use again. This requires you to think about the lines you are drawing and do them in such a 
 way you get Kirby where he needs to be without running out of power. This is especially critical 
 during boss fights. 
  
  Boss fights were decently cool. They took some think and obvious some stylus work. Drawing lines 
 quickly and accurately to get Kirby to an attack position or get the boss knocked down for Kirby 
 to attack. But there were still a few moments in which I felt I was doing things right and the 
 game disagreed with me and let me feeling a bit frustrated. Not to many stand out in my mind though; 
 which is a good thing. 
  
  Levels had some good variation. Your classic platforming style variation of course. Ice levels, 
 water, fire, falling levels. All that jazz. 
  
  There were lots of items hidden all over for you to snag to unlock things and also a time trial 
 mode to complete and unlock more things. In fact, completing simply the main game mode alone is 
 only about 30% completion of the overall material. However, some of the time trials simply feel 
 impossible and the rewards never feel good enough to put yourself through that frustration. 
  
  For example, you can unlock new characters to play as. Either way they are all round balls 
 rolling around and the main game mode doesn't feel worthy of much more than one playthrough. You 
 can also unlock different colors for the lines you draw... meh. 
  
  Basically, I say get it from a friend and play through the main mode once to experience it, but 
 not much more. Try some time trials if you want, but once you feel frustrated return the game and 
 consider your Kirby DS time over. Maybe they'll put another one out thats got some improvements 
 because this game has the potential, but falls a bit short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriforcePieces
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Heh heh, this was the first game I got for the DS, and it was awesome. The new abillities for Kirby 
 are really cool. As well as some of the new enemies. The subgames also were fun, especially Paint 
 Roller. Then the unlockables were awesome too. Plus, there was tons of music in this game from 
 classic Kirby games. There is all sorts of cool things hidden in this game. Also, this game can 
 really improve your stylus skills. You need quick reflexes to tap what you need too, and it definetly 
 improved my skills using the stylus in this game and others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingofunrealuk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS so far hasn't had many platformers, unless you count somewhat lazy ports of Super 
 Mario 64 and Rayman. However, HAL Laboratories have set out to create a new style of platforming 
 with Kirby: Canvas Curse  and have not only raised the bar in terms of invention within the genre, 
 but also proven how the touch screen can be used to create more than gimmicky side-games. Canvas 
 Curse really does use the touch screen in such a profound and exciting way that it has already 
 become my favourite DS game, outshining everything I have seen so far.
  
  Although Kirby: Canvas Curse is a radically different game in terms of its gameplay, the story 
 is pretty much the same. Someone has yet again come to ruin Dreamland and turn Kirby's friends 
 against him this time in the form of an evil sorceress known as Drawcia. She has stripped Kirby 
 of his arms and legs limiting his movement but meaning he can gain new moves such as dashing. However, 
 this alone will not help Kirby. You must aid him using your stylus and dubbed in the game as The 
 Magical Paintbrush. Using this oh-so-magic paintbrush you must help Kirby maneuver around the stages 
 by helping him over ledges, stopping him in danger, blocking enemy attacks or reversing his direction. 
 However, you do have an ink meter, once your ink has depleted it takes a while to refill in the 
 air, so stopping on the ground for a couple of seconds whilst it replenishes is a must. All of 
 this is done very easily and its quite easy to pick up in the games tutorial. The paintbrush also 
 has other abilities for example you can stun enemies so that Kirby isn't hurt when he attacks them 
 or you can tap Kirby to make him dash to increase his speed to get up hills or kill enemies in 
 his way.
  
  Apart from the radically new control system, Kirby pretty much sticks firmly to its roots. Abilities 
 are still present through out the game. There are new ones that replace old ones due to the new 
 controls simply because they wouldn't or couldn't be fitted properly into the game without changing 
 the way it was played. Although this is a good thing, I do miss sword Kirby. New abilities include 
 missile where you guide Kirby using the paintbrush and he kills any enemy instantly and the balloon 
 ability making it easier for Kirby to reach high places. The level system has been changed, in 
 Kirby's last GBA adventure which wasn't that great, it integrated all the levels into one world 
 with a central hub like Metroid Prime. In this game, you simply chose from one of the 8 worlds 
 and from there select a level. The menus are very easy to understand and navigate through using 
 the touch screen so you'll get used to this new system within seconds.
  
  Despite Kirby usually being a short pick up and play ordeal, Ive found myself playing through 
 marathon sessions of this game (sometimes up to 5 hours) just to try unlock some of the goodies 
 Kirby is hiding within its DS cart. Unlockables are obtained through collecting medals which are 
 dotted around levels and through beating times in rainbow run time trails. There are 250 medals, 
 so its going to take a hell of a long time to get them all. So far I have 180 or so and Ive been 
 playing the game for almost 20 hours. So for once this means Kirby actually has replay value something 
 extremely rare in the series.
  
  However as with all games, it really isn't perfect. Some of the paintbrush controls can be Ill 
 put it blunt, a pain in the arse. First off, navigating through the underwater stages is just so 
 hard. Kirby as he is a ball has buoyancy so doesn't sink, you have to create "C shapes" with the 
 paintbrush to make him dive or you can frantically tap Kirby to make him dash downwards however 
 you can lead yourself for a nice meeting with some spikes in the process. Also its really quite 
 easy to get stuck on walls, as stupid as its sounds a lot of people have commented on this rather 
 large control flaw, sure it shouldn't let you pass through the levels corners but why not just 
 slip you through it? Instead of just jarring still till your line disappears.
  
  Kirby's graphics are fantastic from a 2D point of view. The top screen displays your lives, stars, 
 the map and your life bar. This means all the clutter that would be on the bottom screen on previous 
 GBA games has been removed. The touch screen graphics are only in 2D also, but some of the effects 
 are really great. When you dash in the water bubbles rise and pop, the wheel ability leaves a blurry 
 trail behind it and all the character sprites especially the final boss are all excellently presented. 
 
  
  Sound is another strong point in Kirby. Old tunes have been remixed to give them new feels to fit 
 with the new levels. The music is very memorable especially some of the old music that you can 
 unlock and listen to in sound test. The sound effects are also some of the best Ive heard on the 
 DS also. Kirbys old cries have been removed though which is something that I do miss. But the 
 new ones do quite easily make up for it. 
  
  Kirby truly is an outstanding game. It just takes everything the DS can do, throws it together 
 and makes it work. The controls, the level design and the presentation are astounding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Prince
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Now as we all know, Kirby is a big, cute, fluffy, creampuff or cloud or... Who the hell cares! 
 It's Kirby and that's all that matters.
  
  This new side scrolling, unique adventure stars Kirby as a round ball that you guide with your 
 stylus through 8 magical worlds of pure fluffy goodness.
  
  Man is it just me? or am I craving some pink cotton candy :P. (Don't Worry Kirby! I can't eat you, 
 your priceless. ;) )
  
  The magic with drawcia turns you into this ball and you have to go through these levels to get 
 to the end and kick her noggin in the rear.
  
  Okay, Graphics:
  
  The graphics are very good 2D style and with lush, bright colors, Kirby Canvas curse will please 
 the eye.
  
  
  Sound: With a mix of new, old and everything form Kirby, you will notice some very catchy and also 
 familiar tunes while you drag kirby to the end.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: The whole game takes action on the bottom screen. with 8 worlds and 3 levels in each 
 one, Kirby might seem a bit short, which it is, but hidden in each level are 3 medals. These medals 
 are able to purchase things in the shop. In the shop, you can buy music, more life bar while in 
 game, characters and more.
  
  While your playing through levels, Kirby is moved automatically at a slow pace. You can speed Kirby 
 up by tapping him with the stylus. This is your replacement for sucking in enemies and gaining 
 their special powers. When you receive your power, the power will be your new default for tackling 
 and dashing. 
  
  The neat thing with this game is drawing colorful, rainbow pathes, line, borders, and protection 
 to aid your through lava, spikes, grodo's and even for you to dash madly on if you want to speed 
 through a level.
  
  I have played Kirby Canvas Curse for about 10 hours i'd guess, but there are so many things I need 
 to complete and finish in it that I could take another 10 hours.
  
  Also some things to add. Some new items in the game are Balloon. Balloon lets you launch kirby 
 in the air by tapping him up to 3 times with each hit making him bigger before he pops and returns 
 to normal size. Missle lets you guide kirby by drawing lines to ricochet off of.
  
  Also instead of having huge boss battles in Canvas Curse, You can choose 1 of 3 mini games to complete. 
 There's a King DeDeDe Racing one, a Kracko vertical game where you make paddles via stylus breaking 
 blocks to reach Kracko and finally theres a painting one where you need to draw a dot to dot picture 
 after being shown the steps.
  
  Once you complete all three levels on each, they will be added to the mini game section for your 
 use.
  
  There is also a Time Trial and paint mode. in each of these modes, you will earn up to 3 medals 
 per level depending how well you do.
  
  Time trial is simply beating the level within the given amount of time.
  
  Paint mode makes 
 you try to use the LEAST amount of stylus ink and reach the end.
  
  There is also weapon levels which are weapon specifiic. You can earn those by unlocking them in 
 the shop.
  
  Last but not least, one you complete the game with kirby, you can play with Waddle De and also 
 King DeDeDe as well as another character, which I forget who that is.
  
  The Value on this game is incredibly deep and rewarding. I'm actually getting in the mood to play 
 this game right now, so I prove my point right there.
  
  Conclusion: Kirby: Canvas Curse is a wonderful addition to the DS and Nintendo. It brings new innovation 
 with the touch screen, and although you use the screen alot, you don't get bored at all and it's 
 just a treat to play.
  
  Great sound, great graphics and lots of unlockable modes and characters to play. How could you 
 say no? Kirby is a cute, pink creampuff and he's ready for adventure.
  
  Go out and buy this game. You won't regret it!
  
  Upcoming Gaming Prince reviews:
  
  Advance 
 Wars DS
  
  Meteos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paronga
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 20, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  The good: Really good physics applied; Turns the concept of Yoshi Touch & Go into an immersive 
 adventure game; Much more value than previous Kirby games; Bright, colourful, and vibrant graphic 
 design; Great original soundtrack remixes; Full touch screen control
  
  The bad: No multiplayer; A tad short for DS standars; some tedious sequences with obscure solutions 
 alot later in the game.
  
  One of the DS tech demos, which was later released for the platform itself was a purely touch screen 
 based game where you take the roll of yoshi and draw trails of clouds which act as steps for yoshi 
 to decend on. The tech demo was made to convey how intuitive the touch screen can really be. The 
 aim of the game was to avoid enemies, collect coins, and succede in other activites to get score, 
 but the only real goal in this game was to beat your previous high score. The concept of this game 
 has now been adopted by HAL Labs and has reborn in the form of a new, incredibly well designed 
 Kirby game.
  
  Whats really great about this game is its basic control. It's so simple yet so great. The only 
 thing you use to play the game is the stylus. You draw rainbow ink lines on the touch screen which 
 act as paths, ramps, you can even draw them in the right position so that Kirby loops around and 
 sticks to the top of the ink path and slides along it upside down. This is why the Pal version 
 of this game is called Kirby power paintbrush because the stylus acts as the power paint brush 
 which draws magical trails for Kirby to slide on. As youve probably figured the core of the game 
 is on the bottom screen. The top screen tells you how much health you have, it shows the map and 
 tells you how many lives you have.
  
  The other funtionality which Kirby has is the ability to do a spin dash. This will make Kirby accelerate 
 whilst on a rainbow trail and he will stick to it, on ground he will accelerate, and in mid air 
 he will spin, and zoom down at a linear angle. The spin dash is also Kirbys standard attack. When 
 you defeat certain enemies, you will attain their special ability. Special abilities havent changed 
 from the beggining. They still vary from the electric shock to the wizard spark. Of course there 
 is a little icon down the bottom left hand corner of the touch screen to expel your power in case 
 you dont want it.
  
  There is one more functionallity which you of course control with the stylus. Over the eight worlds 
 there will be slews of easy, and complex puzzles to complete. Some very basic ones will be having 
 to extinguish yellow blocks with stars on them and launching Kirby up by making a series of paths, 
 or pressing a small block with a bomb icon to do away with an indestructible wall. You can also 
 do away with large boulders by tapping it a few times. This also applies to cracked walls, yellow 
 blocks with stars on them big and small, and as mentioned before, the bomb blocks. Also another 
 handy thing you can do, is tap the enemies which not only stuns them, it makes them vulnerable 
 to being defeated without having to be spin dashed at.
  
  The bad thing about this game is that once you finish the three and a half hour adventure mode, 
 the replay value rellies on collecting collectors coins from all 24 of the levels, and earning 
 collecters coins from the time trial and mini game time trial modes to purchase unlockables. Even 
 then, the unlockables arent very exciting. The extra value in this game are really for the most 
 devoted players of the game, trying to milk all the 100%.
  
  The graphics in this game arent something the pop the eyes out of your head but are certainly colourful 
 and attractive with cool fire effects and the brightness of the rainbow trails. The soundtrack 
 of the game are full of remixes from the old games which sound new, and exciting, along with some 
 fresh unfermiliar beats 
  
  In conclusion the overall package of this game is a little bit disappointing with its low value 
 however it is designed well enough to suffice for an enjoyable game, and turns a good idea into 
 an even better game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxXIchi_goXxx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Kirby : Canvas Curse was one of my best games I played on the Nintendo DS Its really fun , and 
 takes full usage of the stylus , making it a great game for any DS owner .
  It is kinda hard for beginners , but you will get used to it quickly .
  Its a long game , with 
 many extras and fun stuff , and its suitable for all ages , Its kinda similar to Yoshi touch &amp; 
 go , But believe me , its much better.
  Kirby : Canvas Curse is a must have for every Kirby lover , and i recommend it for all DS owners 
 . Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby2198
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  kirby canvus curse is a prety good game. i dont think its perfect. this game is fun not only do 
 you get to use kirby you could also use waddle doo, waddle dee, meta knight, and king triple dee. 
 there also the boss battle against triple dee, the cloud guy and the skatin drawing guy its fun 
 the battle the race and he fast drawing. the final boss drawcia is the best boss battle. after 
 the final battle agenst drawcia it wont be a big ending but its still a nice ending and geting 
 to the end was the fun part. it took a wile but it was worth playin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcE-Fu-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  This is not a traditional kirby game. this uses the stylis and uses all the features of the DS 
 exept the mic. ok the gameplay is really weird but in a good way. you draw a line with the stylis 
 to guide kirby through the very fun courses. but the game may be very cheap sometimes if you miss 
 the spikes by a little the game will still take your life away. and also belive it or not this 
 game has unlockables. dureing the courses that you do there are hidden coins that you can collect 
 and if you have enough then you can buy songs, differant lines (the lines to guide kirby) and many 
 more. the graphics are fair but work really well with the game. this game is highly addictive and 
 you will be playing it for days to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeddimaster
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I was in awe when I watched the online videos for Kirby: Canvas Curse. The game has really done 
 something incredible, and has accomplished something that Nintendo strives for: change the way 
 we game. After receiving a gift card for my birthday, I went down to Target and picked it up. Whence 
 I returned home, I was thoroughly disappointed.
  
  The game's story was the first to fall short of my expectations. A witch has conveniently placed 
 a curse on Kirby, and justifies his 2D nature and lack of arms and legs, and gives some lame reasons 
 why you have to draw lines in order to make him move. So.... Kirby is a cripple, and he needs my 
 help to get out of a painting? There is some creativity in this story, but it feels more like filler 
 for an obscure game.
  
  In Kirby: Canvas Curse, you draw lines in the air, and Kirby rolls across them to get from place 
 to place. It's simplistic enough at first, but level design forces you into some tight corners 
 and obstacles. Enemies are for the most part trivial, as touching them will stun them for a considerable 
 amount of time, allowing you to guide Kirby to their general area and knock them out. Line-drawing 
 is a very clever innovation, but falls far short of compelling gameplay.
  
  The graphics are simplistic and two-dimensional. The backgrounds look awful, and some of the textures 
 look very fake. Some of the animations are clever, and it is impressive, at times, how many things 
 are going on on screen at the same time.
  
  Sound is decent, with bearable music and not-bad sound-effects.
  
  I blew through the first 
 half of this game in less than 2 hours, and that's not even playing very fast. There are a few 
 bonus unlockables, but they are too simplistic to be enjoyable. If you really like the game, it 
 offers a time trial mode, so that adds to the last value. But for the most part, this won't last 
 you very long.
  
  I'm sure there are some who will love this game, but I'm certainly not one of them. It's slow-paced 
 and yet goes by too fast, it has unimpressive graphics, and annoying gameplay. Try out a friend's 
 copy before picking this up, especially since it still retails at $35. I'm glad this game exists 
 because it's so innovative, and touches on what Nintendo is trying to do with the system, but it's 
 not worth owning for the action-seeking gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Canvas Curse delivers lots of new gameplay that can only be done by the DS. In this game you must 
 guide Kirby to the last colored door to finish the stage. You dont move him he instead moves by 
 himself but you can make rainbow lines to guide him through each stage. When there is no floor 
 you just do a rainbow line to guide Kirby and make sure he doesnt fall. But the rainbow line is 
 also use to protect Kirby from enemy fire. When they are enemies shooting arrows, bullets, lasers, 
 etc. draw a rainbow line and it will protect you from the attack, but they wont protect you from 
 falling enemies. But you cannot do big lines because you have an ink gauge that when it goes all 
 the way down you must when until it charges back. When losing ink while youre doing the line, 
 the game will warn you that your gauge is not fully charged. 
  
  To attack enemies you must 1st stunt them by touching them and them when Kirby touch them they 
 will die. But if Kirby touch them and they are not stunned then you will lose vitality (heart) . 
 They are lots of things that you can touch that can help you along the way: when the place is dark 
 you must find the glowing green lanterns and touch them to turn them on and lit up the place for 
 a brief period of time, you can also destroy the star blocks in your way by touching and there 
 is also the color shutters which are walls that rise when you match the color panels to the color 
 of the wall. At the end of each level you will have the jump game were you must boost Kirby in 
 high speed and draw a rainbow line for him so he can fly farther depending on how much he flies 
 you will get an amount of point stars that are very helpful to give you lives.
  
  Then there is the boss fights in which you can select from 3 which one you prefer but be warn after 
 playing one 2 times you will not be able to choose that one again. With the cloud boss you will 
 go through a stage destroying blocks on the way and you can draw paddles instead of rainbows for 
 Kirby to bounce you must defeat all the baddies in each floor then in the end you will battle the 
 cloud the same way but be careful not to bounce Kirby when the cloud is going to shoot electricity. 
 Then there is King Deedee the less fun, in this one you are doing a rail race against him you must 
 slide the rail generator up and down to save Kirby from obstacles you must also touch the fruit 
 panels to get a boost if you get hurt you will lose speed sadly is not that much fun because the 
 race is too fast and hard to know when they are enemies close by. Then last but not least is the 
 painter where you must connect the points to make a drawing is not easy as it sounds because you 
 have to memorize how he connects the points dont expect numbers also if you take long bombs will 
 reach Kirby and take out 1 of his vitality. Then at the end of the boss battle you must touch the 
 glowing panels fast.
  
  This time Kirby wont suck enemies to steal their abilities instead this time when you stunt the 
 enemy and then touch him you will immediately steal their ability although not all enemies have 
 one. The copy abilities on this game are pretty much the same you have seen in other Kirby games 
 you will have the stone ability where you turn into a heavy stone to crush enemies and blocks. 
 You also have the spark ability were you release electrical energy and attack enemies even enemies 
 that are at a top floor can get hit by it. There is also the missile that lets you go around in 
 a missile and destroy enemies that touch it but if you hit a wall you will explode and become normal 
 again. They are other many coy abilities that you find later on the game as well. To get rid of 
 a copy ability touch the ability panel which says the name of the current ability you have. 
  
  You will encounter various items along the way that will help you a lot on your quest. Theres 
 the energy drink that replenishes some of Kirbys vitality, the maxim tomato that replenishes all 
 of Kirbys lives, the 1-up that gives you an extra life, the point stars that if you collect 100 
 of them you will earn an extra life and finally the medals that you can find hidden in the levels 
 that are use to unlock goodies on the game.
  
  If you finish the main game and want some challenge you can go to the rainbow run mode where you 
 can play all the worlds you have completed. In this mode you do a time trial where you must finish 
 the stage in a specific time to win medals. They are 3 times to do it meaning that they are 3 medals 
 to win on each stage. The thing is that you dont play the whole stage you play one part of the 
 stage which makes things a bit more easy. You can also try the line trial where you must once again 
 go to the stage but not using a lot rainbow lines, if the big rainbow gauge at the top screen goes 
 black you lose even if you were in the end of the stage. Then there is also the sub games where 
 you play the 3 boss battles you made again in 3 levels.
  
  The game delivers a unique idea and each level is design with lots of cool stuff to do. The problems 
 here is that when going underwater Kirby goes all the way up so you have to constantly touch Kirby 
 so he can go down and thats a problem because you also have to cover yourself from enemies. Sometimes 
 the game goes a bit too hard simply because you just cant draw lines and kill stunt enemies at 
 the same time.
  
  The game is yet another 2-D game for the DS but this one has 3-D looking characters which is pretty 
 nice. The backgrounds look just like any other Kirby on the GBA you got your forest, lava, water, 
 and other weird ones. The most impressive level was the lava because sometimes the place was full 
 of lava on the top and on the floor making rainbow lines important. The rainbow lines look pretty 
 cool because the colors move instead of being just a simple line. The copy abilities look pretty 
 much the same as they always been on the GBA. The animations are decent enough but I wanted to 
 see a bit more action. Canvas Curse was not really designed for graphics because the game would 
 feel totally different in 3-D and probably a bit less fun.
  
  The music on each level feels fresh and fits perfectly on each level. The sound effects on the 
 other hand are decent they needed a bit of work there could have been better sounds for the copy 
 abilities. They are no voiceovers on this game but the other Kirby games neither do so nothing 
 new. But Canvas Curse focuses more in the music that you forget about everything else that sounds. 
 Also that most of the music is from Kirby 64 which is also cool.
  
  Canvas Curse controls can be tricky at 1st because sometimes you have to do the best rainbow line 
 to help Kirby. You dont really control Kirby because he moves by himself you simply make him go 
 faster, get powers and guide him. There is no use of the button only the start button to pause 
 the game. But what is really cool of the game is that by touching blocks you can destroy them and 
 touching enemies will make them get stunt. 
  
  While the main game is pretty short Canvas curse offers a lot of goodies. One of those goodies 
 is the medal swap where you buy new stuff like songs, characters, different lines instead of a 
 rainbow, etc. You pay with the medals that you find on a stage in the main game and the ones that 
 you earn in the rainbow run mode. Also the rainbow run mode offers quite a challenge that will 
 keep you playing. There are also the sub games which are the bosses you face in the main game that 
 are pretty interesting to play in the 3 levels of difficulty. Sadly Canvas Curse doesnt offer 
 a multiplayer experience which would have been a nice addition. The main game might be short but 
 is actually pretty fun playing again most of the stages.
  
  Kirby Canvas Curse is a great addition to the DS and proves how good you can make a totally original 
 adventure. You just in the end want a bit more. Kirby fans will also be very happy with this game 
 even if Kirby doesnt walk. If you own a DS and looking for a solid game to play with it then get 
 Canvas Curse. If you hate Kirby you can still give it a chance and it might change your opinion 
 on Kirby.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeb1uk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  A very original idea, I don't think anyone would've thought of a game like this for Kirby. This 
 game is pretty fun and there's quite a few things to do so you won't get bored easily.
  
  Firstly the gameplay. Rather simple controls but can get a bit complicated at some times, but not 
 really. There is really only 4 different commands, boost, draw lines, remove power and stun. But 
 drawing lines has become alot more. Draw loops for boosts, draw lines in front of Kirby to block 
 attacks and stop him rolling in a direction, draw lines to elevate kirby and simply guide him. 
 The simple controls have turned into alot more. That's why it's easy to learn the controls but 
 hard to get good at using them. 
  
  The graphics are good for DS. It's clear and great for a 2D game. The screen rarely if not at all 
 bug up. As in you don't get Kirby stuck in a wall or the graphics get a bit slow. 
  
  I really liked the music for the game, good quality and cool sound effects. Pretty cool altogether. 
 Could still be better but they're still great
  
  I can't really judge the value as the price of the game varies. So I'll keep it simple and just 
 say it's good for its' price.
  
  Altogether the game is great, can be a bit repetitive at times but still fun. There's the mini 
 games which can be great fun and 3 different bosses of different levels along with the final boss. 
 That would be a repetitive part of the game, it'd be better if the bosses were all different, but 
 still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  While Mario, Link, and Samus are usually Nintendos go-to guys (and girl) for a guaranteed hit, 
 this Kirby game is a sure-fire hit that deserves its just praise. It begins as any other Kirby 
 game as trouble in Dreamland starts brewing. 
  
  This time a witch with a magical paintbrush has turned Dreamland into a giant painting and little 
 Kirby into a ball. With the help of the Nintendo DS touch screen you must guide Kirbys new ball 
 form across numerous obstacles and levels in hopes of finding and destroying the witch and restoring 
 Dreamland to its rightful state. Sound pretty unorthodox? It is, but in a good way.
  
  The top screen of the DS is where you can find a map of the level youre on, but the bottom screen 
 is where the fun is at. Right off the bat youll realize that there is no button-pressing involved 
 with this game. The little drawing stylus that comes with the DS is all youll need to play. 
 
  
  Draw a line on the bottom screen underneath Kirby and hell quickly zoom across it in the direction 
 that you drew it in, poke an enemy on the screen and hell be stunned for a short while, poke other 
 items such as giant fan blades and light switches to turn them on or off, and even poke blocks 
 that are in Kirbys path to destroy them. The goal is to simply get Kirby from the beginning of 
 the stage all the way to goal at the end of the stage by any means necessary. 
  
  Simple enough, right? Wrong! 
  
  Enemies and obstacles are just waiting for you slip up so 
 that they can snag a chunk of your life bar away. Youll need to brave lava, snow, darkness, electricity, 
 bottomless pits, and many other flying and ground based enemies that could harm your rolling pink 
 ball of doom. But that is not nearly the end of Kirbys worries as those pesky bosses will keep 
 you on your toes with mini-games that require more than just moving Kirby to the end of the stage. 
 
  
  These bosses require that you race them on roller coasters, break through tons of blocks with Kirbys 
 noggin, and one boss even requires that you sketch his designs with the stylus within a time limit 
 in order to beat him. These boss battles are energetic, fun, and offer a breath of fresh air so 
 you dont get too burned out on the main game, although with the ingenious level design that should 
 never happen.
  
  Overall this game is definitely worth a purchase, especially with the Nintendo DS $20 price drop 
 that just recently occurred. New characters, more levels, level music, and neat surprises are all 
 unlockable with the secret coins that you can collect throughout the levels. There are so many 
 extras in this game that coming back to this game long after you beat it the first time is very 
 likely.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Kirbys Canvas Curse is the first Kirby game to be released on Nintendos new handheld. Set in 
 the same ever-popular Dreamland, Kirby is now assisted by you as he bounces around his world. One 
 of the most noticeable aspects of the game play right off the bat is that the game is entirely 
 stylus controlled; there are no secondary control aspects.
  
  The main point of the game is to get Kirby from point A to point B and while this sounds like a 
 relatively easy goal, there are numerous challenges set up by the controls themselves more so than 
 the levels, and this isnt necessarily a bad thing either. Kirby is this tiny ball rolled up, not 
 unlike in the games for the GBA where you had the tilt sensor and pinball games. The difference 
 this time around is that you guide Kirby using your stylus to draw paths and to paralyze enemies.
 
  
  The most intuitive and interesting part of Kirbys Canvas Curse is the control scheme itself. Simply 
 draw lines in the direction you want Kirby to roll and he will roll right along in that direction, 
 so this would allow you to roll him backwards. He also clings onto these lines enabling you to 
 have Kirby roll upside down in loops. This is important because there are areas, such as the lava 
 level, where you have to snake up through lava vertically, which is on either side of you.
  
  Now that sounds fun as is doesnt it? Coin collecting and drawing paths for Kirby is great 
 and all, but what happens when you run into an enemy while you traverse Dreamland? Fear not for 
 I will tell you how to destroy your foes! If you should encounter an enemy during your game (which 
 you obviously will) simply tap that enemy and it will be paralyzed in place. Then draw a line to 
 it and then tap Kirby and he will fly forward and kill the enemy.
  
  Some enemies cant be destroyed, and for these you will actually absorb their powers much the same 
 as Kirby used to in the platform. This time you will need to simply need to kill the enemy as you 
 normally would, but you will absorb his powers in the process. You can then use these powers to 
 destroy enemies or access-hidden areas of the game.
  
  The coin collecting and 8 level (with 3 sub-levels) world allows for a decent amount of variety 
 and re-playability. These coins are strewn throughout the levels and can be used in a multitude 
 of ways. At the cost of a few coins you can unlock new ink colors or music to listen to in sound 
 test.
  
  While Kirbys Canvas Curse may be a one trick pony, it seems like it could be one of the most enjoyable 
 ponies of its kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandymarsh
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I Love the Concept of having to use your Stylus paint paths, bridges and 360 loops. I've played 
 (and recently successfully completed) Kirby and the Amazing Mirror, but Canvas Curse was absolutely 
 different. 
  It's really cool how Nintendo make the game so that Kirby follows the direction of the line you 
 drew. The Graphics are brilliant and the soundtrack is as colourful as it always has been.
  Your favourite foes are back for Kirby to whack, along with a couple of new ones not seen in "Mirror". 
 Even with the new enemies, they will seem repetitive after a while. 
  At the end of the first 2 stages of a level, the Dash and Jump feature is a nice bonus feature. 
 The Boss Stages are fun and Paint Panic makes exceptionally good use of the Touch Screen.
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a great title for the DS, but how I wished the game included a special pink 
 stylus like the Japanese Version did.
  Ooh, and great Cover Art... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chikinware
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Information --
  System: Nintendo DS
  Developer: HAL Laboratories
  Publisher: Nintendo
  Release Year: 2005
  
  Introduction --
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a revolutionary experience that 
 single-handedly establishes the new "Sketch" genre. It introduces gameplay skill not found in other 
 games and is one of the first games to fully utilize the strengths of the DS. Kirby fans and newcomers 
 alike must try this game as it will start an underground revolution in games and must be experienced 
 to be understood. Here is a synopsis from Nintendo (http://www. nintendo. com) :
  
  "Your DS stylus has been magically infused with the power to paint! When Kirby gets turned into 
 a ball by an evil witch, your hand-drawn rainbow paths become the only way he can find power-ups 
 and reach the gates of each world. Draw loops to make him speed up, make ramps to jump danger, 
 and draw walls to block laser beams and cannon blasts as you explore seven levels packed with adventure."
 
  
  Gameplay -- 10/10
  The gameplay is Kirby: Canvas Curse's largest strength. It defines the new "sketch" genre in all 
 of its fast-paced skill and liberal potential. It is also very successful as a platformer and not 
 just because of the sketch elements. The game's structure consists of 8 levels, each containing 
 3 stages (with the exception of Level 8 that only has a brief and unchallenging level followed 
 by the final boss) . Each level ends in one of three types of boss battles (race, enemy defeating, 
 and sketch boss battle) . Gameplay consists of side-scrolling through the levels to get to the door 
 at the end. Kirby is round and thus remains constantly rolling. The only way to manipulate Kirby 
 is by tapping him to speed up his spinning (or to use a borrowed attack if you have one) and using 
 the magical paintbrush to draw paths for Kirby to follow. So the majority of the gameplay consists 
 of platforming using the paint function. You have to have Kirby avoid obstacles such as lava or 
 spikes. You also have to make sure he is either sped up or the enemies are stunned before you run 
 into them. The levels are central to the gameplay in K: CC and thankfully they are perfect. Each 
 one is perfectly designed so that there is enough challenge without any frustration. The paint 
 function is based around a commonly used game design style. That is to provide a simple rule- Kirby 
 follows and cannot go through the rainbow paint- and to allow anything else that doesnt break 
 that rule. The paint can be used in thousands of ways to traverse a level or to defeat enemies 
 and to reach power ups. For example the ability to stop Kirbys roll by drawing a square around 
 him possibly was emergent and unplanned. This allows the player to truly participate in gameplay 
 unlike many other games. Kirby, like in all of his games, can utilize borrowed powers. There are 
 11 unique powers in all ranging from beam to tornado. These powers all have uses and are thus truly 
 balanced into the game. The boss battles at the end of the levels are also well-designed. The paint 
 roller stages stand out among these battles as they involve a lot of sketch gameplay. The others 
 are of course a race and enemy killing. After each stage there is also a dash jump challenge in 
 which you try to speed Kirby up and also use a paint stream to further the distance of the jump. 
 The final boss battle against Drawcia is in essence the first sketch boss battle. You have to deflect 
 missiles and energy balls with paint as well as dodge attacks. Drawcia paints enemies for the player 
 to fight as well. The battle is very impressive in its complete utilization of sketch gameplay. 
 The sketch gameplay relies on the games superb physics to create balance. Overall Kirby: Canvas 
 Curse has perfect gameplay. It perfects a new genre, adds life to platformers and should be played 
 by all gamers.
  
  Graphics -- 10/10
  Kirby: Canvas Curse also excels in graphics. Nothing is truly wrong with them. The sprites are 
 all colorful and detailed and are stunning in their appeal. The backgrounds are also very detailed 
 and creative. The art brings the world of Kirby: Canvas Curse alive. The animation further complements 
 the excellent sprites and backgrounds by being cartoon-worthy and smooth with no inconsistencies 
 between frames. The effects of Kirbys powers and the paintings are also a plus. They use lighting 
 and color to create very unique effects. There are also some minor cutscene-esque sequences and 
 like everything else about the graphics they are colorful, detailed and well-animated.
  
  Sound -- 8/10
  Kirby: Canvas Curse has one minor weakness and that is the sound. First of all the 
 music is perfect to create the attitude of the game as well as the felling of the level. It is 
 bright and magical and elicits more joyful emotions. Unfortunately there is not much variance in 
 the songs. While they have notable differences they still sound overly similar. The sound effects 
 are the other issue one might have. They are effective in some situations but they are overused 
 in others to the point of losing their purpose. For example using abilities creates a similar sound 
 and thus you cannot distinguish the abilities by sound. A lot of the impact sound effects are also 
 overused. Other than the minor problem with effects and the lack of distinct song difference, the 
 sound does what it should do, immerse you into Kirbys world in sounds and emotions.
  
  Value -- 10/10
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a game with a lot of value, not only in production or replay 
 value, but also in value to gaming. The game establishes the sketch genre. It defines the skillful 
 playing of it as well as its liberal qualities that leave it open for creativity. This game is 
 of value to gaming as it adds yet another great legacy to the growing list of genres and may even 
 be a crucial part of the upcoming (it is indeed coming) alternative revolution in gaming. Aside 
 from this the game has a lot of production value in that it has a lot of adjustable options, a 
 training mode, and a fancy Kirby look. The game has a lot of replay value as well. One can use 
 medals that they find in levels to purchase unlockables. These unlockables include songs, characters 
 and even levels. Thus Kirby: Canvas Curse is a game packed tightly with loads and loads of value 
 in all forms.
  
  Reviewers Tilt -- 10/10
  I love the game. It appeals to me for many reasons. I enjoy uniqueness in gameplay whenever I play 
 games, especially when it is implemented the right way. I also appreciate what it can do for gaming. 
 It creates a new genre and adds to the DSs growing library. I have always been a Nintendo fan 
 and despite many mistakes this year, I am proud to be a Nintendo fan yet again all because of the 
 excellence that is this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This should be noted first, that the entire game is played with the sylus. The only button that 
 is used, is to pause the game.
  
  That said, this is one of the best platformer games on the DS. The idea is innovative, you use 
 the stylus to control Kirby by painting rainbow paths. You can also use the stylus to boost kirby, 
 and stun enemies. It sounds complicated, but it extremely easy to learn, and almost seems like 
 second nature after just a few mins of playing!
  
  Although the music and sound is nothing revolutionary, the graphics are very nice, and have a wonderful 
 hand painted touch and distinct art style.
  
  There are a lot of levels in this game. The level layout design is wonderful. You will have nothing 
 but fun going through all the levels. There are mini games to unlock, and features to buy using 
 tokens that you find (there is one per level, and they are challenging to get, getting them all 
 is addicting) . The later levels become very challenging (world 7 in particular) . The levels are 
 filled with classic style, and new innovative platformer ideas. 
  
  This game is just plain fun. It's a wonderful platformer, just great. The addition of the innovative 
 stylus gameplay, is just another dimension to this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentalchaos28
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Kirby is by no means Nintendo's best selling franchise, nor is it the most popular. But what Kirby 
 games seem to excell at is posessing gameplay that affects your game in any other genre of games 
 for 30 minutes after you stop playing. Kirby: Canvas Curse is no exception.
  
  In the game you play as the pink puffball himself, Kirby. As the story goes, an evil witch named 
 Drawcia has turned Kirby into a sphere, thus losing the traditional walk and absorb enimies gameplay 
 of previous Kirby games. But, as is the case many games, your handicap becomes your weapon as you 
 headbutt enimies, while still absorbing some of their powers. However, your trump card in the game 
 is the magic paintbrush.
  
  Using the stylus, you must draw rainbows which Kirby uses to travel over obstacles, or as a shield 
 from traps and enemies. This makes the gameplay supremely fun and very unique, with numerous possibilities. 
 For example, if you draw a loop for Kirby to ride, he travels through the loop, and after completely 
 making the circle he gets a large burst of speed. You also use the stylus by tapping Kirby to make 
 him move faster fowr a couple seconds.
  
  But the masterful gameplay is well balanced by the genius level design, which shines by providing 
 fun obstacles and difficult puzzles to complete. Overall the game is just very fun.
  
  The graphics in the game are some of the sharpest I've ever seen on a handheld. It's just so clean, 
 colorful, and detailed that it makes the game well polished. And in the sound department it is 
 nearly without flaw, with simple but fun music. The sound effects even seem realistic, particularly 
 Kirby's balloon power-up. 
  
  Yet, the game has one major flaw, in it's overall value. You can literally beat the main 22 levels 
 one time through in 3-4 hours, so I strongly suggest you divide over 2 1/2 weeks (that's what I 
 did) . There is a "Rainbow Run" mode, where you play portions of levels in an attempt to get a low 
 time, or use the least possible rainbow paint. If you meet certain limits, you will win coins, 
 which you can trade in for bonus missions and sounds to listen to. There's also a Boss Battle mode 
 where you fight one of the games 3 bosses to choose from. Other than that and beating the game 
 again, not much draws you to play again, especially since most of these things are kind of boring. 
 But it doesn't hurt he game too much.
  
  If i had worked at Gamespot, I would have pulled to get this game a nomination for the best DS 
 game of 2005. The touch screen was a huge selling point for the DS and no game has really used 
 the stylus as well as Kirby: Canvas Curse. If you are a Kirby fan, a platforming fan/DS owner, 
 or a gamer waiting for a good stylus DS game, go get this game. If you are none of the above I 
 suggest you play it first, and then decide if you are gonna buy it.
  
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is one of those rare treasures that plays differently than any other game in 
 the platformer genre, but once you play it, you can clearly see why it's a classified platformer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Kirby; Canvas Curse is a very good game for the DS. You have to use more the stylus rather than 
 the controls on the DS! KCC may look like it isn't a worthy game but it is! :D. The graphics are 
 good for a DS game. The Interaction between you and the game (gameplay) is excellent. You draw a 
 path for Kirby to move on and so on (Not telling) . If you are fan of DS who wants to use the DS 
 stylus pen in a lot in an action game, then this game is for you! If you are thinking of buying 
 this game... DON'T think twice (that way we save some neuron cells) with on though we are fine! 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I was simply amazed by this game. It reminded my why I buy Nintendo products. 
  
  The implimentation of the touch screen and style of play are innovative and yet easy to pick up. 
 Even mastering the use of a line to guide a legless Kirby is a short lesson, and also the only 
 draw back that I found.
  
  The game could be a little longer or a little more difficult, but the addition of four unlockable 
 characters makes up for (most) of it.
  
  The real challenge of the game is getting all 250 red coins. It is not difficult to get enough 
 to unlock all of the options, but getting the last few is a real test of patiance and practice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryouninja
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  I really had a hard time the first time i played it but it got really good and i just beat it yesterday 
 and i loved the final boss because there is two forms and the soul part has really good grafix 
 and i did it over and over again it was pretty awsome. I also liked the different ink you could 
 use and the medals where cool little gifts and the mini bosses where from the other games where 
 neat. The best part the new balls at the end of the game they are so cool !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! But at 
 the end i really wish that there was a MOVIE that kirby goes back to dream land and you get to 
 play as kirby with legs lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3v0luti0n
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Ive always wondered what Kirby was or how was she... or he erm "It" created. I came to the conclusion 
 that someone at Nintendo's stepped on a piece of gum and realized that if it was thrown into a 
 game it would be a huge success. Well whatever way it was created im glad it was for the sake of 
 Kirby: Canvas Curse.
  A fun, unique game that can be enjoyed by anyone with hands and some time and patience. 
  
 
  Our favorite piece of pink bubble gum has been turned into a ball! So what better way to take 
 advantage of the Nintendo DS then eliminating the use of a D-Pad or any other buttons and making 
 Kirby only controllable with a magic wand that Nintendo calls your stylus. Basically to get Kirby 
 rolling on by you draw rainbows. Yes thats right! Rainbows!
  
  Gameplay- Nintendo was right touching is good! The gameplay here is very fun and entertaining but 
 as the game rolls on you can get frustrated with the increased difficulty. 
  But there are plenty of extras to unlock as you swap medals for prizes.
  
  Graphics- Ah yes 
 the graphics can only be described as gorgeous. The game is dripping in eye candy goodness as the 
 bright cheery 2D never cease to amaze. I never knew bubble gum can look this good =)
  
  Sound- Sound in a game sets the mood and aids to the visuals. Here it does just that! Happy music 
 for a happy looking game! But too much happy can become just sad and annoying. The sound is fine 
 but like i said. Annoying.
  
  Closing Comments- This is a fun DS game that anyone can enjoy, even if you prefer your Trident 
 Watermelon Twist with Xylitol over your average pink bubble gum! In the end they all taste just 
 as good:) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Canva's Curse: Kirby has gone through many game genres. He's been the star of pinball games, 
 platformer games, racing games, and now umm... drawing stuff to keep your character moving games... 
 Well I'm not exactly sure if that is a real genre, but it should be anyway and Kibry Canva's Curse 
 is the only game it would need. I haven't played a Kirby game this good since the SNES days, and 
 I'm not even sure if those were better then Kirby's latest DS outing. Well at least most of us 
 can agree that this is a fun game. The graphics look merely that of a Gameboy Advance game, but 
 if it was on the GBA it would look great. In fact it looks a little better than it would on the 
 GBA because on DS, it has way better backgrounds. The backgrounds alone is what saves the graphics 
 from being Gameboy quality. Kirby looks decent but not really groundbreaking at all, nor to the 
 enemies. The music is great but there is not much sound effects or any voice acting or anything 
 like that. The gameplay is excellent. Literally some of the best the DS has to offer. Playing this 
 game takes everything off your mind and makes you feel happy. It's got an easy learning curve, 
 so really any age can play it and no matter how old you are it's still very fun. In Canva's Curse 
 you just draw lines and manuever Kirby around. It's simple. What also surprised my about Canva's 
 Curse is its replayability. There are lots of levels to look through every nook and cranny of to 
 find every medal and extra and minigame in the game. Lots to do.
  
  Verdict: Fun. Fun. Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcartman3722
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  In Kirby: Canvas Curse you play as kirby. The little pink blob like character. In this game, Kirby 
 is turned into a ball by an evil whitch and she turns his environment into a painting like structure. 
 The point of the game is to navigate through levels using ONLY the stylus to create lines that 
 Kirby rides. Once you get used to it, the theme of the game is actually very unique and fun. Even 
 thought this is a fun game, it has it's bad points. You will find the game to be somewhat repetitive 
 in gameplay. The game only has about 4 bosses which is a total let down, considering the fact that 
 there are only 7 levels. The game even makes you play some bosses twice just on harder difficulties. 
 Even though it seems somewhat repetitive, it would be really nice is Nintendo made another Kirby 
 game similar to this and added more features
  
  Overview
  
  Goods: 
  -Uses the DS' features best out of any game on the system.
  -Fun gameplay for the most part.
 
  -Most unique game available.
  -Nice and colorfull levels.
  
  Bads:
  -Gameplay gets somewhat repeptitive after a few hours.
  -Not enough bosses!
  -Great game, but 
 way to short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainbowBrite
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  As a general rule, I do not like platformers. I get way too jumpy in the midst of the action, and 
 frustrated when I can't pass a level. The only platform games I had ever enjoyed up to this point 
 were Super Mario Bros 1 & 3, and the first 3 Sonic games. However, Kirby: Canvas Curse is so fun 
 that it makes me want to reconsider the platform genre!
  
  The novel play mechanism is an absolute delight. Drawing lines to let Kirby roll along just seems 
 so intuitive. In addition, you're tapping enemies to stun them, tapping switches to activate them, 
 and even tapping Kirby himself to dash, or usurp an enemy's ability! And since the lines you draw 
 have an "escalator" effect, you don't have to get Kirby going very fast to go up an incline. And, 
 if you draw a loop-the-loop, Kirby gains speed as he rolls it.
  
  The game does remind me a bit of the Sonic series, but much slower - and that's a good thing. The 
 dizzying speed of Sonic would have made it too hard to draw the lines to navigate Kirby. 
  
  Another rarity is a great soundtrack. Personally speaking, I play most of my handheld games 
 with the volume all the way down. Most of the soundtracks just annoy me. I don't know exactly what 
 it is, but Canvas Curse seems even more fun with the volume up! The music and effects are great.
 
  
  When I start playing this game, it's easy for me to lose track of time. It bears repeating: I have 
 not had this much fun with a platformer since Super Mario Bros. days! Even if you don't like platformers, 
 you will enjoy Kirby: Canvas Curse. It's definitely a must-play, and another title that wonderfully 
 shows off the DS's touch screen ability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorecs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game seemed realy weird at first but once you get into level 2 it realy starts getting fun! I 
 dont think its as good of a ds game as marioandluigi partners in time but its a fun game! the idea 
 is kirby is turned into a ball bye an eveil witch named drawcia. So the game is basicly draw lines 
 and things for kirby to ride on like a roller coaster! The only bad thing is it gets boring kinda 
 quick like after you complete 2 or three levels you feel like taken a 3 hour brake then playing 
 again but over all the game is a fun idea! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yinyang610
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse makes great use out of the stylus. Other games such as Tony Hawk's American 
 Sk8land, Mario Bros. Partners in time, and even Mario Kart DS somewhat ignore the privleges of 
 the touch screen. Don't get me wrong, those all are excellent games, but Kirby knows better than 
 to pass the stylus by. This game is devoted to touching the screen. I mean, that's the only way 
 you can play Kirby Canvas Curse.
  
  This is a game that you can't beat within a month and let it start collecting dust in your DS bag. 
 Oh no, this might take over a few years to beat! You need to beat and collect all of the medals 
 in every land, and in every course in Rainbow Run (time trial and line trial) .
  
  I have a taste for art (and Kirby) and if you do too, you will like this game for sure! That's 
 basically all you do. On the other hand, if you get frustrated easily, this game may not be for 
 you. Kirby Canvas Curse requires a LOT of patience. I'm very into this game and I don't see too 
 many reasons why anyone else shouldn't be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarsier888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good, I beat it in 5 hours and 10 minutes of straight gaming, and then i realised 
 that at the top of the screen it said something ike "4% complete". There is quite a bit of stuff 
 to do, and it is pretty fun. You couldnt find anything else like it on any other console but a 
 huge problem I had with it was the difficulty. It starts out easy, and then eventually the gameplay 
 just starts to screw you around. At some parts it really doesnt matter how much skill you have, 
 because some parts are almost impossible to get by. I remember getting quite frustrated at times 
 because I knew that there was no way I could have avoided dying. Sometimes it is just timing.
 
  
  You need to be very very skilled, and very very fast with the stylus in order to beat this game. 
 It is very difficult at times in my opinion. 
  
  I think it is a great change and it is something new, I really enjoyed this game, and I am sure 
 that you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  At first glance this game looks like it could die very eraly. The concept seems gimmicky and the 
 fact that it stars Kirby (a. k. a. the pink testicle) means it could fall at the first hurdle.
  
  Fortunatley the designers of this game thought "NO, we will not make Kirby crap again, we will 
 try and try to make this game good". And it seems as though this trying payed off.
  
  The concept of this game is simple, you make platforms for Kirby to roll along. The direction you 
 put them changes the direection they drag him (like a conveyor belt so he can go uphill) , tapping 
 kirby makes him attack and speed up. Doing loops also makes him speed up and looks cool. Even his 
 trademark "stealing ability" moves are back. You can use ICE, FIRE, 2 LIGHTNING moves, SPIKEY, 
 ROCKET, ROCK, BALLOON, WHEEL and BOMB................ I think that is it.
  
  So it is looking good, the concept is there now it just has to show everyone it is not a gimmick.
 
  
  And yes it proves that. The levels are varied, they look brilliant, enemies are colourfull, there 
 are a lot of side things to keep you occupied and multiple characters.
  
  In short this game is FUN, nothing more and nothing less. It shows off the touch screen in new 
 ways and doesn't care that the lead character looks more like a mans reproductive organ than ever 
 (thenks to him being hand and feet less) . You will not be dissapointed by this game. KIRBY is back. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishamuffypuppy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful game design, innovative, nice amount of content, beautifully drawn worlds, 
 has plenty of the same Kirby flare.
  
  The Bad: Some levels are too short, boss levels can get repetitive. Introduction: Kirby Canvas 
 Curse, a Nintendo DS game that completely takes advantage of the DS's Stylus- although this time 
 the pink little blob known as Kirby is a ball instead of a pancake with large feet. But really 
 this game was in fact, the start of the time when some really good titles starting making there 
 way unto the Nintendo DS; and this game happens to be one of them. This game may even be the best 
 Kirby game ever made. The game uses only the Stylus, and no buttons are used whatsoever. This game 
 is known to be completely original, and some think it has relations to Yoshi's Touch and Go, but 
 it is very different. In fact, this game is so different that one may want to check this one out 
 to experience it.
  
  Story: For the most part, this game has a pretty corny story overall, but its a story nevertheless. 
 Basically, there is an evil witch that has entered the land of Dreamland. She causes terror and 
 evil and sparks horror in the eyes of all of Dreamlands disgustingly cute creatures. So Kirby, 
 the savior and guardian of Dreamland, ventures out to stop her. But he is then transformed into 
 a sphere, and does not have direct control over his movements. The witch the turns Dreamland into 
 a painting, and is now a two dimensional land of.... well... paint. But Kirby does succeed, and 
 steals her Magic Paintbrush (A. K. A. Stylus) , and you are appointed as his guardian to help Kirby 
 stop the evil witch, by directing his movements in whatever way possible.
  
  Graphics: I personally believe this game to have some of the most beautiful 2D graphics I have 
 ever seen. Everything is extremely colorful, and there smooth animations. The rainbow effects, 
 or paths you draw with the Stylus, are engaging and eye appealing. This game is glory to look at.
 
  
  Sound: Ok, the sound in this game is actually pretty good. There are many sound effects that occur 
 throughout the game, with tunes in every worlds you travel as well. There is even a Sound Room 
 in which you can use to listen to the different tunes from past Kirby Games, as well as this one. 
 However, some songs sound a bit.... outdated in some ways, but are somewhat meant to be that way. 
 As well as that, the songs are a bit too happy, and somewhat is a bit scary to listen to.
  
  Gameplay: Wow, this game is extremely engaging and innovative. You use the stylus to control 
 all of Kirby's animations and moves, and it is very very addictive. You can tap Kirby, and he will 
 roll faster., but mainly your objective is to draw a path in which Kirby must travel upon. The 
 path is done with an Ink Meter, in which you use to keep an eye on how much paint you have left. 
 The Ink, when it runs out, will replenish over time, but can land you in a situation where it will 
 be needed so best not to waste it. It recovers quite quickly actually, and it even recovers quicker 
 when you are on solid ground as opposed to the air (on a rainbow path) . As with the rainbow paths, 
 there are many techniques you can learn by which to improve your skill and help you succeed in 
 the game. For example, you can draw a loop and Kirby (when he reaches into the loop) , travel much 
 faster and get a little speed boost. As well, you need to draw rainbow paths to block enemy attacks 
 from things such as lasers or enemy fire. But one thing to keep in mind, is that Kirby always rolls 
 in one direction. He can be stopped however, if he lands into something solid (but not an enemy) . 
 So you can either let his roll into a wall that is usually a distance away, or just draw a small 
 rainbow path in his way in which he will hit and head towards the opposite direction. It is actually 
 quite easy to learn, and is engaging once you do learn it. Now a Kirby game wouldn't be a Kirby 
 game if you couldn't control you characters abilities now would it? Well, there are many different 
 abilities that Kirby can (temporarily, but not time limited) obtain. You can do this by striking 
 an enemy by tapping on him with your stylus. The enemy will be stunned, and then Kirby must attack 
 the enemy by ramming into it; he will then obtain the enemies ability, and the enemy will be destroyed. 
 You can use different things, such as turn into a Rocket, a Fireball, or even control Lightning. 
 It is very fun to use, and there are plenty of power ups you can experiment with. Of course, if 
 you don't want the power up, you can discard it by touching an icon on the screen. Now another 
 thing in Kirby Canvas Curse is the boss battles. You will have a choice of battling three different 
 bosses at the end of each world. The bosses are the same for every level, but they are usually 
 on a harder difficulty (unless you haven't battled that particular boss before) . But these bosses 
 seem more like a mini game rather than battles. One game you try and draw the symbols that the 
 boss creates, and another is when you race a boss to the finish with just the Stylus. All of these 
 boss mini games are quite entertaining, but they could have had more boss battles to choose from. 
 Either way, it can be a nice break from the normal game. In Kirby Canvas Curse, they also have 
 a Rainbow Run mode. There you have what is called a Time Trial and a Line Trial. In Time Trial, 
 you try and get to the end of the level in the fastest time. In Line Trial, you try and get to 
 the end of the level by using the least amount of ink as you possibly can. If you succeed , and 
 beat one of the three High Scores, you are awarded a medal, which is now to be explained. The last 
 feature in which I will discuss in Kirby Canvas Curse is the medals. In each level, there are three 
 medals (and three levels in each of the eight worlds) , and you can then collect the medals;. You 
 then can use the medals to unlock different specials, such as new themes, Rainbow Paths, or even 
 some health in which will make Kirby live longer in the main game. It really adds to the gameplay, 
 and will keep you coming back for more.
  
  Value: Kirby Canvas Curse truly is one of the better Nintendo DS titles. It is very addictive and 
 innovative, and will last you for quite a while if you are the type in collecting things (which 
 is not difficult by the way) . Some of these levels can become quite challenging and others seem 
 a bit easy. The bosses are fun, and they add to the game. The only thing missing in Kirby CC would 
 probably be a Multiplayer Mode, which would add a lot to the game. But in the end, this is one 
 of the better DS games, and one you should definitely check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDaggerz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Controls: This enjoyable new Kirby games reinvents the series with suprisingly wonderful 
 results. You control the game with the stylus only drawing lines for Kirby to ride on. If you've 
 played Yoshi: Touch & Go you might be familiar to this control type. But, don't compare this to 
 Yoshi: Touch & Go, it FAR surpasses that game. Kirby rides on these lines to go from platform to 
 platform with suprising ease. You'll find yourself tapping lights in the dark, swimming, and solving 
 puzzles all with your stylus. You tap enemies to stun them then run into them to kill them or even 
 grab their powers. The game is only about 5 hours long but it provides TONS of unlockables, extra 
 stages, music tracks, and other fun things to collect, keeping the game interesting and fun even 
 after you've beaten it.
  
  Graphics/Sound: The game looks and sounds smooth. It's 2D look is polished and the frame rate always 
 is steady. The colors are vibrant on every level and the game has catchy tunes and good sound effects. 
 There are even unlockable tunes!
  
  Characters/Levels: The levels are what truly highlight the game, the real focus. They each have 
 their own theme and look making each unique. They levels have no flaws and their design is perfect. 
 They are creative and a complete joy to play through! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nolsinkler
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This game has been insulted for being kiddy. To tell you the truth, when I first caught wind of 
 this game, I thought it sounded stupid. But times change, and I bought this game. Its purchase 
 is well-warranted. Kirby: Canvas Curse is a game for the DS combining innovative use of the touchscreen 
 with great gameplay. Kirby, the round, pink main character, has been turned into a ball by an evil 
 witch. Unsurprisingly, it's up to you to guide him to safety. You do this using the stylus alone.
 
  
  The stylus serves as a paintbrush, drawing rainbow lines that guide Kirby in the direction that 
 the line is drawn. Your paint allows you to do this; you have a limited amount of paint, so you 
 can't draw forever. Your paint slowly replenishes over time, and replenishes quickly on the ground. 
 Rainbow lines are your main form of control. By touching Kirby, he will perform a dash attack, 
 or a special ability acquired by defeating an enemy. Killing enemies is done by dashing into them, 
 or by stunning them with the tap of a stylus and running into them. It is a fairly simple process 
 that can become complicated when several enemies are on the screen.
  
  However, this process works like a charm. Moving kirby, performing special attacks, and defeating 
 enemies are the main point of the game. No buttons are used in this game (except the start button, 
 to pause the game) , so the game is easy to pick up and play. There are over massive stages, and 
 some of the levels may take you over 10 tries to complete. Kirby will get frustrating at times, 
 but so does any game. Sure, Kirby has a few problems, such as getting stuck against walls for short 
 period of time. But this is more than made up for by fantastic design and execution.
  
  Still, any game is all about the gameplay. And Kirby: Canvas Curse excells in this department.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 (wonderful controls, great ideas. few small problems)
  
  For being a 2D "platformer", Kirby looks great. Every stage looks like a painting, with detailed, 
 beautiful backgrounds. And there is a rich variety of colors. The graphics are top-notch here. 
 I never experienced drops in frame-rate, slowdown, etc. I really don't have any complaints here. 
 I would often find myself staring into the background while playing.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 (truly awe-inspiring)
  
  The game really doesn't have that impressive of sounds. 
 Nothing innovative like the gameplay, or wonderful like the graphics pops up here. The music is 
 oftentimes boring. Still, there are a wide variety of sounds, and each level has a unique soundtrack, 
 so it deserves an average score.
  
  Sound: 7/10 (Meh)
  
  This game will last you 5-10 hours probably, and much more if you are concerned with unlockables 
 and every aspect of gameplay. However, there isn't enough meat to the adventure to keep you occupied 
 for too long.
  
  Value: 7/10
  
  Tilt: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Kirby canvas curse is a game un-like any other. No other game is as innovative with the touch screen. 
 It's all about moving your stylus in the right direction ofr Kirby to go before your out of ink. 
 It's pretty short, but this is one of the better DS games.
  
  Kirby canvas curse has Kirby going up against lots of baddies in Kirby canvas curse. The story 
 is somewhat boring, mainly about an old witch who turned Kirby into a ball and thrown into a painting. 
 You then have to move Kirby around with the stylus. Although it's a pretty simple game. There are 
 some twists, such as how you get special powers. This is some of the most innovative platforming 
 ever.
  
  Kirby canvas curse has some pretty great graphics. Although it's not to complicated, there is quite 
 a bit of action on screen and the framerate never drops, this is some sprite, colorful graphics. 
 The sound is equally great, music is brought along for each level and the music is different for 
 each level. The bad news is that there isn't to much voice acting and at times the music can just 
 fade into the background, but it's still impressive nevertheless.
  
  Although the top screen isn't really used, except to show you a simple map of where to go, to advance 
 to the next level, the buttons aren't used at all. This is a game where you use nothing but the 
 stylus, and although other games have attempted this, Kirby canvas curse is very effective. Mainly 
 because you don't have to just touch stuff with your stylus, you have to actually use lines and 
 move Kirby around completely with the stlylus. The good news is that it's very innovative and points 
 a great new direction for DS games, but bad news is that it doesn't last long. Although the game 
 has tons of unlockables and a fair amount of replay value in the campaign, it's over in about 4-5 
 hours.
  
  Kirby canvas curse isn't the flashiest DS game around, but the use of the stylus and the innovation 
 is really something that you have to experience to enjoy. This is a fantastic DS game and one of 
 the better games on any system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wezdog564
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  Past Kirby games have been average and so-so, but Kirby: Canvas Curse is possibly the greatest 
 Kirby game ever made. The story is simple. An evil witch tries to take over Dreamland by turning 
 everything into a painting and Kirby into a ball, but as she leaves, she drops her magic paintbrush 
 which allows Kirby to draw lines to get through the game. So lets get on with this review. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very very good. You use the stylus to draw lines to guide Kirby throughout 
 the game. You can draw a vertical line in front of him to make him go in the opposite direction, 
 or make hills to take him to higher levels. By tapping him you get a speed boost kind of thing 
 which can defeat some enemies. Tap enemies and do this to gain their ability and tap Kirby to use 
 that ability. The gameplay can get frustrating at times but it is still wonderful. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Kirby has always had bright, cartoony graphics, and this game is no different. The charcters 
 look well done and the levels are designed pretty good as well. The graphics are not mind blowing, 
 but they are cartoony and bright. 8/10
  
  Sound: Kirby always has nice kiddy sounding music and continues this in CC. There is not any voice 
 over for what little talking goes on in the game, but the sound effects music make up for it by 
 fitting to the level and what you are doing . 8/10
  
  Value: With 6 playable charcters with different attributes, hidden items, and minigames, this game 
 is worth several play throughs. Ive beat it with each character and I still play it. there is TONS 
 of fun to be had with this game. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Double_Zeta
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This is one of the most original games I've played in a while.
  
  The gameplay of Kirby: CC revolves around using the touch screen to propel Kirby through the levels, 
 stun enemies, destroy blocks, basically... the whole game revolves around the touch screen. You 
 only need one hand!
  
  It's the full use of the touch screen that makes for some addictive, and unique gameplay. This 
 game was the catalyst for the many awesome DS titles that came after it.
  
  The sound... man, Nintendo knows how to make some nice, relaxing music. That's all I can say.
 
  
  Graphics? Colorful is the word. Really captures the style of Kirby.
  
  Replay value? Well, you might stop after finishing it once, but it certainly is unique enough that 
 you just might want to play it again.
  
  Overall: 9.7
  
  This is a truly unique and inventive game, and one that shows that Nintendo lives up to their word 
 of, "Owning the handheld market.", because with games like these, they sure do.
  
  Oh, and did I mention Kirby is just so goshdarn cute? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlabre02
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Recently, there have been many very good games coming out for the DS, and I would have to say that 
 this is my favorite of all of them. The thing of this game is that it uses almost all of the features 
 of the Nintendo DS, and it uses them in such a way that never gets old.
  
  The concept to Kirby: Canvas Curse is something that would only ever work on the DS, and it does 
 not feel odd to do it. If you havn't already realized, you use the stylus to draw lines that Kirby 
 can ride on and get across gaps. You can draw loopty loops and ramps, and then touch Kirby to make 
 him boost into the enemy. If cannons are being shot out of the wall, simply draw a line to block 
 them from hitting Kirby. While this style of gameplay is very different than anything else, it 
 just never gets old.
  
  The graphics to this game look amazing given that it is a 2-d game. The backgrounds are different 
 on every level, and all of the enemies look great too.
  
  The sound, I would say, is something that stands out in this game. There are many of the old, classic 
 tunes, as well as some nicely put together new ones. The sound effects all sound just as you would 
 expect them too, and all fit perfectly into the game. 
  
  Another thing that stands out in this game is how much there is to do. In story mode you will have 
 to get Kirby through many stages, and will find medals as you go. Each level contains 3 medals, 
 and you will be able to use the medals that you get to buy things like more health, different line 
 styles, and even new characters. There are a total of four characters to play as, and each of them 
 has different attributes. Playing through story mode with all four of the characters will take 
 a long time, though it is only a small part of this game. You will also be able to play challenges 
 for all levels, in order to collect more medals to buy stuff. Each stage has a line test and a 
 speed run. In the line test, you get through a certain part of the level with only a certain amount 
 of ink. In speed run, you must get through a section of that level as fast as you can. Both of 
 these work very well. There is also line test and speed run on the bonus power levels, which are 
 levels that you play through using one of the powers that Kirby obtained.
  
  All in all, I would truly recommend this game to anyone, fan or not. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPG10080
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Kirby games have always offered new, exciting ways to play. Whether tilting your Gameboy in Kirby: 
 Tilt 'n Tumble, or copying enemies in... well every Kirby game, this series always offers something 
 new. This time, you use the DS stylus to guide, protect, and activate powers for Kirby.
  
  The story in Kirby: Canvas Curse is this; an evil witch has cast a spell on Dreamland, and now 
 everthing is like a painting. Kirby pursues the witch, but she escapes before he can stop her. 
 Furious about what has happened, Kirby sets out to return Dreamland to its original state. The 
 only flaw in the story is that it is nearly non-exsistant. The only times that you'll ever even 
 see it is at the beggining and end of the game. Not that this is a problem, Kirby games rarely 
 have much of a story, and its good to see Hal and Nintendo sticking to the same formula.
  
  The graphics in this game are enjoyable, and fun to look at. The painting-like artwork fits perfectly 
 with the game's story, and make the game that much more enjoyable.
  
  The sound is light and enoyable, and the music is fun to listen to. While nothing too great, its 
 really all that is needed.
  
  Now for the heart and core of a game, the gameplay. As I stated earlier, Kirby games are innovative, 
 and create a fun, new gaming experiance. You don't actually control Kirby in this game, instead 
 you guide him by "painting" (drawing) lines on the DS touch-screen, while he follows as best as 
 he can. There is a limit on how much you can draw at a certain time, and if you run out, you'll 
 have to wait for the paint-meter to refill. This can cause problems in areas that require lots 
 of painting, so you have to manage your supply wisely. 
  
  The stylus is also used to; protect Kirby from enemy attacks, push Kirby underwater, stun enemies 
 so that Kirby can defeat them and steal their powers, and block wind from pushing him off the screen.
 
  
  The areas in Kirby: Canvas Curse are divided into three levels, each with three parts. Hidden in 
 each of these levels are three different bronze coins that can be used to purchase items from the 
 in-game store availiable on the main menu. Unlockables include evrything from a sound test to new 
 characters. There are 250 bronze coins hidden in the game, and its no easy task collecting them. 
 They are what make Kirby: Canvas Curse worth coming back to over and over again.
  
  There are 2 alternate modes in Kirby: Canvas Curse, rainbow Run, and Sub-Games. In Rainbow Run, 
 you replay selections of levels trying to use only a certain amount of paint, or trying to beat 
 a time limit, bronze coins are awarded based on your performance. In Sub-Games, you can replay 
 each of the three bosses that you'll find in Kirby: Canvas Curse, you can also earn bronze coins 
 here.
  
  All in all, Kirby: Canvas Curse is a great game for those who enjoy getting that 100% completion 
 in games. While often dismissed as a "kiddy game", it is a great alternative to the serious attiitude 
 this gen of games has created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KirbyDude91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I have always love the Kirby games. I have been playing them for more than 10 years. They continue 
 to impress me more with each iteration. Kirby's first DS adventure proves to be one of the best 
 games on the platform.
  
  Kirby's graphics aren't technically great. This game probably could have been done on the GBA. 
 But art direction is fantastic. Each world has its own unique look and feel. From the candy coated 
 forests to the spooky woods, everything feels great. The visuals aren't about to win an award, 
 but their fun and cool enough to keep you entertain.
  
  Kirby's audio is in the same boat as the graphics. They aren't technically good, but its all well 
 written and catchy. Its probably the best midi music you can find out there. As a bonus, you can 
 unlock some tracks that are from early Kirby titles. The sound effects are excellent as well. Its 
 not soundtrack of the year, but its catchy and makes you feel... well... happy.
  
  Canvas Curse's gameplay is the real star of the game. Here's the deal, you draw lines to move Kirby (who's 
 a ball) through each level. it's very similar to Yoshi Touch and Go, except it actually is fun 
 and innovative. Drawing lines and moving kirby is very simple and easy to get into. There are also 
 many abilities that Kirby can copy. From missile to rock, there easy and fun to use. Yet, the main 
 focus of the game is the manuvering through levels. There are also three simple and fun minigames 
 that add replay value to the game.
  
  What amazed me most was how long it took me to get 100% completion. At around 27 hours, i beat 
 it. This game won't be in your DS forever, but it will be in their for a long time.
  
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a must buy. It fun, simple, and first game to truly utilize the touch screen. 
 You'll be surprise how much you'll love this game. If you haven't played it yet, get in your car 
 right now and drive right to your local game retailer and buy this game. It's that good!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbrisevac
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  The reason I say you'd want to hide it when anybody comes to visit, is because you'll never get 
 the DS off them during the visit!
  
  Kirby Canvas Curse is a somewhat unique game, that involves using the touch screen for controls, 
 and only the touch screen. The story is that Kirby has been turned into a ball by a witch, and 
 that you have to help him through all the colourful levels by stunning enemys by tapping them, 
 drawing rainbow 'escalators' to get from one platform to another, blocking harmful objects with 
 a rainbow line and there are other things, but i dont want to give them away too much.
  
  The graphics for a 2D game are some of the best I've seen, the worlds are just so colourful. The 
 worlds are well-designed, though a few obstacles may be just too hard for many's liking. There 
 is much variety in levels, which is great, but I think there could have been a bigger percentage 
 of the game based on finished levels, not collecting medals.
  
  Rainbow Run and SubGames are fun when you are bored, though one feels that they aren't anything 
 special. The tunes and sound effects are very clear in this game, its one of those games on a nintendo 
 handheld that you actually want the sound to be turned up on.
  
  There are also backgrounds to all the levels, adding to the already wonderful scenery. All of the 
 backgrounds suit the worlds/levels.
  
  Kirby Canvas Curse would have to be the best 'touch' game on the DS, and a great, well you could 
 call it a starter game for newcomers to the DS. It is very easy to adapt to, though it gets much 
 harder as the game goes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Kirby, excluding that terrible 64 title, he has been one of the strongest 
 images that Nintendo has ever produced. Now that the DS has reached fruition with creative games 
 that actually use the touch screen, here comes Kirby to reinvent gaming AGAIN! So here is the review!
 
  
  GAMEPLAY ~
  Though innovating, it's so hard to actually catch on to this title, because using that stylus is 
 a new experience. Once you catch on thought it is a well crafted game with alot to offer to those 
 just learning the DS. You use the stylus ONLY! No D-pad, no A, B, X, Y, R, L, nothing but the stylus, 
 the start button and the power button when you had enough for one day. You are Kirby, but you have 
 no legs or arms, you just roll forever. So you have to use the stylus to move him about and protect 
 him for the world around him. You still absorb powers, but first you gotta hit the enemies and 
 stun em with the stylus and than roll into em to POWER-UP! You also get to collect medals to purchase 
 other style lines, songs for the player and extra health bars!
  
  STORY ~
  Kirby gets turned into a ball, and now he's gotta travel to destroy that witch which did him wrong!
 
  
  GRAPHICS ~
  They look like graphics from the 16bit era. Which makes them top notch. Kirby is Kirby, it never 
 really changes. The stages are very small, so the graphics look great in smaller bursts! So enjoy 
 em while they last! The DS doesnt seem to hold many gems outside the official Nintendo releases.
 
  
  SOUND ~
  The FX are basically the same in every Kirby game, which is superior. The music is classic Kirby, 
 and they even seem to REMIX some of the original tracks from the series. Good, but the nostalgia 
 is gone, yet maybe... MAYBE... it's for the best. Out with the old, in with the new... just get 
 over it!
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  There isn't too much to this title after its over. Yeah collecting Medal's is fun. And the speed 
 course is entertaining, but once it's done, it's done, sorry!
  
  OVERALL ~
  Again, this is a title any DS owner should have in their collection. Hands down, the best game 
 for the DS to date!
  
  Go pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshinator64
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  In this Kirby game Kirby losses his abilty to use his arms and legs thanks to a wich. So Kirby gives 
 you the power to use a Magical (rainbow) paint brush AKA your stlyus.
  
  Nintendo or Hal or whoever makes the kirby games now, made good use of the touch screen. like tap 
 an enemy to stun him then tap kirby to dash then tap switches to open gates lot of stuff like that.
 
  
  Sometimes the game can get hard like when you have one little block of health left and you make 
 Kirby spin a little early and then he dies cuz he touched him.. yeah..
  
  you can also play as other characters like Waddle Dee, King D. D. D., Meta Knight. every game play 
 is different people with different abbilties so it dosen 't get boring.
  
  and if you loved that old kirby music (com on i know you do) you can play the classics with sound 
 test after getting some with "Kirby Coins" or whatever they are called.
  
  i love this game if you like Kirby or Nintendo you might want to pick this up. 
  I give Kirby: 
 Canvs Curse a 9.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse has lived up to all of the other Kirby games on the NES to the SNES, although 
 this game has different gameplay from the rest I am sure that any Kirby fan would enjoy this game. 
 Kirby: CC has brought back all of the copy abilities from the retro games and brought it back to 
 life, its graphics are rich and colorful, its music and sound are great and go along with each 
 level. It's difficulty is easy but quite puzzling at times, each boss gives you different challenges 
 and can be quite entertaining to beat them at their own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse is a pretty fun game. It uses the touch screen to its full extent, and provides 
 an interesting story which you can get involved in quickly. Its gameplay is perfect, and almost, 
 kinda unique. Graphics are 2D, and I think they need a little bit of 3D in the backgrounds, but 
 HEY I didn't design the game. Its sound meets standards, but is actually a little better if you 
 think about it. Part of the game has to do with collecting medals. Medals let you purchase new 
 things, like a different colored line when you draw it with your stylus, or a different character. 
 But... once you collect all of the medals on the EASY levels, the Hard levels start to get annoying. 
 The medals become way to tricky to get, which results in a person probably quiting. Otherwise, 
 Kirby Canvas Curse provides solid gameplay, and a game that can be easily recommended to those 
 who don't like Kirby that much. This game is almost guaranteed to change their minds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duerdest
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  At first glance this game looks like it could die very eraly. The concept seems gimmicky and the 
 fact that it stars Kirby (a. k. a. the pink testicle) means it could fall at the first hurdle.
  
  Fortunatley the designers of this game thought "NO, we will not make Kirby crap again, we will 
 try and try to make this game good". And it seems as though this trying payed off.
  
  The concept of this game is simple, you make platforms for Kirby to roll along. The direction you 
 put them changes the direection they drag him (like a conveyor belt so he can go uphill) , tapping 
 kirby makes him attack and speed up. Doing loops also makes him speed up and looks cool. Even his 
 trademark "stealing ability" moves are back. You can use ICE, FIRE, 2 LIGHTNING moves, SPIKEY, 
 ROCKET, ROCK, BALLOON, WHEEL and BOMB................ I think that is it.
  
  So it is looking good, the concept is there now it just has to show everyone it is not a gimmick.
 
  
  And yes it proves that. The levels are varied, they look brilliant, enemies are colourfull, there 
 are a lot of side things to keep you occupied and multiple characters.
  
  In short this game is FUN, nothing more and nothing less. It shows off the touch screen in new 
 ways and doesn't care that the lead character looks more like a mans reproductive organ than ever 
 (thenks to him being hand and feet less) . You will not be dissapointed by this game. KIRBY is back. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  
  When you first turn on the game, something great happens. It asks which file you'd like to use. 
 Why is this good? A game is always better if more than one person can play it and what better way 
 then have different files?
  
  Moving on to the main game, once you get past the Title Screen you get to the Main Menu. You'll 
 find four options: Main Game, Rainbow Run, Subgames, and Medal Swap. If you don't own this game 
 you probably don't know what these are so I'll now explain them.
  
  
  Main Game
  
  As the name suggests, this is the story mode. The story is that an evil Witch turns the world into 
 a painting and in the process, Kirby loses his legs and arms. So for the second time, Kirby is 
 now in ball form. Kirby has to go through 8 levels with 3 stages in each level.
  
  Now, the Kirby series is known to be short and easy. Though it is only a four hour game, it does 
 have much replay value (check out the other modes) which you could be spending many more hours 
 playing the game. Also, the game is much more difficult than other Kirby games. In some times it 
 may be frustrating, but other than that it has a pretty good level of difficulty that climbs as 
 you progress through the game.
  
  This game is much like Yoshi Touch and Go. Instead of controlling Kirby directly, you control the 
 environment. When Kirby is transformed into Ball Kirby, the Witch drops her magical paintbrush. 
 You control the paintbrush to paint a magical rainbow road for Kirby to travel in. If there is 
 a huge gap you need to cross, you simply draw a road. Also, the only way for Kirby to change direction 
 is if he runs into a wall. Draw a wall in front of Kirby and he'll change direction. If you draw 
 a loop path, Kirby will run through the loop at a much higher speed.
  
  
  
  If you draw a loop for Kirby to go through, his speed will increase dramatically.
  
  If you 
 tap Kirby his speed will also increase. There are plenty of enemies in the game where if you tap 
 them, they'll be stunned. You'll have to quickly draw a path to run into them to kill them. Some 
 carry an ability for Kirby to copy. To use an ability recieved by killing certain enemies simply 
 tap Kirby. Abilities go from Balloon, to Wheel, to Spike, to many other different things. To get 
 rid of an ability you simply tap the name of the ability in the bottom left corner.
  
  The DS does have a second screen, but it is mainly used for stats and a map. Nothing much. You 
 won't be looking up there too much since all of the action is on the bottom screen. The action 
 can be very fast-paced so you won't be looking up there that often at all.
  
  One thing I don't like about the game is that you are very limited to how much road you can draw. 
 You have an ink meter, but it depletes much too fast. If you're going over a really large gap, 
 you'll find your ink meter running out and having to make desperate tiny straps to try and make 
 it past. I've died countless times due to running out of ink and it just isn't fun.
  
  
  
  Here, an enemy with the beam ability is attacking Kirby with it. Also, the player has drawn 
 a wall for Kirby to run into to change Kirby's direction.
  
  The levels are designed extremely well. Each level has its own theme (volcano, ice, wind, etc.) 
 and each stage adds a new twist. There could be cannons all over the place, you could have to stay 
 on a platform and wait for it to move, or adds new enemies. I don't see any problems with the levels. 
 They aren't repetitive, they are fun, they'll have you going around, sometimes even searching for 
 a switch to open up a new area in the level.
  
  After each three stages you get to choose which boss you get to face. You can either race against 
 King Dedede, battle with Kracko, or have a speed-drawing contest with Paint Roller. You can only 
 face a boss twice and the second time gets harder. After the second time you can play the boss 
 game in Subgames. The boss battles are plenty of fun. They feel like mini-games, but is that a 
 bad thing? They are clever and have not been seen on the DS yet.
  
  
  
  To refill your Health Bar you'll need to either collect a Maxim Tomato or a Bottle. You start off 
 with only 4 bars of health but it can increase later on in the game.
  
  
  
  Subgames
  
  When you beat a boss for the second time, the boss battle can be played in Subgames. Here you 
 can choose Level 1, 2, or 3 and you try to get the highest score you can. It then gives you a rating 
 scale ranging from J to AAA.
  
  When I said this game was hard before, I meant it. Getting the AA rank in a Level 3 game is hard 
 to near impossible. I have a AAA rank, but only in a level 2 game. By picking up this game and 
 trying to get a hard score, it'll be hard to resist posting your high scores.
  
  With the subgames, it almost replaces Yoshi Touch and Go. Touch and Go is all about trying to get 
 high scores, but this game has that and much more. If you liked Touch and Go, but wished it had 
 a story and more to it, this game is absolutely perfect for you.
  
  
  
  Here, you'll find Kirby being launched out of a large cannon. He'll blast through enemies, rocks, 
 locks and everything else until he hits a wall.
  
  
  
  Rainbow Run
  
  When you beat a level, it is playable in Rainbow Run. Here you can to either a Time Trial or Line 
 Trial. Time trial is getting past part of a stage as fast as you can. Line Trial is going through 
 a part of a stage with using as little bit of road as you can. Line Trial is extremely hard and 
 you'll be finding yourself hunched over in the corner with your DS trying to beat those scores.
 
  
  By getting high scores in Time and Line trial, you'll be rewarded with Medals. Also, three medals 
 are hidden in every stage in the game. Medals can be exchanged for prizes in Medal Swap. Read on 
 to see what Medal Swap is.
  
  Rainbow Run adds a lot more to the game. When you've beaten the Main Game mode, you're only 20% 
 done with the game. 79% of the game is inside Rainbow Run. So if you really want to beat the game, 
 you'll have to do a lot of training in Rainbow Run.
  
  
  
  Using that much road will automatically make you lose in Line Trial. Good thing the player is in 
 Main Game mode.
  
  
  
  Medal Swap
  
  After finding hidden medals in levels, or getting them as prizes for getting high scores in Rainbow 
 Run, you can spend them for special prizes. Prizes range from different colored ink, songs added 
 to the Sound Test, and even unlocking different characters to play as.
  
  There are exactly 250 medals in the game, but you won't be spending all of them to buy everything. 
 Some you just simply carry just to get 100% of the game completed. I have yet to find anyone with 
 all of the medals since it takes at least 25 hours of practice and playing time to try and get 
 all of the medals.
  
  Yes. You can unlock other characters. Here, the player is playing as Waddle Dee, a common enemy 
 in the game.
  
  The four characters you can play as are Kirby, Waddle Dee, King Dedede, and Meta Knight. The each 
 have different stats like some are bouncier than others, some are faster than others, and King 
 Dedede is about three times larger than everyone else.
  
  Buying different colored ink is fun. There is normal, Zebra, Beads, and Tropical. It doesn't change 
 the game at all, but it is just something cool you can do.
  
  That's about it in Gameplay. Like in Touch and Go, you can go into options and make it so that 
 if someone is PictoChatting nearby, it will let you know. The controls could have been a little 
 better, and I think the Main Game should have been a little longer. I think those are fair complaints.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  So this is definitely a sprite based game, but the graphics are certainly 
 good considering it is just sprite based game. You'll see that the characters are done well, the 
 backgrounds are nice, the road loooks like a rainbow, and it looks even better in motion. Now, 
 this isn't a 3-D game so the graphics aren't perfect, but for a solid 2-D game, this is almost 
 as good as graphics can get.
  
  You'll never really feel like the graphics are leaving you hanging. The graphics are fine and do 
 the job, but then again, nothing is perfect and there is very small room for improvement for graphics 
 in 2-D games.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  
 
  Audio
  
  Nintendo has never let us down in the music category and neither has HAL Labs. So combining the 
 two can't be a bad thing. You won't be hearing the classic music from the older Kirby games, but 
 the new music you hear isn't that bad. In fact, it is pretty good. I'd give a link to a place where 
 you can listen to the music, but the game came out two weeks ago and there really isn't a track 
 for the game anywhere.
  
  There is plenty of music in the game. There is around 20 tracks of music found in menus, levels, 
 stages, everything. You can unlock some tracks in the Sound Test in medal swap or you unlock a 
 whole bunch by beating the Main Game. Sound Test can be found in Options.
  
  The sound effects in the game are also done well. There aren't too many and there aren't too little. 
 That mean's it won't drown out the music and won't get annoying. It also makes it feel like you're 
 really doing whatever you're doing in the game so that is definitely a good thing.
  
  There is only so much you can talk about Audio. I think audio is probably the second most important 
 thing in a game because it adds a feel to the game. Sadly, the audio isn't as good as the graphics 
 and gameplay are, but they are still good in both quality and quanity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raaaani
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  The US and Europe hasn't got so many Kirby-games that Japan has. But Kirby Canvas Curse is here 
 to give us what we want. This is my review of Kirby Canvas Curse for the Nintendo DS:
  
  Well, can Kirby prove us that his games are good here also? Well, it's a good game anyway. An old 
 witch has taken the control over Kirby's country and transform it to a dangerous place to live 
 in. Kirby tries to stop the witch but faliure and the witch transform Kirby to a ball! So, what 
 this game is all about is to guide Kirby through different courses. To do that, draw rainbows so 
 Kirby rolls on them. Touch enemies to paralyze them and kill them after that.
  
  There are 21 levels but they are not so long so the game is not so long ether. i finished the first 
 6 levels on 40 minutes, and the next 6 a little later. If you kill an enemy with an extra power 
 you will get it. There are a wheel power, a balloon power, a missile power and some more.
  
  Medals are a important part of the game. The medals make the game more fun and longer. You 
 can buy new things like special courses and classic song and other things with the medals so that 
 is a another good game in the game.
  
  So the score of Kirby Canvas Curse is not better than 8.6. It's a good game but it needs the little 
 extra thing to get a better score. Thanks for checking out this review by Raaaaani! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaker88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a Kirby game in my life. And since this was my very first Nintendo DS game, 
 I kept second guessing to buy it for real. 
  Games like Nightmare in Dreamland and the Amazing Mirror are basically about moving Kirby from 
 one place to another while fighting little creatures and baddies on the way. When you would suck 
 up a baddie in your mouth, you would get his power.
  This game pretty much the same principal, but with a little twist to it. Instead of sucking up 
 baddies, you just need to ram into them with Kirby, and you will aquire their power. 
  To move, you use your stylus or (magic paintbrush) to draw rainbow paths that kirby rolls on like 
 a ball. It is your job to bring him to the end of each stage, level, world by doing so.
  
  Pros- Highly addictive, controlling Kirby in such a way is a great idea, music is catchy, graphics 
 are good, boss fights are intneresting, level designs are great
  
  Cons- Too short, you can scratch your touch screen if you get to carried away and hit it too hard
 
  
  Graphics- Good, they didn't bother me
  Sound- Music was catchy and different in each level
  Gameplay- Incredable, great ideas for the 
 game
  Value- After you beat the game once, it could get old
  Tilt- Controls were good, overall i enjoyed this game a lot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:16 am PT
Review:  With so many poor titles for the DS at the time of this games release, which either touch on the 
 novelty aspect of the system or are just plain uninspired it would be understandable to put this 
 game in the same cateogory. The gameplay looks simplistic, the overall presentation isn't exactly 
 what you would call sophisticated and it would appear the game relies way too much on it's touch 
 screen potenital than it should. How wrong you would be, the star in what has been a pretty poor 
 show so far for the DS comes in the form of a cute pink ball that goes by the name of Kirby.
  
  Many DS games seem like they have had the touch screen forced upon them, whether it be the 
 whole game itself or certain portions and it just doesn't work. This game however uses only the 
 touch screen and uses it in a very intriguing fashion, you will use only the stylus here which 
 prevents any clumsy attempt to press a button mid-game. Touching Kirby with the stylus will send 
 him spinning forwards, touching most enemies will stun them and therefore leave them vulnerable 
 to attack and a whole host of other thing's within the game are interacted with in a similar way. 
 Kirby will roll through levels at a steady pace but leaving him on his own will inevitably find 
 you falling into a pit of spikes or a large chasm, here is where the main game mechanic comes in. 
 You draw paths for Kirby to roll along using your stylus, this has so much potential and thankfully 
 most of it is put to good use. These paths can be used to draw ramps for Kirby to boost up and 
 over, you can draw protective lines to shield you from enemies, create bridges for him to cross 
 and even use the paths in quite the opposite way by pushing Kirby under water. This is where the 
 game shines, it gives you so much freedom to effectively do what you want and tackle the level 
 any way you see fit. It is also worth a mention that your ink paths will run out if you use them 
 excessively and this is where an added layer of skill comes in, you need to strike the right balance 
 of what makes a level easy and what makes it possible.
  
  The game has twists to what is a winning formula, for example you can consume certain enemies along 
 your journey by either spinning into them or stunning them and rolling into them. This will steal 
 the enemies ability and give you temporary new powers that can potentially put a new spin on the 
 level at hand, for example some areas in a level will only be accesible through stealing an enemies 
 ability. These abilities range from turning into a heavy boulder to zapping multiple enemies on 
 screen with a lightning bolt and even though some of these powers only do the most minimum of tasks 
 it works really well.
  
  Canvas Curse is one of most most beautiful looking 2D platformers i have ever seen, some people 
 might write thie game off as a gimmick or as a "kiddie" game but you only need to play this a short 
 while to really appreciate all the hardwork put into the artwork in this game. The artsy-paint 
 feel the game is going for is portrayed wonderfully and it really is a joy to behold. The levels 
 are superbly desinged too and give for many varieties in the gameplay. The scenery throughout the 
 game isn't half bad either and brings the places to life, bright colours are used were bright colours 
 are needed and the same goes for levels that require a dark and dank look.
  
  This game has superb value, there is so much to see and do here. Not only is there a story mode 
 which will take you around 6 hours to complete the first time but there are also 3 hidden medals 
 to collect from each level. Once you collect enough of these medals you can purchases some great 
 items from the games shop, these range from new looks for your ink paths to brand new characters 
 that each have their own unique properties that add a complete new spin on the game. There are 
 4 characters in all to unlock and fans of previous Kirby games should recognise them straight off, 
 in order to complete the game you are required to play through the whole story with every character 
 and while this may sound repetetive each character makes the experience slightly different each 
 time. This isn't all the game has to offer though, it also has time trial and line trial modes 
 which see you competing for more medals. Time trial see's you flying through various levels to 
 beat the time set for you while the line trial challenges you to get through levels using as little 
 ink as possible. They get trickier as they go on and some will require a fair amount of skill to 
 complete. Finally there is a mini-game mode which pits you against the 3 bosses you will have faced 
 throughout the story portion of the game, this time around you are playing to acheive a high score 
 and a high rank which will see you get that all important 100% completion.
  
  Unlike many handheld platformers this game doesn't try to do too much, it sticks to what it does 
 well and looks amazing while doing it. If you combine all this with the on-the-go ease of a handheld 
 system then you have a must for all Nintendo DS owners.
  
  Gameplay - Addictive, frustrating, innovative, challenging and just plain fun for your handheld 
 system.
  
  Graphics - Some of the best 2D artwork in a platformer to date.
  
  Sound - An impressive soundtrack plus an unlockable retro kirby soundtrack adds to the experience.
 
  
  Value - Loads to see and do, no multiplayer here but a fantastic single player experience makes 
 up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kentau
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  Yeah this game is great fun. I don't know what to tell you about the game.
  I will try.........
  
  Ok you maybe think that this game is only for little kids and too easy 
 for older ones. FALSE, this game will challange your reaction time, you will see how hard this 
 game can be if you don't care.
  
  This game shows really what the DS is made for....... great revolutionary games like this one.
 
  The sound is very good and gives you the feeling you where in the world of kirby.
  The graphic is fine nice effects, the rainbow line looks very cool imo.
  You will have fun with 
 this game!
  
  I just like this game it is in a way simple but kinda hard after some times.
  
  play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KHconsumed
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:03 am PT
Review:  I've always liked kirby, and when i first heard they were making a kirby game where he lost his 
 arms and legs, i was skeptical. but i soon changed my mind after buying the game, it is AMAZING. 
 the graphics (which are 2d) are superb, they do a great job of making everything look real smooth 
 and flashy, even tho its flat. the Sound is awesome... with a soundtrack that greatly resembles 
 tekno music, (it also helps that you can go to sound test and listen to any of the songs as much 
 as you like, and that the sound quality when using earphones is very good) . Many people say this 
 is a "gimmicky" game since it uses the stylus to suck you in. but the reason this is not a "gimmicky 
 game" is because it isnt just built around the stylus, because of the amount of great levels and 
 secrets to unlock, as well as how well they implement the stylus in the game.. all in all its a 
 must buy for any ds owner.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafan01
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  its ok, good stylus use, but a quik game. i especialy liked this game just because it is the first 
 ds game i have had. i got really hooked on the game, constantly dying because i wasnt too good. 
 soon i gave up on the medals and tried getting through it. kirby's powers are very uniquely used 
 in this game, like the stylus directed rocket. i eventually got to the final boss, and i learned 
 her pattern. in the end the extra characters are ok too, but i personaly disliked thier lack of 
 special attaks, but thier abillities are good to. with the first unlockable character, wadle-dee, 
 you jump alot further, so the number of lives i earned on the jump game was high, it did not go 
 under the record. all-in-all, this game is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevanVercetti
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  If you have a Nintendo DS, this is the kind of game you would want to play. Alot of people shove 
 off Kirby games because they consider them childish, but this game can easily be enjoyable for 
 all age groups. I would recommend it to anyone to check out. Its alot different then anything else 
 you can play on the PS2 or Xbox. The gameplay works very well and its easy to make Kirby do what 
 you want it too. Overall just a fun game. Only the touchscreen is used. You make slides for Kirby 
 in order to move him around the screen, or you can just push him. There are some very interesting 
 levels, tons of extra things to collect, and some great mini games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch and Go was a gimmick. It wasn't a real game at all. The whole reason it was created 
 was to show off the DS's capabilities. This game has the same features as Touch and Go but is one 
 good game.
  
  This game grabs hold of you and you keep on playing. The game is fast paced and can sometimes require 
 skill to do certain things and to reach certain areas.
  
  Like the Kirby platformers, you can absorb your enemies powers. This can lead to tactiful play 
 as having the right power at the right time can lead to different routes in a level.
  
  The game has lots of playability. You can unlock another 3 characters besides Kirby and there are 
 loads and loads of medals to collect.
  
  The main game is very short (like all Kirby games) . Sure, there are loads of medals to collect, 
 but the game does eventuallly get boring and you don't really bother to get them all.
  
  Overall, this is a fun game while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  Platforming games, especially two dimensional platforming games have become something of a stale 
 genre. You move forward, jump, collect crud and so on and so forward. It would be understandable 
 to think that their isnt much room for innovation with a straight platforming game. However Kirbys 
 Canvas Curse, from Nintendo proves you wrong. This game makes excellent use of the stylus in order 
 to really revitalize one of my favorite genres with a new take on the whole concept. Rather than 
 manipulate the protagonist, your objective will be to manipulate the world with the stylus so that 
 Kirby can advance through places. 
  
  This sounds fairly different so let me explain the mechanic a bit better. Kirby moves at a constant 
 speed. It can be modified a bit with power ups but for the most part he moves at slow in a direction. 
 You then use the stylus to draw in ramps and obstacles to keep him moving about the level. When 
 you come across an enemy you tap on that enemy with the stylus and roll over him and you get their 
 power up if they have one to grant you. Collect 100 stars you get a level up and there are lots 
 of secret medallions that you can trade for random stuff. It has all the trappings youd expect 
 out of a 2-d platformer.
  
  Probably the best part of this is how well the controls are designed. You really can do quite a 
 bit for Kirby and 100 percent of the time youre using the stylus. You can manipulate objects in 
 the environment; you can draw in ramps etc. Its all super intuitive; I gave my mom this game to 
 try since we used to play Mario and Sonic together way back when, and within moments she was playing 
 and beating levels really having figured it out. She hasnt played a game other than cards on Yahoo 
 and Tetris in years but yet she picked it up and figured it out straight away. You never ever need 
 to hit a button in this game and as such they dont actually do anything. 
  
  At first the graphics in this game might seem old school. Of course they are its a 2-d platformer 
 but its a very good looking one that does a good job taking advantage of the fairly capable 2d 
 power of the DS. Everything looks really nice since its got a lot of very well colored levels 
 that just look teriffic. It may not be some technical powerhouse but the game does look good when 
 youre playing it. 
  
  Audio is much the same it is very old school. Its a synthesized music that could have came right 
 out of the SNES or Genesis era. Not particuarily amazing by any stretch of the imagination but 
 it also was pretty catchey so you wont really dislike it either. All in all a nearly the game 
 has invisible soundtrack. 
  
  Id recommend Kirbys Canvas Curse to just about anyone with a DS whos looking for an original 
 take on the platforming genre. Its a decent length platformer that is both easy to learn but yet 
 hard to master. It may not be a technical tour de force but its definitely a very fun game to 
 play. I had thought that the platform genre was growing mold it was so stale but this is a really 
 welcome breath of fresh air.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullmage550
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best in the series. That is a surprise to me because i don't normaly like 
 Kirby games. I think it is cool how you can unlock special things like different likes, different 
 musis, different characters to play as and many more things to unlock by getting medals and trading 
 them. It is not a hard game other then getting all the medals that is the hardest part of the game 
 but it is worth getting all the medals because you can unlock cool things. They need better music 
 for it but what they have is ok. The graphics are really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:35 am PT
Review:  I love this game!!!!
  
  Gameplay: You use your pen to move kirby around and like in the game "Yoshi" for the nintendo ds, 
 you need to make bridges.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are the best graphics in the "Kirby" series. Kirby looks awsome and the 
 enemies look awsome.
  
  Sound: The sound is like the sound in any kirby title.
  
  Value: You can play hours and hours trying to unlock all the things in this game But I still wish 
 that there will be an online mode.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome game for the nintendo ds and you should buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryder13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  Though the premise of Kirby: Canvas Curse is not an original idea, possessing clear links with 
 a game released earlier this year, Yoshi: Touch and Go, this latest offering in the Kirby series 
 takes the basic mechanics established in what was an original, yet underwhelming game, and creates 
 a wholly unique and sustainable experience.
  
  Though actually happens to indicate why in the game (not that it really matters) , in this installment 
 in the Kirby series, the little pink ball has become, well, a little pink ball; having lost his 
 arms and legs, Kirby now rolls through the various areas he is charged with conquering, and it's 
 up to you, the player, to use the "magic brush" to aid Kirby by creating magical rainbow paths, 
 shields etc ti aid him with the challenges he faces. For those of you who may automatically assume 
 this is a kids game, don't misunderstand; this is a wholly challenging game, and by ignoring it 
 on the grounds of its cutesiness (which, I'll admit, I found a bit grating, especially the knaff 
 music) , you will miss out on an entirely new gameplay experience.
  
  For that's what Kirby is; a very new experience. While Yoshi: Touch and Go created the idea, Kirby: 
 Canvas Curse actually makes a good game out of it. It's by no means a perfect game; the music and 
 sound effects are annoying, the graphics aren't any better than they need to be, and sometimes 
 the stylus, not the game itself, can be what creates difficulty (mostly for those with clumsy hands 
 such as I) , but for every niggling flaw, there are many things to love about it.
  
  I won't bore you with the details, but the best thing about this game is that nothing Kirby does 
 feels gimmicky; all of his movements and abilities have a definite purpose, and each of his skills 
 are useful and, most importantly, never feel tired or gimmicky. Additionally, the difficulty curve 
 from one level to the next is as near to flawless as I've seen in a game, each of the various levels 
 has its own unique feel and texture, and the boss battles require lightning reflexes, and occasionally 
 even thorough forethought. The enemies our adorable friend faces are mostly unique, and animate 
 quite humourously when stunned and defeated.
  
  For me, what defines a truly fantastic game is when I continually die, yet I don't want to hurl 
 the controller/console across the room in a wild rage. As this game fits that expectation, all 
 I can say is this - buy this game, play it and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N-Revolution
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Kirby has no limbs! Oh well, he can roll and bounce his way through levels with the help of lines 
 you can draw with the stylus. Surprisingly, this change of pace does not diminish the feeling that 
 this is a true Kirby game. This is one case where innovation does not come at the cost of depth 
 or value.
  
  Does the touchscreen control work well?
  -------------------------------------------------------
  For the most part, yes it does. Kirby 
 rolls around and bounces like the little creampuff ball that he is with some impressive physics 
 that makes his movements very realistic feeling. That allows players to easily guess how he will 
 react to the lines they draw.
  
  Drawing bridges over pits, shields against projectiles, or slopes for ramping to other platforms 
 all functions really well through the stylus control. There are also many obstacles that need to 
 be tapped on to destroy or activate, as well as many enemies floating around that need to be stunned 
 by a quick tap. Kirby can also gain a quick speed boost or use a stolen ability when tapped. And 
 therein lies the problem.
  
  The game moves quickly and there are so many things to tap on the screen, but you only have one 
 stylus to do it all with! Most times you'll have to scramble to do everything at once. That can 
 be exciting gameplay, but it can also lead to some frustration with the controls as a slight mistake 
 in drawing might send Kirby into a hazard or pin him against a wall until the line disappears.
 
  
  Allowing the speed boost to be activated through the face or shoulder buttons would have freed 
 up a lot of valuable stylus action, allowing players to concentrate more on the levels & enemies 
 rather than how to make Kirby do what they want him to do. Other than having too much reliance 
 on the touchscreen, the controls are very fun and really create the unique and fresh experience 
 that carries this game. 
  
  Does the new art style impress?
  -------------------------------------------
  Nintendo has always been great at making 2D, hand-drawn 
 worlds and characters that look vibrant and beautiful. Kirby Canvas Curse looks a little different 
 than previous games though. Kirby and the rest of the enemies and objects look very similar to 
 previous games regardless of his new ball form. They all animate very smoothly with nice colorful 
 sprites. But the levels have wild new looks. They all have very pronounced color schemes, while 
 most use styles that tie into the picture book theme with crayon-like scribbles, paper cutout shapes, 
 or watercolor backgrounds.
  
  There are also lots of odd techno-styled geometric designs with lots of little squares and curvy 
 lines. It ultimately all comes together to create a very unique look that is captivating and appealing, 
 but I sometimes found myself wishing for more of the classic level styles I'd enjoyed in previous 
 Kirby games. One notable issue with the art style is that it creates a very flat look. There's 
 still depth in a layered sort of way, but the art itself is quite simple and flat. While interesting, 
 that can become somewhat of a liability in an age where games are all about cool 3D settings and 
 characters.
  
  How about the dual screens?
  ---------------------------------------
  The bottom touchscreen is where all your action is, while the top screen is a minimap of the levels. 
 That map can be very useful for figuring out where to go next, since most levels twist and turn 
 every which way with. It's especially useful for finding medals, which can be used to unlock extra 
 content. Certain levels also use lanterns to light up the game screen, which puts extra emphasis 
 on the minimap.
  
  The good thing is that there are many times when you can totally ignore the top screen and just 
 focus on the main action. Using both screens will help your game, but it's not needed to play correctly. 
 That to me is one of the hallmarks of a great added feature.
  
  Does the sound improve the game experience?
  ----------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Canvas Curse has some incredible sound. The music always sets an interesting tone for each level. 
 It ranges from exciting to happy-go-lucky to haunting and dramatic. It's probably the best music 
 in a Kriby game to date, and previous games have always had quality sound.
  
  That great backdrop of music is accented nicely by some well done sound effects. Kirby creates 
 a distinctive bouncing sound whenever he hits the floor or wall. The crash when a boulder breaks 
 or when Kirby gets hurt is suitably jarring. Abilities like the fireball and electric shock have 
 great sound effects that give you a sense of their powerful force. The beam attack is a little 
 too noisy for it's own good though, since it makes loud blasting noises everytime you boost.
  
  Some enemies have interesting sound effects, but for the most part those sounds are subdued. 
 Having the enemies make more pronounced sounds would have helped give players a better sense of 
 when certain enemies show up and where, plus it would help give those enemies more of an identity.
 
  
  Beyond the controls, what kind of challenge can we expect?
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Without the 
 control issues, the levels are usually in a moderate-to-easy difficulty range. That feels just 
 right to me. The game starts you out with an easy set of tutorial levels that put you in common 
 game situations and pauses the action to explain how to do the basic actions. The learning curve 
 is very small because most in game actions are very intuitive.
  
  There are always unique challenges in every level that force you to think on the fly (or the roll, 
 as it may be) . Getting successfully through these areas is quite rewarding, even if it isn't super 
 challenging. Some levels introduce dangerous hazards like rising lava or constant scrolling that 
 add some true challenge on top of the improvise-in-a-pinch gameplay.
  
  One notable improvement area is the occasional miniboss-type of rooms that typically pit kirby 
 against a myriad of normal enemies. Though these can sometimes be an extra challenge, they can 
 also be way too easy. They never really give that extra sense of accomplishment that miniboss fights 
 should because the challenges are too similar to the rest of the levels. These areas need new unique 
 enemies that are moderately hard to beat.
  
  On the other hand, you can expect a really great boss fight at the end. I'm not going to give anything 
 away, but it easily lives up to the best boss fights out there in terms of intensity and difficulty.
 
  
  How long does this game entertain?
  -------------------------------------------------
  It lasts a surprisingly long time for such a simple style of game. The really unique level designs 
 certainly help to keep you coming back for a quick playthrough, while added goals like medals, 
 new characters, and other awards really extend the experience nicely.
  
  Medals are scattered throughout each of the more than 20 courses, usually with one hidden in each 
 one of the 3 or so areas in that course. There's also Rainbow Run mode for gaining extra medals 
 either by beating an area in record time, or by using very few lines. Medals, once collected, can 
 be used to buy awards like new line designs, bonus courses, extra life bars for Kirby, or new characters 
 to replace Kirby with.
  
  The bonus courses are only available in the Rainbow Run and feature one specific ability like the 
 wheel or balloon Kriby. They push each ability to its limits, and so are crazy even by Canvas Curse's 
 standard.
  
  New characters offer unique unique weights and elasticities that make them react differently to 
 obstacles and drawn lines. None of the new characters can steal abilities like Kirby, but some 
 have their own unique attacks that make them useful. Playing through the levels again as different 
 characters is encouraged, since some medals are much easier to obtain with a certain character.
 
  
  There are also 3 minigames which are fun diversions. They offer new types of gameplay that help 
 break up the experience. They also have their own points awards and rankings, which helps lend 
 a little competition to the mix, but they lack enough depth to really make them a great addition.
 
  
  Sound Test mode can eat up a surprising amount of time as you can listen to over 70 new & classic 
 Kirby songs and almost 300 sound effects.
  
  So what's the verdict?
  -----------------------------
  Unless you don't enjoy Kriby games (and who doesn't, really?) , 
 then this should be one of the top games in your DS collection. It's very accessible, intriguing, 
 and fun, and offers exceptional replayability. Everything needed in a portable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmstevens3000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:45 am PT
Review:  Kirby is given a new lease of life on this release for the DS, reminding us of how great he is 
 to play.
  
  The storyline is a little thin on the ground but its not the type of game to require one, simply 
 the evil "witch" has turned the world into a painting, seeing Kirby she fled and Kirby gave chase. 
 He ends up being drawn into the painting word and is turned into a ball... he still gives chase 
 to the witch.
  Your main interaction with the game exists through indirectly controlling Kirby using ink to draw 
 rainbow-colored lines. These lines have a few different purposes. You can draw walls to change 
 Kirby's direction. You can draw pathways or bridges to get Kirby from place to place. And you can 
 also use rainbow walls to block attacks from objects, like laser beams and cannons. 
  
  The game could be defined as a platformer of sorts
  
  The levels are each given a different 
 theme whether it be underwater futuristic etc, each making you to have a different style of play. 
 
  Another thing to think about is the many powerups available, for example for killing a certain 
 enemy you may gain a power such as being able to tun into a rock or a fireball, which allows you 
 to pass problems.
  Also at the end of a level you are given a sub-boss to fight where you may have to race a fiend 
 etc.
  
  The graphics may be 2d, which doesnt show the power of the Ds, but the areas are bright colourful 
 and suit the game perfectly.
  Oh, and the sound is bright tunes, if not a little annoying sometimes :)
  
  The copy I bought 
 was twenty pounds from a local independent store its RRP its 29.99 But Im sure it can be found 
 much cheaper online. (Money is in pounds)
  
  As for things to find in a level there are coins and medals. Coins are simple, like many other 
 games if you collect one hundred of them you gain a life, medals are different, they are hidden 
 in each of the stages. Three in each and can be exchanged for a longer life bar etc or a different 
 coloured path, or even extra stages.
  
  For other modes of play there is a time trial mode and a mode where you must use as little path 
 as possible, doing well in each of these granting you more medals. 
  
  The game has great replay value as it is hard to get all the medals, but it can be hard sometimes 
 to go back because the levels are the same, and the gameplay is a tad slow.
  
  Overall Ill give this game a 8.4, its brings new things the Ds and is very enjoyable, but in contrast 
 it has some minor faults such as the speed of the game and the few bo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baconsizzle
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this game rocks. Hard. The 2d graphics are bright and colorful. It is bursting with innovation. 
 You draw lines for Kirby to go on and when you tap him he goes faster. There are tons of unlockables 
 throughout the game. One of the best unlockables are the characters: Waddle Dee, Waddle Doo, King 
 DeeDee, and MetaKnight. The music is pretty good; it includes the oringinal Kirby songs in the 
 sound test mode which is pretty nice. The game is a little short and it's not very hard but when 
 you beat it with Kirby you want to beat it with all the characters which adds more difficulty since 
 none of the characters have the same abilties. Overall, this is a very unique and innovative game 
 for the DS that everyone should checkout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leitheking
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  Canvus Curse does one thing no, and I repeat NO other Nintendo game has done before. It has completly 
 changed the game formula by simply turning the main chracter into a ball. Kirby has turned from 
 a great platforming chracter into a brilliant platform/puzzle chrtacter. And I'm loving every millisecond 
 of it. This game is unbeliveably good. The concept of protecting Kirby from harm and aiding him as 
 he travels through the colour themed levels brings a tear to my Kirby loving eyes. The levels in 
 a normal Kirby game would be easy as pie. But because of the control, it is far more challenging, but 
 every bit as enjoyable. The colour bursts out the DS,"massaging"your eyes pixels of 2-D/3-D goodness. Because 
 of the stylus control, you need to have the reflexes of Spider-Man, Sonic and Nightcrawler to manage. The 
 boss levels are pure genius. They add variety and keep you coming for more, like a starved dog being 
 fed cured beef and lamb chops. It is the...2nd best Kirby game. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetFighter01
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I had a blast playing Kirby Canvas Curse for the first time.
  The game really uses the touch screen and double screens really well. The replay value is great 
 too since theres other modes and characters to play as. I just expected multiplayer and some more 
 bosses in the game.
  This game slaps Yoshi Touch & Go in the face real bad. Theres also plenty of unlockables in the 
 game. You'll be playing this game for quite of few hours before you complete it %100. Need a DS 
 game? 
  Consider this a buy for your collection. Kirby is a pimp btw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_kirby17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  kirby canvus course is probly the hardest kirby game. it has 7 fun packed worlds and 3 lvls in 
 each that you can play over and over again. there lots of
  things to ulock like characters. i think this is the best kirby game ever!!! you 
  should buy 
 it, it cost 59.95. the story lines weird he fighting some wich and it uses some spell to get ride 
 of his legs and arms and he finds some paint brush and it infuses with you styles pen thingy. the 
 wich was gonna turn dreamland into a paiting aw sothing like that. Then you have to find the wich 
 and kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESISTEE926
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I know you think that this is the one wacko reviewer who has something against good games, and 
 you might decide to go withe the majority But DONT! read this ! it is true! the worst waste of 
 40$ I've ever made. You have to reeeaaaalyy like the concept of drawing using a stylus to even 
 have a chance of liking this game. Highly overrated. The annoying ring-tone-like tunes will be 
 bouncing around in your head for weeks. the levels are boring and you will find yourself feverishly 
 stabbing the DS with your worn down stylus, in attempt to keep Kirby from plummeting to his rotund 
 doom. After you beat monotone level after monotone level, you will NOT want to replay them. this 
 makes finding all of the medals, in an attempt to unlock things, terribly annoying. I personaly 
 think the funnest part of the game is the minnigame at the end of each level, in which you must 
 poke kirby to speed him up and draw a strategicaly placed line in an attempt to send him flying 
 as far as he can go. Thats pretty sad. I cannot express in words the sickening stomache dropping 
 dissapointment in discovering that my hard earned 40$ was a total waste in mony. even the less-than-half 
 of the money I recieved from Gamestop by trading it in, didn't soften the sting. If you can afford 
 to blow 40$ and if youre realy bored and are interested in the "inovative" concept of poking a 
 pink ball witha stick that is the hunk of crap, Kiby Kanvas Curse than maybe you might consider 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpanishPeacock
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is extremely addictive, first time through. The idea of having Kirby go along a 
 rainbow line must of been thought up by the creators sometime between the first couple of beers 
 and a hang over, but the developers of the game pulled it off great. There aren't as many powers 
 as the other games, but the game just sort of grows on you. Currently, I only have a handfull of 
 games, but when you get stuck on a game, you can always try to do a time trial run and beat your 
 old record. Overall, you should buy Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow first, but a close second is Kirby. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dio2525
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  The game introduces a new type of gameplay with drawing the path that Kirby must follow. At first, 
 it seems rather difficult to guide him through all the spikes and traps that are seen in previews, 
 but by the time you get there, you've already gotten the hang of it. Although the game only has 
 7 worlds with 3 levels in each, each level is rather long at the end of the game and plus there 
 are countless characters, music, and secrets to unlock, making the game fun every time you play. 
 The graphics and music are probably two of the best parts of the game because it brings back original 
 Kirby graphics and music, making it fun for oldschool gamers. Overall, this is a great game for 
 anyone that likes Kirby or just wants a good side scrolling adventure for their DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortenjohs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  Kirby - a ball with arms and legs - are transformed into a ball without arms and legs by a wicked 
 witch in the start of the game and you as a player should, using the witchs own magic wand, set 
 things straight.
  
  All the interaction with Kirby and the surroundings is accomplished using the stylus and the touch 
 screen of the DS. To make Kirby traverse holes in the ground or reach places he normally wouldnt 
 reach you draw paths in magical ink for him to follow. Unfortunately you have limited suply of 
 this ink and the world is inhabited by a number of fiendish beasts. (Fortunately for gameplay, 
 though.) Some of them you can steal abilities from that further improves Kirbys chances of survival.
 
  
  So; You dont control the main character. You just aid him. While this may seem like a small detail, 
 it is actually a rather big deal. You are not identifying with Kirby as much as with main characters 
 in other games. Whereas in for example Super Mario, one refers to oneself when Mario loses a life; 
 Oh no! Bowser stamped on me!, in Kirby you would rather say; Aich! Kirby fell on spikes and 
 died! I think this really adds to the brilliance of the game as an inventive platformer, but maybe 
 it explains some reviewers lack of enthusiasm for the pinkest of heroes while they speak warmly 
 about the game itself. For me it's just another aspect of the level of inventiveness this title 
 shows.
  
  Graphicwise this game is not bad either. The scenaries are varied and inventive - everything in 
 good oldfashioned 2D. Sounds likewise. Good oldfashined arcade soundtracks and sounds.
  
  The main game - the adventure - is unfortunately a tad on the short side, but the inventive gameplay 
 and different modes of play (like time trial and ink trial) gives it a high replay-value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Okay I'm not familiar with the Kirby series and this is my very first Kirby game so I can't really 
 compare it to other Kirby games. Here's what I think about the game:
  
  Gameplay: You can use the touch screen to draw lines for Kirby but it's limited. It recharges quickly 
 if you're on the ground though. My main complaint about the gameplay is after awhile my hand start 
 hurting from al the drawing. Other than that it's great. Rating: 8/10
  
  Graphics: It's well animated and everything but that game seems to be lacking in backgrounds. But 
 not a big problem. Rating: 8/10
  
  Sound: Good sound FX and cool sounds like when you're drawing on the screen with you stylus. Rating: 
 8/10
  
  Value: Their's alot to do here. Unlock new characters. Unlock new stages. Most of the unlockables 
 require medals. So this could keeep you busy for awhile. Rating: 9/10
  
  Tilt: If you're looking for a unique DS game or just a unique platformer then this game is for 
 you! Rating: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarklordpie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  
  Not all people are too fond of Kirby. I suppose that's understandable, he's a little pink ball 
 of cuteness. However, if you can look past all the kiddiness of this title, you'll enjoy it, trust 
 me.
  
  I personally like Kirby, but whether you love him or loathe him it doesn't matter, it's the game 
 part of this game that's fun. The story's decent, at least there is one. I'll quickly describe: 
 An evil witch has turned Dream Land into a painting. Kirby has to hunt her down and kick her booty. 
 You help Kirby with your magical paintbrush (the stylus) by drawing ink on the bottom screen, which 
 is used as a sort of platform for the little pink dude.
  
  Like I stated, though, the story is irrelevant, the gameplay is where Canvas Curse succeeds. All 
 the gameplay takes place on the touch screen (the top screen is mostly used as a map) and using 
 the stylus to help Kirby along his way is just plain fun. What can I say? It's addictive. I'll 
 pick it up and play levels that I've already beaten still to this day just because the gameplay 
 is so solid. Why is it so solid? Because of the controls, of course. The stylus controls are very 
 smooth and fluid. You draw, it's on the screen.
  
  The graphics are wonderful and really just pretty to look at. They're 2-D, an extremely beautiful 
 2-D that almost makes it look 3-D. I wouldn't want the graphics any other way. The screen is very 
 bright which illuminates the vibrant colors even more. Just another game that goes to show, 3-D 
 isn't always best. 
  
  The sound is as good as the graphics. It has very catchy old school theme to it. It didn't in the 
 least annoy me, either. That is to say that I wasn't ever annoyed by this title. I must admit when 
 I'd lose at a level and have to start the level over, I did get very frustrated. Sometimes I'd 
 wonder why I was wasting my time with this stupid little Kirby game. But this game is far from 
 stupid, I assure you. You yourself may get angry with this game too, it's no walk in the park. 
 And if you think Kirby is for kids, you're very wrong with this one. If kids were to play this 
 title I'm sure they'd have quite a test of patience. But, that's not to say that it's too hard. 
 The difficulty is just how it should be, besides, you don't want to just blow threw it, do you?
 
  
  The game is fairly short, though. It will probably take you around ten hours or less to beat this 
 one. However, there are a decent amount of unlockables to get. Unlockables such as different colored 
 ink, different characters to play as, extra life, and songs. To unlock these items you need to 
 collect medals (medals are used as money I guess you could say, you can buy different unlockables 
 with certain amounts of medals) . It depends on what kind of person you are, I suppose, on if you'd 
 want to get all the unlockables or not. I'd tell you to go for it, it's fun going back in previous 
 levels to find the medals, and it lengthens the experience, anyway.
  
  This game is the definition of innovation. It has many innovated tasks to perform. Not just the 
 platforming, but the bosses as well. There's only three different bosses in the game and you fight 
 them multiple times. Then, at the end, you fight the final boss twice. They're not too difficult 
 (except for the witch at the end, she might give you a run for your money) . They all have their 
 own ways of being defeated; one boss you must trace what he draws, another boss you race, and the 
 other boss you bounce around. But, they're all fun and original.
  
  In the end Kirby: Canvas Curse is a must have for any DS owner. Is this worth buying a DS for? 
 Not exactly, but it's just another reason to get the dual screened handheld.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 2, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  Kirby is possibly the most unique game I've ever played and one of the best games on the DS. 
 
  The idea is to guide Kirby to the end of each stage like in most any side-scrolling platformer 
 but controlling him is different. You use the stylus to make paths for him to go along, tap him 
 to make him dash, and stun enemies for him to hit by tapping them. Like usual he can aquire powers 
 from enemies he defeats. Boss fights are one of three things, a race, drawing kind of game, or 
 a battle whereyou break blocks and kill enemies. The game is difficult at times and very fun. Graphics 
 are great for the type of game it is and the sound is typical kirby effects and music. 
  Any DS owner without Kirby's: Canvas Curse is wasting their system and missing out on a great game. 
 Dont be offput by the unique playstyle either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocoapuffs50
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 14, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  HAL laboratory brings Nintendos favorite pink ball Kirby, to Nintendos DS. The result is one 
 of the most innovative titles I have ever seen, and one of the best games for the system. Up until 
 the release of Canvass Curse, the games for the DS were either remakes of old games, assortments 
 of mini games put together, or puzzlers. Kirby Canvass curse however has 8 levels each with 3 sub-levels 
 (save the last level with only one sub-level) so its a full length game, and not just some random 
 assortment of mini-games. 
  
  Gameplay- This game really wouldnt work anywhere else but on the DS. The game uses only the touch 
 screen (unless if you count pressing the start button to pause) and the stylus to navigate throughout 
 the levels. And I must say, it the concept works great. The stylus is used to draw rainbows in 
 the levels to guide kirby to the desired spot. Kirby follows the rainbows like riding a rail when 
 he reaches them. The rainbows can also be used to shield kirby from most enemys, and can also 
 be used to change kirbys trajectory if a vertical line is drawn in his path. The concept is new, 
 and it works seamlessly. You can also tap kirby to make him dash, thus killing a foe if one comes 
 in Kirbys path. Another neat thing about the enemys is some of them have special powers, that 
 if kirby kills a certain enemy with a special power, kirby then acquires it. If kirby kills a snowman 
 then Kirby gets ice power. The power is activated by tapping kirby, instead of dashing the special 
 power is activated. This is another plus, because although some of the powers appear a lot more 
 then others, they still are pretty cool. In addition to killing tactics, kirby does not always 
 need to dash to kill a foe, if you touch the enemy while kirby is normally moving then the enemy 
 will be killed. But tapping the foe only stuns the enemy for a short time. Once again the whole 
 style works great. This is one of most original forms of Gameplay I have ever seen. On a lesser 
 note however I would have liked to use the Mic. somewhere in the game. And I would have liked to 
 see a balance in the enemys. There are a few really cool enemys that barely come up in the game, 
 and have some pretty cool powers. But these are pretty minor complaints, the game plays well and 
 thats it.
  
  Graphics- Nice and colorful in 3 words. A lot of the backgrounds for the courses look beautifully 
 hand drawn. The levels themselves look pretty good on the DS, its not pushing the system to the 
 limit by any means, but it still looks good. The character designs are the same way, good, but 
 nothing ground-breaking here. Its not really pushing the system like Nanostray. The rainbow that 
 you draw looks really cool. Colorful, thats the best word to describe it. The frame-rate is smooth 
 throughout the entire game, I dont recall seeing any slow downs anywhere. Overall, a decent looking 
 DS game, not much else to say.
  Sound- The DS has always seemed to astound me in the sound department, from the atmospheric sound 
 of Mario 64 DS, to the arcade style of Kirby Canvass curse. The game sounds pretty decent. The 
 background music in the levels has the same sort of music of Kirby 64, meaning fun to listen to 
 the first time through, but it gets repetitive. The ambience in the game, all sounds great. The 
 sounds of pretty much every action in the game all sound great, but they get somewhat repetitive. 
 Although I will say that when kirby gets a special power, that it sounds above the sound quality 
 of the rest of the game. The game has no voice acting, of course, and this is a good thing because 
 most of the game has no dialogue and I would be kinda freaked out if there was voice acting. Overall, 
 decent but redundant sound effects.
  
  Value- The game lasts about 20 hours until you start getting bored of it. Thats after completing 
 all 22 levels, and fighting 3 bosss that get increasingly harder, and one tough final boss with 
 two stages. The game also allows you to play the bosss in the sub-game section on different difficulties. 
 In each level there are 3 emeralds that can be collected. Some of the emeralds are exceedingly 
 difficult to obtain. But it adds to the replay value of the levels. There are also time trials 
 for the levels in another section. Furthermore there is a mode that challenges you to use as little 
 paint as possible to complete a level. There is a lot of incentive to play these sub-games, not 
 only are they fun, but you can re-challenge your own scores as many times as you wish in each of 
 the games. The game however, has no real story mode, and youll be saying what? after you beat 
 the final boss when the game tells what happens afterwards, as it almost pointless. Although I 
 would have liked a story, the game did fine without one. Overall Id say a solid 2 weeks of fun 
 playing this game.
  
  Tilt- If you have a DS there is no reason why you shouldnt pick this up. This game gets the formula 
 of using the touch screen right, unlike Yoshis touch and go. But you know what they say two times 
 the charm (I know its three times you got a problem with that?) . This is one of the most unique 
 games to have come out in years, and it really defines the potential of the DS to create such a 
 solid game with only the touch screen, wiping all doubt in my mind that the touch screen was a 
 bit of a gimmick. If you have a DS get this game, if you dont but a DS and get it. The game may 
 not be perfect but anyone interested in video games should give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusTool
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 1, 2005 2:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Controlling Kirby can be very frustrating at times. I couldn't even begin to explain 
 how many times I tried to draw a line under Kirby and ended up touching him instead which made 
 him dash straight into a hole. The boss fights are also a complete mess. Trying to draw a straight 
 line on a DS is actually a very difficult thing to do.
  
  Graphics - They get the job done.
  
  Sound - These songs tend to annoy me. I usually just leave 
 the game on mute.
  
  Value - In less than 6 hours I got more than half of the medals and already beat the game. There 
 are other characters but I wasn't having a ton of fun the first time through so why would I really 
 want to play it again?
  
  Tilt - It's a unique game and it's fun at times but the boss fights are awful and the controls 
 could have been much better.
  
  Not Recomended
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XmasterX01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2005 4:06 am PT
Review:  This is one of Kirby's best games, on handeld or console. This game is very innovative with the 
 touch screen. When playing the game, you collect "red coins" (That's what I call them anyways) and 
 with these "coins" you can unlock new features.. like music or new track design (If you get tired 
 of the rainbow colored one, you can select another design once you unlock another) . This game is 
 tricky though 'cause if you're not careful enough, your "line" tank will dry up (the tank recharges 
 itself after a second or two) . No multiplayer though, which is kinda a bad thing, but solo play 
 is great anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-GT
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2005 6:42 am PT
Review:  Kirby Canvas Curse is without a doubt one of the best games to be released for the DS in a while. 
 The game follows Kirby who has been cursed by a witch, and enters a magical world of paint in order 
 to break the curse which has taken away Kirby's arms and legs and left him as nothing more than 
 a defenseless rolling pink ball, and it's up to the player to guide and defend Kirby throughout 
 his adventure.
  
  Kirby CC feels like the first truly original great DS game in a while. It's not a port, or a puzzle 
 game, or a short and simple glorified tech demo, or a monotonous collection of minigames. It has 
 all the elements of a complete game, it has boss fights, many varying levels, a storyline, unlockables, 
 and different gameplay modes.
  
  The controls for the game are simple, that's because with the exception of pausing your game there 
 is absolutley no use of the DS' control pad, the game relies strictly on the use of the touch screen. 
 
  
  You don't have direct control over Kirby instead the player uses the DS stylus to draw lines and 
 paths on the screen, by doing this you can guide him around stages, block Kirby's way to make him 
 turn the other way or stop where he's going, and of course protect him from enemies, all this is 
 essential for defeating enemies, getting items, and completing stages. 
  
  The game takes advantage of the touch screen in other useful ways. By touching Kirby he'll boost 
 which will be useful for attacking enemies and moving faster, touch blocks and boulders and watch 
 as they'll break apart, and touching any enemy on the screen will temporarily stun them, which 
 allows Kirby to defeat enemies without having to boost into them. Like the other Kirby games defeating 
 certain enemies obtains there power which is useful in certain situations. All this among other 
 things gives the game an innovative sense of control that is fun to play around with each time 
 you play this game. The top screen contains your HUD and a map that is useful for the most part.
 
  
  Although Kirby CC isn't the hardest game ever, it's no push over either. There are many intense 
 moments where you'll frantically try and handle multiple things going on the screen at once while 
 trying to manage your limited amount of paint, and when you lose, the only thing you can blame 
 is your own reflexes. There's also some puzzle elements in the game where you may have to unlock 
 doors and paths by seeking out buttons throughout mazes, but overall it's nothing to frustrating 
 and the game has a decent balance of challenge that anyone can get into.
  
  The games graphics is in no way a display of the DS' power. The game is in complete 2D but it has 
 a unique art style and I don't see how this game could ever be possible in full 3D. The sound, 
 however, could've been better. The music and sound effect are about as good as you expect from 
 a Kirby game but it should've been louder. too many DS games suffer from this problem. Even with 
 the volume turned all the way up the game doesn't sound as loud as some other DS games like Meteos 
 or Wario Ware Touched.
  
  If there's one thing I didn't like about this game it's the bossfights, the game has 7 stages with 
 3 levels in each and a 8th stage where the final boss is fought. When you initially play through 
 the story mode you have to choose between 3 bosses after completing an entire stage, each with 
 it's own unqiue sub-game that has to be completed twice before facing the final boss in the 8th 
 stage. one has you moving kirby up and down as you race against the boss while dodging incoming 
 enemies and collecting fruits that help you move faster. Another will have you forming images by 
 connecting dots before time runs out, another is basically like breakout, where Kirby bounces around 
 aimlessly while breaking bricks that he runs into while you draw lines on the screen that bouces 
 him around, doing this over and over until you make it to the boss that is defeated by having kirby 
 bouce onto him. All the games are stored in a "subgames" mode that can be played whenever you like. 
 The boss fights felt a bit to tedious for my taste and it would've been nice if instead of minigames 
 the bosses were fought using the actual gameplay mechanics, like in the final boss fight.
  
  The game has many unlockables, and things to complete before the game is 100% done. Every level 
 contains 3 tokens that you may collect, that can be used to unlock things in the "Metal Swap" modes 
 such as alternate characters and time trial stages. There's also the Rainbow Run mode which consists 
 of time trials of each stage where you'll try and reach a goal in a certain amount of time, and 
 "line trials" where you try to make it to a goal without using as much paint as possible. This 
 all gives the game a great amount of value even when the story mode is done.
  
  In conclusion Kirby is one of the best DS games you can buy. It's a great display of the systems 
 technical power, it's innovative and original. And it's just fun to play. If you own a DS you must 
 own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonBlade79
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 17, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse is so far the best game for the DS 
  to date the controls in this game are so easy all you use 
  is the touch screen and that's it. 
 Lately the DS has not 
  pumped out a lot of good games sens it came 
  out but Kirby: Canvas Curse change all that.
  The game play is very creative you just draw a 
 line and 
  guide Kirby to where he needs to go. The graphics are 
  the standard 2D graphics nothing special but it's fun.
  The sound is what you would expect from 
 the Kirby 
  universe. And the game is loaded with secrets and 
  hidden games. Over all the game is great and it's 
  one you have to try it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swordslinger0
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2005 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  - One of the first Nintendo DS games that actually can't be done on any other system. 
  - Makes 
 the stylus feel natural.
  - Enough unlockables to keep you coming back.
  
  Cons:
  -The game could have had a great multiplayer mode worked into it, its a shame that there isn't 
 one.
  - The main story is a bit on the short side.
  
  ______________
  
  Gameplay: Kirby: Canvas Curse is the first Kirby game I have ever played, and for the most part, 
 the experience was enjoyable. Sure the design of the game may be childish, but it's a great game, 
 so it was easy for me to get past that. In Canvas Curse, you use the stylus not to control Kirby 
 directly, but to draw paths that guide Kirby through the obstacle course like levels. The stylus 
 is also used to tap on enemies in order to briefly stun them, once stunned and enemy can instantly 
 be killed if Kirby just simply touches them. The stylus also can be used to tap Kirby and cause 
 him to do a boost attack, or, if Kirby has absorbed the power of an enemy (which is simply done 
 by killing an enemy that has a certain power) , you can tap on him to use the power. In addition, 
 the levels may contain certain puzzle elements that are solved with the stylus, such as tapping 
 parts of a wall to reveal a passage, or using the stylus to light a lamp. 
  
  Boss fights in Kirby are also a bit different. At the end of a world, you have the option to chose 
 which of the three bosses (which I won't reveal) you would like to challenge. The bosses aren't 
 what we are used to however, instead they are mini-game challenges, once you beat them twice, you 
 can no longer chose to challenge them as a boss, instead they are unlocked in the subgames menu. 
 
  
  Graphics: Canvas Curse features some very detailed 2D worlds. Although the backgrounds are static 
 and stay the same for every level of that theme, they look extremely nice and don't get tiring. 
 The character sprites also look great, the more complicated ones are nicely detailed, and all are 
 very colorful. The 3D capabilities of the DS can sometimes be seen going to work in the game, which 
 is a small, but nice touch. The graphics may not take full advantage of the Nintendo DS, but they 
 still look awesome. 
  
  Sound: The music in Canvas Curse is mostly upbeat techno, but it suits the game very well and doesn't 
 sound all too bad. Playing the game with the PSP headphones made everything sound really great, 
 if you can, you should really try that out. 
  
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a great game, one that most DS owners will enjoy. The unlockable characters 
 and the ability to play Time Trials and Ink Trials greatly increase the replay value. Going through 
 levels to find hidden medals that are used to purchase new ink designs, courses, etc help with 
 replay value also. My biggest complaint is that Hal should have worked a multiplayer mode into 
 the game, racing friends across levels could have been great and would have given people even more 
 of an incentive to come back, I just hope theres a multiplayer mode in the sequel (which will no 
 doubt be coming in the future) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutterkk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  When I saw footage of this game, I thought, "How gimicky. They should make a new Crystal Shards 
 game." And forgot about it. Now, after reading reviews, I decided to buy the game. I have no regrets.
 
  
  Let me get something straight right now. Kirby: Canvus Curse is unbelievably fun, and a must buy 
 for all DS owners. From the first time you defeat an enemy with the stylus, you'll be hooked.
 
  
  The control scheme is innovative. Kirby is a ball. Our limbless hero must save dreamland from an 
 evil witch. Okay, the plot is vague and boring, but back to the control scheme. As a ball, Kirby 
 is constantly moving ever-so-slowly in the direction he is facing. Watching Kirby roll through 
 Dreamland wouldn't make a good game, however. That's where you come in. You draw lines with the 
 stylus to guide Kirby through the hazardous courses in the game. You give the little fella a little 
 boink to send him forward in a dashing attack, which can defeat enemies. You can also tap a foe 
 to stun them, then have Kirby touch the foe to finish it off. 
  
  It's simple, but things get tricky. You have a limited Rainbow Meter. Once it's depleted, Kirby 
 is helpless. It fills up kinda like the VFX meter in Viewtiful Joe, contantly filling up. Your 
 going to need every drop of the rainbow meter. It fills up faster when your on the ground, but 
 most of the time Kirby will be in the air avoiding hazards and it's too risky to get him on the 
 ground.
  
  Graphicly, you may think that all the sprites are ripped out of Kirby's GBA installments. Your 
 wrong. Nearly all of the sprites are redone, and the characters look crisp and charming. Each stage 
 has backrounds that are hand-drawn, and the stages themselves are stunning. The water effects are 
 terrific, and you may be spending a lot of time just making bubbles appear by spinning around to 
 see how great it looks. 
  
  Sound is what you expect from a Kirby game. Remixed songs from previous games, along with a few 
 new ones, and the general sound effects, nothing too fancy.
  
  In each of the courses are stashes of medals that can be traded in for items, like different colored 
 ink or other characters to play as. These will keep you busy, and I am nowhere near finding all 
 of the medals...
  
  Did I mention that you can get powers? Tap Kirby with a power to perform the power. There are about 
 a dozen in all, and they help you get through the tricky parts of the game.
  
  This game is truely innovative. You can block lasers, cannon fire, spears, flames, nearly anything 
 with your rainbow ink. The game doesn't fail to challenge or surprise you, either. This game is 
 HARD. There will be parts that have you scratching your head. However, these hard parts are not 
 cheap or unfair. With practice, you'll get through.
  
  One nice touch is that on each stage you can do the three stages in any order, so if your stuck 
 on one of them you can try a different one and go after it later.
  
  Boss battles are a bit odd. You choose one of three "minigames", and must use your stylus to make 
 Kirby perform various tasks. They do get boring after a while, but they are quite a blast the first 
 few times.
  
  Kirby: Canvus Curse will blow you away. Give it a spin, and you'll be hooked. This is a great game 
 that takes advantage of the DS' capabilities without getting stale. If you own a DS, buy this game, 
 it's that simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  Kirby has been in a lot of games at this point, for nearly every Nintendo system that's been made, 
 so it makes sense that he'd show up on the Nintendo DS sooner or later. And so he does in Kirby: 
 Canvas Curse, his first game on the platform. It's a very interesting title, not only in that it's 
 one of the best games to come out on the DS so far, but also in that it's one of the best examples 
 of how the DS should be used. It isn't that much of a stretch from previous Kirby platformers, 
 but it's clearly something new, and something that everyone should see.
  
  In the game, you use the stylus to draw lines to guide Kirby through levels and past obstacles. 
 Once he touches a line, he will follow it in the direction that it was drawn in. In addition to 
 guiding Kirby with the lines drawn by the stylus, you'll also encounter situations where you have 
 to block off obstacles like laser beams to prevent them from harming him. Tapping Kirby with the 
 stylus will make him race forward in whatever direction he was heading in, a move that can defeat 
 enemies if you come in contact with them. Tapping an enemy will stun it, allowing Kirby to defeat 
 it by coming into contact with it, even without dashing. Some enemies have abilities that can be 
 copied when Kirby defeats them, which allow you to use new attacks that change up the gameplay 
 just a bit. It's a lot of fun to do, and one of the best uses of the stylus that the DS has to 
 offer.
  
  The game has a relatively unique approach to boss games as well. After completing the three stages 
 that make up each world, you're given a choice of one of three different bosses. One is a race 
 against King DeDeDe, one forces you to draw pictures exactly as the computer does quickly enough 
 to avoid suffering damage, and one is a "Breakout"-esque game that has you redirecting Kirby into 
 different objects to clear a path to a boss character. These stages are all fun, but they only 
 increase in difficulty once before you're done with them, so it's a little disappointing that they're 
 all the game has to offer. Still, that's not much of a problem.
  
  Like almost any Kirby game, Canvas curse is absolutely gorgeous to look at. Colorful stages are 
 put on top of detailed and beautiful backgrounds. Enemies and items look pretty much exactly like 
 they always have in Kirby games, but that's not a problem considering how well the design suits 
 the game. Kirby doesn't have a high-tech look to it or anything, but the sheer beauty and creative 
 design of the worlds in this game seem timeless compared to graphic schemes that seem more focused 
 on realism than anything like this. It really does need to be experienced to be appreciated, as 
 it's one of the game's strongest points overall.
  
  The sound is strong, and has pretty much everything that you could expect from a Kirby game. There 
 are some sound effects that have been heard before, and tunes from older games do appear. Not that 
 any of that is a problem, of course. The game's sound is strong, and another definite high-point 
 of the experience. It's nothing flat-out spectacular either, but it does the job, which is just 
 as well in a game like this.
  
  Replay value is given a bit of a boost in this game in the form of the "Rainbow Run" mode and the 
 medals that can either be found or earned throughout the different stages. Rainbow Run is essentially 
 allows you to replay sections of every stage under one of two conditions. In Time Trial mode, you 
 must finish a stage in a certain amount of time to earn a reward. In Line Trial, you are given 
 a certain amount of ink to complete a stage and must avoid using too much to earn a reward. Medals 
 that you find or earn can be used in the medal swap section to unlock different things, like new 
 songs for the Sound Test, or additions to Kirby's life bar.
  
  Overall, Kirby: Canvas Curse is one of the best reasons to own a DS so far. It's a fully-realized 
 platformer for the system, one that makes use of nearly all the different nuances of the DS exactly 
 as it should. Controlling Kirby with the stylus is easy and quite a bit of fun. It's a landmark 
 in the DS' history, even if Kirby has always been one of Nintendo's lesser-known stars. It's one 
 of the best DS games to come out so far, and it's worth the time of anyone who owns the system, 
 or is even thinking of picking one up. It's a great game, and shows exactly how a game should use 
 the stylus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude1000000
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  kirby canvas curse is a great game that has plenty to it whith lots of unlockables such as different 
 line colors and new music and more health and new characters (there is 4 unlockable characters) 
 and new stages (there is 6 unlockable stages which can only be played on rainbow ride) and to get 
 most of these unlockables you have to earn medals which you get by playing rainbow ride and by 
 beating the game whith differen't characters and by getting high scores on the subgames which are 
 unlocked by beating the bosses on the main game and as for rainbow ride there is two modes in it 
 which are time trial in which you try to beat the stages as fast as you can and line trial in which 
 you try to beat the stages and not use very much ink so you can earn 6 medals per stage it defintely 
 is whorth the money so why not buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serenitylives05
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  I read quite a few reviews about this game and they all say the same thing thats its a very good 
 game and I believe they are right. When you start the game I highly recommend you do the training 
 portion of the game to learn how to play, you can do this as much as you want or like me I did 
 it once and then went to the main game and started playing. The sound and the graphics are really 
 good and I look forward to playing with this game some more. If you enjoy the Kirby Games they 
 will certainly enjoy Kirby Canvas Curse. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 26, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is by far one of the most innovative games ever created. Although this game is a 
 platformer, it plays different from any other platformer that you've played before.
  
  In Kirby Canvas Curse, you don't use any buttons. Yep, that's right, it's all stylus. Before you 
 start complaining about how it's "too different" or how it's "too innovative", let me explain how 
 it works first. Basically, you play as the magic paintbrush. You can draw lines in which Kirby 
 can travel up. If you draw a loop, Kirby gains a temporary speed boost as he flies around the loop 
 with incredible speed. You can also tap Kirby to make him charge, which gives him a slight speed 
 boost and kills enemies. Another way to destroy enemies is to tap them (which temporarily stuns 
 them) , and then run in to them normally. If you destroy an enemy with a copy ability, you will 
 absorb that enemy, giving you his powers. You then tap Kirby to activate this power. My personal 
 favourite was the Lightning bolt one, which causes lightning to rain down from the sky, destroying 
 everyone and everything above Kirby. There are over a dozen copy abilities in the game, so there's 
 plenty of variety.
  
  The levels consist of getting from the beginning of the level to the end. Obstacles include spikes, 
 enemies, lava, electric blocks, and more. These obstacles will take away 1 health if Kirby touches 
 them. Kirby starts out with 4 health, although this can be upgraded by purchasing upgrades with 
 medals that you find scattered throughout the levels. Alot of the levels in the game are innovative, 
 and have lots of variety, making every level seem very different from the last one. The difficulty 
 in the game also increases at a perfect rate, meaning that there are never really any huge difficulty 
 spikes which are found in some other games. You're skill will increase at the same rate that the 
 difficulty is increasing, meaning that you'll never really get "stuck" at a certain part of the 
 game.
  
  My only real problem with the game is that it's so hard to draw a straight line. Even when you 
 try to draw a perfect loop, it'll appear as a squiggly blob, making it hard to maneuver around 
 certain things in the game. This isn't too annoying, but it's just frustratingsometimes, like when 
 you're trying to avoid spikes by drawing a straight line for Kirby to travel along, but then your 
 line appears squiggly and curved, causing Kirby to hit the spikes and lose a health.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are just about as good as 2D side-scrollers get. The graphics 
 are very colourful and cartoony, and all of the enemies are detailed about as much as 2D allows 
 them to be. The environments all look really good as well, and alot of the lava and water effects 
 are nicely done as well. I have seen a few upcoming 2D DS games which have slightly better graphics 
 though, but as of now, this game contains arguably the best 2D graphics that you'll find on the 
 system. 2D graphics don't get much better than this.
  
  Sound: Wow, the music in this game is stunning. Simply stunning. This is the first DS game that 
 I've actually had the volume turned up fully throughout the whole game. There was not a single 
 bad song that played in any of the levels. The music is really energetic and it keeps the action 
 going at a fast pace. Some of the soundtracks could easily be mistaken as soundtracks from other 
 Kirby games, since some of them are virtually identical, but there's enough new soundtracks in 
 this game to keep the experience fresh and fun.
  
  Value: Make no mistake: this game is short. But then again, what Kirby game isn't short? However, 
 don't let the game's length bump this from a must-buy to a must-rent. Although beating the game 
 with Kirby will only take you about 3-4 hours to do, there are an additional 3 or 4 characters 
 that you can unlock as well. In order to get a 100% completion on your file, you must beat the 
 game with every single character. Add this up, and you're looking at easily spending 12-15 hours 
 on the main adventure alone! And let's not forget all of those sub-games as well.
  
  Also, there are 250 "medals" which are scattered throughout the game. Some of them you must search 
 for in levels, while others you must earn through mastering the sub-games or time trials. These 
 medals can be spent in the Medal Swap area, which allows you to exchange medals for one of many 
 unlockables. There are dozens of unlockables, and if you want to unlock 'em all, you'd better start 
 looking for medals! These unlockables include new characters, new soundtracks, new colours for 
 the line that you draw, and more!
  
  There is lots to do and see in Kirby Canvas Curse, and if you're a completionist, expect to spend 
 upwards of 20 hours on this game. However, if you're just looking to beat the game once and then 
 move on to something else, you won't be too satisfied with it's 3-4 hour length, so to you I'd 
 recommend a rental. Even with all of the unlockables, it still would have been nicer to see a longer 
 main adventure.
  
  Tilt: This is the DS's first must-have title to be released in North America. It really utilizes 
 the DS's innovations, and it's games like these that can't be done with a d-pad and buttons. You 
 must play this game, and I can't stress that fact enough! Go get this game, turn your DS's volume 
 up full blast, and enjoy one of the most innovative and enjoyable experiences that's ever hit handhelds! 
 You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdeurlein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Kirby: Canvas Curse is an excellent DS game that completely changes Kirby gameplay, but stays true 
 to every other Kirby game created. It is one of the best games out for DS as of right now. The 
 new Kirby game is entirely touch screen based, so if you've been waiting for a DS game that makes 
 good use of the touch screen, then this is the game you've been waiting for.
  
  In Kirby: Canvas Curse, a witch turns everything into paintings and turns Kirby into a ball by 
 removing his limbs. That's where the touch screen becomes so useful. You need to use the stylus 
 to draw paths for Kirby so he can make it through the level. You have no direct control of Kirby, 
 other than to do a Dash attack and Special Absorbed attacks. You need to use the stylus to draw 
 bridges, draw ramps, and even walls that can protect Kirby from projectiles. 
  
  The graphics are actually quite pleasing. They aren't 3-D graphics like most games today, but they 
 are very good and suit this game very well. Also, the sound is great, and once again, really suits 
 this game.
  
  While you go through the game, there are Medals hidden throughout every level. The Medals allow 
 you to buy extra stuff such as songs, trails, and vitality boosts.
  
  After you play through the game with Kirby, you are able to use other characters. You are automatically 
 given the character Waddle Dee, but you are allowed to buy 2 other characters with the Medals. 
 These characters are King DeDeDe and Meta Knight. After you play through the whole game with those 
 characters, you are given another character, Waddle Doo. In other words, if you want to get everything 
 out of this game, you'll have to play through it five times. But that necessarily isn't a bad thing. 
 It gives a lot of replay value to this game. 
  
  Those are most of the basics of the game without giving too much away. Kirby: Canvas Curse truly 
 is a great game, and one of the best ones out for DS right now. Do yourself a favor and pick this 
 game up as soon as you can. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  when i bought the game and started the training i wasnt very impressed, but soon after i started 
 to play the game it grew on me. i started to love it. it was very original, its hand drawn backgrounds, 
 the nice upbeat music and of course kirby. This is not another yoshis touch and go! there are tons 
 of levels and even more challenges! it is very fast paced. ok i'm getting ahead of myself... ok 
 heres the story... a magical witch comes and turns the land into a painting. its up to you and kirby 
 to save the land. first let me tell you about the many different powers there are. first their 
 the Rock power, in which you turn into a rock, useful for mostly underwater levels. then theres 
 the balloon power up which allows for you to make kirby float 3 times, each time getting bigger, 
 until "POP". there are many more but id rather this review not turn into a list. Any ways each 
 land is named after a color, there are 3 levels per land. after you beat the last level in the 
 land you go to a boss battle which you can choose who you, er, fight. i know one is king dee dee, 
 and in his battle you must race to the finish getting faster by grabbing food. then theres another 
 one, which is a cloud thing (he's been in lots of games but i forgot his name...) in his battle 
 you must play a game which i think is like pong. bouncing through the level and trying to defeat 
 the lesser enemies until you reach the cloud, er, thing. the next boss (i also forgot his name) 
 is a guy who skates and paints pictures. you must draw an identical picture fast so the bombs (which 
 slowly walk from the side) dont hit you. i personaly LOVE the game, and if you own a ds you must 
 pick the game up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the preview on G4 TV, I knew that I was gonna get this game. Then, after Gamespot reviewed 
 it (making it the highest rated DS game out) , I definately knew I was getting it. Now that I have 
 it, I am not disappointed at all. Everything about this game is just flat out creative, original 
 and fun. The story is pretty simple, but it is very original. Kirby confronts an evil witch that's 
 turning all his beloved worlds into paintings. Unfortunately for him, the witch casts a spell that 
 turns Kirby into a ball. Fortunately for him though, the witch leaves behind her magical paintbrush. 
 Kirby grabs it, and it flies all the way to you. Now it's up to you to guide Kirby through his 
 painting-worlds to get to the witch, defeat her, and return to his normal self. This is probably 
 the game that uses the stylus the best right now. Everything Kirby must get by, has touching involved. 
 You have to draw ramps for him to make long jumps, draw passageways to get across things, touch 
 enemies to stun them, roll into them to kill them, touch obstacles to destroy them, and many many 
 more. Altogether, this makes for a challenging, but awesome gaming experience. Although the game 
 is very short (I've clocked about an hour and a half and already 5/7 through the game) , it is very 
 replayable, with tons of quirky mini games to play and compete with friends in. The graphics look 
 like a GBA game; in other words, there isn't any 3-D at all. That doesn't really mean that they're 
 bad. I just would have liked a little more 3-D. The sound to it is really a great part to it too. 
 It may seem a little childish, but the classic Kirby music playing on each level establishes a 
 great feel for the game. The sound effects are also simple, yet effective. A little sound can go 
 a long way with this, and it certainly does. Overall, this answers every DS owner's prayers (it's 
 about time they were) , and it is a must have for every DS owner out there right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctsamurai
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 22, 2005 12:39 am PT
Review:  The game draws you in within seconds. The saccharine sweetness of Kirby is there from the start. 
 Nintendo's polish is also noticeable from the first few minutes. Starting off is simple enough 
 with no real difficulty and for the most part you can choose to simply get to the end of level 
 in no time, but where is the fun in that. The real fun and challenge of the game is grabbing every 
 little star, coin, and smacking around every baddie with as much style as possible. Yes, style.... a 
 word used with too few DS games until now. The game play feels good because every action is truly 
 yours. More than any other DS... heck even any other platform game.... you are given a level of control 
 that is unmatched. The graphics and sound are about on par with a GBA game, but with a touch more 
 flare. All in all this game is well worth the 29.99USD and should be in every DS owners collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  So far my stats are:
  Play time: 6:54
  Medals: 67/250
  Cleared: 26.3%
  
  I just got done with the main story so I though I would write a review for it now. I loved this 
 game but I don't like ranting so I figured I would cut to the point insted of making you read my 
 long opinion over how great this game is.
  
  Gameplay: This is just plain a truly enjoyable expirience. While it sounds like something that 
 doesn't apeal to you, you should just try this game out, its a lot more fun and is much harder 
 to play then it sounds. Drawing has never been such a deep expirience.
  
  Graphix: I don't have much to say here, its 2d but nicly animated 2d
  
  Sound: Same for graphix, 
 its a bit to cheerful at time and a bit lacking in action but it gets the job done well.
  
  Value: This may sound short seeing as I just beat the game in 7 hours but I have hardly scratched 
 the surface of the unlockables and I look forward to replaying this with new charecters.
  
  Over all: its a great game that keeps the heart and soul of a 2d platformer while still adding 
 and inovating. It's challenging but not to frustrating, its fast paced but not to over the top, 
 and its just plain a joy to play. 
  
  Words can not say how great this game is due to its odd nature so you'll just have to try it out 
 to find out why its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixlr8evo8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  This is only DS game that is worthy of owning that acutally fully utilizes the touch screen. The 
 game is fun, exciting, and quick to pick up on, not to mention incredibly addictive! This is another 
 Kirby game, and although somewhat strange and childish, a great game for all ages. If you are a 
 diehard Kirby fan, you won't think this is a gimmick at all like Tilt-and-Tumble was back on the 
 Gameboy Color. This game is true to DS owners, and true to Kirby fans as well.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) - The touch screen was utilized to its full potential, was very responsive, and 
 was every exciting. The overall experience with the touch screen was much more developed than Yoshi's 
 Touch and Go. No matter how great the touch screen, it would have been nice to used the D-Pad and 
 other button functions for some parts in the game. The overall framerate seemed to go pretty smooth, 
 and although there were some times when Kirby was in certain forms, there was some slowdown with 
 attacks, it didn't change the fact that this was the most solid aspect in the game.
  
  Graphics (8/10) - Been there, done that, 2D is great and all, but showing its age. The affects 
 in this game are really cool, but the cel drawn look is dated, and doesn't make this game look 
 any better than a Gameboy Advance game. Enemies and colors look great an vivid, but like a said, 
 in a system that has amazing 3D graphical potential, it was disappointing to not see it being used. 
 
  
  Sound (8/10) - This game doesn't really excel in the sound department, but it sure doesn't let 
 you down. It does have some of the original Kirby music remixed, but nothing new that is worthy 
 of remembering. Attacks sound pretty powerful, and the chimes and enemies sound how they should. 
 Nothing really seemed out of place, but that a good thing.
  
  Value (9/10) - This game is incredibly easy to learn, incredibly addictive, and incredibly fun. 
 I was also a little disappointed about how short the game was, it could have been much longer, 
 but if you want to go back and get everything it will take a while. This game is a must own, even 
 if you will beat it in a week or two. But then again, most DS games you can also beat in that amount 
 of time.
  
  There is not much else to say about this game. Its a fun Kirby game, as well as a great game to 
 own for your DS. I own it in my collection, and you should at least try this game out... you'll 
 love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryustruck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard of Kirby: Canvas Curse, i thought, this'll be another Yoshi Touch and Go. But 
 when i heard about all the good press surrounding this title, I decided to pick up a DS of my own. 
 The day after I picked up Kirby as my first game, and from what I've seen and heard, this game 
 is what the DS has been waiting for, a title to justify purchasing the system.
  
  Game-play: 10 
  This game is one of the most original titles to ever be released on any platform. 
 It plays simply enough by only the stylus. You have no direct control over the titular character, 
 but you draw lines for Kirby to follow. These lines don't just move Kirby, they can be used to 
 protect him, launch him in the air, loops, or even dive under water. You can tap Kirby with the 
 stylus to make him dash, or use a special attack that he has absorbed from an enemy. The simple 
 controls may sound easy to master, but essentially, the depth will bring you back wanting to find 
 a faster way through a level or get to an unreached ledge. 
  
  Graphics: 9
  Even though we've seen the DS handle impressive 3-D visuals, this game's hand-drawn backgrounds 
 and character models are very nice to look at, you'll also see some impressive effects.
  
  Sound: 8
  The music is top notch, catchy and upbeat, perfect for a game done in this style, but 
 you may not find yourself humming the tunes. There are also numerous songs to collect in the game.
 
  
  Value:9 
  Normally Kirby games tend to be fairly short, this one is no exception. But this Kirby game features 
 3 coins hidden in each level called Medals. These medals will earn you songs, new paint for your 
 lines and other goodies if you manage to collect enough of them. There are also numerous challenges 
 such as a time trial mode where you race through the level to beat a set time, and a rainbow trial 
 mode where you only have a set amount of paint to get through the level. 
  
  Conclusion: This game is the Nintendo DS's showcase of strengths, whats best about the DS is represented 
 in this title. If Nintendo continues with titles such as Kirby Canvas Curse, then the DS will be 
 one very great system in the near future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanduvall
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 17, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  i bought this game on the 15th of june. its a fun game but the reviews make it look amazing. it 
 is the highest scoring ds game to date, yet it doesnt feel like it deserves it. any way the game 
 is still fun. u get 2 use the touch screen the entire game, the only button u will use is the power 
 button and the start button. u basically make rainbows for kirby to roll on because a witch has 
 removed kirbys limbs. u can stun enemies and steal thier powers by running into them when they 
 r stunned. but this is what u do the entire game. there r only 3 bosses some of which r fun but 
 after u repeat them they rnt as cool anymore.
  gameplay- its still fun - 8
  
  graphics- beautiful for 2d - 9
  
  sound- sound effects are interesting but the music isnt appealing 
 - 7
  
  value- good replay value - 9
  
  tilt- i liked the fact that it only uses the touch screen - 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ankaara
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 16, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of the Nintendo DS, I imagined getting to play games full of bright new graphics, 
 new worlds to explore, and innovative gameplay. Well, I finally get to play the game I had hoped 
 for in Kirby: Canvas Curse. Its a Kirby game, thats for sure, and its better than ever. 
  
  Gameplay: Dont touch those buttons, folks. Nothing but stylus pushing here. It sounds a bit 
 weird at first. You cant imagine that you can get the guy to do anything exciting just by poking 
 the screen with a plastic stick. However, one trip through the fun and easy tutorial shows you 
 everything you can do. First, you learn about movement. Kirby has been morphed into a ball, and 
 its your job to see that he reaches his goal by guiding him with magic paint. He follows your 
 paint lines in the direction you draw them, so you must think ahead. However, you cant start scribbling 
 all over the place because your paint is limited. A quick jab to Kirby himself gives him a burst 
 of speed. Most levels you can just let him run mostly by himself, but youll miss out on lots of 
 extras. Second, there are defensive moves you need to learn. You have to break blocks in the way 
 and stun enemies. And dont worry, he can still absorb the moves of a variety of cool enemies. 
 Also, the game throws in all sorts of different level elements that make the gameplay interesting. 
 These include water, cannons, switches, and even a pinball mode! You wont get bored, I promise.
 
  
  Graphics: The game is gorgeous for a side scroller. The main game is located on the bottom touch 
 screen, and the visuals are bright and interesting. It seems most of our old familiar Kirby world 
 items have gotten a visual upgrade. Everything is more detailed and more colorful than ever before, 
 but yet you still recognize things. The worlds are all sorts of shapes and sizes. Because the world 
 has been turned into a painting as part of the part, it looks very artsy and stunning. The top 
 screen is a nice status area. There you see your remaining lives, your health, other statistics, 
 and a map. The map shows a version of the level where all of the clutter is removed and you can 
 easily see the difference between air and ground. It also shows the location of medallions, which 
 are a fun challenge to collect. A fun thing to watch for is at the end of levels, the top screen 
 shows a movie of Kirbys doing a victory dance. However, the movie is vintage, from the original 
 games, and is portrayed in monochrome old-school Gameboy style. Another fun aspect of the visuals 
 is the paint lines you create with the stylus. It is a shimmering line of rainbow colors that looks 
 fabulous. Later you can even unlock other patterns of color for the all important paint. I was 
 very satisfied with the look of this game.
  
  Sound: Back are the ever-cheerful songs and sounds of the Kirby universe. They are all new and 
 fun to listen to. The music is peppy and doesnt get irritating. The sounds are great in helping 
 you through the game. For instance, your paintbrush makes a different sound to alert you that it 
 is about to run out of paint. A fun extra included in the game is a sound gallery. Not only can 
 you listen to the sounds and songs of Kirby: Canvas Curse, but you also can play sounds from older 
 games. I had fun playing music from old boss levels and remembering playing those games. 
  
  Value: If you know your Kirby games, you know to expect great replay value. Well, you get it 
 with this game. You can play the game through once, but at any time, you can replay levels over 
 and over to try and find all of the hidden medallions. Once you complete a world, you unlock another, 
 what I would consider, set of two new games. First, you can try to get high scores by beating special 
 versions of the levels in record time. The second game encourages you to finish a level with using 
 as little paint as possible. This is my favorite, because the top status screen adds a giant bottle 
 of paint that diminishes at an alarmingly fast pace as you play along. Both of these games offer 
 a whole new set of medallions to win as you get great scores. What are these medallions I keep 
 mentioning? As you collect them, you can trade them in to unlock a variety of extras. You get various 
 things such as new sound clips for your gallery, new paint colors, and minigames. You may beat 
 this game quickly, but it will most certainly take you a while to collect all of the medallions. 
 Even then, you will find yourself pushing to get new high scores. My only complaint about the whole 
 game, and this is minor here, is that there werent as many cinematics as I had hoped for. I want 
 to see the story laid to me in a nice intro movie or something. No big deal though. The game is 
 still worth every penny. 
  
  Tilt: If you compare this to older innovative Kirby games where he is a ball, this wins hands down. 
 Anyone remember Kirby Tilt n Tumble or Kirbys Pinball Land? Alright, alright, Pinball was a 
 lot of fun, but still. This is the best Ive ever seen the pink guy as a ball. If you compare this 
 game to the currently released Nintendo DS games, this wins hands down again. Its completely new 
 and original as well as long and entertaining. You have to agree that its not just me here, everyone 
 will love this game. Dust off your Nintendo DS, find your charger, and get painting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: memasterofvg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2005 9:01 pm PT
Review:  About 3 months ago, Yoshi Touch and Go came out. People thought the idea was truly novel, draw 
 lines to guesstimate where the character to go, but there just isn't enough meat on it to really 
 be considered THE DS game. Now, in June, Kirby comes in, expanding what Yoshi sought to do by adding 
 a full-blown platforming game with incredible level design, graphics never achieved by Yoshi, and 
 added some of the most creative moves and skills yet to be seen in a game. Kirby takes the "no 
 meat" off of Yoshi and destroys all of that. And it rocks.
  
  Yoshi will definately be familiar to those with experience with Yoshi Touch and Go. What you do 
 is draw lines to move along a character, of which you have little to none direct control of, and 
 destroy enemies, cross gaps, and solve puzzles while you're at it. But even to those who played 
 the previous Nintendo game, this game will seem innovative and fresh. Above all, it's damn fun.
 
  
  What Kirby really accomplishes that Yoshi never did wasmake the game last. There is such and abundancy 
 of options, that even after you beat the 2-3 hour story mode (which is incredible, by the way) 
 you'll still have things to unlock or things to play over.
  
  Kirby isn't just a huge minigame like Yoshi was. That's what really sets it apart. Kirby's story 
 is a simple one, but it give you reasoning for drawing rainbow lines for Kirby to roll on. One 
 day, Kirby found a which turning his world into a painting. In an unpleasant confrontation, the 
 witch turns Kirby a ball. One flaw that she made was that she dropped her magic paintbrush, and 
 it's up to you to help Kirby kill the damn witch.
  
  The story mode isn't especially long, if you want to blast through it. The game is broken down 
 into 7 levels, each level have 3 stages, and a boss at the end of stage three. The thing is, you 
 are allowed to choose your own boss to fight. Each boss is actually a minigame, containing a different 
 challenge. After you beat a boss twice, you unlock the minigame for you to play as you like. These 
 challenges are EXTREMELY fun, and they just work really well. For example, the racing part is appropriately 
 fast, and you will get some messages such as speed up and max speed as you collect fruit.;; l
  
  Each level has its own unique personality, and its own set of mesmerizing challenges. Though 
 most of the puzzles aren't especially hard, the speed platforming, the combat, and the level design 
 really win the show. There are some rules in Kirby that just make it more interesting than Yoshi. 
 For one thing, you have a limit to how much "magic inc" you use, and it grows back faster on ground. 
 This gives Kirby a really strategic element. Also, you are only allowed to draw one line at a time, 
 for the second one will disappear quickly. Another thing is how kirby rolls on the line. Kirby 
 only rolls in the direction that the line is drawn. Now that is a really interesting element. Another 
 thing is how Kirby can go up almost vertical lines, making some really cool wall jumping-without 
 actually jumping on a wall. The magic inc can also block cannons and lasers, that the game incorporates 
 by making you solve ouzzles with lasers rolling. YYou have little direct control on Kirby, and 
 the only thing you can control is Kirby's dashing abilities. If you can click on Kirby, he will 
 dash, and if you hit an eenmy, the enemy dies. Also, if the enemy has a special ability, you gain 
 that ability, and have unlimited use of it by pressing Kirby-that is, unless you get hit. Speaking 
 of which, the ame is lenient, and gives you 4 life bars (or more if you unlock them) , making the 
 game that much better.
  
  Once you've beaten the 2-3 hour game, you'll still have plenty to do. Inside the levels, you'll 
 notice metal coins. With this, you can trade to get some really nice unlokcabbles, like song music 
 and specail abilities. Also left to do are the minigames you have unlocked from the bosses, and 
 time trial and line trial modes in Rainbow run, both competetive highscore games. This one will 
 last a long time.
  
  Kirby is absolutely gorgeous, and unmatched in artistic element. Each level has its own hand drawn, 
 fully colored, well designed background. Each character on screen is lively, and you will never 
 once find a flaw with it. Sound fairs almost as well. Though there isn't any voice acting to speak 
 of, there is still some incredibly catchy music and great sound effects.
  
  There is no glaring flaw, no gameplay falling short, no hint of it ever being a novel idea being 
 lazied up into a game, nothing. That's because Kirby was crafted in careful hands, and polished 
 to near perfection. That's what Kirby: Canvas Curse is: near perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btnheazy03
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 16, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  I got my copy earlier today (June 15, 2005) at Circuit City. If you can, get it there, they priced 
 it @ $29.99, 5 bucks cheaper than the MSRP and most stores.
  
  I gotta say, playing this game just makes me happy. Can't get any simpler than that.
  The visuals 
 are a majestic sight to behold, like an animated painting, and the gameplay is unlike anything 
 we've ever seen before. Truly a showcase for what the Nintendo's latest handheld is capable of 
 providing the gaming population.
  
  This game is simply and honestly, straight to the point, happiness in a box.
  This is a very 
 short review, and I apologize, but I must go and play CC again
  
  This game is but a taste of what the DS will be getting this year and in the years to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game uses the touch pad that well. Kirby's Canvas Curse is much like most kirby games... 
 you can get powers and move around in a rainbow colored, bubbly happy world. But this time, Kirby 
 is a ball, stuck in a paint world. You have to move & control him using only the stylus. And the 
 only stylus control scheme works amazingly for this game. You tap enemies to stun them, tap Kirby 
 to make him dash/use power, touch blocks to destroy them, among other things.
  
  Gameplay- 10- This is how the stylus controls were meant to be used. You do everything with the 
 stylus, yet it isn't overwhelming at all. Just well done controls. The game itself is a little 
 quick, if you just do a straight run-through and dont collect anything, but finding everything 
 is part of the game. Also, the Rainbow Run mode adds 2-3 replays through the whole game at least.
 
  
  Graphics- 8- Its a weird 2D, 3D cel shaded looking game. It's definately the best graphically Kirby 
 game for a handheld
  
  Sound- 8- All the Kirby music has been redone & remixed which gives it a classic, yet fresh feel 
 at the same time.
  
  Value- 9- A great use of the touchpad, good replay, and bonuses to buy... definately good value
 
  
  Tilt- 10- Deserves every point
  
  In closing, this ISN'T Yoshi's Touch & Go Redux... this is a full game using the stylus control 
 as its meant to be. A definate buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenuma
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  One good thing about Kirby: Canvas Curse is that you can play it with one hand- you don't use the 
 DS's buttons at all. Instead, you use the stylus to navigate Kirby around. This is because an evil 
 witch has turned Kirby into a ball and he can't walk.
  
  Like Pac-Pix (also for the DS) , the game is centered in 'Magic Ink'. You must use it to draw lines 
 for Kirby to roll on and jump, stun enemies before you kill them, and make Kirby roll. If Kirby 
 has a power, you can tap him with the stylus to use it.
  
  There are a few annoying matters in K: CC that lower its value. For example, when trying to swim 
 underwater, Kirby is constantly trying to surface again and again. So, you must use the magic ink 
 to keep him under and don't have time to stun enemies.
  
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is truly the game that started the flow of great Nintendo titles for the DS, 
 that will be released soon (hopefully) . It has great gameplay, and the only problem I found in 
 K: CC is I found it quite difficult to use your absorbed powers when moving very quickly.
  
  For example, if you want to use your power and try to click on Kirby while rushing, you might miss 
 and draw a line. Since you can only have one line on screen at the time, you'll cancel the line 
 you're on and fall into an enemy or something.
  
  At the end of the three stages in a level, you fight a boss, and you get to pick the boss you fight. 
 Beat the same boss twice and he becomes a mini-game and you can't fight him again. You can also 
 change the color of your ink by collecting many medals and trading them in for new options. You 
 can also unlock sounds and stages by doing this, though buying new options is very expensive.
 
  
  Time Trial and Line Trial are two very good features that will truly test your skills, and possibly 
 make you break your stylus. Use the boost and loops to get to the goal quickly in Time Trial, and 
 don't use your ink in Line Trial unless you must.
  
  Kirby: Canvas Curse is a game I highly reccomend for anyone with a DS. By the way, pay no attention 
 to the time spent playing, my DS ran out of batteries from playing it to much and is now charging 
 for another round. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
