-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kirby Squeak Squad
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/kirby2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cute, colorful 2D graphics.
 excellent soundtrack.
 lots of different copy abilities to play with, each with multiple attacks and functions.
 plenty of hidden chests and items to be found.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Highly simple combat.
 multiplayer minigames aren't very good.
 you'll complete the story mode quickly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.2, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 971 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Hal
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Dec 6, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though Kirby Squeak Squad rarely finds a way to challenge you, it's a clever and cute enough platformer 
 to recommend to most DS owners. 

  Kirby's debut on the Nintendo DS in last year's Kirby: Canvas Curse was an interesting and entertaining 
 departure from the simple platformers that HAL Laboratory's pink puff mascot was accustomed to 
 in previous games. Focusing entirely on touch-screen controls, Canvas Curse may have still technically 
 been a platformer, but its unique control method for moving a balled-up Kirby around the world 
 made for a really entertaining style of gameplay. However, for Kirby's follow-up performance, it's 
 back to the days of old -- but that's not necessarily a bad thing. Kirby Squeak Squad gives Kirby 
 his legs back and has him hopping, floating, and transforming through a series of colorful new 
 worlds on a quest to take down a new group of baddies. Fans of Kirby's numerous platforming adventures 
 will find a lot to like about Squeak Squad, though they'll rarely find themselves challenged by 
 it.  

          Everyone's favorite vacuum mouthed pink puff returns to the Nintendo DS in Kirby Squeak 
 Squad.     

  The story begins when one day, Kirby is enjoying a nice afternoon picnic. In front of him sits 
 a scrumptious strawberry shortcake that he's about to inhale (literally) . Suddenly, an unseen foe 
 swoops in and steals the delicious cake. Immediately, Kirby suspects the dastardly King Dedede 
 and sets off to King Dedede's castle to get back his meal. Not long after, it becomes clear that 
 there are far more insidious forces at work -- namely, a crew of thieving rodents called the squeak 
 squad. During the course of the game, you'll fight each of the members of the squeak squad many 
 times over as you collect a series of stolen treasure chests and hopefully get back that delectable 
 cake.  

  For the most part, you control the game using the DS's buttons rather than the touch screen. You 
 move Kirby around using the D pad; the A button lets him jump; and the B button has him inhaling 
 any object that happens to get too close to the vacuum that is his mouth. All the usual abilities 
 are on hand, such as being able to balloon up and float around an environment, as well as the ability 
 to copy the attack abilities of an inhaled enemy. The key difference between Squeak Squad and other 
 Kirby platformers is that now Kirby has the ability to store multiple items. Whenever you collect 
 a bubble that contains any sort of power-up, be it a new copy ability or a health boost, you can 
 store it on the touch screen. You can store up to five bubbles here, and many of these bubbles 
 can be combined into new items or abilities. For example, you can combine two smaller health power-ups 
 to turn them into one big health power-up. Or you can combine two copy abilities to result in a 
 new, random ability (random being the operative word, as there doesn't seem to be any real rhyme 
 or recipe to the mixing and matching of basic abilities) . To activate any of the abilities in storage, 
 you simply double tap on the bubble.  

  There are more than 25 copy abilities to play with throughout the game, which are all fun and unique 
 in their own way. Some of the more memorable favorites include the metal ability, which turns Kirby 
 into a big, clunking hunk of steel and makes him incredibly strong (though also very slow) ; wind, 
 which turns Kirby into a tornado that can spin all over the place, hurting any enemy in its path; 
 fighter, which gives Kirby a wide variety of awesome martial arts moves; and magician, which puts 
 Kirby in an adorable little top hat and lets him both toss playing cards as a projectile weapon 
 and fire off doves, like some kind of Contra-esque spread gun.  

  Kirby's copy abilities play into more than just simple attacks. Levels are laid out in such a way 
 that often certain abilities will yield access to seemingly impenetrable areas. For instance, Kirby 
 can take on an "animal" ability that not only lets him claw away at foes, but also lets him dig 
 through sections of dirt. When Kirby takes on his fire ability, he can melt away ice and snow, 
 as well as light the fuse of any nearby cannons -- which Kirby happens to be able to stuff himself 
 into to get fired off into new areas. Though none of the game's stages take longer than a few minutes 
 to complete, each one contains a few alternate areas and paths, some of which yield hidden chests. 
 From the outset, finding chests seems optional because you'll be able to defeat stages without 
 finding any chests at all. But hidden throughout the various stages and worlds are five star seals 
 you'll need to have handy to access the final areas of the game. If you play diligently enough 
 and make sure to come away with the big chest hidden in each stage, you'll eventually find all 
 the star seals with no problem. But if you miss any, you'll need to go back to any stages you didn't 
 grab chests from if you want to continue.  

  Of course, even if you do find yourself having to replay stages, it won't add much time to your 
 quest. Squeak Squad's story mode can be completed in just a few hours on your first play-through. 
 Part of it is the relative brevity of the stages, but another part is that the game is just very, 
 very easy. No matter which copy ability you have on you, odds are you won't run into much resistance 
 from the game's enemies. They're the kind of inhaling fodder that doesn't put up much of a fight 
 in any situation. And one or two quick shots with any available weapon ought to dispose of the 
 vast majority of them. Sub-bosses are often big pushovers as well. There are a number of times 
 when you'll end up in a battle with some member of the squeak squad, but the battles often end 
 up playing out the same. For example, you'll take one of your easier-to-fire-off weapons and simply 
 hammer on the attack button to push the boss into the corner, ultimately making it completely helpless. 
 A few of the game's main boss fights do require more strategy, especially in terms of which weapons 
 you use, but it's usually obvious which weapons you should be using because they're the precise 
 ones presented to you in bubbles before you head into the fight. This same hand-holding nature 
 is prevalent all over the game. Whenever there's an area you can't get to, often all you need to 
 do is look toward the enemies dotting the area. Their copy abilities are almost always the exact 
 ones you need, eliminating any need to search -- or think, for that matter.  

  It's hard to hang a kid-friendly platformer on its ease of play, but the fact that it takes so 
 little time to complete the game is a hindrance. There's also not much to do once you're done with 
 the story mode. There's a basic gallery mode that lets you look at the various things you've collected 
 throughout the game, as well as a few touch-screen-focused minigames that can be played both single-player 
 and multiplayer. Trouble is, these minigames aren't much fun. Speedy teatime presents you with 
 a covered plate that is full of delicious cakes and an opponent (or opponents in multiplayer) . 
 Once the cover is lifted, you have to try to tap on the food you want to consume before other players 
 do and take care to avoid any bombs that are moonlighting as pastries. Smash ride is a simple bumper 
 car (or in this case, bumper star, because you're riding a star) mode, where you and your opponents 
 try to bump each other off a platform while sliding your stylus around the touch screen to move 
 the star. Treasure shot is a frenetic mode where you just slide the stylus up and to the right 
 or left to fire off balls at treasures that pop up. Hitting them nets you points. There's also 
 an unlockable game that's basically just a boss survival mode. The action in all of these games 
 is simple and often rather hurried (and at times, borderline confusing) . And once you've played 
 through each of them a few times with friends, you never want to play them again.  

          Multiplayer minigames are the only addition to offset the story mode's shortness, but sadly, 
 they aren't very good.     

  One area where Squeak Squad excels is presentation. Though the game is entirely 2D, its bright, 
 vibrant visuals are hard not to love. Sure, it's a real cutesy game. Kirby's still as patently 
 precious as ever, and the enemies are the usual cartoon villains that are just as likely to make 
 you go "awww" as they are likely to quickly die by your hand. But with such a rich color scheme 
 and delightful-looking animations (seriously, Kirby in that top hat is almost too much cute to 
 bear) , you'll either gag with cute overload or fall completely in love with the game's look. The 
 only real knock against the visual design is that it follows the platformer environmental checklist 
 to the letter. There's a fire world, a forest world, an ice world, a sky world, and so on. Again, 
 the environments look great, but they're all the pretty typical scenery that we've seen countless 
 times before. Audio is impressive largely because of the fantastic soundtrack. Sound effects are 
 decent, if a bit unassuming. But the soundtrack tunes fall right in line with some of the best, 
 catchiest songs composed during the Super Nintendo's platforming heyday, and it's impossible not 
 to get at least a few of the songs stuck in your head.  

  If you prefer a bit more meat to your platformers and want more challenge than what an easy, breezy 
 game like this one provides, then you may find yourself over and done with Kirby Squeak Squad very, 
 very quickly. However, those who don't mind the relative simplicity and short story may end up 
 addicted to playing around with Kirby's various copy abilities and replaying stages over and over 
 again to track down every hidden chest and item. Overall, the game is cute enough and features 
 enough clever gameplay ideas to keep you entertained, even while you're bowling over easygoing 
 enemies at a breakneck pace.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JoE_Morais
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Squeak Squad features everybody's most beloved pink puff ball. This platformer isn't the most 
 challenging experience you'll find out there but it's definitely a must have for the DS. Simply 
 because it's a really immersive and highly addictive game that simply makes want to play more and 
 more.
  In the game, Kirby after deafeting King Dedede and Meta Knights evil forces yet again, finds himself 
 just die-hard to eat a delicous cake. Just about the time Kirby is about to make the big introductory 
 bite, a pletora of uninvited guests appear, stealing Kirby's cake. Kirby goes after them to later 
 find out that they are the Squeak Squad, a gang of obviously squeaky rats that just love stealing 
 everybody's elses treasures.
  The gameplay is very simialar to the first two GBA games. It's a side-scrolling fast paced action 
 game where Kirby has to suck the opponents abilitys to advance. For the DS touch screen this game 
 features Kirby's belly where you can store up to five bubbles and treasures which makes gameplay 
 a lot easier than it already was since you can save a lot of abitily bubbles to go to boss fights.
 
  It's a very addictive and fun platformer but it's very short and easy making it more of a kids 
 experience. I'm giving it a 7.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naru_stick_6
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  I alredy beat the game around 40 times ... so its easy and all , but it does include ghost kirby 
 , aswell as triple star rod kirby and u. f. o. , animal and a lot more. its lots of fun to mix items 
 like ice + sword= icesword , fire + sword= firesword ,and ice + bomb= icebomb. My favourite abillity 
 is ... Tornado or animal with the scroll ( jump, direction, B ) . you need all the parts of the 
 map for the castle in the middle of the screen (on the map, which holds all abillities posible 
 in squeak squad ) , and all the ghost pieces to unleash ghosts and be able to be ghost-kirby. I 
 find it wierd that Metaknight comes from nowhere and takes the short cake box ( which isn't really 
 it ) and flies away, but I understand. Also I don't see why the put Dedede asthe first boss, hes 
 usually, like, the 2nd last or last boss of the game. well... I guess there is more ... but i'm 
 about done so, this is where it ends... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatelowfatmilk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Kirby has never really been a popular Nintendo icon like Mario and Link are. Solid platformers 
 are released, but they are never the one that gets all the hype. Now Kirby gets another turn on 
 the DS to show everybody that great things come in small packages.
  
  Graphics
  I am a little disappointed with the graphics just because they show no change over the GBA Kirby 
 games though the graphics don't make the game any worse. Also instead of showing of the DS's 3D 
 graphics, like New Super Mario Bros. did, it keeps it colorful and cartoony which really sets it 
 apart from a lot of other platformers.
  
  Sound
  Like the graphics, the sound hasn't really changed much in GBA to DS transition. Once again the 
 game is saved by its upbeat and bubbly tunes. It helps this cartoony image.
  
  Gameplay
  This is where Kirby Squeak Squad really shines, in gameplay. -Story-
  The story is very simple. 
 I mean VERY simple. Someone has taken Kirby's Strawberry Short Cake. Kirby has to get it back. 
 Of course the story gets a little bit longer as you progress through, but not much. -Single Player-
 
  This Kirby is similar to a lot of other games, which involves running through levels and then 
 fighting a boss. The stages are pretty easy, but fun and colorful. Also new to this game is the 
 bubbles. When Kirby eats a bubble, it goes to his stomach (shown on the tough screen) . You can 
 tap bubbles to heal Kirby or to change him. When two morph forms are put together it randomly selects 
 a new ability or better some fuse together. There are also 120 chests to find (with new Kirby colors, 
 special abilities for morph forms, and more) and 8 worlds full of fun levels. Even with all those 
 the game is over too quickly. -Multi Player- There is not much to say about multi player. 4-Player 
 Single Card download play makes it easier to play with friends. There are 3 mini games that use 
 the stylus rather than buttons. They are fun but get old fast.
  
  With all of its ups and downs Kirby Squeak Squad is a fun game. If you need a new platformer, or 
 just a new DS game, then this is a great game that I can recommend to almost anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  2005's Canvas Curse surprised me; it brought an innovative new playing style and injected freshness 
 into the solid, if not somewhat tired Kirby formula. Squeak Squad returns to the traditional platforming 
 hi-jinks of earlier games, but with a twist; you can control the innards of Kirby's (seemingly 
 bottomless) stomach! *gasp* 
  
  The story (like always) starts out charming and tranquil, but (according to law of averages) something 
 goes awry. Apparently, someone has stolen Kirby's beloved strawberry shortcake (say what?!) . Believing 
 that King Dedede is behind this heinous act, Kirby traverses to the pompous penguin's castle to 
 right this injustice. Unfortunately, this leads to even more trouble, as Kirby now finds himself 
 entangled in a furious battle between Meta Knight and a band of intergalactic thieves, the Squeaks. 
 It's no Zelda, but was Kirby really known for deep stories?
  
  Gameplay remains unchanged from any "main" game since 1991's Kirby's Adventure; Kirby still jumps, 
 floats, inhales, and copies the powers of his enemies like nobody's business. However, now, you 
 can control his innards! *double gasp* 
  
  Over the course of Squeak Squad, Kirby comes across bubbles containing various items and abilities 
 (think "Copy Pedestals" from Kirby Super Star's "Milky Way Wishes") . After inhaling and swallowing 
 them, you can pop them to make use of what's inside, spit them back up, or combine them to create 
 new items and abilities a la Kirby 64 (sadly, this trick only works with a specific handful of 
 items/abilities) . This does tend be tedious, especially during tense moments, for you'll need to 
 divert your attention to the touch screen in order to make use of the bubbles. 
  
  The standard assortment of copy abilities return (along with a few new ones such as Ghost [which 
 allows Kirby to possess lesser enemies and fly] and Animal [which grants Kirby animalistic claws 
 for drilling and digging) , and 99.9% of them can be powered up with scrolls that grant new skills. 
 Fans of Kirby Super may also be relieved to know that the lifebar replaces the 6-point health meter 
 this time around. There is also a great deal of treasure to collect, usually involving some sort 
 of competition (whether it be a race/chase sequence or boss battle) with the Squeaks. These treasures 
 (probably another homage to "The Great Cave Offensive" from Kirby Super Star) usually consist of 
 useful items that will aid Kirby in his quest.
  
  The graphics are exactly the same as Squeak Squad's GBA predecessors, but they still are charming 
 and pleasant. It seems a bit lazy on the part of the developers, but I'm not complaining.
  
  Squeak Squad's audio consists of your typical Kirby fare. Some of the music comes straight 
 from past games and other tunes sound distantly similar to something that you've already heard, 
 but it's still a nice assortment of music that adequately portrays the (generally) upbeat and carefree 
 tone of the series.
  
  Unfortunately, this game is short. Really short. In fact, you probably could finish the game in 
 its entirety in two or three sitdowns. Perhaps, it's because the majority of the game is a cakewalk. 
 Plus, there really isn't much in the line of replayability, for you'll find almost no unlockable 
 features upon completing the main game. That's a downer, for the extra modes in recent Kirbys always 
 had a way of hooking you back in even when you thought that you were completely finished. 
  
  Squeak Squad is another charming Kirby game and it isn't necessarily bad; it just could've 
 been better, 'tis all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  So Kirby has given up painting and gone back to what he knows - swallowing enemies, stealing their 
 powers and spitting them out again. It sounds like tough work but when you've been doing it for 
 15 years it's easy.
  
  Kirby's DS debut in Canvas Curse was brilliant, as it made you forget that you were controlling 
 a pink blob, as you concentrated on drawing rainbow paths for him to roll along. For Mouse Attack 
 you could argue that Kirby's settled for the easy life as he goes back to the well-trodden platforms 
 of GBA's Nightmare In Dreamland. This time someone has stolen his shortcake and Kirby discovers 
 it's the work of some thieving mice called the squeak squad. 
  Kirby's trademark skill snatching is as sharp as ever with 25 abilities to copy and the option 
 to mix them to form new combinations. So you can steal Meta Knight's sword, obtain a fearsome fire 
 attack and transform into a wheel and zoom through the levels. Thing is, you really will zoom through 
 the levels. While using these abilities is fun, it does make things all rather too easy. 
  Gameplay is similair to New Super Mario Bros in that you could blast through all 50 levels in a 
 few hours but if you did you'd be missing out on some treasures. Whereas in Mario you have to grabs 
 coins, here it's treasure chests and finding them unlocks all sorts of bonus materials, from sound 
 files and artwork, to secret door keys which open up extra levels and copy ability skills. 
  
  
  Fools Gold?
  
  Finding all these chests is a bit more of 
  a challenge as they're 
 often stored in locations which can only be reached with a certain power-up. Also, it's quite exciting 
 when a member of the Squeak Squad shows up, setting up a mad dash to get to the treasure first. 
 
  Having said that you could still complete Kirby in a couple of days and while there are three multiplayer 
 games none of them are good enough to keep you going. Kirby has always been a bit of a B-list Nintendo 
 character and to float to the top he needs something extra. It's a shame he decided to put his 
 paintbrush down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  For most of you gamers out there, this probably isn't your first kirby game. And if it is, then 
 you won't be dissapointed. The game is simplistic, and yet there is a lot to accomplish. 
  
  There isn't much of a story, besides kirby getting his strawberry shortcake stolen by the squeak 
 squad, a band of mice thieves who you battle throughout the game for treasure. 
  
  The graphics are very smooth and everything was crisp and clean, making for a very enjoyable, viewable, 
 kirby experience. With the gameplay being about the same as previous games, with you sucking up 
 enemies, copying powers to defeat enemies, and exploring, the game is samey, but with some new 
 features to freshen up the experience.
  
  One new addition includes collecting treasure chests in each of the levels. When you acquire them 
 in your inventory and finish the level with them, you recieve various prizes, including color changes 
 for kirby, palate styles, a secret map, a secret medal, and various other things. The gameplay 
 additions include maybe 5 new modes for kirby, one of my favorites being ninja kirby with shiriken 
 and fire. You can also drag and combine powers and food in your inventory to make new creations 
 to help you out. There are also a few multiplayer games to enjoy with friends.
  
  Like I said before, kirby squeak squad is simple, but lots of fun. A new gamer could pick this 
 up and have a great time with it. Keep the great kirby games coming Hal Labratories! I recommend 
 this to everyone! Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Squeak Squad is the second Kirby game for the DS and it goes back to the old Kirby formula, 
 and is sadly very similar to every other Kirby game, in fact maybe even worse.
  
  Let's start with Squeak Squads biggest problem: it's difficulty. Kirby Squeak Squad is way way 
 too easy. It is so easy to the point where you'll question why it's so easy. For one thing, the 
 game which is as difficult as any other Kirby game lets you store healing items which means you 
 can use them whenever you're about to die making it very easy, plus you get these healing items 
 a lot throughout the game. But really another reason why I don't like this game is that the secrets 
 are so horribly hidden. There are 1-3 treasure chests hidden on each level and they're so easy 
 to find that you could probably get all the secrets on your first play through and not need to 
 replay any levels. The secrets are hidden that bad.
  
  But don't worry, one hard thing this game has is the bosses. The last half of the bosses (excluding 
 the final) are all difficult and will take you a couple tries, but that's it. The Mouse you encounter 
 on each level are all very easy.
  
  Another big problem this game has is its length. The length is so bad that there are actually levels 
 where it's only 1 screen almost. Some of the levels you could literally clear in 10 seconds. The 
 levels can get that bad! You will breeze through this game no problem.
  
  Of course one cool new thing this game has is environmental effects. There will be grass, fire, 
 ice, etc. that you can actually change. Every now and then you'll see one with an item or it'll 
 be in your way.
  
  The story is stupid. And I'm not saying it's bad like Mario stories. The story in most Kirby games 
 is Kirby trying to save Dreamland or something, but in this game, all Kirby is doing is going after 
 some cake! And while he goes on he runs into bosses somehow. I mean come on, I'm doing this for 
 a cake? Ugh.
  
  Getting back to the storage thing, you can store items and even combine some. But guess what!? 
 There are only around 5 or so combinations that will take you forever to find. Every time you mix 
 2 abilities, you'll most likely get a random one. It's that horrible. I wanted to see tons of abilities 
 combined but it only combined a few. The system really need work.
  
  The graphics and sound are just like every other Kirby game. It actually looks almost like a GBA 
 game and it's hard to see an improvement. The sound isn't too bad. It has some nice old and new 
 tunes like every Kirby game.
  
  To conclude, Squeak Squad is too easy, too short, has a bad story, bad graphics, a horrible storage 
 feature, and all it has going for it is great music, good bosses, a new environment feature, and 
 Ghost Kirby of course (my favorite ability) . Don't buy this game if you like hard games and want 
 something long. It's something for kids only. My sister loves it to death. Me? Eh.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getinbelly3
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Well, i borrowed this game from a friend first to play it. I had never played a Kirby DS game before. 
 I didn't expect much from it but i was suprised how good it was! It is a 2-D side scroller like 
 the original Mario games. The plot is pointless. Kirby has his pie stolen and he wants it back. 
 Nothing special. He encountes many enemies and needs to collect treasure chests along the way. 
 There are a total of 120 things to collect in them. This is why I like this game. It is fun to 
 collect them all and find out ways to collect the hard ones. I ended up buying the game from my 
 friend for $5. SCORE! I havent beaten it yet, but it looks to have good replay value.
  
  I would reccomend this game. It is fun, a bit challenging to collect all the chests at times, and 
 an overall good game. I am glad I bought it!
  
  (written by getinbelly3) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Kirby is by far the most disturbing character in the industry. The story goes that a gang of mice 
 steal Kirby's favourite strawberry cake. So Kirby follows them and slaughters, steals and digests 
 anyone who gets in his way. So far, so disturbing. But what's even more disturbing is just how 
 HAL Laboratory and Nintendo have made all this "kid-friendly".
  
  Okay I kid I kid. Basically this is the usual Kirby story fluff that fans of the series have come 
 to expect from the franchise. It's nothing astoundingly groundbreaking, but it's nevertheless enjoyable.
 
  
  Unlike the fantastic Canvas Curse, Kirby Squeak Squad plays in the same fashion as the very first 
 Kirby platformer. You essentially go left to right to the exit whilst avoiding enemies (or digesting 
 them and taking their power) , obstacles and battling the occasional mid boss. New to this franchise 
 is the chase to the treasure and fighting one of the mice from the Squeak Squad. There's also an 
 element from Kirby 64, the ability to mix two abilities together to make an all new powerful ability. 
 The touch screen functionality is limited - designated to mini games and combining and using items/abilities. 
 Whether that's a God send for traditionalists or not is open for debate.
  
  Levels are interestingly designed, yet lack any sort of creativity that Canvas Curse exhibited. 
 It's a very standard affair and there's no real surprising or interesting developments later on 
 in the game. Levels are always themed in the predictable forest, snow, desert, cavern etc and although 
 everything is nicely balanced and shows that Nintendo magic, it doesn't really sparkle.
  
  The graphics are cute, bright, vivid and are so sugary you can taste the sugary goodness. The sprite 
 animation is good and really brings character to everything and Kirby always delivers with the 
 costume change. It's not really taxing the DS software. But what is here is admirable.
  
  In the audio apartment Kirby Squeak Squad sticks to the established library of Kirby sounds and 
 music. Everything is familiar, even the new themes and I can't quite tell if it's just laziness 
 or a nod to the fans of the series.
  
  The single player is short, around six hours, and it's painfully easy. The challenge comes from 
 100% everything. Collecting treasure chests and figuring out the hidden pathways is genuinely challenging 
 but I think it's for insane purists only who need to get everything!!! And the multiplayer is fun 
 for a bit but is severely lacking. A nice distraction, but nothing more.
  
  Kirby Squeak Squad is nice solid Nintendo platformer that all people with a DS can enjoy. But it 
 is by no means the best, original or innovative one. If you want one of them with Kirby in, I recommend 
 the brilliant Canvas Curse/Power Paintbrush over this. Buy if you're a platform fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engranag
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Kirby is back with a title exclusively for the amazing Nintendo DS. In this game, "Squeak Squad", 
 Kirby must again travel through various colorful worlds in order to find more than 100 treasures 
 before the Squeak Squad. However, a particular treasure of the story holds something very dark 
 and dangerous inside...
  
  "Squeak Squad" is not the most original Kirby videogame, but if you're a fan of the franchise, 
 you're totally going to love this one just like you did with older games. The "eating-enemies" 
 'formula' is obviously a big part of the gameplay. The only main difference is the DS itself: the 
 Touch Screen is in fact Kirby's stomach: when our pink protagonist eats something, we are now able 
 to see it in the lower screen. However, Kirby can hold only five different objects (Powers, treasures, 
 etc...) , so we can use them whenever we want.
  
  The Graphics, despite being a DS Game, is more Game Boy Advance-like, though very colorful and 
 lovable. Nothing too new about the Sounds, but some of the BGMs are catchy.
  
  However, this game has a big flaw: it is too short. Finding all treasures will be quite easy, and 
 once you've completed the "story-mode", there's not very much to do, expect for an interesting 
 "Time-Attack" mode and a mildly challenging Boss Rush.
  
  Not a perfect game, but a very good Kirby adventure. If you have a NDS, try to buy it; but if you 
 don't like Kirby, then don't do that...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeith1234
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is to easy the new powers and power ups are great but its to easy to beat. if your a 
 kirby fan u might want to by this the story pretty soild but all in all its just not that hard 
 to bet u can beat it 100% in about 6hours but its a good game. it also give u the abilty to fuses 
 abiltys which is good to have. it also gives u a goust form which is also good. this game also 
 has a master hand easter egg so look for it its hidden pretty good. they could have gave some of 
 the old abilts but they don't sadly which i don't like and they could have had better music for 
 meta knight. it was king de de's music but im giveing 2 much info. so really just buy the game 
 and find out its some hidden things. oh and a few more things there are no helpers this time ur 
 on your on so good luck and theres a certian form that make the last boss look super easy. XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashking777
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  well since i just rented and played this game i just had mixed reactions from it. Its better than 
 kirby and the amazing mirrior but i have to say the plot is kinda funny yet silly at the same time. 
 I mean someone steals kirby straberry shortcake i mean why didnt kirby just go get another slice? But 
 one thing i do like the way you can store the items and your abilities in on the bottom screen 
 with your styleist and your treasure boxes. which by the way are a great way to add objectivees 
 to the levels there is a antagnists and s seceret one (which theres always is in kirby games) so 
 heres my scores for it.
  
  graphics:8/10
  sound:7.5/10
  concept:8/10
  replay vaule:10/10 even after you complete it youll want to play even more.
  overall:8/10
  
 
  So you may want tobuy this game insted of renting it. the game itself is pretty easy if your hooked 
 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diggerboy36
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  I've loved Kirby all the way through my gaming life and have come across Squeak Squad. I bought 
 it without looking up reviews for it knowing it would be great, and I was right! Kirby Squeak Squad 
 makes one clever and funny DS game!
  Kirby is happily sitting down ready to eat his new strawberry short cake when it just suddenly 
 disappears! Kirby supposes King Dedede stole it so off he sets on his new adventure to get his 
 cake back! But when Kirby finally defeats King Dedede, he realizes it wasn't him, it was the SQUEAK 
 SQUAD . . . What a funny storyline!
  The gameplay for Kirby Sqeak Squad doesn't use the stylus like Canvas Curse did but turning it 
 into a more classic Kirby game. You use the arrows to move backwards and forwards, A to jump and 
 B to suck in enemies and become them. You can become Link from Zelda and a load of other costumes 
 that you'll find really funny!
  You can find bubbles that has either energy or a power in it. You can pop the energy bubble to 
 get energy, and with the power bubbles you can get the power.
  There is also a wide range of customization. You can unlock different colors for Kirby including 
 green, red, orange and heaps more! Kirby won't be pink for much longer when you've got the power 
 of his color at your fingertips! 
  Overall, I think Kirby Squeak Squad makes one brilliant DS game that every DS owner should check 
 out! After all, KIRBY RULES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperactiveno1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 7, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Well... im a huge fan of Kirby, but this game isn't one of the best in the series. This game is 
 very cute. The each level is fun to play and the different moves Kirby can imitate are pretty cool 
 and so are the 'custumes' (you could say..) when Kirby sucks up an enemy. Those are just adorable! 
 xD The bonuses were fun and actually kept me playing the game to collect each one. 
  
  The bad part of the game is that the plot is kinda dumb... I mean seriously!! Going through all 
 that just for a shortcake. The game was a bit short and the bosses were easy. I think that this 
 game should have been on gameboy advance originally because the DS stick control is a bit awkward. 
 Other than combining bubbles thats all you use the touch screen for.
  
  At least the little puffball's cuteness wasn't lacking one bit. ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pride1289
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  As you can tell, I do think this game is totally adorable. I have loved Kirby since I saw the anime 
 on 4Kids. Yes, I did use to watch and love 4Kids. But back to the game. I love the mini games for 
 one. They're one really fun to play with my friends. I even got one friend to go all into the game.
 
  The story as to why this game happens is pretty funny. I'm glad Meta Knight was in it. He always 
 needs to be there. ANYWAY! Backe to the actual game, huh? Well, I do love that the game tells you 
 how many treasure chests are in the game.
  The onlt thing I didn't like about it was the one chest that was on a cloud that moved. And then 
 the cloud dies and the chest falls. Hated that level. That level only.
  Bosses were easy. I played threw the game twice. Only in one did I get all the chests. I think 
 the mouses are cute. not the fat one. I can't see its face. The ninja one is the cutest in my opinion. 
 And Animal Kirby and magic Kirby have to be the two best Kirby powers of the game.
  Over all I give the game an 8.5 for funny storyline, Meta Knight being in it, and cute mouses. 
 Plus fun mini games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_bobert
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  as you can expect everyones favorite wad of chewed bubble gum has released yet another great game. 
 while not as creative as canvas curse or super star you can still have fun with its easy to learn 
 addictive to beat game play. since nightmare in dreamland for GBA the adorable poser amazed me. 
 as you most likely know kirby's many enemys give him the original ability to turn eat and gain 
 the ability of said enemy. only theres a twist, like the UFO copy ability kirby battles the band 
 of mice (properly named the squeak squad) with several moves per copy.
  
  while the games simple gameplay may seem to appeal to a younger group i had loads of fun with it 
 and its extra contenty glory. fun unlockables like colors and music (first realesed in the amazing 
 mirror) will keep you having a fun time 'till your battery dies. as tempted as some will get to 
 look up the answers online it would be more benificial to play the FUN and/or FAIR way if you want 
 to get the most out of squeak squad.
  
  over all it could have been longer and more challanging but as of right now im not complaining! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66swing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game despite hearing little more than "ok while it lasts" and "fine but nothing special". 
 The truth is that this is one of my favourite games to date (and I own a Wii, a DS, 22 gamecube 
 games, and I've had a gameboy colour since 1999) . It's definitly my favourite 2D platformer, and 
 yes I have played a number of old Mario games. 
  
  The most common 'flaw' associated with this game is it's failure to deviate from the norm for Kirby 
 games. But I say, why fix what's not broken? I've played 4 or 5 kirby games and I've loved every 
 minute. This game takes what I love and tweaks it in a number of places to make it that much better. 
 Collecting chests is great knowing you'll get a tangible reward like a secret level or recolour 
 of kirby for it. The graphics are also a high point for me. Rather than going for a 2 1/2-D look, 
 Nintendo chose to sticks with nice sprites, updating them to look crisper and more lively.
  
  I think this game recieved harsher than normal criticism because people are comparing it to 
 canvas curse, which brought something entirely new to the table. All I'll say about that is that 
 a great game remains great no matter what the competition.
  
  Why did I only give it 8.5? It does have a few flaws. 1) It's a little short. even going back and 
 getting all the chests, which is incredibly fun, shouldn't take more than 13 hours, and it could 
 easily take less depending on your skill level. Also, it is very easy. I've listed it as 'easy' 
 because getting all the chests does pose a challenge.
  
  I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fdtoonsman
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's classic Kirby platforming action. What more could you want? I've seen people giving 
 it a 5/10 or lower... that's not good! This game is what many people have been wanting for years 
 - a return to the roots of classic gaming! When New SMB came out, people were taken by storm, and 
 when Kirby wants to join in, nobody cheers! I think this game is just as good as NSMB, and almost 
 any other Mario game on the DS! Of course, it's not perfect. It has some flaws, like being to easy 
 and short. This seems to solve itself later on, as the levels get pretty tricky. So, really, guys; 
 just because a game isn't totally new doesn't mean it can't be awesome! Just pick it up and it 
 feels like you're playing a fresh, classic game all over again!
  
  BOTTOM LINE:
  Graphics: 7.0
  Sound: 8.0
  Controls: 9.0
  Entertainment: 9.5
  Replay: 8.5
  Overall: 9.0 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_AI
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Out of Nintendo's "Fab Four" (the other three being Mario, The Legend of Zelda, and Metroid) , Kirby 
 is the most underappreciated. Though quite a few of his games have rivaled the best that the other 
 three had to offer, the little mutated wad of bubblegum has never been held to the same standards 
 that his peers are held to. That's strange, considering how ingenious Kirby's character design 
 is. If you aren't in the know, he can suck enemies into his mouth and swallow them, and by doing 
 so he copies their powers. He can also "weaponize" his enemies by blowing them out of his mouth 
 at blocks or other enemies. Oh, and did I mention the he can suck air into his mouth and float? 
 As you can see, he's a very well designed character.
  
  Well, Kirby Squeak Squad is Kirby's first true adventure on the Nintendo DS, and considering how 
 great Kirby and the Amazing Mirror was on the GBA, it has some big shoes to fill... and the game 
 almost fills them. Almost.
  
  Amazing Mirror really was a high point in both the Kirby series and the GBA's lifetime. That game 
 didn't just surpass its predacessor (Nightmare in Dreamland, the remake of the NES game Kirby's 
 Adventure) , it blew it away. It was a huge game with great controls, 9 huge worlds with many levels 
 each to visit, tons of copy abilities, unlockables out the wazoo, support for up to four players 
 via link cable, and most of all, a cool hub world akin to that of Mario 64, but you went through 
 mirrors instead of paintings. Also, Amazing Mirror was totally non-linear, meaning you could unlock 
 the worlds in any order, say 1-6-3-2-9-7-8-4-5 if you really wanted.
  
  And though they both were developed by Hal Labs and Flagship (RIP) , and though it's still alot 
 of fun, Kirby Squeak Squad is missing alot of the things that made its predacessor such an amazing 
 game. Maybe they thought that they could replace them with Squeak Squad's gimmicks.
  
  But why am I rambling? On to Squeak Squad's story!
  
  Like all Kirby games, Squeak Squad's 
 story is pretty silly and very cute. The game starts just as Kirby is sitting down to have a snack: 
 a delicious slice of strawberry shortcake. Just as he's about to dig in, a dark shape flies over 
 the cake and steals it in a split second. Thinking it's the work of his archenemy, the greedy King 
 Dedede, he runs off in the direction of his castle. To make a long story short, he gets there, 
 pummels the poo out of him, discovers that it was a band of master theives known as the Squeaks 
 that stole his cake and one of Dedede's treasure chests, and goes after them to get his cake back. 
 It's even weirder than usual, in a good way.
  
  Now for the gameplay. Like always, the core mechanics are great! The controls are near perfect, 
 and the various copy abilities are a whole lot of fun to use. Whether they're classics like Sword, 
 Fighter, and Fire, or the newcomers Metal, Bubble, and Animal, they're all better than ever. There's 
 a large variety of moves for each one, just like in Kirby Super Star. There are even unlockable 
 move scrolls for each of them that enhance the abilities greatly. How big are they? Let's just 
 say that if you get the Sleep scroll, Sleep won't be totally useless.
  
  The 'big new addition' to Squeak Squad are bubble powers. The inside of Kirby's bottomless tummy 
 is put on the touch screen. You'll find various items encased in bubbles strewn around the levels. 
 When you touch one, it will be relegated to one of the five slots in Kirby's stomach. If you tap 
 one of the bubbles, the ability or food item will be used. If they're all taken, you'll need to 
 either use one or *shudder* barf one back up. Chests are also stored in Kirby's stomach (?!!) . 
 Overall, it's kind of a cute and interesting addition, but it adds needless inventory management 
 to the game and it can sometimes get in the way of the action. Also, you'll usually find the appropriate 
 creature with the ability you need to get through a certain environment puzzle near said puzzle, 
 so the power storing is made even less useful than it was.
  
  There are also the Squeaks. Throughout the level, you'll collect treasure chests with special goodies 
 inside. At the end, you'll find a big, ornate looking chest with a bigger goodie inside, such as 
 a secret area key or a piece of the ghost medal that, when completed, will give you the Ghost ability 
 that lets you control enemies! When you pick the chest up, a main member of the Squeaks will come 
 by with a ton of his henchman, and some building will be set up. You then need to either beat up 
 the boss guy or escape them. If you are hit by any enemy in that specific area, you will drop one 
 of your chests, usually the big one first, and one of the squeaks can pick it up, and if you don't 
 hit them first, they take it back to one of the buildings that they set up, and you have to go 
 in there and defeat them. It's poses a bigger challenge than most of the game, and the Squeaks 
 can yield some good abilities, but the constant dropping of treasure chests can is more of an annoyance 
 than a true challenge.
  
  Remember when I said that alot of the stuff that was in Amazing Mirror is not in Squeak Squad? 
 Well, the hub world has been replaced by a conventional world map, making the game almost totally 
 linear. The multiplayer has been reduced to the sub games (and as such the three other Kirbies 
 are gone) , and some abilities such as the amazing Smash are missing. Not that you would need to, 
 as the game is pretty easy. The bosses, while they may look pretty cool, are pretty easy. Heck, 
 even the last boss is a total cakewalk compared to the epic battle against Dark Mind at the end 
 of Amazing Mirror. And, yes, Meta Knight fans, Kirby's cloaked, sword wielding rival is one of 
 the bosses, even though he isn't very difficult.
  
  Also, the game is very short. The 8 worlds have only about 5 or 6 short levels each, including 
 a boss fight. Because of this, the game can be beaten in 6 or 7 hours. That makes me very sad, 
 especially considering how fun the game can be. As I said earlier, the copy abilities are a hoot. 
 And the main quest, as short, easy, and linear as it is, is quite fun. But the sub games? As throwawayish 
 as ever.
  
  Oh, I almost forgot the unlockables. They're still quite good, with the Ghost Medal and the Boss 
 Battle mode (forgot its exact name, darn it all!) being the coolest, though the boss battles in 
 this game are easier than in past games in the Kirby series.
  
  Now for the graphics and sound. Well, there really isn't much to say. They're exactly like those 
 of Amazing Mirror, which were exactly like those of Nightmare in Dreamland, which only improved 
 slightly over those of Kirby Super Star for the SNES. Not that that's a bad thing; the graphics 
 engine is quite nice and colorful, and the music sounds very good.
  
  Overall, Squeak Squad is great fun despite its shortcomings. It definitely suffers from being too 
 easy, too short, and too linear, but that doesn't stop it from being worth a purchase. If you consider 
 yourself a Kirby fan and you don't have this game, add it to your collection. You have nothing 
 to lose. If you're looking for a game without blood and guns, you should also pick this one up. 
 It's probably pretty cheap now, too, so if you don't have either of the GBA Kirby games, you could 
 probably pick those up along with this game for a total under 50 dollars. And for DS owners in 
 general, the game is worth a weekend rental at least.
  
  Thank you for taking your time to read this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocarina_jedi
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  Kirby: Squeak Squad doesn't do anything wrong. It's just a very simple game. It looks and sounds 
 great. The backgrounds are colorful, and varied. The music is cute and catchy. Kirby has access 
 to a bevy of clever copy abilities which are a blast to use. The game falters only in its difficulty, 
 and that's because it is obviously catered toward gamers of the younger age. You will rarely, if 
 ever, see a 'Game Over' screen, as none of Kirby's enemies (even the bosses) pose him much of a 
 threat, and the levels are pretty easy to navigate once you know what you're doing. There is a 
 little bit of replay value in searching the levels over again for the hidden treasure chests, but 
 you won't miss many of them on your first run-through to begin with. Here's the tipoff as to whether 
 or not you'll want to play this game: the storyline revolves around Kirby's search for a missing 
 piece of shortcake. Sound exciting? If so, then go ahead and pick it up. If not, don't feel bad 
 about passing it over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  The Kirby series has never been known to be difficult and it's no different here. Though the game 
 is very easy, it still has plenty of strengths. First off the gameplay. It's still the same simple 
 ability-copying gameplay, but now each ability can upgraded by finding certain treasures. The soundtrack 
 is just as charming as ever, with some remixes of classic Kirby tunes. The graphics are virtually 
 the same as they were on the GBA, which isn't all that bad. The story, much like the gameplay, 
 is also pretty simple. Kirby's shortcake gets stolen and first suspects King Dedede. He then finds 
 out a group of rat thieves known as the Squeak Squad stole it. So you fight through the game to 
 get it back only to learn about a bigger threat. You can actually breeze through the story mode 
 in a day. It does have some multiplayer minigames, though they aren't outstanding. There's also 
 a collection room, where you can change Kirby's color, look at the items you've collected, and 
 listen to different music tracks that you've unlocked. In conclusion, with it's charm, simple gameplay, 
 and overall fun, Kirby Squeak Squad is a must have game for any Kirby fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScrapBrainZone
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Kirby has always been one of my favorite series. Great platforming, lots of fast-paced action and 
 strategy... Good stuff. What I like is that the makers didn't try to fix something that isn't broken. 
 Kirby had that spark from the beginning, and it didn't have to be changed. Squeak Squad is just 
 like Superstar, Kirby's Adventure, and that's pretty much all that has to be said. If you're a 
 fan of the older games, there is no reason you shouldn't like Squeak Squad.
  
  There is always a nifty little catch in Kirby games. For example, the combining weapons ability 
 in Crystal Shards, and the teammate maker ability in Superstar. In this game, you can store up 
 to five abilities in your belly for you to use later on. If you have two abilities you don't like, 
 you can combine them to make a random ability. You can also store treasure chests and health, so 
 you have to strategize what you want, and what you don't think you'll need. That's all the touch 
 screen is used for, which is a bit of a bummer, but it still adds a lot to the gameplay. 
  
  The game is fairly long for a DS game, with 8 worlds composed of about 5 levels, each which 
 have a cool little boss stage at the end. If you want to buckle down and collect all three treasure 
 chests in every level, it'll add greatly to the replay value. The game is fast-paced, and will 
 constantly keep you on your toes. With tons of enemies, and literally dozens of abilities, Kirby 
 Squeak Squad is a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LiquidFlame_
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Squeak Squad on the Nintendo DS is a good game. It considerably lacks fun things to do though, 
 making it an 'average' game. It only takes about a day to complete though, which makes it a good 
 kid's game. 
  
  ===COMPARING THE GAME===
  If you have ever played other Kirby games such as the Magic Mirror on the GBA you know what I'm 
 talking about. In Magic Mirror it was basic side scrolling gameplay, where you could suck up enemies 
 with powers and press down and you get their power. There was also the occasional boss battle. 
 Magic Mirror was a great game, because it was easy yet fun.
  
  ===STORYLINE===
  Squeak Squad on the other hand, has the same side scrolling gameplay, the ability to suck up enemies 
 and obtain their power, but it adds a few new things to the story (If there really was one.) My 
 point is, there really isn't one. There is no real story. The entire game is chasing after some 
 mouse things that took your cake. Who the crap cares about a cake?!?! Did Kirby ever think he could 
 maybe go to the magical Kirby Grocery Store and buy himself another cake???
  
  ===GAMEPLAY===
  In Squeak Squad, like mentioned in the Storyline section...
  It has the same 
 side scrolling gameplay, and the ability to suck up enemies and obtain their power. This makes 
 the play smooth as you keep walking to the left. I believe Kirby games on the DS and GBA have some 
 of my favorite gameplay, because it is so easy!!! You walk to the left, and if you come to a ledge 
 where you could fall and die, you just poof into a ball thing and float overhead to your destination 
 (Making it extremely easy to dodge attacks and to get to high places that may have chests and such 
 on it.) You can also pull off "combo" moves that allow you to slide on the ground that breaks blocks 
 if you standing on top of one. You can also pull air into Kirby's mouth, then he will blow it out 
 and the blow can take out blocks and enemies. 
  
  ===FEATURES===
  In Squeak Squad, the old features apply. For example: The collection room to spray paint Kirby 
 and to obtain sounds and stuff. The new features are surprising. The "bubble" system that allows 
 you to hold chests, food, and powers is handy. Also nice, you can combine bubbles to make interesting 
 outcomes such as two powers together makes food. The downside to this handy feature, is sometimes 
 you can loose the things in your bubble holder thing (located on the touch screen.) Either it gets 
 too crowded, or it is being stolen. Last but not least, the new mini-games are fun, but kind of 
 weird. What I'm saying is I was excepting something different.
  
  ===THINGS I LEFT OUT===
  Remember, if you can... RENT A GAME FIRST!!! Either through Gamefly, 
 Movie Gallery, etc. etc. you should rent it before purchase. Kirby is a good example, because a 
 lot of people hated this game. 
  
  
  ___________________
  ===FINAL DECISION===
  Kirby Squeak Squad for the Nintendo DS get's my approval of an 8.0, Gamespot gives it 7.7; The 
 game is great. Except for that stupid storyline. I don't see why Kirby can't go to the store and 
 buy another cake! Heck, he could probably find a nicer cake there for a cheap price. Anyway, the 
 game wasn't the best Kirby game ever, but it was good enough for me. I enjoyed the bubble system 
 the most because you can store stuff in it and combine them to make new items. I say to those who 
 think this game was horrible, I understand. It did lack alot of things. But it makes a good game 
 in my collection, one that I will keep playing over and over. 
  __________________
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game owns. it is very fun and has a pretty good replay value. One of the DS's best platformers. 
 Imean really, who doesnt love Kirby, hes a freakin puffball who eats people, whats not to like!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
  
  
  
  The Good: Great music-Tons of ultra super almighty kirby powers, each with its own unique atttacks 
 and upgrades-Replay value is good cuz the treasures will keep u busy. lots of worlds with lots of 
 levels-Variety of enemies-Graphics are pretty good-Minigames are fun to play with another person 
 
  
  
  
  The Bad: The game is fairly short-The bosses can be pretty easy sometimes-Okay, this is the gayest 
 part of the game, the story. Idont know what the hell there were thinking, the whole story is kirby's 
 shortcake is stolen and know he needs to get it back, GAY!!!!!!!!!! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Final Comments: All in All, a great kirby game with fun powerups and mingames and a Gay 
 story.  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6
Date: May 3, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  Kirby Squeak Squad owes a lot to the classic NES game Super Mario Bros. 3 and you should play that 
 instead of this one.
  
  Story goes that one afternoon Kirby's cake gets kidnapped and it's now a Kirby's personal quest 
 to get it back. That's it.
  
  Graphics are good SNES era quality with bright colours and nicely detailed backgrounds. Sound effects 
 fit the action and soundtrack is happy and cheerful creating a light feel to the whole experience.
 
  
  Gameplay is just like in Super Mario Bros. 3. There's an overworld, in which you progress pretty 
 much in a linear way while completing platforming stages. At the end of each chapter there's a 
 boss fight and then you move on to the next chapter. It's a tried and true formula, but in Kirby 
 Squeak Squad it's not a least bit of interesting. Game is also short giving you approximately 5 
 hours worth of gameplay.
  
  Unless you're a hardcore Kirby fan I suggest you to 1) download SMB3 from Wii's Virtual Console 
 or 2) buy SMB3 for the GBA instead of getting Kirby Squeak Squad for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strwbrry_cuti
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Kirby is always a fun character, I mean really who doesn't love to suck their opponent into their 
 mouth and then absorb their powers?!
  While this game is a fun entertaining game it is easy enough to collect all of the items on your 
 first run through, then all you are left with are the mini-games. I felt the mini-games lacked 
 anything exciting they went from very simple to simply impossible. The actually game play is enjoyable 
 with the usual Kirby theme of sucking up some random guys running around and ultimately beating 
 a boss. The story is cute but rather strange and random, it definitely comes in second to game 
 play. I would have liked to see more utilization of the touch screen, but for me it was a good 
 game to get used to playing games with d-pad controls as well as a touch screen. A good starter 
 game overall, that I think would be much more fun if it had more length or depth or some dimension.
 
  While I enjoyed the game you can easily rent it and beat it before you have to return. With little 
 to no replay value I would suggest going about it that way... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crittercat303
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 6.5
  Tilt: 8
  
  Kirby squeak squad is a game that has you running around cute and colorful stages, beating the 
 various bosses and collection hidden items. The actual story is quite lame, as the whole reason 
 you are beating the bosses is so that you can get back a strawberry shortcake, that the bad guy 
 stole. Of course, it would have been just as possible to go and buy a new one, but apparently not.
 
  
  The controls of the game are easy and simple, as the game is centered towards younger players. 
 Older players will probably find that the game is too easy and lacks any sort of challenge. 
  
  The levels of the game are also easy, but they are bright and colorful and full of life. In 
 the game you go though various worlds which all have a different theme such as forest, sky, underwater, 
 lava ect. Each world fitted with the appropriate backgrounds, music and creatures to suite the 
 theme. 
  
  But what makes Kirby squeak squad so fun is that kirby has over 20 powers he can use! This is great 
 fun as you will want to try out each one and see the special attacks that they have. The other 
 great thing is that you can mix the powers together to make a new one. This will probably keep 
 you entertained for quite a while as it is great fun using the powers.
  
  Bu unfortunately, you will find that you finish Kirby squeak squad all too quickly. THe levels 
 are too short and the fact that kirby is easy means that you finish it even more quickly. On the 
 good side, apart form the main game there is stacks to collect and do. You can change the color 
 of kirby with spray can that you can unlocks. As well as collecting backgrounds for his stomach, 
 music and lots more collectables. 
  
  So basically, Kirby, although it is good, it is not worth $60-70. But by all means pick it up if 
 you see it cheap because its defiantly a cute colorful game that grows on you. And its great for 
 younger players. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This Kirby game is more easier and funner than the amazing mirror. It had new items and ability's 
 and lots of more enemies and also let you see in Kirbys tummy in the touch screen and change its 
 body or color and lots of other treats if you unlock them by collecting lots of treasures and that 
 will be 
  to you. 
  If you played the amazing mirror version, then you'll get this more fun activity game squeak squad 
 and the special thing to do is a factory in the middle of the world, its not a adventure level 
 it could only be unlock by beating the game to.
  The stone ability is probably everyones best ability cause it turns you into stone and hits enemies 
 and nor enemies hit you but its not powerful enough to be used on all enemies but this game is 
 very interesting thanks for making nintendo!
  
  
  
  But... Not quite a 10/10
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The Good: A lot of different abilities; controls are easy to get used to; graphics are clean and 
 detailed; music sounds great
  
  The Bad: Fairly short; pathetic story; gameplay gets old; easy, easy, easy.
  
  We all know 
 of Kirby; the cute little pink copy-cat... blob thing. He's been around for a while, copying abilities, 
 racing, surfing on lines as a 2D ball in Canvas Curse, and much, much more, but in the newest Kirby 
 addition, he's going back to his side-scrolling roots. 
  
  Kirby and stories don't usually mix well together, and Squeak Squad definitely shows this. While 
 Kirby's out having a little picnic, his cake is snatched by a couple of mice called the Squeaks. 
 Instead of just getting a new cake, Kirby gives chase. Eventually, he stumbles on a bigger plot. 
 It's a pathetic story, but, like I said, Kirby and stories aren't always a great combination.
 
  
  The gameplay is very simple, as in previous Kirby platformers. Jump from object to object, sucking 
 up any enemies that may be in your way. Use your enemies abilities against them. The only new thing 
 here is the ability to mix your enemies abilities. However, it's not like Kirby 64 mixing. Sometimes 
 flame and twister will create ice for some strange reason. Only specific ones such as sword and 
 flame make a flame sword. It's a bummer that the only thing new here... doesn't really work too 
 well. 
  
  Once you get to the end of a stage, you'll have to defeat a Squeak Squad mouse member and get his 
 treasure chest to get to the next stage. There are a good amount of stages. The problem is that 
 they're all really easy to complete. You'll breeze through each one in only a couple of minutes. 
 Overall, the game's length doesn't hold up too well. It's pretty short.
  
  The good thing is that the graphics are clean and colorful, and although you'll see the same enemies 
 over and over again, the environments really get your attention, and Kirby... actually looks really 
 nice!
  
  The music also sounds great. I went back to a couple of stages, not to play them, but just to listen 
 to the music. It's no doubt that the soundtrack and the graphics are the games strongest points.
 
  
  Overall, Kirby SS is okay. I don't think it's worth a buy, unless you have a very strong passion 
 for the pink blob.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Squeak Squad is a very simplistic style platofrmer for the DS that looks as though it was 
 originally intended for an earlier system. However, with the advent of the touch screen HAL has 
 used it as a simple inventory system (Kirby's stomach no less) . 
  
  The levels aren't expansive, and they aren't tough to navigate through by any means, but for a 
 few you may want to do it again. The measurement of how far you are towards unlocking stuff are 
 120 chests strewn throughout the levels, a maximum of three in a single level. The unlockables 
 don't seem to have an effect on gameplay, but it's a nice incentive to keep playing and see what 
 occurs after gathering a certain category together.
  
  The bottom screen is used as a sort of inventory system where you can combine powers and food to 
 get random effects as well as keep treasure chests until the end of the level. I think it was a 
 clever system to come up with albiet very simple.
  
  On the top screen, it's the same old Kirby we know and love. Get to the end of the level, and suck 
 up enemies to copy powers. Not much change at all.
  
  Now, the story is very very thin, but it features King Dedede and Metaknight in what almost seem 
 like cameo roles.
  
  Despite it being very simple, Squeak Squad is a lot of fun. For me, it's because it's got the great 
 old style platforming feel to it. If you have a DS and long for the days of 2D platformers to come 
 back, Kirby Squeak Squad may be just what you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  This is a game that's almost perfect for a handheld, it's simple to play and the Nintendo style 
 colorfulness of the environments make the gameplay that extra bit more enjoyable.
  
  Kirby's best gameplay attribute in my opinion is his his ability to steal abilities of enemies 
 he sucks up. The abilities he can inherit include being able to use a sword, bow and arrow, fire, ice, tornado 
 attack (his tornado attack gives him the ability to fly all over the place and be almost invincible) 
 and some useless abilities like using an umbrella. Experimentation and variety of different abilities 
 you can use is so fun (you have so many abilities to experiement with and some are harder to gain 
 than others.
  
  Kirby can still float through the air and avoid most enemy confrontations if you want to, since 
 he can float through the air you don't have to worry about dying if you fall into a bottomless 
 hole. There is long underground and room sections though that prevent you from just floating past 
 enemies, but even a child wouldn't have much problems with these sections. For variation there is 
 also under-water sections and mid level boss fights, end of world boss fights, you can try to collect 
 all the treasure chests and there is magic treasure chests which you need to gain a certain amount 
 of them to break the magic seal to access the final levels of the game. You can gain magic treasure 
 chests by winning a race against a rat character who is also after the magic treasure chests himself.
 
  
  Even the bosses are a pushover, only one boss gave me any trouble and that was because I was high 
 in the sky and getting knocked off the platform mean't sudden death. Even the final boss is very 
 easy if you use the tornado abilitiy which you can gain anytime if you know where to look for it.
 
  
  But the gameplay is just relaxing fun, the cute charm of the game, different abilities, colorful environments 
 make it fun to play.
  
  If you have played Super Mario or Kirby games before you would know what kind of cute colorful 
 environments to expect and Kirby Squeak Squad provides just that, but I really love when you're 
 in space and you see all the beautiful colorful stars and when you're high in the sky and see the 
 cute clouds and the colorfulness of the grass, sky, and water, rooms, forest everything is charming.
 
  
  When Kirby inhales and you hear that inhaling effect you know whoever is near his mouth is gonna 
 be in a lot of trouble. And the music has the cute Nintendo style feel to it, when you're in space 
 the music sounds so peaceful and relaxing with all the beautiful stars.
  
  Even though the story sounds ridiculous (the bad guy stole Kirby's strawberry shortcake which sent 
 Kirby on a journey to rescue it) the fact you know Nintendo made it kiddy and cutesy that way on 
 purpose gives you a feeling that you can escape your adult problems for a short while and escape 
 into a cute colorful world of innocence.
  
  The game is short, very easy, but is fun, there is lots of variety, and is cute and colorful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PPG-Katelyn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas 2006 and I really enjoy it! Here's what I think of it!
  
  Game Play: Just like in all the other Kirby games (aside from the first one) , you play as Kirby, 
 suck up enemies and copy their abilities then use their abillities on other enemies and objects. 
 This time, there's a very good useful feture for it being a DS game. You can turn into Bubble Kirby 
 and turn your enemies into bubbles with the abilities inside, get the bubbles and save the abilities 
 for later. You can also find other bubbles with the abilities in them in certain places too. You 
 can put 2 bubbles together to get a different ability bubble if you don't want the 2 ability bubbles 
 you have and the best part of it is that you don't just get different ones that are already copyable 
 from enemies but also you get 3 different kinds of swords for Sword Kirby by merging the sword 
 ability bubble with the bubble for ice, fire or plasma. How cool is that!? There aren't just bubbles 
 for abilities but power-ups too. Just like the ability ones, you can put the bubbles together only 
 instead of randomly giving you something else, puting power-ups together builds up a power-up that 
 can restore even more of your health. This comes in real handy for when you are low on power and 
 you are about to die in a boss or tricky part. You collect treasure boxes which are in some areas 
 that are easy to get to and some challenging parts. When you get them, you can unlock some cool 
 stuff like new attacks for certain abilities and such. They even unlock 2 abilities for Kirby and 
 a new boss (although Ghost Kirby isn't really that great since he can't go down latters) . The bosses 
 are pretty good too even though some of them are re-used like usual but they are still pretty challenging 
 and there are still plenty of new ones so it never gets boring. I also like the mini bosses where 
 you beat up one of the rats to try to get the big treasure box although it's kind of spoiling that 
 when you hurt them some times, power-ups shoot out from them. The last boss is pretty challenging 
 and you have to fight it with a Star Shooter which is a pretty cool weapon and once you've unlocked 
 the part where you can select what ability you want to be, you can use the Star Shooter in any 
 stage.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are pretty good! They are just like in 'Kirby and the Amazing Mirror' which 
 is nice because it's good to keep the same sprites and stuff from previos games. Some stages are 
 very beautiful like the ones with the clouds and the snowy ones.
  
  Sound: It uses the same invincibility music, stage complete music and life loss music which is 
 good because it's always nice to use the same music for jingles. Some of the stage music is the 
 same as in previos Kirby games too but just like with bosses, it is still pretty good and they 
 still add more original music too so it isn't boring. I like that they keep re-using some of the 
 same music in the next games of the series because alot of it is pretty. I kind of wish that Sonic 
 would keep re-using some of the same music often too.
  
  Conclusion: This is one of the best games for the Nintendo DS that I have played yet. if you have 
 a Nintendo DS then you should buy or rent this game because it is very good. Both old and new Kirby 
 fans will love this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this game I see the rating is a 7 for a reason okay what this game is about: 
 Kirby was eating his food and one of them get's stolen by the sqeak and at first what happens is 
 that kirby blames king dedede for it but he is wrong then what happens is that kirby chases down 
 the sqeak squad but then when kirby retrieves this treasure meta knighht snatches it and then kirby 
 oppens it and a monster is revived so then kirby with this amazing ability deafets him and then 
 gets his food back at the end good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minishdriveby
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  In Squeak Squad Kirby will be chasing a gang of mice, who have stolen his precious cake.
  
  The game ends up being a very simplistic platformer; parents looking for a game for little kids 
 look no further. There are 8 different themed worlds; each contains about 7 levels (including the 
 extra level and boss) . The levels have Kirby floating around, sucking up enemies and absorbing 
 their powers, and also collecting treasure chests. The game mostly revolves around the number of 
 treasure chests you unlock. The percent of the game is determined on how many you obtain, and you 
 can also unlock extras with these chests. Usually chests are obtained by using abilities that are 
 absorbed from enemies, throughout the environment. For example if they're is a fuse switch most 
 likely there is a fire enemy close by. When he is sucked up into Kirby's mouth, you are given the 
 power of fire breathing. Light the fuse and then enter the cannon to be shot up into the air and 
 then grab the chests. There are tons of tiny little puzzles like these that will make you revisit 
 the levels just to get the chests. Also as you near the end of each level a big blue chest will 
 appear. These chests are guarded by the squeaks. So you'll have to be quick and get to the chest 
 before the rats get their. IF they're able to get a hold of the chest and get into their mouse 
 hole you'll have to follow them and fight for the chest.
  
  The levels are very easy, Kirby as many times before can use enemy powers, to fight through the 
 levels. This makes it even easier. But you can also shoot enemies out of your mouth if you don't 
 want to eat them. He can also float in the air, which you'll be doing for most of the game. The 
 bosses are simplistic too; usually if you can find the tornado ability they go down very easily.
 
  
  Unlike Canvas Curse, the touch screen is barely used. The bottom screen is like a holding pen for 
 Kirby's items, and powers. If you want a new ability or need more health just tap the item in the 
 bottom screen and you have it (that is if you've obtained it by eating it already) . It's very simple; 
 you can also combine items by moving one item into another. This can result in new abilities, stronger 
 heath potions and if you combine three tiny Kirby's a 1up.
  
  The game is a 2-d side scrolling platformer so the graphics aren't much better from the Game Boy 
 Advance titles. But they are vibrant and bright which suits the atmosphere of the game. The sound 
 is still the same from all the past games, its kind of Kirby's trade mark to have SNES music. But 
 it's not half bad and it makes the game feel like a cIassic Kirby game.
  
  The game's story will only last about 1/2 hour. But you can always try and get 100% by unlocking 
 all the chests. There is also a boss endurance mode after you beat the game which is somewhat fun 
 to run through, and there are some mini-games that little kids might find enjoyable.
  
  Overall if you're looking for a simple puzzle game or you're a Kirby fan then this is another great 
 game in the series. Though it is short and simple there's something about Kirby that makes all 
 his games very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSaturn33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE this game even though it has the worst plot EVER! Kirby was just about to snack on a delicious 
 strawberry shortcake when the evil squeak squad stole it! Now kirby must risk his life through 
 eight huge world just for one slice of cake! To tell you the truth, later on in the game it starts 
 to get a better plot, but they still couldev'e tried a little harder on it. Anyway, because of 
 this, levels are litterd with treasure chests that the squeaks stole. They may have inside of them 
 colors for kirby (yes, you can change what color kirby is!) , art, music and SFX, and more! You 
 can acsess these by pressing start on the world map. Also, at the end of every level, one of the 
 squeaks will be waiting for you! These include Doc, the brains, Spinni, the speed, Storo, the strengh, 
 and Daroach (however, he is a boss for certain worlds only) , the leader. They will be gaurding 
 a big tresure chest that will contain an even rarer item such as the SFX and music player or one 
 of the seven keys needed to acsess the 7th world, etc! They also have a headquarters in each level 
 which they will go into if they have found the tresure chest. If you still want it, you must follow 
 them into the headquearters and battle them. They are very easy to beat and are slow and weak, 
 but it's still loads of fun. 
  When you obtain a tresure chest, you have already obtained, it will be gray instead and will give 
 you a power in a bubble (i'm GETTING there...) or food (they won't replenish you very much, but 
 a little) in a bubble, etc. There is a world map where, unlike games like kirby nightmare in dremland, 
 it just shows kirby on a circle, and when ypu press up, down, left, or right, you move to another 
 level in that world. The world map has a simply beautiful backround, and one of these circles will 
 let you go to the REAL world map; instead of choosing levels in one world, you choose which world 
 you want to go to, THEN choose yoyur level. They are also new powers like the "animal" power which 
 allows you to scratch or the "magic" power which is actually not new but this time around kirby 
 can actually attack with it. They also put in a few familiar ones such as fighter and ninja, but 
 these were only from kirby super star and amazing mirror. Of course, there's good old fire power, 
 laser power, UFO, ice, etc. There's a secret world only accsessible with certain items from treasure 
 chests that lets you have any ability you want; you can store five powers at a time (I'm GETTING 
 there...!) there's also the ghost power which lets you possess your enemys and the triple star 
 power you get at the end of the game there. There are ALOT of powers besides that such as cutter 
 and bubble! One of the most unique parts about the game (wer'e there!) is that you play on the 
 top screen, and on the bottom screen, there will be kirby's stomach (it's actually not disgusting 
 at all; it has stars in it and you can change the design with tresure chest items) ! This is good 
 because levels will have floating bubbles that go into kirby's stomach when you get them. You can 
 have five bubbles at a time, too! By using the stylus to touch the bubble, kirby shall be the power 
 you touched! You can even combine two copy abilities by sliding one into the other; but it's not 
 THAT exciting; let's say you combine UFO and fire power; you won't get a UFO that fires fire but 
 more like the UFO power again or some other random power. But it's still so much fun! Of course, 
 B is suck up, A is jump, etc. you can run in this one, too! The gameplay is so smooth and it's 
 so colorful and it has great backround and platforms! The enemys are all so cute and give you amazing 
 powers! You can do EVERY level again (including bosses!) so it has ULTIMATE replay value! Kirby 
 the pink puffball is back and ready for action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_hid3ous
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Kirby, you always was my favorite game hero. This game however is not the best. but what are the 
 good points and the bad points? Find out in the review...
  
  Story: ok, story. Just to tell you, 
  the story is not at all the high point of the game.
  the 
 story is, kirby's cake gets stolen by the squeaks, but kirby thinks it's..."The work of that nasty 
 king dedede!"so he goes and beats up king dedede, but 
  right after he finishes, he finds out it's the work of the squeak squad. So he goes on a grand quest 
 to get his cake back! Ok, so the story isn't rpg material. Sooo, story, you get a 5.
  
  Graphics: graphics are nothing to write home about, and as for the character sprites, they are nothing 
 more then recycled sprites from previous games in the series, the few exceptions are the squeaks, some 
 enemys, and thats about it for the sprites.
  the levels, are pretty cool for the most part, but the detail isn't all that. graphics, 6.
  
 
  Gameplay: Ok, the gameplay is your standard kirby, you got your sucking abilitys, you can fly, and 
 all the rest. The minigames aren't even worth mentioning, so i'll leave those out.
  What made this game cool in my book before i bought it was the mix and match ability, you create 
 different powers by adding one power to another like in kirby 64, but you use the touch screen to 
 do it. it's kinda cool to use the touchscreen the first few times, but it gets annoying after awhile. To 
 top it off, there are only a few powers that you can mix and match.
  As for the powers themselves, they're cool, with some old favorites, like the sword and the fire, 
 plus some new ones like the ghost and the mole, however, there is one power missing that I wanted 
 in this game... spikes! I loved that power from the old games, but it's not in here! NOOOOOOOOOOO! 
 gameplay gets a 7.
  
  Music/sound: The music is just tunes from previous games in the series, remixed, so thats kinda cool, 
 however there are only a few new ones. Thats right, only a few. So music isn't all that special.
 
  The sound effects are all the same from previous games as well, but they're sound effects, so it's 
 alot more forgivable then the music. sound/music, 6
  
  Presentation: Ok for starters, the overworld map is uninteresting, and you can't just walk to the 
 next level like in kirbys adventure. Also, when you leave one part of the overworld and go to another, 
 there is a three second clip of kirby running to the next part of the map. No scene where something 
 happens to kirby, just kirby walking. No fair! I want something to happen to kirby!. The level design 
 is also quite repetitive. score? 6.
  
  Size: The game is not all that big, and that is why this is so short. I beat this game in two days, and 
 if that doesn't say this games size in small, then I don't know what does. size:5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
  Story:5
  Graphics:6
  Gameplay:7
  Music/Sound:6
  Presentation:6
  Size:5
  
  Basic score:6.6 Score it gets:6.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Game: Kirby Squeak Squad.
  Size: Not all that big.
  Classification: Mixed reactions.
  
  Closing comments: This game is alright for the most part, a game that kids will find this cute, fun, 
 and a joy to. Veteran gamers however, will find this short ,easy, and repetitive. I find it to be 
 cute, fun, short, and easy all rolled into one, and this game is fun while it lasts. It's just to bad 
 it doesn't last long. If you play this, enjoy! If not, no one will really blame you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carbonmuscleguy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Kirby, Our good friend comes back! Wait? Where's his cake? If you ask me, this game is better then 
 any kirby game yet!!! Going through tons of levels battling the Squeak Squad . My Pros:
  Mixing powers: Thunder Sword, Fire Sword, Ice Sword, Ice Bomb, Thunder Bomb
  Bubble tap: The 
 Bubbles that consist of powers and items
  Triple Star Rod: Better then ever!
  New Powers: Magic, Ghost, Ice Bomb, etc.
  Minigames: All except smash ride are extremly fun!
 
  Chalk Spray: Makes kirby, and his powers that he uses, Black and White!
  
  My Cons:
  2-D: It would be better in 3-D
  Meta Knight: Too easy. Thunder Sword, Thunder Bomb, Thunder, 
 Sword, and Tornado are basicly the ones that kill him in 30 seconds.
  More Combos: Not enough combations
  Stomach: I know he could hold more than 5 items
  Wheel: 
 I never thought it was good
  Metal: He Could walk faster
  
  Is This awsome new game, Kirby's cake getas stolen. you go through fun and tough levels, and some 
 bounus levels, too.
  
  BUY THIS 
  (p. s. There is only minigame mulit-player :- () 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong this is a very fun game that you will play for a good 12 hours at least. This 
 game is not better then kirby and the amazing mirror but its still good. The graphics are the same 
 as the gba kirby games. The sound is amazing as usual for all kirby games. The only problem i had 
 with this game is that u cant play story mode with your friends like in amazing mirror and that 
 the story is preety short and way to easy. The game is very fun but the story is stupid. You have 
 to chase someone who took a cake! This game is worth $30 but i suggest gettin it from someone as 
 a gift or from santa. (lol) altogether i give this game a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I can't seem to figure out why just about 75% of all games developed these days have to be in 3D. 
 Mario went 3D. Sonic went 3D. Even Castlevania went 3D. There's absolutely nothing wrong with a 
 good 3D action/adventure title... when it's done right (I'm looking at you Sonic) . But the DS has 
 time and again tried to handle 3D graphics that were just a little more than it could handle. Sure, 
 Mario 64DS was fantastic... but the graphics were outdated. Brothers In Arms DS had potential... in 
 fact it was one of the best looking 3D games on the DS. But that's not saying much. Thank goodness 
 Nintendo and Hal stuck with a formula that worked for the little pink marshmallow. This was what 
 the DS needed... another great side-scrolling action/adventure that was just fun to play. It's not 
 quite New Super Mario Bros., but it's damn near the next best thing. They could have easily beefed 
 up the graphics and had it on par with NSMB or Garfield's Nightmare (don't laugh... I enjoyed it 
 and the graphics were quite good) but why mess with a formula that has taken Kirby through so many 
 titles? Most of the graphics look to be reused from Kirby and the Amazing Mirror (GBA) , but there 
 is a certain brightness to each world, sharpness to each object, and fluidity to each movement. 
 This is also a great game for hardcore and casual gamers alike. It's not very difficult unless 
 you start looking for every last secret in the game. I'm sure the bulk of the game could be finished 
 in no time, but finding every last tid bit can be a bit of a head-scratcher. Overall, I was quite 
 pleased with my time spent playing, and I'm seriously considering adding Kirby's previous DS and 
 GBA adventures to my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Squeak Squad is like any other Kirby game, fun, and a 2D Sidescroller.
  
  What the object of the game is Kirby has to collect these treasure chest which has things inside 
 that you need for your adventure, and you get a special surprise if you collect them all.
  
  The whole storyline of the game is that Kirby's is about to eat his Stawberry Cake when, the 
 cake gets stolen, and so Kirby is off to find his Stawberry Cake.
  
  There is alot of different abilitys like Fire, Ice, Sword, Ninja, Bubble Maker, Metal Rock, Cutter 
 Boomarang, Shock, Tornado and More.
  
  My favorate part of this game, is that when you collect all the parts of Kriby's a Ghost you will 
 be then able to, on the Main Map, pick any Abilty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palomaydarla
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I'm glad I bought this game!!
  Kirby's abilities are very sweet and the fact you can mix them, that's even sweeter!!
  It comes 
 with cool mini-games and the graphics are very cool. The only down of the game is that is very 
 short. But you can play it over and over again, because some treasures are tricky to get.
  I strongly recommend this game for Kirby fans and people that love classics.
  The price is also 
 good, but if you don't want to buy it brand new and full price, you can always take a look to Ebay 
 auctions :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Kirby Squeak Squad ia a lot like the other games in the Kirby series like Nightmare in Dreamland. 
 The story starts out as Kirby is about to eat a carrot cake, it suddenly gets stolen from him. 
 You set off on an adventure to get back the carrot cake. There are a few new powers in this game 
 like animal which is a pretty cool power. Like in the other Kirby's, Squeak Squad only lasts a 
 few hours. It is short and easy. There are mini games but they are not that fun. There is a little 
 bit of replay value in this game but not enough to keep you interested. If you are looking for 
 a new Kirby game than you should play Squeak Squad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The newest kirby game is as fun as the rest of the Kirby, but the problem it's too short and too 
 easy. The story is a bit on the cute side, but this game is pure 2D blitz. The game's 2D graphics 
 are beautifully mastered and every detail clearly shows that the game designers spent plenty of 
 time in making the game. There is a major downside to this game that I just plain hate. The story 
 is way too short and the levels aren't super challenging. Acually, I found some levels to extremely 
 linear and I beat them in what seemed to be 2-5 minutes. A simple difficulty is just fine for the 
 younger audiences, but the least they could have was make a little bit on the more challenging 
 side. Squeak Squad is a good game of the Kirby, but you can probably beat it in a couple hours. 
 If you're thinking this is going to be a difficult Kirby, don't expect it. This a Kirby game that 
 you shouldn't overlook, even though it is a very easy game. If you love Kirby, then you're going 
 to love Squeak Squad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YeOldeBowser
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Kirby finally returns for another graet game on the DS! This time, Kirby: Squeak Squad. The story 
 isn't too epic, but it's as follows:
  
  It's a peaceful day in Dream Land: so peaceful, that even the clouds are drowsy, and our pink, 
 puffy friend is ready to enjoy a snack: Strawberry Shortcake. But before he can even take a nibble, 
 someone swiftly steals it! Could it be the merciless King Dedede, or someone else? This instigates 
 Kirby's newest adventure!
  
  Unlike Kirby: Canvas Curse, you use the DS buttons more than the stylus, and also unlike Canvas 
 Cuse, this plays like a conventional Kirby game. Sucking up foes and taking their powers. It's 
 a nice little system that's quite fun still, but this game just seems a bit too easy for its own 
 good. Similar to a well-known Mario game called New Super Mario Bros. for the DS, this game is 
 very pleasurable on the eyes, with vivid, colorful enviroments. But also like it, it's very short. 
 Only eight worlds long.
  
  However, you can gain many notable powerups such as Sword Kirby, Metal Kirby, Bubble Kirby, and 
 even Wind Kirby. They can help Kirby accomplish his goal in a variety of different ways, such as 
 turning him into a tornado or letting him slash enemies like crazy. Speaking of...
  
  Although the combat system is enoyable, it's way too easy. For the most part, you're just swallowing 
 enemies and stealing their power if they have one or spitting them into the wall. This seems to 
 be enough to kill them, excluding the bosses.
  
  Kirby: Squak Squad is a little to short and easy, but it's an enjoyable game for any owner of a 
 DS. It's just fun and won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetSurfer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I got this cool Kirby game for Christmas last year and it really kept me entertained for awhile. 
 Even though they hardly try to challenge you and the fighting options are very limited, Kirby does 
 entertain you with those cool sucking up powers and what not. Kirby's gameplay is highly simple 
 and pretty limited, but with all those powers like fire, ice, electricity, and so on, you will 
 hardly notice it. Plus, the story is really impressive either, more like child's play, but I guess 
 it's pretty fun. Kirby is eating a strawberry cake and the Squeak Squad, led by mouses steal it, 
 and Kirby tries to get it back by beating the gang of mouses. That's basically it. Though I must 
 say, the option to mix different powers together is pretty amazing, like mixing the Sword Kirby 
 and Fire kirby, you get a firesword! Also, trying to beat the boss endurance does keep you busy 
 for awhile. So with this said, I give gameplay, an 8 because of the way-too simple story line. 
 Kirby Squeak Squad's graphics are really amazing and properly executed. Though I would have liked 
 to see more of a 3D kind of thing. With 2D all you're really doing is walking around and only moving 
 backwards or forwards. But even without 3D, all the powers that shoot and and such really make 
 the game fun and clean. I give sounds a 9. The game's sounds aren't really that impressive in a 
 way because you can do without it. Although, you are able to listen to all the different mixes 
 from each level. I give sounds a 7. The value of this game is actually very nice, nice sounds, 
 entertaining mini games, and they way that they incorporate the stylus and touch screen in pretty 
 impressive. All in all, a nice game that is worth what you're paying for! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
