-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kung Fu Panda
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/kungfupanda/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great dialogue.
 Attractive 3D environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional stylus control hiccups.
 Tacked-on puzzle-solving.
 No multiplayer or downloadable content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 37 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Kung Fu Pandas wonky combat is balanced out by its attractive style, quality audio, and solid platforming. 
 

  Kung Fu Panda on the DS is a competent handheld beat-'em-up. While it captures the fun and humour 
 of the cinematic release with its attractive visuals and quality audio both of which elevatating 
 it above its competition in the genre, its lack of multiplayer support, occasionally clumsy controls, 
 and cakewalk difficulty mean it stumbles on the way to the finish line.  

  Like its film namesake, this game follows the adventures of Po, a bumbling fool turned hero as 
 he makes the transition from mild-mannered noodle slinger to Dragon Warrior panda-ninja. There's 
 a surprisingly large amount of backstory here for a side-scrolling beat-'em-up, and for the most 
 part it remains based on the source material. Youll attempt to rescue your father and fellow Furious 
 Five members with a final showdown against Tai Lung to return peace to the village.  

           Draging your stylus upwards performs a leaping attack.      

  Once rescued, each member 
 of the Furious Five will teach you a special move. Leaping Monkey is the first one you'll learn. 
 It lets you latch onto items or enemies in midair and use them to leapfrog to platforms or to collect 
 items. When you use it alongside the basic aerial attack, you can grab enemies, toss them upwards, 
 and then smack them before they hit the ground. Youre never  required  to perform this move, but 
 its still satisfying to use because it shows off the robust physics system. Mantis Fury allows 
 Po to throw objects at high speeds, turning regular barrels into impromptu projectiles that are 
 capable of knocking down destructible doors and clearing a path through adversaries. Viper Crush 
 is performed by clicking enemies to grab them and then tapping the screen a second time to squeeze 
 the targets right out of their armour, which causes a stun effect so you can deal the killing blow. 
 Spinning Feather Blossom is a hybrid gliding and attack move that's useful for clearing long cavernous 
 gaps in the platforming landscape, while Iron Claw transforms Po into Tigress briefly, as she unleashes 
 a flurry of Wolverine-style Berserker swipes with her long claws.  

  Both the D pad and the face buttons (the latter for left-handed stylus grippers) have the same 
 movement functions: left and right control movement, up performs a jump, and down curls Po into 
 a panda ball to help him travel faster and roll into inaccessible gaps. There's no option to remap 
 the controls, but they're easy to use and the inclusion of a lefty mode is handy for southpaws. 

  Combat in Kung Fu Panda is confined to the DS's touch screen and sees you upgrading your skills 
 periodically while learning new stylus gestures to perform the moves. Initially you're limited 
 to basic swipe attacks, which are performed by touching the screen with the stylus and then dragging 
 the stylus in the direction you want to attack. Once you've made contact with the screen, the game 
 enters a paused state that gives you time to adjust your angles as required or to ensure you're 
 properly squared up on your target. Po's attack reach is limited, and while the temptation is to 
 draw longer lines on screen to damage enemies further away, doing so won't affect your distance 
 travelled.  

  This stab-and-swipe gameplay remains constant throughout but slowly comes undone as you gain new 
 abilities, simply because there are only so many ways to gesture on the DS touch screen. The solution 
 is a prod-and-hold trick with the direction determining the skill used. This problem comes late 
 in the game once all your abilities have been unlocked; the system occasionally has trouble differentiating 
 between your Spinning Feather Blossom move (used to glide across long cavernous gaps) and your 
 Iron Claw move (a short dash skill to deal damage) , for example. Even though the action pauses 
 when you place your stylus on the touch screen and gives you time to consider your next move, it's 
 still easy to perform the wrong moves in the heat of battle.  

           Keep your eyes peeled for the 100 collectable souls scattered throughout the game.    
   

  Like the platforming and action that leads up to the bosses, the battles themselves are a total 
 cakewalk. Inevitably you'll need to rely on only two of your many skills: either jumping over something 
 as it runs at you, then landing and dealing damage, or plucking an item out of the air and hurling 
 it back from whence it came. There are a few flashes of puzzle-solving, but they never go beyond 
 clearing zones before a timer runs out or placing objects on touch pads to open doors.  

  Kung Fu Panda looks good and uses scrolling 3D backgrounds to give the world a sense of depth. 
 Lush, verdant environments greet you as you pass through bamboo-lined locales, while snowy peaks 
 and trees in various states of shedding give each zone a unique and appropriate feel. Likewise, 
 audio is a strong standout, and the themes dovetail neatly with their visual counterparts to help 
 establish the mood and setting. There's also a surprisingly large amount of voice-over work, including 
 fully narrated boss-battle smack-talk introductions and messages of thanks when you free a captive 
 member of your crew. Though the celebrities from the film don't lend their voices, the actor impersonating 
 Jack Black does a convincing enough job to help put you in the story.  

  Even with its backtracking gameplay, this is a short game that clocks in only a few hours longer 
 than the film. It's an enjoyable romp, though the lack of any form of downloadable content, multiplayer, 
 or additional bonus items to unlock means it's unlikely you'll pick the game up for another go 
 once you've finished the story mode. There is a collectable element here, but our play-through 
 netted over 90 percent of the possible items without much deviation off the beaten path. Kung Fu 
 Panda does a good job of capturing the fun and humour of the source, and while it's only a short 
 handheld extension with the odd control stumble, it's fun while it lasts and is more than capable 
 of standing on its own two furry feet.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  What I like:
  . Voice dialouge, which rarely appears in DS Games
  . The graphics are quite neat
  . The characters are detailed well
  . A big fat panda who slumbers 
 to become a master
  . Old fashioned 2D platforming, which goes back to the ages
  . The audio is good
  
  
  What I don't like:
  . Some tedius combat moves
  . No multiplayer
 
  . You can't play as the furious five
  . It's way too short
  . Going back and fourth to solve a puzzle
  . It doesn't really catch the movie spirit
  . There 
 arent any mini-games like "Juggle the baddie"
  . Why can't there be a training ground to practice combat
  . Not much furiosity for a fighting 
 game...
  
  Overall:
  Kung fu Panda has better level on higher platforms, but this is a decent game for a holiday, or 
 if you want a panda to beat up some baffons neater and less challeging.
  
  Rival:
  Spider-Man 3- 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarrod54545
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Kung Fu Panda is an action adventure game based on the film of the same name. 
  
  First the graphics and the sound. While the graphics aren't the best on the Nintendo DS and they 
 could be better they still look good. The animations are great. The game also stays true to the 
 movie. The controls system is to move and jump the D-pad and to attack and interact with certain 
 objects the touch screen. To attack you use swipes in the direction you wish to hit. The visuals 
 may not be the best but the sound is amazing for a DS game. The background music is always great 
 and everything is voice acted. Which doesn't happen to often for a DS game.
  
  The gameplay is similar to that off Metroid because Po begins the game sort of weak and has to 
 make his way through the game learning new techniques. The levels are side scrolling and have puzzles 
 in them.
  
  Overall the game is just right in difficulty but younger players might have trouble solving some 
 of the more complex puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssszzz8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun and cool fighting game, and an adventure game as well. You play as Po, the kung fu 
 panda. You basically run through several worlds such as the Underground Hideout to the Bamboo Forest. 
 Each world contains a TON of short, easy, but FUN levels. In the levels, you will find purple spirals 
 to collect, action figures to collect, and some enemies-though the enemies are way to easy to kill. 
 You also meet the furious five, who are five furious kung fu warriors. They will give you powerups 
 such as Iron Claw, an attack that can destroy shields in one hit! When you find a rescue Po's father, 
 he unlocks a cool technique. It is when Po has full health. Then he can destroy doors and enemies 
 of all kinds in just one hit!!!!! In the end of the journey, you will meet Tai Lung, a bad leopard 
 who is an enemy. You have you kill, though he is quite hard to defeat, but you will get addicted 
 to trying to kill him, so it is no big deal.
  
  The good: A good amount of cool worlds * TONS of small but fun levels * great 3-d environments 
 * good collectibles you'd want to collect after beating the game * a lot of cool attacks * great 
 boss battle * fun to easily kill enemies * cool music and voice acting.
  
  The bad: Enemies are way too easy to kill * grainy graphics, but they are fine * occasionally frustrating 
 * for some gamers-no replay value * no multiplayer * 
  
  
  So, this is a cool fighting / adventure game. This is actually a quite decent movie-based video 
 game. I enjoyed the game, but there are better games out there. Have a good day, and check out 
 my other video game reviews!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLoZBoi8484
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  okay
  
  the graphics are suprisingly good for the DS standards, but fighting feels clumsy and too easy
 
  
  using "Viper Crush" and "Mantis Fury" are annoying and you must use them ALL THE TIME When recieving 
 Kung-Fu Scrolls, you obtain powers. if the game was longer you could have more panda powers then 
 furious five powers.
  
  the game did not take full use of the devices in the DS, such as; the select button, R and L buttons, 
 or Mic.
  
  Graphics: 7.5
  Music:8.5
  Tilt:8
  Voice acting: 8
  Gameplay: 6.8
  Length: 2.5 
  main score: 6.8
  
  
  Overrall: I reccomend the Platform versions.
  the 
 game is not mediocre, but OKAY,
  
  
  
  The Kung Fu Fighting style That Po uses is quite iteresting, and the music makes up for the graphics.
 
  
  If you do not want to buy the platform versions then i suggest renting this game. it is fun but 
 a short fun, once you beat it 100%, you start to wonder why you bought it. (i returned mine) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
