-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/legostarwarstheoriginaltrilogy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's the original <i>Star Wars</i> trilogy rendered with Legos.
 Levels encourage exploration and multiple replays.
 Plenty of characters and vehicles to pick from.
 Music and sound effects are taken straight from the films.
 Co-op and arena multiplayer modes are nice bonuses.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The glitches make the game seem sloppy at times.
 A few voice snippets would have been appreciated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 5.8, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 516 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Amaze
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Sep 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite a litany of glitches, LEGO Star Wars II is a rousing action adventure game that lives up 
 to its source material. 

  Just like the umpteen other versions of Lego Star Wars, Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy 
 for the Nintendo DS is a kid-friendly action adventure game that depicts the exploits of Luke Skywalker 
 and Han Solo out of plastic Lego bricks and people. The DS game retains much of the irreverent 
 charm and play variety that its console and PC counterparts have, and it also flaunts some of the 
 most detailed 3D objects we've yet seen out of the handheld. Fans and nonfans alike will appreciate 
 that there are plenty of blaster fights and lightsaber battles to take part in, and there are even 
 levels devoted to controlling Lego-constructed renditions of the Millennium Falcon and other familiar 
 vehicles. Some rather unfortunate glitches do crop up now and again, but, thankfully, the game 
 is designed so that these issues don't get in the way of completing missions. The Nintendo DS version 
 of Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy manages to surmount its flaws and provide a fun, satisfying 
 experience.  

          Scenes from the original  Star Wars  trilogy are rendered as plastic Lego toys.     

 
  True to its title, the game lets you experience firsthand a number of key scenes from  Star Wars 
 ,  The Empire Strikes Back , and  Return of the Jedi . In all, there are 16 missions. Approximately 
 two-thirds of them involve running around on foot, shooting or hacking away at Imperial forces, 
 and solving whatever puzzles you happen to come across. The rest involve piloting vehicles such 
 as X-wing fighters and snowspeeders to re-create pivotal scenes such as the Death Star trench run 
 and the battle of Hoth. Missions can be played as part of the story mode, which limits you to specific 
 characters based on what took place in the corresponding film scene, or can be played in the free-play 
 mode, which lets you change characters on the fly and generally gives you the freedom to explore 
 each area at your own pace. Multiplayer features allow co-op play in the story and free-play modes, 
 and there's a battle arena that lets as many as four players compete in a variety of game types. 
 As you go through the game, you'll unlock dozens of playable characters, either by encountering 
 them within the levels or by collecting the required number of minikits. When all is said and done, 
 the full roster includes 65 characters and 14 different vehicles. Major characters like Luke, Chewie, 
 and Darth Vader are present, as are numerous lesser characters, such as stormtroopers, Rebel troopers, 
 and ewoks. Some characters, such as Dengar and Wuher, are so obscure that only diehard fans will 
 recognize them. As if that weren't enough, you can create your own custom characters by mixing 
 and matching a huge assortment of standard and  Star Wars -inspired Lego parts.  

  The gameplay itself is fairly standard for this type of action game, but the variety of things 
 to do, coupled with the  Star Wars  subject matter and Lego-inspired nuances, prevents it from 
 ever feeling too cookie-cutter or monotonous. Foot-based levels have you shooting or slicing dozens 
 of sluggish stormtroopers while searching for a key that will let you open doors or use whatever 
 objects are necessary to eventually leave the area. Vehicle-oriented levels, meanwhile, place you 
 atop a speeder bike or in the cockpit of a fighter and let you roam 3D battlefields shooting away 
 at obstacles and enemy craft such as AT-STs and TIE fighters.  

  The 3D environments of the foot-based levels are large and designed to encourage exploration and 
 experimentation with different characters. Switches, secret characters, and minikits tend to be 
 placed in side rooms and atop ledges that can be reached only by alternating the use of specific 
 characters' abilities. Although you can control only one character at a time, there are usually 
 one or two other characters following you around that you can assume control of as the need arises. 
 Different characters have unique abilities that come in handy in certain situations. Blaster characters, 
 like Han Solo and Chewie, can shoot enemies from a distance and use their grappling guns to reach 
 lofty spots. Jedi characters, such as Obi-Wan and Yoda, must use their lightsaber weapons at close 
 range, but they can reflect enemies' blaster shots back at them and employ their force powers to 
 stun enemies and to activate switches that non-Jedi can't. Droid characters can access computer 
 panels or fly for short periods, small characters can shimmy into tiny crawl spaces, bounty hunters 
 can open restricted areas, and so on. You don't have to worry about dying if you make a mistake, 
 since losing all your life hearts only results in your character falling apart temporarily and 
 the loss of a few Lego studs, which function as in-game currency.  

          You can assemble Lego parts to create useful objects such as computer panels and gun turrets. 
     

  Besides contributing to the game's overall look, the Lego concept has been integrated into the 
 game in a practical way. The piles of Lego parts strewn around each level become computer panels 
 and gun turrets once you assemble them (by holding the A button) . You can then use these panels 
 to unlock doors, or you can take control of the gun turrets to mow down entire groups of hapless 
 stormtroopers. In some spots, Jedi characters can use the Force to move Lego objects around and 
 create makeshift steps and bridges.  

  It certainly doesn't hurt that each level does a wonderful job of re-creating its specific scene 
 from the movie trilogy, and in a Lego-tinged manner no less. While working through the  A New Hope 
  missions, you can roam the corridors of Leia's Corellian Corvette, visit the cantina on Mos Eisley, 
 and participate in the Death Star trench run. The  Empire Strikes Back  collection of missions 
 includes a corridor-filled Echo Base, a battle scene on the surface of Hoth involving a snowspeeder 
 and numerous AT-ATs, and a particularly striking rendition of Cloud City complete with dining room 
 and carbon-freeze chamber. Wrapping up the trilogy, the  Return of the Jedi  episode lets you wander 
 Jabba's palace and his sail barge, pilot a speederbike on the ewok-populated moon of Endor, and 
 reenact the lengthy confrontation between Luke, Darth Vader, and the emperor aboard the second 
 Death Star.     

  Of course, the amusing twist is that everything looks like it was put together with LEGO bricks 
 and people. LEGO tabs and panels are obvious on most walls and objects, and vehicles closely resemble 
 the  Star Wars -themed LEGO kits that you'll find on store shelves. When you blow a doorway to 
 bits, it crumples into individual LEGO pieces. The same happens when characters die. There's no 
 blood. Instead, stormtroopers and Rebels just fall apart.  

          Crisp 3D graphics and a good use of transparency and reflection effects make this one of 
 the nicer-looking DS games out there.     

  The 3D graphics in the DS game aren't as slick as those found in the console versions, but they're 
 impressive for a DS game. Objects and environments are highly detailed, characters are sharp and 
 well defined, and the camera view shows a healthy chunk of the environment at any given moment. 
 There are some eye-catching transparency and reflection effects to admire too, which are particularly 
 evident in the mirrored floors of Cloud City. Noninteractive cinematic scenes help keep the story 
 moving, though certain scenes, such as the confrontation between Luke and Darth Vader at Cloud 
 City, have a very different emotional impact due to the whimsical look of the LEGO characters. 
 High-quality music and sound effects -- which sound just like John Williams' score and the effects 
 used in the  Star Wars  movies -- back up the action. There's no voice acting to speak of, unfortunately. 

  The game's biggest shortcoming is that it shipped with a bunch of flaws and glitches that shouldn't 
 have made it into the final product. Friendly characters controlled by the CPU will occasionally 
 shoot you in the back for no reason. Poor camera angles can obscure enemies and make it difficult 
 to judge the proper angle to successfully leap across a gap. Sometimes, the camera forgets to follow 
 your character and lets you walk into the distant background without switching to a closer view 
 of the action. That can make sequences requiring precision-jumping a chore. Clipping issues can 
 cause objects and enemies to outright turn invisible in busier levels and make it possible to fall 
 through the scenery in spots, although things generally pop back into view within a few seconds. 
 There is a section outside Jabba's sail barge, however, where CPU allies can fall through walkways 
 and skid to their deaths, and depending on their respawn location, they may get stuck in an infinite 
 loop of death and revival. Thankfully, while these glitches are unseemly, they're intermittent 
 and never get in the way of completing a mission. Between the infinite number of lives and the 
 ability to swap characters on the fly, you can generally inch your way out of whatever unfortunate 
 predicament the camera or clipping problems cause.  

   

          Multiplayer features include co-op play in the story mode and a four-player battle arena. 
     

  Those that can take advantage of the game's multiplayer features should definitely make it a point 
 to do so. The co-op feature lets a second player accompany you during story and free-play levels. 
 Not only is exploring levels with a friend more enjoyable than doing so with predictable CPU allies, 
 but your friends are less likely to stand around and eat blaster fire, get caught in infinite respawn 
 glitches, or shoot you in the back for no reason. The second player can join or leave your game 
 at any time, which makes the whole process remarkably painless. Both players must have their own 
 copy of the game to take advantage of the co-op feature, though. In addition to co-op play, there's 
 a battle arena mode that as many as four players can take part in. There are a number of arenas 
 to pick from, and you can select various game types, such as deathmatch and capture the flag. The 
 arenas are set up like smaller versions of the regular levels, complete with grapple pads and gun 
 turrets that you can assemble to gain an edge over your opponents. Unlike the co-op mode, the battle 
 arena mode supports single and multicard link-ups, although the selection of characters and arenas 
 is limited when only a single game card is used to initiate the link.  

  LEGO Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy for the Nintendo DS is a rousing action adventure game 
 that's packed with enough variety to satisfy fans and nonfans alike. The glitches are unfortunate, 
 and they do make the game feel sloppy in spots, but not to the point that they take away from the 
 game's fun or its wacky LEGO-inspired charm.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (66 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EyeShatteredSky
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 14, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game should have been great. Many different levels covering the major Star Wars flicks, character 
 creator option, large amount of replay value, Legos! How can game with all these things turn out 
 to be a mess? Well play for 15 or so minutes and you'll begin to realize why. The problem lies 
 within the game breaking bugs!
  
  Cutscenes will trigger in and out and sometimes stop for a good 30 seconds. Your character can 
 fall through the floors for no apparent reason, and will respawn you over the same invisible pit 
 until you miracously move a few inches to a solid floorboard. Missions will cease to continue if 
 you fail to go about the level in just the right fashion. And the game can even lock up on you 
 after creating a character!
  
  There's just no excuse for such a bug-riddled game to be on the DS. I can appreciate what the developers 
 were shooting for, but this is nearly unplayable!
  
  The only thing holding me back from giving this game a 1 out of 10 is that when it's working, it 
 can be fun. Yeah, fun! And when you aren't falling into bottomless pits the game retains a crisp 
 look. But sorry to say, that's all it has going for it.
  
  I wanted to like this game, I did. But there's too much bad outweighing the good to really hold 
 anyone's interest or sanity for that matter. This is one Lego creation that would have been better 
 off unbulit or smashed by a sugar-high 6 year old. Just say no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icehound
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I really looked forward to playing this game based on the initial hype and the post-release accolades 
 received. On the positive side, the game was easy to play and offered more than just the standard 
 routine of running through levels. Also, it cartoon-ified the violence, making it more playable 
 for gamers of any age. The range of characters available and the interest to try and unlock every 
 little detail makes the game worth playing over and over again . . . until it gets a little frustrating 
 trying to find the last couple of kits in the entire game.
  
  There are several things that did bother me with this version of the game. First, you have ZERO 
 control over the camera angle. This makes the game tougher to get through because you have poor 
 visual access to the scenes and frames during gameplay. Second, the glitches where you and the 
 background lose detail and even phase out hurt the overall experience. Third, what the heck is 
 with the Sandbox? Seriously, it looks like the game designers started with an idea, laid out a 
 framework, then decided to say "screw it" and just quit working on the level and threw it in as 
 is. That level really shows off every bug throughout the game. Fourth, the extras are not bad, 
 but they wear themselves out extremely fast. 
  
  Still, it is a good game to play if you want to pass the time. However, once again, it looks like 
 the DS platform version for a game gets the short end of the stick when it comes to the level of 
 game design and planning for a particular title. If they had met the gaming platforms needs and 
 worked out ALL of the issues with this version of the Lego Star Wars games, this could have easily 
 been placed on the top ten list of all time DS games. 
  
  But "IF" is a very strong word for being only two letters long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavisDUDE333
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  One of the first games I played was Lego Star Wars for the GBA. After purchasing the 2 LSW games 
 for GBA, I got a hold of a DS Lite and bought Lego Star Wars II.
  
  Just glitchy.
  
  The game is easy enough to zip through in one or two days, like most of the LSW games. Here is 
 what I think:
  
  STORY: Instead of the funny Lego cut scenes from the consoles, cut scenes are gameplay clips with 
 bars on the top and bottom of the screen. You get the point, barely.
  
  GRAPHICS: Nice, better than the GBA version. Lego characters remind me of stretched out cubes. 
 It enhances the "Lego" look. In a bad way. Don't expect much detail. Levels are just the right 
 length, and you can easily identify whatever planet you are on. 
  
  CHARACTERS: There is a good amount of characters for the game, classified with names such as "Rebel 
 Blasters" or "Jedi." For some reason, in Free Play, you get all the characters, instead of just 
 8 necessary ones! Plus, there are two special unlockable characters, but I won't ruin it for everyone. 
 (?) There is a character creator that I love; it's easy and simple to use.
  
  UNLOCKABLES: There are 10 minikits hidden in various places throughout levels. Glitches, unfortunately, 
 make it impossible to retrieve all of these. If you are really persistent, you may manage to snag 
 all of 'em. I didn't! There are extras (to help you get through the game) , hints (if you are too 
 lazy to read the instruction booklet) , and characters. These can be bought at the cantina bar, 
 and cost studs.
  
  GLITCHES: There are so many in this game it's a wonder this game turns on. They range from just 
 colors being screwed up, to controls switching around, backgrounds disappearing, etc. It's too 
 bad about the glitches, because the game would earn about a 7.5 without them.
  
  OVERALL: This is my first review, so it's not that great. LSW 2 is definitely not anything like 
 the console version. But it's a very glitchy step up from the GBA version. Seriously, go out and 
 buy the sequel; the Complete Saga for the DS. It's better, and no glitches. If you hate crybaby 
 Anakin and Mace Windu, you might enjoy LSW 2. Hope this review helps someone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Safor001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Normally, when your character disappears when walking into the lot outside of thew main lobby, 
 you hit the "power" button on your DS and high-tail it to the nearest video game retailer to trade 
 it in in record time. But with this one, the glitches are bad, but the fact the game is still fun 
 keep you going. Of coarse, as with all Lego Star Wars games, you get bored after you beat it. No 
 exception with this one. The glitches are humorous at times. Actually, I was laughing my head off 
 when I saw a snowtroopers arm sticking through a wall while he was struggling to get free. One 
 thing that caught my eye was the  thing. Stormtroopers won't 
 fire at a Sith Lord, even if you made it in the Character Editor, but the Rebel troopers will! 
 And unlike the Gamecube, PC, PS2, and Xbox versions, you can kill the "friendly" AI. The game's 
 levels were overall boring, beat-it-once, hate-it-forever kind of levels. They stunk. But the Story 
 Mode animations overpowered even the Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga animations, which were more 
 sprite-based then 3d animation. Graphics wise, I know a lot of ancient games that make this look 
 like crap. A LOT! But it doesn't seem to take away from the overall gameplay, so it shouldn't be 
 a bother. In closing, this game is worth playing, but not worth buying. I got it for free from 
 a freind, so... ya. I'm covered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-Fett
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  The good: This version of lego star wars has one of the best custom character options, Like Boba 
 and Jangos jet packs, dual pistols, grenade launchers and other very cool stuff. I definitly prefered 
 this versions a new hope an empire strikes back better then the ones in the complete saga DS. They're 
 just more fun since they arent Side scroller levels like on Complete saga DS. This version also 
 has some cool characters that aren't in any other lego star wars game, not even the x360, ps3, 
 and wii versions of the complete saga.
  
  The bad: There were minor glitches at first. I thought to myself well this isn't so bad, why were 
 people complaining so much. Well they were right to complain. Once you get to that pain in the 
 @$$ level battle of endor, you're just gonna give up and take it back to the store. And take it 
 back to the store is exactly what I did the very next morning. I really Enjoyed most of it except 
 the bugs just get so terrivle in return of the jedi. I didn't feel it was worth my $20 most of 
 all.
  
  If you already own Lego Star Wars the complete saga DS, I would still recomend buying this aswell, 
 Just DO NOT pay over $10 for it, anything higher is a rip off.
  
  If you mainly just like Multiplayer DS games, then definitly get this. single card download multiplayer, 
 I havent seen that on many games... actualy I havent seen it on any other games at all. So your 
 friends don't have to have it to play along with you. There's 4 player deathmatch and capture the 
 flag, its kinda lego a pint sized star wars battle front.
  
  Even though I did return this game, I will buy it again once the price drops, cause it is fun, 
 it's just not worth $20
  
  Oh yeah If you do go to buy this, get it used, cause theres the possibility some one else completed 
 it 100% so you wont have to deal with that bull s**t endor level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phubbadaman
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 8, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  I've played this for the X-box and it is a great game. Very fun. When you put that all into a double 
 screened DS (which I love) it just isn't enough screen to see what is going on in the game and 
 moving around is difficult. I only played it a few hours and may never play it again. I would recommend 
 getting this game on one of the consoles instead of the handheld systems. On a side note, one of 
 my dogs managed to find the game and bite on it for a few hours. it is all chewed up, but the game 
 still works in my DS, so that is something Nintendo!!! Gamespot keeps telling me that my review 
 is not long enough, so now I'm just writing garbage. The game was not good. I'm not sure how many 
 ways I can put it. The graphics were ok I guess. Star Wars has some good movies out though huh???????? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  If you layed the first Lego Star Wars game for the PS2 or for any other system, then the DS version 
 of this one is going to be a little upsetting. There are many glitches with this game, and the 
 graphics are just plain bad. If you really want to get it, rent it first because then you might 
 find out that you wasted your money on a video game that has horrible graphics and a lot of glitches. 
 These glitches include not being able to see your character when reaching a certain area and parts 
 of your character missing when you are in a certain area. The creators are trying to bring the 
 graphics from the Playstation 2 and the other versions into this one, making it have bad graphics. 
 It is good in the sense that in the free play mode, you have the opportunity to switch into any 
 character you want instead of having to go through ones that are randomly given to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaunyP
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars was an amazing suprise when it first came out. For those people that managed to 
 collect all the superkit pieces, well, they knew that this was coming.
  
  Picking up at the beginning of Episode IV, LSW 2 starts with Princess Leia as her ship is under 
 attack by Darth Vader's forces. It starts off well, but play this for about an hour, and you are 
 likely to find the nostalga ruined by the never-ending array of glitches.
  
  It's extremely frustrating, one moment you're walking across the Tatooine deserts, next thing you 
 know, you're character has disappeared off the screen, and you've fallen off a cliff, because you 
 couldn't see yourself.
  
  It's an amazing game to play, but the glitches just destroy the whole experience. It's probably 
 better to buy the Complete Saga, and hope that Lucasarts fixed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravemaster_866
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good- Create a character, good game play, easy to control, expected graphics, occasional entertaining 
 clips.
  
  The Bad- Too many glitches, view is disturbed to often, jumping issues.
  
  The game matches the expectations for the LEGO STAR WARS series it also is as easy to control as 
 the other games in the series. There are the down falls though there are way too many glitches. 
 Rooms don't load, it freezes, the top screen's image scrambles. This is a good game, I only suggest 
 you need to wait see about a re-release coming out with the glitches fixed before you go and get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertcwm
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Game Full of Glitches. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom312
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game really surprised me. I thought LEGO would have at least tried to get the glitches out, 
 but to me it seems they were in a hurry and never fixed the glitches!!!! It froze up all the time 
 and it's impossible to get the last peice on Speeder Bike Chase and on Destiny!!! The gameplay 
 wasn't that challenging, and the graphics were not the best. In some scenes, it would black out 
 to where you couldn't see where you were going. And when you played on Free Play , on some levels 
 you couldn't see what your choices were and you couldn't complete the level. You had to go back 
 and replay the level to unlock the minikits. All in all, this game is definitle not one of my favorites. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game is pitiful. plain and simple. it's based on the ingenious concept of Lego Star Wars 1, 
 but there are no big control changes. The 2.5 score I gave this game was merely for it's concept, slapstick 
 humor (try to put a stormtrooper helmet on Chewie and it will sit crooked on his head) and clever 
 customization options, which are fun and innovative (too bad the game's so bad) . It let's you create 
 your own character which brings some funny (and awkward) situations to the table. Besides that, 
 Lego Star Wars 2 for DS is atrocious. A myriad of glitches takes away from the unique gameplay 
 (and renders your character immovable at some times) . The graphics are nothing special and the 
 mid-level gameplay doesn't use the touch screen at all. Don't even get me started on this game's 
 level design, or you'd be reading this review all night . I'll just leave you with the fact that 
 it is very, very confusing and will often leave you with no clue of what to do. Anyway, DO NOT 
 BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  ok i brought this since it was cheap. its not thats its bad, the graphics are great, it can come 
 close to psp and even ps2 standards. creating a charter is great fun, i made a leia, a knight and 
 a musical guy, he was soo cool and funny. but i finally stopped messing around and started the 
 level. but then on gamespot i saw the cheat 500,000 cash so i did it and started buying cheats, 
 the were fun, expesially disco, so NOW i start playing the levels. sooooo glitchy, you know your 
 party or enemys cant kill each other only me? well i saw to enemys on a later level hitting them 
 selfs with axes. yea..... So then the floor disepers and then the walls and im sitting there
  thinking WTF . ok glitchs on another level: im sliding down as yong boy (cant remeber any of there 
 names) with a gun and the slide and everything disserpears and the screen turns black and i cant 
 see my carter moving and all thelego studs just nothing else. if you enjoy glitchs and find them 
 funny and intresting. take a look. if you never notice glitchs. you will here. and if you cant 
 stand glitchs, ignor this. i also nearly forgot on comenting on the crap-tasic camera. you move 
 it with touch screen arrows. but you cant move the camera closer. so its not alot of good. fienno 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marajade312
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game really surprised me. I thought LEGO would have at least tried to get the glitches out, 
 but to me it seems they were in a hurry and never fixed the glitches!!!! It froze up all the time 
 and it's impossible to get the last peice on Speeder Bike Chase and on Destiny!!! The gameplay 
 wasn't that challenging, and the graphics were not the best. In some scenes, it would black out 
 to where you couldn't see where you were going. And when you played on Free Play , on some levels 
 you couldn't see what your choices were and you couldn't complete the level. You had to go back 
 and replay the level to unlock the minikits. All in all, this game is definitle not one of my favorites. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demeb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars was a great game, and its sequel promised to be even better. On all other platforms 
 Lego Star Wars II lived up to the great expectations that were set. The DS version, however, had 
 far too many problems that took away form what could have been a great game. The camera angles 
 were sometimes way too far out or not where they needed to be in order for you to make some of 
 the jumps and other actions. Other times events that were necessary in order for the game to continue 
 in Free Play mode never happened, forcing you to prematurely quit the level.
  
  Some of the features that were unique to the DS were the wireless multi-player and co-op abilities. 
 Being able to cooperatively play the levels of the game with a friend is fun, but the total coin 
 counter for the game becomes set to the lower of the two people playing, making you lose any extra 
 coins you may have had. The different multiplayer games that are accessible with two or more cards 
 are fun, but sometimes the game doesnt let you access the characters that you should be able to 
 use in those modes.
  
  Overall, Lego Star Wars is a fun, but frustrating, game. If it werent for all the glitches and 
 problems it might be on the level of the platform, or even the GBA, versions of the game. Some 
 of the problems are hard to ignore, but that doesnt stop the game from being fun. If you look 
 past the problems of the game, it is still an easy, entertaining, and fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piraka93
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Why do a lot of people say this game is a waste of time or it stinks. I don't. I think It rocks. 
 Some people say it has a horrible amount of glitches well it doesn't. It has 2. There not a big 
 deal either. They don't ruin the game. Plus if you like lego's and Star Wars like I do you will 
 like this game. And u have to admit playing all the star wars people in a toy lego version is pretty 
 cool. So ignore any of the glitches and just play the game. It is really cool. And also people 
 who are looking to buy the game dont listen to the people who say its a bad game, because if you 
 like legos and star wars you will like this game. So pick up your handheld and start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakirbydude
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game got everyone excited for little to nothing. Lego Star Wars itself is a fun series, 
 but not the DS one. Lego Star Wars 2 for the DS (unlike the console versions) is horrible and glitched 
 up. While it's cool to have the game on the DS, it's not worth it. The GBA graphics may not be 
 the most amazing ever, but the GBA version is way better, and much more highly reccomended. If 
 you can put up with an easier game, and loads of crappy glitches, then this game is allright. So, 
 the glitches suck, but the concept lives even through that. I like the game itself, but the horrible 
 numbers of glitches ruined it. Had Lego delayed the game just to finish it, it wouldn't have sucked 
 so bad. But instead they wanted it out the same time as the others, and we got a glitched up game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Being able to play as Luke, Lando, Han Solo, and Yoda as Lego toys is cool, but 2 glitches stood 
 out the most in this almost perfect game.
  
  1. Weird Camera Angles: there are some points in the game where you will want to see the path you 
 are walking down so you dont fall off and lose coins. Unfortunately, at these points the camera 
 will not allow you to do that. It doesnt mess up the game entirely, but it makes walking over a 
 high ledge much more tedious than it should be.
  
  2. Lag: I dont know if this is common on all the games, but at 2 or 3 points in the game (coincidentally 
 the hectic points) the game slows down considerably. Again, this doesnt mess up the game much, 
 but it can really frustrate you when you are trying to get out of a hectic situation.
  
  All in all, this game is great, but these 2 minor glitches hold it back from being the polished 
 game it should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare_B4_x
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 22, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  After playing 'Lego Star Wars II' on the PS2 and XBOX, I was wondering what the game would feel 
 like on the DS. The game's story is well... not very detailed, charecters are not detailed and 
 chunks of the story are gone. As for the graphics are actually pretty good for the DS and make 
 the game a good looking style. Game controls are mapped nicely but without the analoug stick make 
 hand cramps come fast. Its a shame because the game is addictve and its really loveable. There 
 is no changlle in it, expect for the bugs. There a tons of bugs, your guy will dissapear or the 
 floor under him. Its not a very long game, mutilplayer adds some nice replay but nothing all that 
 well. The touch screen is just for the menus but its all a great platforming game for portable 
 fun on the DS. Great Gameplay, Nice Graphics, Buggy system, Nice sound and medicore replay vaule, 
 leave it a great game to buy when it hits the $20 ben. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritzcracka
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 15, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars has been a smash hit franchise so far. The first game got great reviews and it was 
 a blast to play. I personally played the PC version and enjoyed every minute of it. But now, we 
 have the 2nd game in the series, based on the original trilogy? How could it get any better!? Play 
 it the palm of your hand? Awesome!
  
  Unfortunately, it's not awesome. It's a buggy, broken mess of a game that had no business making 
 it to store shelves in it's current state. The graphics are good... when they work. Far too often, 
 entire sections of levels or characters will fail to appear. In one of the early levels (Tatooine) , 
 you start out sliding down a hill. The first time I played the level, the hill did not appear, 
 so my character slid off the invisible hill to his death.
  
  The gameplay is, well... like the first game, which is good. The problem is that there are so many 
 glitchy elements that it really detracts from the experience. The levels are easy and have about 
 one puzzle each. Your allies often shoot you for no reason. The cutscenes are badly scripted. There 
 are a few flying sections, which would be cool if they didn't suck (that might be attributed to 
 the limited horsepower of the DS, except that Mario Kart DS was able to do it much better on the 
 same platform) .
  
  Quite honestly, if you want to play Lego Star Wars, play it on one of the other platforms it's 
 been released on. They are all much better made than this game. I can't really see how this made 
 it through quality control or beta testing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I have played the GC and GBA versions of this game and was pleased by those games... boy was I disappointed 
 by the DS version.
  
  The graphics look great for a portable game. The classic sounds from Star Wars games are here as 
 well. One issue with the graphics and sound in the game was with the mini clips shown before and 
 after levels. No sound whatsover besides music playing in the background. The cute Lego voices 
 were muted out and the videos themselves seemed pointless and not matching the action in the levels.
 
  
  The controls work great. No complaints or issues there.
  
  Unfortunately, this game has tons and tons of glitches that ruin the experience. Seeing through 
 walls, collecting studs that are nowhere near you, characters getting stuck between a wall and 
 another item, and the list goes on. I got as far as episode 5 before I just gave up trying to enjoy 
 the game. The flying missions are fun, but even they lose their fun because their does not seem 
 to be a point to where you are flying. Another thing that annoyed me is the worthlessness of the 
 studs. You only need to get 10k on each level to get jedi status, but some levels have 50k or more. 
 In addition, many times the studs are laid out in a way to lead you to where you should be going 
 OR (my personal favorite) in a huge bunch just in the middle of a room. I hated it when a bunch 
 of blue studs were placed in a circle like that!!!
  
  I did like some of the extras like western mode, which are not on the GC version of the game, but 
 the extras on the GC are a lot more enjoyable and plentiful. If you can avoid playing this version 
 of LSW2 you will be doing yourself a huge favor. BTW, I did not try the multiplayer but I can't 
 imagine I could find a friend with his/her own version of the game AND/OR with a desire to play 
 a horrible Lego Star Wars game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSuper
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Okay, so let me see, if I've heard my rumours right, i shouldn't buy this overly glitchy baby- 
 friendly game ? Allright, I'll go with the console version instead !
  
  This is how many people think when wanting to buy this game. They rely too hard on other people's 
 opinions, and don't create an own opinion on this game. This game is just plain fun, whether you're 
 a star wars die hard fan or a person who's saw a movie and got interested in Star Wars. Even people 
 who can't stand the whole Star Wars Universe hype will like this adventurous, charming game !
 
  
  The graphics are, as most players have noticed, superb ! I haven't seen these sort of cunning graphics 
 on my Dual Screen for quite a while, and was extremely surprised that they're so innovative and 
 detailed. The frame rate can get a littly moody sometimes due to glitches though.
  
  The sound is directly taken from the star wars movies, music as the Imperial March or sound effects 
 like the old 'n trusty lightsaber. It is yet a shame that there's no voice acting.
  
  The gameplay is quite magnificent, you can explore giant levels packed with action while shooting 
 or lightsaber swinging your way through. People who say that this game is easy, are wrong, to unlock 
 True Jedi status in every level is hard as hell due to some glitches that can make your life miserable. 
 Yes, there are quite some glitches, but don't worry, any intelligent player will avoid these glitches 
 instead of walking into them time by time and complaining. Although, some glitches can't be avoided, 
 like the sandbox level, which seems to be one big glitch. And unlocking is what makes this game 
 fun to play, there are dozens of things that can be unlocked, and you'll spend at least 25 hours 
 doing so. It also has a replay value, to play with your unlocked characters in the levels you had 
 previously unlocked, but with those unlocked characters, you can open new parts of that level. 
 Conclusion : Lego Star Wars II is a neat game that will entertain everyone who is yet a tiny bit 
 interested in the adventurous universe of star wars, but also other players. Don't mind all the 
 bad words about glitches, they aren't half as bad as told. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is broken... I'ts like they released it before they were really done. There is so many 
 glitches that this game can be so frusterating that it should of been never released. Here is my 
 review on Lego Star Wars II: The Original trilogy... witch is a sad mistake for a sequal and a 
 game.
  
  The Good:
  
  if your a starwars or lego fan you'll find some fun in this game and wi-fi can be slightly enjoyable.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  within 5 minutes of playing you will be guarenteed to find a glitch or get bored. And the graphics 
 and sound suck.
  
  Not worth 30-40 bucks for a broken game that doesn't work.
  This game deserves nothing more than a 5.0.
  I recomend this game to children who don't mind 
 glitches.
  
  it is a shame though.... glitches ruined a what could of been great sequal. but kids own't notice 
 most likely so buy it for them =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummerboy857
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  When i heard that there was going to be a Lego StarWars 2 I thought it would be much better than 
 the first one and guess what it is, but not for the DS. This game had somany glitches you could 
 barley play the game, for example lets say you would be walking down a hallway and your head would 
 disapear or you'd be flying down a tunnel to destroy the shield generator for the second DeathStar 
 and you'll turn a corner and the camera wouldint follow you. With all these glitches you wouldin't 
 be able to finish the game. You wouldint be able to get all the studs because they would disaper 
 or your camera wouldint follow, you wouldint be able to get all the minikits and when you play 
 as some characters you won't be able to play as them after for example princess leia as jabba's 
 prisonner. This game was terrible and if you want to play it I sujest playing it on a different 
 system or renting to see for yourself all the glithes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  LEGO Star Wars 2: The Original Trilogy is NOT a bad game. I have had the game THE DAY IT CAME OUT, 
 and even to right now, I play this game all the time. Just look at some aspects of it, compared 
 to other versions.
  
  CHARACTOR CREATOR: DS: 3 CONSOLE: 2
  You can make more charactors in DS than Console. Also, in the console versions, it's HORRIBLE!!! 
 The camera view is BAD, the names are BAD and it takes FOREVER to make up a name, the objects blink, 
 so you don't know the exact color, you have to design every bit of them, you can't test them out, 
 you can't use them in just about EVERY level, AND it takes forever to choose the pieces you want.
 
  DS: You can make them WHILE you play with them! On the touchy you design; on the top you play. 
 There are platforms to jump on, and you can pull a switch to fight a trooper. It's also far, FAR, 
 easier to choose the pices.
  
  EXTRAS:
  In the console versions, they're unbelivably hard to get, and there aren't many, and they aren't 
 really all that fun. But in the DS version there's awesome ones like Disco Mode, the original LEGO 
 Zack the Maniac pieces, Medevil mode, Old time, Moustache, and lots of other things! DS wins again.
 
  
  THE CHARACTERS:
  The DS has some that you can't normally play as. And for a HUGE thing, you can't even play as more 
 than 12 guys a level and you can't even choose them in the console version!!!! But in the DS version, 
 choosing LEGOs is a breeze, and you have access to EVERY- yes, EVERY- charactor! Some you can't 
 play as include Han Solo in Carbonite, (These ones next I THINK) Wuher, Mace Windu, Jango Fett 
 (In most) Salacious Crumb, and I think that's it. DS wins for switching.
  
  OVERALL CHARACTERS:
  Console wins this one. It has much more, but much less to choose from. It 
 has about 20 more guys, but the value of changing is worse. Neither wins.
  
  THE CATINA:
  DS wins. The console one is all one room, and harder to move around. Sure the guys come in and 
 out in both games, but in the console one only CERTAIN guys will appear. In the DS version, each 
 time you enter a room, the guys come in every 5-7 seconds apiece, and are FUN to kill. They don't 
 just look at you and all of a sudden they attack you. If there's too much in a room, they'll fight 
 each other! LEVELS:
  Neither wins. The console levels are just WAY too long, and in too many of them there are unlimited 
 spawn points that you cannot destroy, and places that are  
 The DS levels are funner to play, have a good length with stoppable spawn points (They are about 
 5-15 minute levels) . Although it has less, so no platform wins.
  
  OTHER:
  Annoying. In the console game, it only takes 1 hit to kill troopers, and lightsaber-players can 
 almost NEVER hit! In the DS version they have 2-3 hearts and saber-charactors can actually do more 
 than a blaster :|
  And about the whole GLITCHES!!! thing, GROW UP!!! The glitches are MINOR. It's not like OMG I was 
 invisible for a second this game suxorz!!! It's easy as this: learn how the glitches happen and 
 where, avoid them, and GROW UP. The glitches barely affect the game if you just learn how to sop 
 them, and just come up with reasons why they happen. Like sometimes when you kill a guy his weapon 
 will be on you for 1 1/2 seconds. It's not a glitch, You killed em and took his weapon . Plus, 
 it looks cool. MAKE reasons.
  
  And lastly, you need to give this game a chance. The multiplayer's awesome, too! It's like a whole 
 'nother game! Give LEGO Star Wars 2: the Original Trilogy a chance, and you will find it to be 
 an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superjon1991
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game It seemed alright, but then the glithes kinda ruined the game. Also its 
 was way to easy. character creation was fun for the first 10 minutes. It was a waste of time and 
 money for me. The camra was crappy it kept moving you out of the screen. also dying and starting 
 the level over can be alittle annoying, but this game made me miss that. It really wasn't challenging 
 for that reason. I didn't even have to put pause during the game play because i wouldnt have to 
 worry about dying except for the fact you lose money but i could live with that. the unlockables 
 weren't worth the time. I suggest you not get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentagonpark
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  From the official GameSpot review:
  
  Some rather unfortunate glitches do crop up now and again, but, thankfully, the game is designed 
 so that these issues don't get in the way of completing missions. 
  
  Well, IMHO, yes, they do. So much so, in fact, that I stopped playing this version of the game, 
 because it just isn't fun. What kills it, specifically, is this, also from the official GS review:
 
  
  The game's biggest shortcoming is that it shipped with a bunch of flaws and glitches that shouldn't 
 have made it into the final product. Friendly characters controlled by the CPU will occasionally 
 shoot you in the back for no reason. 
  
  Occasionally?! No, no ... try all the time, until you die, at which point they stop firing until 
 you respawn, but then the cycle continues. I mean, what did I do to this guy? That's just sadistic.
 
  
  Another issue I had with the DS version, again from the official GS review (last time, I swear) :
 
  
  The 3D graphics in the DS game aren't as slick as those found in the console versions, but they're 
 impressive for a DS game. 
  
  Well, again, I disagree. In fact, for a 3D game, I found the graphics to be quite flat , i. e. bland. 
 I think the graphics in the GBA version of this game look better, with richer textures, smoother 
 animation, and better camera. I only own five DS games right now (this being one) , but the graphics 
 in the other four are far better.
  
  My biggest gripe is that I buy games based heavily from the GS reviews, and I think the GS review 
 for this version is severely misleading. So, I'm not saying that LSWII: TOT is a bad game; I have 
 the PS2 and GBA versions and enjoy both of those very much. I'm just saying don't bother with the 
 DS version. It's terrible.
  
  BTW, know anyone who's looking to buy this game on the DS? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingPhill1234
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I really enjoyed this game while I was playing it. The sound is great and sounds 
 exactly like the original soundtrack from the movies, complete with blaster sounds and R2-D2. Likewise 
 the amusing Lego rendered graphics are very good for the DS. The game accurately portrays the movies, 
 with large exploration stages and fastpaced vehicle stages. However, all of these great aspects 
 are overturned by the poor camera control. I was frustrated at how I would miss important timed 
 jumps because I could not rotate the camera. Also the companions who follow you are just plain 
 dumb. They can't follow you half the time, especially when it involves jumping over chasms. I can't 
 count the amount of time I spent trying to get them to follow me. While I love Star Wars and Legos 
 are awesome, this game could have been a lot better with some work. Get this game if you want Star 
 Wars on the go, but otherwise I'd say rent it first since you can finish it in 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntwv
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has great game play but has way too many glitches. The DS also seems to lag a little 
 on some scenes but it is a fun game. The game play is easy to get the hang of and all of the e 
 levels are pretty easy until you get to the second to last level and it is harder than every level 
 put together. I spent more time on this level than any other level in the game. Well for those 
 who love Star Wars you will probaly love this game and for those who just want something different, 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman940
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  I think this game is fun even though it has glitches I also have a gamecube and it was either a 
 glitchy ds version to play on the go or a game to play at home and I chose to go because who does 
 not want to play this game while they are ona plane or something and you can bring it to your friends 
 house without having to carry something heavy. Ok now about the game the game is like I said glitchy 
 but they are not that bad. The gameplay is short but the touch screen is really good for the charactor 
 creator. The multiplayer is fun because you can be different people like boba fett and even jango 
 fett. Overall this is a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 92GreenYJ
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I hate to write a less than favorable reveiw, but I feel with this game I have no choice. I am 
 a HUGE Star Wars fan and have been all my life. This could have and should have been a great title. 
 Don't get me wrong, it is a good game with some great elements and a fair bit of comedy thrown 
 in the mix that does hold true to the venerable SW franchise. Unfortunately, a metric ton of glitches, 
 horrendously frustrating camera, and often clumsy controls (usually resulting from the aforementioned 
 camera) take alot away from the playability of this game. Lets start with the camera. There are 
 many times in this game you will find yourself unable to see your characters, you will instead 
 be looking at walls or the backside of walls as the camera seems to have issues staying with the 
 character. Other times you will walk off screen, or worse, fall from platforms because when the 
 camera view shifts, it throws your controls out of whack. The slight bit you can control the camera 
 is basically useless. The controls, as mentioned, rely on the camera to determine where your d-pad 
 presses move your character. Unfortunately the camera has you walking off of ledges or missing 
 jump ledges VERY often. Then there are the glitches, and there are ALOT in this game. I have to 
 wonder if they even bothered to test this game before releasing it. Numerous times I found my character 
 trapped between walls, or my character would walk thru a wall into nothing, occassionally I will 
 lose the entire display on the touch screen to black nothingness, i have noted this once or twice 
 on the game screen as well.
  
  the game is good, but often times just not playable due to these problems. I will likely continue 
 to play it, but I am saving after every mission I complete now rather than going from episode to 
 episode for fear of the game freezing, forcing a hard restart and the loss of all of my progress. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starwarrz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure that your must have only heard of all the glitches in this game, but the problems with 
 this game are heavily out weighed by the great parts of the game. In lego starwars you get to play 
 as almost any of the origianal characters in starwars, even a few characters from episodes 1,2, and 
 3. There is also the character selection feature that allows you to make your own jedi, storm trooper 
 or a even a wookie yoda mix character. This game lets your expiriance all of your favorite parts 
 of the movies in a new interactive game. I highly recomend this game to anyone of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fulham89
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I pondered for weeks on end about whether or not to purchase this game for the DS, and eventually 
 decided to pass up Elite Beat Agents for this. Am I disappointed? Should I be? Of course not. I 
 loved the original Star Wars films and this puts you right in the action, with one very obvious 
 twist: the Star Wars universe is made of, you guessed it, LEGO bricks.
  
  The missions all stick to the plot of the original Star Wars movies, and are all in full 3D, and 
 look very impressive on the DS. I've played exactly half-way through the game now and I have witnessed 
 a whole 4 glitches, all of which were split-second errors and nothing detrimental at all to the 
 game. Of course, the create-a-character is great fun and the multiplayer is a hoot as expected. 
 And as you'd expect, the fantastic music is all there, from the death march to the Cantina tune. 
 No music in any other DS game will beat this soundtrack.
  
  However, there are some gripes with the game. Two major issues are the slightly maddening camera 
 angles and the flying missions. The former issue can be very frustrating when trying to backtrack 
 through a level; the camera does not automatically rotate behind the character, so you're essentially 
 walking blind. The flying missions are rather basic and a little poor, really: the models are too 
 small and there's a hollow feeling to completing them. Blowing up the Death Star should be an incredibly 
 fulfilling and entertaining feat, but having a measly cutscene showing you the finale of a third 
 of the game is a little lame. The only other disappointment is the lack of sound bites: without 
 them the cutscenes lose a lot of their humour and sense. Despite these shortcomings, this game 
 is still very impressive for the DS. Graphically it is superb, and although the part-puzzle-solving/action 
 gameplay is a little faulty at times (sometimes it can be a struggle to hit your enemies) , you 
 always respawn, making the game perfect for both young and old.
  
  I'll avoid all terrible puns and just say that this is a much better game than most have assumed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitu123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Be on the look out for glitches! Lego Star Wars II on DS has some aspects of the console versions 
 of the original Lego Star Wars. This game is great in many ways, although if it wasn't for a collection 
 of glitches, people would of beaten the game in a couple of weeks. It starts off with Princess 
 Leia, a Rebel Trooper, and Greedo (In the Catina) . The codes for this game are hard to figure out 
 or if they're glitched. People have been experiencing how to get all 10 Mini Kits in certain levels 
 due to glitches. Some of DS Lego Stars II has objectives and cut scenes that exactly has happened 
 in the movies such as Han being in Carbonate, Leia becoming a slave after Luke kills the rancor 
 pit monster, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nedwong
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  Enjoyed the first version on the gamecube but crappy playing this second version with the DS. The 
 graphics is absolutely crappy. The character's images get lost in some areas or movements. Some 
 levels you won't know which way to go next. And on some you have to go back to the rooms where 
 you came from just to proceed with the game and if you missed those doors you'd end up running 
 in circles trying to find out where to go next. When fighting Darth Vader you'd feel like you're 
 not getting anywhere then all of a sudden he's dead and you've passed the level. Just simply frustrating 
 to play. Not entertaining at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I found that it is confusion to position the characters correctly. I do not think this translates 
 too well to the DS. I have only played it for about 30 minutes, as it is not holding my interest.
 
  I love the StarWars I for the Game Cube, but this one is Meh!
  I think they could have done better by keeping the camera angle fixed... if fact, I got sick when 
 I was flying in the cruiser... but that might just be me.
  
  I was hoping this one would be as good as the GameCube version. I got suckered by all the advertising. 
 t is not a horrible game however, just not worth full price. If it was $19.99 I would say ok, but 
 as it stands now I am definately feeling some amount of buyers remorse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is good but the glitches ruin the game. Sometimes you have to reset your game because 
 of the glitches.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty good, but it can get pretty annoying. The button configuration 
 is pretty tight and nice.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good for the DS, but the camera angles are horrible. They are so bad 
 that the people who worked on this should be thrown into the Sarlaac Pit (Star Wars joke) . The only 
 reason the game is just right instead of easy is because of its camera angles.
  
  Sound: The sound is the great Star WArs music we deserve.
  
  Value: The game should have been 
 a little bit cheaper and the nit would have been a lot better. The replay value... the only good 
 replay value is found from the flying levels.
  
  Tilt: There is a lot to do once you are done like unlock characters and spaceships, collect minikit 
 canisters, and obtain full jedi status.
  
  The game would have been great if weren't for a few flaws and the major glitch probelm. I reccomend 
 the Xbox, Gamecube, PS2, or 360 version over this. Buy this if the others are sold out. If the 
 GBA is the only version left I reccomend for you to wait. I hope you lked my review and may the 
 force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quik_Fix
Rating: 3.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm a proud owner of the original Lego Star Wars on PC. I bought it on a fluke for my son, and 
 we've both had a blast playing it. I loved the games tongue-in-cheek style of humor, and I enjoyed 
 the satisfaction of finding every kit piece and unlocking all the characters with no cheats. Brag 
 brag brag. Anyhow...
  
  Since I have a DS now, I was interested in checking out the game on a handheld scale. But here's 
 where the weirdness begins...
  
  At the Target near my workplace, you can buy LSW2 for the PC for $30. The price for the DS version? 
 $35! As many people know, the DS game is a very toned down version of the game, with far less detail, 
 options and features than the PC version. I was very surprised to see that it could cost $5 for 
 an inferior game. But if the games good, who cares, right?
  
  I am so disappointed by LSW2 for the DS. There too many bugs to be considered acceptable as a final 
 release game. I won't be vague here:
  
  --The freeplay on level 4, Episode IV cannot be finished. After grappling across a large room and 
 reentering the first hallway of the level, all the enemies, set pieces and, well... everything 
 but the walls and floor disappears! I try to go back the way I came, but the door no longer works. 
 The camera sticks in one direction. I fall in a pit that should kill me, but I don't die! I land 
 at the bottom of a very very deep pit. Can't jump out, can't escape. I have to cancel out of the 
 level, thereby making it impossible to collect all of the minikit pieces in the level.
  
  --My team mates, no matter whatever level I'm on, shoot me in the back constantly. While playing, 
 you will have the added challenge of making sure you are never in-between you friends and a stormtrooper, 
 else they rob you of your hard-earned studs with a well-placed shot to your back.
  
  --Speaking of teammates, they have totally lost their minds in this game. In the original they 
 would follow you where you went and play nice. Not here. They will often get stuck respawing and 
 dying in one spot over and over and over and over and... you get the idea. They don't seem able 
 to eliminate any enemies, no matter how many times they shoot them.
  
  --Free play is also messed up on Level 1, Episode VI. No matter what character I played, I was 
 turned into Leia the Bounty Hunter as I entered the final room in Jabba's palace. In addition, 
 the same but happened again; everything disappeared except the walls and Jabba, and the minikit 
 piece I needed disappeared from the corner at well. The trap door in the floor wouldn't even work, 
 so I had no chance of collecting the last kit piece. BUT WAIT! There's more! All the character 
 selection buttons on the bottom screen went blank, and all the text from all the menus disappeared! 
 I had to try and guess how far down the menu Exit to Mos Eisley was (just push up once and A twice 
 to get back when it screws you, too) . I tried to get the last piece by replaying story mode, but 
 none of the characters were able to jump high enough to get the last kit piece... another unbeatable 
 level.
  
  --God forbid you die while platforming from 100 scale feet above the head of your party in the 
 Sarlaac pit mission (I think its L4, EP VI) . My entire party started spawing BELOW the platforms 
 over and over. They would hover in sitting positions for a few seconds and then die. Over and over 
 and over and over... And that was in story mode. Had to cancel out again.
  
  --CLIPPING. Not a little clipping. INCREDIBLE clipping, in every single level. When I fell into 
 the pit that was supposed to kill me, I was looking through the wall and out into outer space. 
 Escape from the Death Star? If I could have just walked through that damn wall I was looking through, 
 I'd be free! There were plenty of others walls I had clipped through, so why not this one dammit! 
 Asteroids will vanish, doors with disintegrate! Floors will lose all texture and turn bright white!
 
  
  --CUTSCENES. Well, they're gone. Maybe two or three have worked, but the rest skip most of the 
 frames. So I didn't see the Death Star explode, I saw a stuttering blue ring. I didn't see the 
 asteroid worm eat the Falcon, I saw a worm having a two-frame seizure. And all that wonderful humor? 
 Gone. No funny in-jokes.
  
  -EXTRAS. I paid about 100,000 studs for Whitebox mode and a similarly high price for letterbox 
 mode. Whitebox means everything looks white... what a deal! And letterbox mode? Well, I suppose 
 I deserve it. Its black bars on the DS screen. At least moustaches and silly blasters are funny. 
 These are just lame.
  
  -CAMERA. They real opponent in this game is the camera. It hates you. You don't know it yet, but 
 it does. Want to leave the trash compactor? Good luck finding the door. How about walking onto 
 a platform where a minikit piece is to your right, but every time you turn around the camera switches 
 sides, so you can never actually move in that direction? Nice. All the clipping its been doing, 
 and it won't just sit still on the wall so I can FRIGGIN' MOVE LEFT!
  
  I refuse to surrender to LSW2 on the DS. I will finish playing the game. But I'm saddened to know 
 that I will never be able to unlock all the minikits without using a cheat code.
  
  This could have been a terrific game. And I understand (a little) why some people are giving it 
 high scores. But the game sucks. It is by far the most broken game ever developed DS. And as gamers, 
 we need to NOT BUY broken games, or else we're telling the developers that its okay to sell crap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billyjojimbob
Rating: 2.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been in touch with TT Games and they are aware of various glitches within Start Wars 2 that 
 makes the game impossible to complete.
  
  This is part of the e-mail sent to me regarding the matter.
  
  We have had reports from other 
 players of problems along the lines you describe, Im afraid. The development team worked hard 
 to create a 3D environment on the DS, populated with LEGO Star Wars characters and action  but 
 ambitious plans for the title proved harder to realise than expected, and there have turned out 
 to be some rough edges, particularly in Episode VI. 
  
  Yours sincerely,
  
  -Jonathan Smith
  Head of Production
  TT Games Publishing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star wars on the Nintendo DS really surprised me its in full 3D and for the most part plays 
 ok. The controls on the game are responsive but at time its feels like you have to press very hard 
 to make them move (it's hard to explain you'll have to play it to know what im talking about) . 
 The game looks very good but the glitches in the game almost ruin it because you find the background 
 go black or your get stuck jumping off the same edge and the camera will from time to time invert 
 itself into a wall of a hill. But the game is not all problems it really does feel like your playing 
 the movies in Lego form which is a lot of fun and will let you pass on the same glitches but really 
 come on some of the game feels like it was lazily made and also flying is the worst part of the 
 game I would have to say rent it don't buy it it is worth a few hours of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysse23
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for about 2-3 weeks now, and I think its good.
  The gameplay nice, graphics are pretty good and it's kind of crazy.
  
  You start in the Mos 
 Eisley caf&eacute;, which is like the game hub thingy, then you can go and start with the story 
 mode, it starts in episode IV of course. When you clear the first mission, then you can do whatever 
 you wan't and that's great.
  
  There is 2 types of gameplay: Story mode and free play.
  In the story you follow the movie and complete the main game.
  In free play you can do whatever 
 you wan't to on the courses, collect studs or minikits.
  
  And then there's the character creat which is really fun, you can create millions of different 
 characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aleandragon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  I sugest you rent this game first as msot people after a while have gone bold and threw there D. S 
 out of a five story building but if you have patience and like a game that takes a long time to 
 finesh completly this is the game for you.
  
  It's quite funny evenlow there is no speeking in the whole game and it is quite intertaining to 
 play but after while you will wish there's a better cheat than just getting ten studs.
  
  I rate this Game 8.8 because it may have a lot of holes but it is highly addictive and very fun 
 and as i have not tried the muiltiplayer mode i am looking foward to doing that but i say dont' 
 buy to coppies jsu tto play it.
  
  I say get this gaem but try if first like borrow somonelses copy or rent it out first.
  
  From 
 Aleandragon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is ok, i thought this game would be better on ds but it suck. the graphics if bad. i 
 like the part where you could make your own dude, thats the cool part only. i played the demo on 
 pc and it was good but not for DS or GBA, they suck. lucasarts made fun game especialy the bounty 
 hunter game, that game is cooler then halo (my opinion) anyway, this game is not worth buying but 
 if your a huge fan of lego or starwars, they should try this game but i garentee that you'll not 
 enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zig_star
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  i got to admit that this game is sensational and is a fun game to play at all costs. just wait 
 till they make a Lego star wars 3 when u use both trilogies but for now Lego star wars 2 is pretty 
 good (screw world of war-craft) Lego star wars 2 for the ds is fun but console versions would be 
 better. this game has every thing Lego star wars the video game has not (besides the cooler characters 
 and levels from episode 1,2 and 3) keep up the good work Lucas arts! and also i reckon the humorous 
 parts of Lego star wars 1 and 2 are pretty funny like when you go to endor Han, Wicket and Luke 
 run in the shield building they get kicked out (i'm serious) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qte_champion
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Oh LEGO star wars. That merging of 2 mega franchises that spawned a successful line of toys that 
 probably had Mr. LEGO and Mr. Lucas in need of new houses in order to store all that cash. One successful 
 video game later and were treated to a sequel.
  
  In a similar fashion to the console version you start the game by heading off to 'A new hope' where 
 you must complete the Blockade runner level before you open up anything else. It's this first level 
 where everything starts to go wrong. Horribly wrong.
  The level begins with a cut scene outlining the basic plot. Crazily large star destroyer comes 
 and swallows up a little rebel ship, we have all seen the film.
  Not in LSW2 DS though. In the cut scene the star destroyer merely pulls up by a window leaving 
 Leia with a somewhat look of dismay on her face.
  Sadly this is actually the best cut scene in the game.
  In the ever so popular films you may 
 recall that upon boarding the Rebel Blockade runner evil Storm troopers laid down some serious 
 hurt to the ships crew. There was pwning, pwnage and owning going on during the vicious firefights 
 between rebels and storm troopers.
  In LSW DS though theres the odd blaster bolt fired, albiet in a random direction. It isnt uncommon 
 to walk into a room to find 3-4 rebel troopers shooting at each other. This may by some be seen 
 as just accidental friendly fire but there are 2 main flaws to that theory.
  A, It only ever happens when theres no storm troopers in the room
  B, Rebels dont take cover 
 and stand 4 inches away from each other blasting.
  When the AI isnt shooting at it's self (and belive me if the characters could aim at their own 
 feet they would shoot them off intentionally) then there running aimlessly into walls or standing 
 about doing nothing leaving you to walk on past.
  
  The camera however is more than a challenege for the AI for crown of 'Worst part of this game'.
 
  It shows it's stuff in some pretty epic style aswell. The camera will swing about randomly going 
 through walls, sitting infront of where your supposed to be going so you cant see, being positioned 
 under the player when your walking on some higher platform and all manner of other joyous things.
 
  Thankfully in the cameras quest to be the worst part of the game this is only the start of things. 
 Some levels the camera will effortlesly pan out of the game world (Take a wrong turn and you may 
 to find yourself falling from the game world aswell) and in some places will draw so far back your 
 controlling a blue block about 5 pixels high. It goes through walls, floors, characters, vehicles, 
 just about everywhere.
  
  The game is littered with bug after bug. You can be walking along and notice some pretty shiny 
 gold LEGO studs sparkling on the floor. Dont however think to yourself under any circumstances 
 'I'll go collect them'. No no no, that is in the top 5 errors commited by noobs every day.
  You'll walk up to the studs and then 'pop'
  Studs have gone and vanished. Before you can say 
 'What the fudge'
  The wall your walking past has vanished and you can now see beyond it
  And then just as your about to say
  'What the fudge WALL HAXX !!!!!11111111'
  you will disapear, 
 gone....
  Your controlling an Invisible Wookie walking around a half invisible world collecting invisible 
 items.
  
  As a summary of my amazing LSW II DS review heres a handy + and - chart.
  
  +Front end logo looks amazingly sharp
  +Awesome box art
  +You can change languages at ANY time, 
 even DURING play.
  +Comes complete with an entire FOUR different music tracks it plays over and over and over and 
 over and over........
  +To be playing it you must own a DS which means you may own New super mario brothers.
  
  -Level 
 design is worse than a game of Pacman where all the dots are placed outside the maze, and the maze 
 is just a square with nothing inside. It's also a very small square leaving you able to move only 
 once in any direction. You may also occasionaly fall out of the square and die and have to restart 
 your console. The console will never turn back on though
  
  -Graphics are oddly rubbish
  -Rubbish rubbish camera
  -Frame rate drops down to about 3 frames a month in places. It's like 
 playing Mega drives with one of those slow-mo pads you used to be able to get.
  -AI is rubbish
  -Controls are rubbish
  -Finding the hidden mini kits is sometimes a chore as 
 they are hidden in some amazingly unobvious places, some requiring you to complete almost super 
 human feats of amazingness to find them.
  
  Overall:
  This may have been a contender for Game of the year had everything about it been different. A must 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngjason1995
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  I have seen many people complaining about the glitches in this game, but it's really not that bad. 
 I do understand that thay can do some bad things (eg: unable to get some characters because canisters 
 cannot be found) but the real thing of this game is the gameplay. The Graphics looks really impressive 
 on the DS (also one of the best on DS!!!) and the music and sound are also good. There are fifteen 
 levels to play in the game, not counting Sandbox (a level that you can't win) . All fifteen levels 
 are very fun and unlocking stuff is pretty cool too. The characters you can buy from the Mos Eisley 
 Cantina are definately not useless, you need them to access some doors or fly to some unreachable 
 places to collect canisters. There is also co-op in the DS version of Lego Star Wars 2 but it's 
 ultra glitchy so you woudn't want to play co-op. But there is still a Bounty Hunter Arena Multiplayer 
 mode. This ,ode can be played in single-cart or multi-cart play, of course multi-card will give 
 you more characters to use and single-cart only lets the guests choose Greedo. in this mode, you 
 play in 3rd-person mode, not the single player mode type of RPG style gameplay.
  Overall, I highly recommend buying this game if you don't own the console versions. (console version 
 is the good you'll definately say this is crap, but it really isn't) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_ager
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I find Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy a very fun game to play on the Nintendo DS. The 
 game goes with the Star Wars episodes IV via VI. If you've seen the three movies it's a pretty 
 easy game to play. The graphics might not be as good as the big consles, but otherwise it's a pretty 
 good game. I like the bounty hunter mode for multiplayer. I'm not quite sure if you have to find 
 the charaters or if you have to buy them from the store in Elisa Monty Elesta cafe. After you read 
 this review about lego star wars 2: The original trilogy, I would definetly recommend it to anyone 
 with a DS or DS Lite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Diabalo-
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  i hadnt played the original lego starwars but was told by friends that it was great so when the 
 chance to purchase a sequel came along i was all for it.
  first things first there are major problems with this game i havent yet played the game without 
 a single glitch and once or twice its even crashed my d. s.
  HOWEVER 85% of the time the game works fine its great fun and the multi player is great (both co-op 
 and bounty hunter battle) the single player story is alittle short but the need to back track to 
 unlock all the characters and complete the game 100% makes up for this. One thing make sure that 
 when it requests it you turn on autosave i didnt the first file i created and it blocked me from 
 playing multi-player. all the original charecters youl remember from the first three films are 
 there as well as some you wont. alllin all its a great game despite the glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papanoel123
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  At first, the game was fun. And then i started to notice the glitches in the game. At first i got 
 used to them but they could not be ignored forever! At times the characters would dissapear and 
 sometimes even whole maps would dissapear and all you would see is your character walking on black 
 nothingness. Still, i could not allow myself to think that i bought a bad game. It has never happened 
 before since i always check the ratings first. The final straw in this story was when my friend 
 bought the xbox 360 version and i was forced to admit that my game sucked. I can't believe Gamespot 
 and their reviews! For once, that 7.3 had fooled me into thinking that since i like Star Wars and 
 Legos it would be a great game but no. The story is still fun though and if they were to just fix 
 the glitches then the game would be fine. Also, I WANT BOBA FETT and i can't figure out how to 
 get him without cheating. I tried all of the courses! Oh well. One can't have everything in life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canon-D
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars lives up to its prequel with lots of fun levels, unlockables and mostly a very large 
 depth, but it's largely plagged by gigant, and suometimes stupid, bugs. Graphical glitches galore!
 
  
  Sound and music are taken straight from the movies, resulting in high quality and fun. Lots of 
 levels are playable and most of all, there's a slew of unlockables to look out for.
  
  There's not too much to say about LGSW2, it's so much fun until the bugs kick in, and those take 
 out alot of fun.. Multiplayer mode is really fun, but it doesn't escape from the bugs either, I've 
 yet to play a full game without it being interrupted by some misterious glitch..
  
  So, to wrap it up, if you're a fan of the series you can't mess up, but remember, bring alot of 
 patience with you.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONVaillant
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to getting this game. I was going to get it for when I couldn't access 
 all the cool stuff of the outside world because of rain etc.
  I checked the Nintendo official websited for the release date and found out that it came out in 
 my country on the 15th of September. I then got the game on that exact date from the shops.
  
  When I played the game I was happy, the graphics were alright, the sound was alright and the 
 gameplay was perfect. A simple platformer directed at all ages.
  I played through the first chapter of the game and noticed only two glitches, it was just with 
 the graphics as the sky dissapeared. The other glitch was that the game froze when saving and the 
 unit had to be turned off.
  
  Then I got to the second chapter and the sky was persistent at dissapearing, the characters and 
 other objects completely dissapeared and the characters that are in your group/party kept getting 
 stuck on the edges of things completely dumb and not fixing themselves up.
  
  When I got to the third chapter, the game was almost completely not working. The game froze up 
 at various moments. Touch screen buttons dissapeared, text on the pause menu dissapeared and many 
 things dissapeared.
  
  I was devastated by the quality of the game. I made it up to the level with the sandtrap and the 
 pirateship sorta things in the desert. One part of the level the characters would jump off the 
 platforms onto a slope, which would make them slide down into the sand and die. That wouldn't normally 
 bother me. But on this game things go that slight amount further as the characters respawn on the 
 edge of the slope so they die. Or under the platforms.
  
  This game is terrible on the Nintendo DS.
  The gameplay is also bad on this version, as the glitches 
 ruin it.
  
  However, if you own a system such as a PSP, PS2, XBOX, GAMECUBE then you should buy the LegoStarwars 
 II game for that platform as it will run pretty much perfectly. One more things, the vehicle levels 
 in the Nintendo DS version are excellent, no problems that I have noticed and the touch screen 
 acts as a radar if you want it to. !!! DO NOT BUY THE NINTENDO DS VERSION OF THIS GAME !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 987654321y
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  there were really bad glitches, although the overall feel was great. Feels almost exactly the platform 
 version of lego star wars. The real acheivement was the DS version of drop in / drop out coop and 
 the use of the touch screen in charector customisation. The customazation was really good but was 
 a little buggy. I LOVE the way how if you give any character (including droids) A Lightsaber they 
 can use The Force but doesn't make the characters who can't jump jump so they do not unbalance 
 the game nless you give them a darth or jedi cape. I also love the way you can use all the unlocked 
 charecters in free play but sometimes in free play the gameplay is different or glitchie and sometimes 
 the cpu who you are partnered with doesn't do all the smartest things and gets stuck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonchamp
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  I am that anoyed with this game right now that ive give up playing it, the reason is not because 
 i give up easily its because this game is so bug ridden that i can't continue because there is 
 a point in the game when Luke needs to stand near a red circle to activate his grapple rope to 
 swing over to another ledge and then do the same again yet no matter what i do i cant get the game 
 to realise that im stood on the damn circle so i can't get to a ledge above as you need to use 
 the rope to get up, i tried and tried and in the end i gave up, up untill this point the game was 
 ok, and i almost got stuck before twice because of glitches, so i'm not playing it again, what 
 a disapointment it could of been very good but alas its rubbish, oh ive just finished the GBA version 
 and its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thomio
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Pretty good game although being pretty glitchy got annoying ... Many many cheats waiting to be found... But 
 still, I have so many.... anyway, I beat in 2 sittings, not that hard, I like the create your own 
 charecter feature... Overall,9.1 or so. If you want funny names, see my blog! Oh yeah! I like the floating 
 guy! He's pretty cool and the bomb people are cool too.... Cool!!! Buy it now! But in about 1 week 
 buy it! They're coming out with a not so glitchy one!!!! Bla bla bla Bla it's GOOD!!! Ha ha, sorry, 
 I'm just runnin g down words! Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla! Anyway, It's pretty good, 8.6, 
 no i say a 9.1.... Never to be continued!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d43mon1k
Rating: 4.4
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I love DS games. Love. I have a PSP, but only to play a few games that I can not get on DS. I bought 
 this game for the PSP and for the DS. I loved the DS version better... but ... the glitches totally 
 ruin it!!!! I was very disappointed that they released a game with this many glitches! My character 
 would disappear in the middle of levels, or levels would white out and I couldnt see anything.
 
  
  It is a shame because switching characters via the touch screen was awesome. This is the first 
 DS game that I have every returned, and I have bought quite a few.
  
  If they fix the glitches, I will gladly buy it again. But for now, I am giving this a low rating 
 to show my disconent in Lucas Arts thinking we will buy crap just because its Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby654
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game puts you in the shoes of many of the classic Star Wars characters, but with a slight 
 twist.... You're LEGO'S!! I think this is an appropriate concept since most people seem to have 
 loved both Star Wars and LEGO'S at one time in their life. I enjoy the humor that the creators 
 have been able to put into this game. However I have found a few glitches. Once in a while your 
 character will disappear for a second then reappear. Or sometimes the sky will turn black for a 
 second. To me, that's no big deal. The gameplay is not changed at all. I was expecting this game 
 to be similar to the original LEGO Star Wars that was released on Gameboy Advance. However, to 
 my surprise, It was more comparable to the PC version. The graphics were stunning! Some of the 
 best I've seen on DS yet! This game also contains an enormous amount of characters! There are several 
 categories to choose from in Free Play mode (once you've unlocked them) and if that's not enough 
 for you, you can create your own! Using parts from the characters you've already unlocked, you 
 can create your very own character to play with. The sound in this game is also very good. It contains 
 most of the classic songs from the movies. The replay value in this game is also good. In Story 
 Mode you will not be able to find everything you need because you will need someone else's special 
 ability. You will then have to go back in Free Play Mode, where you can choose any character, or 
 even swap in the middle of the game. Overall, I would say that this is a great game for both young 
 and old. It'll bring back the memories of the classic films, but at the same time be a new experience 
 as you see how the creators will bring the LEGO effect into the scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  The first Lego Star Wars was not as good as this version of the game. Even on the DS. But somehow 
 it recieved a few game awards through out 2005. This game has some of the same features as the 
 first and introduces new stuff as well. The biggest part is, that you are playing through the classic 
 Episodes IV, V, and VI. You take the role of many characters in the game such as Luke Skywalker, 
 Ben Kenobi, Han Solo, Princess Leia, Chewbacca, and many, many more. When you progress through 
 the game, you unlock new characters, items, and earn money to buy something at the Mos Eisley Cantina. 
 You will not only be fighting on foot, you will take control of snow speeders, speeder bikes, and 
 the legendary Millenium Falcon. When you play through the levels, you need to coolect money and 
 cantines. You need to get the maximun to build your Super Kit. If you do everything correctly, 
 you will unlock a mystery object. I won't give it away though.
  
  Although this game had fun stuff in it, you will run into some unfortunate things in the game. 
 The biggest flaw in the game is the camera angle. You will have difficulties shooting, using your 
 lightsaber, and using melee attacks with the poor angle. Another thing is that the lightsaber attacks 
 tend to be very slow and give your enemy time to attack faster. I would have to say that the gameplay 
 is rushed. You will be missing some of the memorable moments in the trilogy like when Luke meets 
 Yoda or when you see Han get cased in Frozen Carbinite. The cut-scenes aren't very funny. Well, 
 not as funny as the ones in the other versions of the game on like the Xbox and PS2. The nes features 
 to game are what make my rating for the game boost up. My favorite is the Character Creation where 
 you combine your favorite Star Wars characters and the CPU comes up with a name depending on the 
 mixture of what characters you used. Another cool new feature is the melee attacking. When you 
 get close enough, click the B button and use ohysical attacks. My favorite melee is Chewbacca's. 
 He jumps on some one and rips there arms off. It is the funniest thing in the game. The last new 
 addition is the Multi-Card play. When you connect with a friend, you can play DS-to-DS and enjoy 
 the fun of Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy. A fan of the past game wouldn't want to miss 
 out on a game like this. I recommend it to any DS owner or if you want, buy it for the other consoles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacsquall
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Those guys dont know what they are talking about, if you like starwars you'll like this game. its 
 fun AND look at the graphics?! the ds needs more games that take advantage of its power. i've been 
 waiting for 3D games and a starwars one is even better. it does have its glitches, but few from 
 what i can tell. and it has a multiplayer co-op mode which rocks. over all its keep me busy and 
 sure beats doing nothing on those long rides... the missions are similar to the first game and has 
 many new features like you can design your own character which is preaty cool.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthmatt
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  To begin, I was really surprised by the 7.3 score given to this game by GS.
  
  Lego Starwars for DS looks fun enough, but the un-resolved technical glitches in this game make 
 it a title not worth the money. The game is fun at times, but just as things seem normal, your 
 character will disappear behind some un-seen object. Is this the force at work? Maybe, but in other 
 areas, background and vehicle models will noticeably flicker and pop geometry into place. In the 
 Cloud city level, when you open a door that leads to a new zone, you see nothing but a black shape 
 jutting into the outside background. In some levels that look more polished, you can see reflections 
 from the level in polished floors. However, the characters do not have reflections. This makes 
 it look like something half finished. Another huge flaw is the terrible camera. The developers 
 designed a camera tilt function into the DS touch screen, but it doesn't allow you move the camera 
 and only gives you a meager 20 degrees of rotation. The individual characters control well enough 
 with the D-pad and buttons. The touch screen is used only as an option menu and camera tilt. You 
 can select other characters in your party with the touch screen, but this can also be done by walking 
 up to the character and tapping the X button. The vehicle controls are awful and broken! The in 
 game AI is also very bad. Some times your party members will keep up with you and help shoot at 
 enemies, and the rest of the time they just stand in your way and get blasted by the enemy without 
 taking actions. A stay command would have been nice since a lot of missions have pit-falls and 
 certain characters will follow you and end up re-spawning over the edge of the pit making them 
 un-retrievable.
  Despite the terrible glitches, this game has some fun moments, but they do not make up for the 
 fact that this game feels un-finished and broken. Buy it if you must, but you would be better off 
 with the console version if you want the real Lego star wars experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperLinkX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This games pretty kool, i got it yesterday (sep15) . I love how when your paying it and like things 
 happen from the movies and your like ''holy crap i remember that !the graphics are surprisingly 
 good for the ds kind of like how super mario 64 ds was. its acualy pretty easy just keep an eye 
 out and ull find secrets and stuff. i think its worth every penny! (35$) the only thing i dont like 
 is when your walkin around all of a sudden the wall will like dissapear and ull see black but besides 
 that its awsome! ok i got to finish this review so i can start playing again,......... seya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etmaul
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  You know, I am a die hard Star Wars fan. I really enjoyed the first Lego Star Wars and was really 
 looking forward to the next installment to boot! When I played the demo on the pc I was like, this 
 game is sweet! Then I got the DS version. I was a bit skeptical at first, but when I saw the opening 
 scene with the Millenium Falcon and the vintage music going on, I was like, sweet! This game is 
 gonna rock! Then I got into playing it and boy am I disappointed! The controls are pretty basic; 
 while it is mostly controlled with the d-pad and buttons, the stylus is put to good use because 
 you can select your character and change the camera view and even their costumes (who cares, really!) 
 The gameplay happens on the top screen and boy is it just a letdown. You never really see more 
 than 2-3 enemies on the screen at once and your party members don't really help out so much when 
 fighting other enemies. They tend to get in the way most of the time and you usually end up killing 
 your buddies because they get in the way all the time. How do you find out who's firing at you? 
 I dunno, because they're usually offscreen when it's happening! Ridiculous? I think so, I mean 
 I know the DS screen is small, but come on, give us a chance. The music &amp; graphics are exciting 
 and probably the only exciting things about the game. Not much to say about these two because it's 
 typical Star Wars music and the Lego Star Wars graphics you've come to expect so not much on that 
 front to talk about. The level design is okay, but it is glitchy, especially if you get lost in 
 Mos Eisley, you may run into a desert that you can't get out of! That's when I had to turn the 
 game off, because that was frustrating. All in all, the game can be fun, but if you've played this 
 game on the other systems, you should definitely stay with those. Although I haven't played the 
 PSP version but something tells me it's a lot better. Ultimately, I really wanted to love this 
 game, but I just can't lie to myself, even if I am a hardcore Star Wars fanboy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levicorporate
Rating: 5.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is no doubt a fun game but it becomes a chore to play with all the glitches, it starts out 
 fine but twords the end its rediculous, being a lego fan, star wars fan, and a fan of the first 
 lego star wars i was really excited about this game but it seems that lucasarts just shat something 
 out for the DS, and called it a day. Alot of people are giving this good reviews but i think that 
 if everyone was honest and rated this game next to other games it would be much lower than what 
 its being rated. Just because its star wars does not mean its good, and as much as it pains me, 
 this is a broken game, and should not have been released yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagetofu
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Being a Star Wars fan i love this game. I don't like how easy the game is and how hard it is to 
 unlock stuff. I wish the game play would get progressively harder and the secrets you unlock would 
 be easier. However, the game is fun &amp; don't let anyone else tell u otherwise!
  
  Being able to fly the millienum falcon &amp; the x-wing brings good memories. I Probably like most 
 other people really like useing the force or even chopping someone to bits with a lightsaber.
 
  
  A bit of a warning that there seemed to be some gliches in the game. For instance there were times 
 that my han solo would get stuck between 2 places and i would have to restart the game and do the 
 level over. There was another time on mos esiley where i was exploring for secrets when i recrossed 
 over the bridge that obi wan uses the force to make &amp; it would not let me cross over again. 
 So i had to start over again.
  
  I still think new supermario is better then this game. I would tie this game with star fox. I do 
 not know if i would rate this game as a keeper. By keeper i mean a game that in no way would you 
 allow out of your collection either by trading or selling. I think after i have beat it a few times 
 I would gladly trade it in for a new game.
  
  I have not played wifi or online yet. I will probably do that this weekend. I would imgaine if 
 it is anything like starfox i will be a tad dissapointed.
  
  Sometimes I wish when i am playing that the stylus would be more prevelant. other then that I do 
 think this game is worth buying and so far I have had a great time playing. I cannot wait for some 
 of the cheats to be all over the internet as i can unlock some cool stuff that I don't have time 
 to try to figure out myself.
  
  Kudos to the brain child who thought up combining starwars &amp; legos as a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  LSW2 for DS proves that good things happen when developers stop treating the DS like a GBA. This 
 is one quality title. They have an all new ambitious 3D engine that looks and plays great. A lot 
 of people were complaining about the glitches, but they're not bad at all! Minor Framerate problems 
 and characters/objects disappearing briefly are the worst of it. It's totally playable! The DS 
 version is identical to the psp and console versions (except for less levels due to obvious limitations) . 
 Like I said, the graphics are great and look crisp. The gameplay is identical, in which you run 
 around the level, hack up bad guys, and solve puzzles. The ship levels aren't as fun, but are a 
 cool diversion nontheless. Now almost all characters can assemble things from bricks. Shooting 
 characters can dodge, and if you're close enough you can melee people. But probably the coolest 
 new feature (aside from the DS exclusive 4-player battle arena, which can be quite fun) is the 
 ability to create your own characters, and although you can only have 3, it's really cool to play 
 as your own customized lego dude. If two people have a copy of the game, they can go in co-op like 
 the other versions. The aforementioned arena battle mode is like CTF with a carbonite Han Solo, 
 and can be played download play, or if you want more options you can do multi-cart. The game is 
 of good length, and with the multiplayer and with unlockable characters (50 in all) and even an 
 unlockable level, this will keep you busy for awhile. The game is simple and can be enjoyed by 
 gamers of all ages. My biggest problem with the game is that since the DS hardware is limited, 
 the loss in presentation makes the game lose a lot of the humor found in other versions. With that 
 being said, this is still a quirky, easy to pick-up and play title that deserves a spot in your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Despite an excellent beginning, tons of enjoyable content, lots of fun gameplay in general, LEGO 
 Star Wars II is broken. More than half of the Return of the Jedi levels are marred with serious 
 technical flaws ranging from disappearing geometry, levels that are designed so that destroying 
 the wrong object will make them unbeatable, disappearing team characters (again, making levels unbeatable) , 
 disappearing backgrounds, all the way to simple major slowdowns that reduce the game to a mere 
 unplayable crawl.
  
  The game really does not deserve much more of a review than that. I don't feel any consumer should 
 ever buy a broken product regardless of how much good there is outside of the bugs and glitches, 
 especially on a system where it's not even patchable.
  
  And it's short. I beat it in one afternoon. All of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  This game is just what the DS needs; a silly, controlable game that anyone can enjoy. Those who 
 didn't play the successful original will probably find this one better than the others:
  A. It's completely portable, and loses none of its charm
  B. The subject material is truly more 
 interesting, as it comes from the original trilogy.
  
  Yes, this one is set in the old fashioned trilogy, giving for hilarious moments. The controls are 
 similar to the console versio, with the exception that you have to rely on an occasionally spotty 
 camera instead of being able to move it. Still, the action remains simplistic, making it fun for 
 all gamers.
  
  The space fights have changed from the rail system of the first game to a more player controlled 
 version. Though this makes the game a bit more challenging, it is none the less fun.
  
  Being able to create a character is a plus, as you can mix and match lego parts (picture a Jawa 
 as a Jedi master) . However, the fact that you can only use your character after you beat a level 
 is a little turn off, but it is still pretty fun to be able to do.
  
  All in all, you can't go wrong with a Lego Star Wars game, especially this one. It may not look 
 the best, but it certainly looks good for the DS. The game appeals to those who hate star wars 
 and those who love it, giving an interesting little twist on a familiar series. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
