-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/legoindianajones/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of unlockables.
 Some very clever puzzles.
 Cutscenes are funny.
 Co-op makes the game even better.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Environments lack variety.
 Most puzzles are too easy.
 Repetitive combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.1, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 224 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This charming adventure has its pitfalls, but it's still a lot of fun. 

  Now that Traveller's Tales has conquered a galaxy far, far away, it has its sights set on giving 
 a Lego makeover to a more terrestrial franchise. Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures lets 
 you reenact the key scenes from the first three Indiana Jones movies with a blocky twist that only 
 Lego can provide. The idea of children's building toys pasted atop action-packed adventures may 
 seem strange -- and seeing a Lego monkey is rather unnerving -- but the enduring charm of the movies 
 is the perfect foundation for some small-scale archaeology. The surprise is that, even without 
 a nostalgia-powered handcuff fastening you to these stories, the whip-cracking action and humorous 
 cutscenes should be enough to draw even the Indy ignorant into the experience.  

           The cutscenes look really good.      

  The Nintendo DS version is completely different 
 from the other six versions of the game. Though puzzle-solving still plays a large part of the 
 adventure, combat and platforming are emphasized more strongly here than in the console counterparts. 
 Enemies can no longer be disposed of with one punch; you'll have to land three or four blows before 
 they'll burst into Lego parts. Your repertoire is still limited to a handful of moves, but the 
 more persistent enemies swing the focus squarely to the action side. Also tossed in are a few dual-screen 
 vehicle missions. They aren't the most exciting diversions (they're glorified bolt-collecting minigames) , 
 but they do add a little variety when your miniature knuckles get sore from constantly beating 
 on foes. The puzzles are integrated well within levels, and though they tend to be fairly easy, 
 a few doozies have been mixed in to keep you on your toes.  

  Although you're given a few tools to help you on your quest, none play a larger part than Indy's 
 whip. If you're ever stuck, there's a good chance that you'll be able to use it as a way to climb 
 to a higher ledge, or to knock down statues to form a temporary bridge. During certain portions 
 of the game, when it seems as if every solution has been attempted and failed, the whip serves 
 as the heroic key to advancement. For example, did you know that by swinging your trusty weapon 
 you can move a jeep stuck in the middle of a road? It's ridiculous that so many puzzles boil down 
 to your rather adept leather friend, but the sheer variety of uses has to be admired.  

  The smooth integration of action and puzzles is the shining point of Lego Indy, but the game is 
 also quite funny at times. The silent cutscenes take you through the journey in a much sillier 
 manner than Steven Spielberg originally envisioned. The same cutscenes from the console versions 
 are present here, albeit in slightly condensed form. For instance, a scene in which Belloq confronts 
 Indy is chopped off before he can walk around like a stiff-legged robot, mocking C-3PO. However, 
 the majority of the scenes remain intact. Outside of the cutscenes, the humorous aspects aren't 
 as plentiful as they were in the console versions. The silly touches that previously littered levels 
 have seemingly been lost in translation.  

  Like the Lego Star Wars games before it, the levels in Indiana Jones are jam-packed with hidden 
 goodies that require multiple play-throughs to unlock. Unfortunately, given that the puzzles are 
 generally easy, it's not too exciting to play levels over again simply to unlock secrets. And though 
 the muddy graphics do a respectable job of replicating the simple Lego aesthetic, the environments 
 are a little too repetitive. You're generally treated to either a light brown (outdoor) or dark 
 brown (indoor) background, which can numb the mind after a while.  

           The whip solves all of your problems.      

  There is one excruciating obstacle that 
 will throw a wrench into your enjoyment: Your obstinate AI companion will ultimately do more harm 
 than good. There are sections in which the AI simply doesn't follow you at all. You have to be 
 right next to one another to switch characters, and consequently these sections can become very 
 annoying because the switches have to be done to progress through the level. The option to play 
 cooperatively with a friend offers some respite from the embarrassing AI, but the experience is 
 marred by the baffling manner in which it is integrated. Instead of having co-op as a readily accessible 
 mode in the menu, you'll have to search through rooms in the museum-hub world just to find the 
 option to initiate friendly play. As long as you can find the option and own two copies of the 
 game, playing cooperatively removes most of the frustrations from the single-player adventure. 

  Lego Indiana Jones serves as the expected progression from the Lego Star Wars games. The action-focused 
 journey mixed with a sprinkling of puzzles makes this a fun Lego game that you can take on the 
 road.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  When I got this game beginning of fall, I figured it would be just as good as lego star wars or 
 mabye not as good. Well, I was definetly proven wrong! This game has good graphics, great gameplay, 
 and it has a hilarious storyline and plot. All these reasons give it an edge over lego star wars. 
 Bottomline: get it if you are af an of the movies or other indiana jones video games. Don't get 
 it if you aren't into the whole lego on a video game platform thing ( which you should, because 
 they are totally wicked!!!!!!!!!) That's all for dis review. See ya gaming  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdude360
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Out of LEGO Star Wars: The Complete Saga, and LEGO Batman, this is my favorite.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are impeccable. They roll very smooth, and are never jumpy. The cutscenes 
 are almost as good as the other consoles, and very funny and entertaining.
  
  Sound
  The sound is rich and plentiful, and has authentic music from the films.
  
  Gameplay
  Highly 
 addictive. Although the game is a little short, you will be playing it for hours if you are not 
 careful. The levels are very long, and fun. There are lots of extras to unlock, fun minigames, 
 tons of characters, and lots of things to do. I also like that you can ride in vehicles, because 
 in LEGO Star Wars: The Complete Saga for Nintendo DS, you do not have access to any vehicles, except 
 in the vehicle levels! It totally sucks.
  
  Overall
  I highly recommend this DS game. Out of all the games on DS that I have ever played, this is my 
 all-time favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  9 CommentsIt doesn't feature aliens or swinging monkeys but Lego Indiana Jones is probably the 
 most ridiculous adventure to star the all-action archaeologist yet! Yet, unless you are one of 
 those who is still distraught about Crystal Skull, this will make you smile.
  
  Lego Indiana Jones is a brilliantly tongue in cheek take on the first three movies. In Raiders 
 alone, you've got Indy trying to fob Belloq off with a banana when he's caught with the gold icon, 
 Sallah snogging Marian and the evil monkey helping our hero retrieve the ark. In fact, the knowing 
 humour suits Indy more than Lego Star Wars, as the Indiana Jones films have always had a bit of 
 the slapstick about them.
  
  Handheld Hero
  Yet the best thing about the DS version is how similar it is to the Wii game. From the opening 
 cut scene it's obvious that Traveller's Tales has put as much effort into the handheld game as 
 the console versions. It looks pretty much identical and, as with the Wii version, you'll be whipping 
 enemies, collecting LEGO studs and finding artefacts. You could argue that it's very similar to 
 LEGO Star Wars but Indy suffers from none of the technical problems that blighted Traveller's Tales' 
 previous handheld LEGO game.
  
  
  If there is a problem, it's that the Story Mode is fairly easy. When you lose all your health your 
 character will just rebuild immediately, so although you'll lose some studs you don't have to be 
 too careful and can blast through the levels fairly quickly. There are more puzzles than in Lego 
 Star Wars but these are all fairly basic, too. Yet to ignore Lego Indiana Jones for being too easy 
 would be missing the point. The enjoyment here isn't to be found in struggling to overcome a ridiculously 
 difficult boss but in playing out all your favourite moments from the first three movies. And in 
 any case, completists will find plenty to keep them occupied for a good while.
  
  Bricking It
  Although the story mode may be simple, finding all the artefacts and power bricks 
 is a lot of work and you'll need to go through the levels again in Free Play mode at least once 
 to grab everything and unlock all the characters, many of who have different skills that you'll 
 need to utilise. 
  
  There are, admittedly, a few tacked on Touch Screen moments that are a little unnecessary. Blowing 
 into the microphone every time you want to put out a flame or start a floor fan becomes a bit tedious 
 and what's the point in picking up items with the stylus when you could just do it with the press 
 of a button? 
  
  
  Yet if you let these ruin your enjoyment of what is another entertaining LEGO game you're probably 
 taking this a bit too seriously. And Lego Indiana Jones, as we've already learned, doesn't do serious.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  The good: Awesome cut-scenes, great soundtrack for the DS, loads of fun, play all 3 adventures, 
 great graphics
  
  The bad: Frame rate drop is easily noticeable, mediocre AI, too easy.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 9/10
  Average Score: 
 9.2/10
  
  Okay okay, we all know the DS version of Lego Indiana Jones is dull compared to the console versions, 
 but it's fun and simple to play and pick up. There's no difference between the DS version and the 
 other versions, expect, well, it's on the DS. It occasionally stumbles, but this is a hell of a 
 game here.
  
  You basically go around the three movies solving puzzles, using your whip to solve puzzles, transform 
 into a monkey, collect loads of unlockables, and beat some ass with your fist. This is very fun, 
 and despite the easyness of the puzzles, its addictiveness is no skin off my nose.
  
  Graphically, despite noticeable frame rate drops that blow it down a little, the game looks great. 
 The cutscenes look great and are funny, The soundtrack is also great on the DS, and each son is 
 from the movies and sound great.
  
  The DS version has its flaws, but they're not enough to disminish this classic game, and you should 
 have loads of nostalgia from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavisDUDE333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I hate to begin by bashing Lego Indiana Jones right off the bat. Now I'm over it. 
  
  If you've you picked up Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga for DS lately, you will be seeing more 
 or less of the same. Lego Indy utilizes the same graphics technology, so you get Han in a fedora 
 and stormtroopers in Nazi uniforms. Environments look a little more different, but again, it just 
 feelsold. Artifacts replace minikits, and wacky postcards replace fruit pieces. Gold bricks never 
 change, but doing the same things you've done repeatedly in LSW feels old very fast. 
  
  Lego Indy has its good points. Full animation cutscenes replace the puppet-like ones from the previous 
 game. They aren't as cute as the ones from the console, but hey, they're better. Sound is a little 
 receptive but its all-classic Indy. 
  
  The list of bad points is a lot longer. There are way less levels then LSW. Most of them just look 
 brown or tan. Even worse, vehicle missions are mixed in with on foot ones. Vehicle missions look 
 almost the same, but they've been transformed into stud-hunting timed races. Thumbs down here. 
 The list of characters is down as well. And the reward for collecting all those artifacts is a 
 junky minigame and an object on display at the college/hub. Possibly the worst thing? No unlockable 
 Han at the end. 
  
  Maybe finding every bit in LSW was something you felt like doing, but you probably won't see yourself 
 finding all those stupid things all over again. Heck, you might not even finish the game.
  
  Despite all these downs, LI deserves a B- for nice cutscenes and few glitches. Otherwise, if 
 you have done LSW, hang up your fedora - it's no use doing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseph234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  a puzzle platformer may not be at the top of your list, but throwing indys famous whip at enemys 
 to kill of lego guys? count me in! it is one of the most impressive ds game ever, so it looks a bit 
 like the wii version. you dont know what the heck your doing, but hey, thats the point. it also seems 
 to squeese in warioware and remove everything but the comedy. a memorible scene is indy getting 
 something, having tribes look at him and well, i wont spoil  
 jones games wouldnt fit any theme in gaming but lego, so this is essentual. you got your laughs, gags 
 and of course, its FUN! but its not perfect, if you look at the rating, you can see there are problems 
 with the game. its really buggy, confusing, and it is so much like lego star wars 1,2 and 3. but still, its 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 185twewy185
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones is a fun adventure game for the DS. There is 3 stories in this game. It is based 
 on all of the movies besides Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. Some of the levels had you fly, drive, 
 and just walk around. I thought that the levels were very fun but too easy. I would recommend this 
 game to children between the ages of 8-11. If you like fun and easy games I would definitely recommend 
 Lego Indiana Jones. The sound quality was excellent as with the graphics. I have played all of 
 the Lego Star Wars games and I think that Lego Indiana Jones was better than all of them. The characters 
 were very cool and unique but, there was too many Indiana Jones' in disguise. In just about every 
 level you unlocked a new Indiana Jones. There was a large variety of weapons such as whips, pistols, 
 machine guns, shovels, spears, blow darts, and bottles. The multiplayer co-op was very fun. This 
 is one of the best multiplayer games on the DS. If you like fun multiplayer games then I would 
 say that Lego Indiana Jones is fit for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trollbane
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Lego Indy is another lego game based on a fantastic franchise, but Lego Indy feels rather cheap. 
 The only real chalange to the game is the puzzles, since you will only fight around 30-40 enemies 
 through the whole game!
  
  GRAPHICS-
  First of all, Lego Indy looks ok, nothing spectacular. The enviorments were pretty bland, but with 
 plenty of destructable objects. Anyways, the animations are ok, and same thing with the cut-scenes. 
 6/10
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  Lego Indy's gameplay is the star of the show here. With lots of objects to be destroyed, and a 
 hefty amount of puzzles to solve, you got a lot of gameplay. Ocassionaly, you will get to pick 
 up swords or pistols, or etc, but they don't affect the gameplay that much. Also, you will have 
 to solve A MILLION (exageration) puzzles throughout the game. There will be a puzzle in nearly 
 every room, just so you can cross a ravine, or open a door! It's insane 7/10
  
  LENGTH-
  This is were Lego Indy's star starts to shine less brightley. The campaign only last about 4 hours 
 and 45 minutes for me, but I was only 44.7% done with the game, so there is alot of replay value. 
 4/10
  
  STORY-
  If you havent watched the 3 Indy movies, you will be at a loss. All cutscenes are silent, making 
 the game feel like a silent movie. Since I have only fully seen the 1st movie, and parts of the 
 2nd and 3rd, I had a very poor idea of what was going on.
  
  FINAL WORDS-
  Lego Indy is an ok game, and exttremely addictive now that I think about it, but the ok visuals, 
 million puzles, and tiny length (among other things) , Lego Indy is not as good as it wants to be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyp845
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This is really an amazing game. The graphics are great and so is the sound track lol. But seriously, 
 this game has every adventure of the original Indiana Jones. My favorite chapter in the game is 
 the first one: The lost temple. I liked when the rock came rolling down. (It was slow as hell though) . 
 For it's maiden voyage, the Indiana Jones game is good. I see a bright future for all Indiana Jones 
 games. The bad news, Its a Lego game. I mean no offense to the guys who made this game but if I 
 had to chose a trademark to represent my game, i would chose not lego but a movie like game like 
 spiderman and hulk and all those games that came beforer the movie comes out. I think this game 
 appeals more to kids than to teens or adults who really value the original Indiana Jones. I mean 
 really. The adults who where 10 in the 1980's would want to have a real Indiana Jones not a Lego 
 version of him. But all in all I think Lego did a pretty good job invisioning the most amazing 
 action hero of the century. I think 50 years from now that game will be worth a million bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Don't be fooled, you can still enjoy this game without loving the antics of this awesome archaeologist: 
 (but who doesn't)
  
  I've briefly played the original LEGO Star Wars f or the Xbox, and found the game to some extent 
 fun, but overly mediocre. What the 3rd DS LEGO adventure brings is all of the same, but in an all-new 
 format.
  
  Story- 6/10
  
  The Story is there, but it's just a little... lacking, to say the least:
  If you have never seen 
 the movies (Yah Right!) you will have no idea whats going on, despite some good looking FMV sequences. 
 Lack of Audio hurts ALOT
  
  Sounds- 7/10
  
  The music, including the original William's "Raiders" Theme song has been included, and some new 
 and old remixes are sporadicly included throughout the game as well. Unfortunately, some of the 
 sound effects BITE. Brick noises, a high pitched squeal and others are heard way too much, and 
 can be overly repetitive after a while.
  
  Replay- 8.9/10
  
  Same old "Free Play" after finishing story drill, same old mindless fun.
  Also, some minigames 
 included/unlockable as well.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  Essentially the same as previous LEGO games, still fun if not slightly repetitive and mindless.
 
  
  Misc. 7/10
  
  Loads of character unlocks, STAR WARS easter eggs, no single cart MP sure sucks, and small, annoying 
 glitches at rare times.
  
  Verdict:
  Definitely a good buy if you are a fan or liked the STAR WARS LEGO versions. The platforming is 
 what has been lacking in Indy games for decades, and if not for previous cons an dthe LEGO bit 
 could be the perfect Indy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones, is basically LEGO Star Wars, but with more platforming elements, and more weapons.
 
  
  The length of the game isn't as long as LEGO Star Wars, since its 3 movies, but many unlockables 
 and treasures to find, this game will keep you playing for weeks.
  
  This game fortunately isn't just a beat' em up, it also introduces some platforming elements. Such 
 as pushing switches, using Indies whip to swing and pull objects. Unlike it's Star Wars counter 
 part, LEGO Indiana Jones also has weapon pick ups, such as swords, guns, and spears. Although the 
 ranged weapons are difficult to aim and are slow to respond, the whip also has this problem. You 
 will be using melee attacks most of the time.
  
  The graphics are superb, everything runs silky smooth, with the addition of actual Full Motion 
 Video for cinematics which play out the humor, which these LEGO games are known for, unlike the 
 picture skits of the Star Wars series.. 
  The audio is subpar, the music isn't that compelling and recycled sounds from the Star Wars series 
 can be heard through out the game.
  
  LEGO Indiana Jones excels at the addition of platforming and puzzle elements, but the gameplay 
 itself is just not as great as The Force and Lightsabers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RubenNDS
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones DS is just in one word 'awesome'! This game includes eighteen levels from the 
 three Indiana Jones movies; The Raiders Of The Lost Ark, Temple Of Doom and Last Crusade. In this 
 game you'll have to solve puzzles, locate treasures, defeat enemies and a lot more. In the first 
 level you have to find the golden monkey head (as seen in the first movie, Raiders) . Each level 
 has typical background music out the movies, that makes the game a lot more adventurously. Another 
 cool thing is the character switching. You can play with every character out the movies, when you 
 have unlocked them. The only characters you can't play with are the Nazi's. They're replaced by 
 soldiers. There is also a multiplayer function in the game. You can create your own character and 
 play against all your friends.
  
  So the things i just tell about this game is just a small part. The game is great and worth to 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shattered_Dead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  At first you may think that it plays just like LSW... and it does, but they added to the formula 
 and made enough difference to keep it fun. Although there isn't much difference from the console 
 versions the little fun mini-games in the levels have been taken out and placed in the mini-games 
 room on the DS version. 
  
  Sound
  The game shares most of the orchestrated songs from the movies and has all lego stacking sounds, 
 whip-lashing, and rolling boulder sounds all intact. Basically it has good sound
  
  Graphics
  Although a bit hard to look at at first, after a few hours or so, the graphics really 
 shine. Managing to cram such a big game and a little cart and managing to keep the cutscenes, albeit 
 a bit blurry. 
  
  Replay
  This game really shines for replay value, you would have to spend hours trying to unlock everything 
 in the game from the mini-games to the characters, it'll take a while to play. 
  
  Please be aware that I'm sharing the bare-bones of this game, it is extremely fun and I do advise 
 you play it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mankind666
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  Ok so i think this game will be a game worth getting for my ds as im a fan of indiana jones. but 
 the only thing i did not get was that why make him lego?
  
  however i did not care as i bought the game in a flash and ran home to check it out. however i 
 was about to have a huge shock, first of all there is no punching sound so it looks like your not 
 reallly punching and talking about punching and kicking; there is no kicking no combos nothing 
 the graphics are cheesy and are really lame.
  
  i suggest if you want to make a indiana jones game it would be fun actually having him human and 
 using his whip and solving riddles like the REAL indiana jones would do, not go flying about punching 
 (or more like patting) the ennmy. they story is like indiana jones but they skip half the movie 
 as they talk and leave us with about 5-7 chapters each lvl
  
  DONT BUY THIS!!! ITS SHOULD COST $1 
  
  I REALLY MEAN IT IF YOU DO YOU WILL BE SO ANGRY YOU 
 WILL POUND YOUR HEAD AGAINTS THE WALL LIKE WHAT I DID WHEN I COULD HAVE BOUGHT CALL OF DUTY 4 AND 
 BOUGHT THIS..... THIS..... WELL STUFF (NOT GOOD STUFF) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Lego and Indiana Jones. Two things that you may not have really thought of together. However, Travellers 
 Tales have done wonders with the Star Wars lisence when creating Lego Star Wars, so why not create 
 a similar game based off another well known and well loved Lucasfilm francise? I have recently 
 picked up lego Indiana Jones for the Nintendo DS as after playing the Lego Star Wars games and 
 seeing the minimal difference between the console and portable versions I opted for the extra advantage 
 of being able to play wherever I please.
  
  GRAPHICS 8/10
  
  This game looks quite good on the Nintendo DS, it looks quite similar to the Lego Star Wars titles 
 and compared to the console version there is not a great deal of difference and even on the DS 
 it looks visually similar to Lego Star Wars on NGC/PS2 but with much lower resolution. Also the 
 video qality between levels is much lower but this is to be expected from a DS game. Overall the 
 graphics deserve a solid 8 out of 10 as they look very nice and the visual style suits the console 
 very well the only minuses are full motion video quality.
  
  +similar graphics to console version
  +good graphical style
  -low resolution
  
  STORY 6/10
 
  
  Hopefully you should know the story, It follows the storyline of the original three Indiana Jones 
 films from the 1980s. The game, like Lego Star Wars, seems to assume you already know this storyline 
 as the script for this game can be described as minimal at best. That is to say there are no lines 
 of dialogue in the game what-so-ever. Instead there are video spots in the game where the lego 
 characters attempt to convey the story through body language and travellers tales have added their 
 own comic twist, which is always a welcome addition.
  
  +Brilliant telling of a brilliant story
  +Comedy simply adds to the story
  -Assumes your pretty 
 well versed in the story already
  -No dialogue what-so-ever
  
  LONGEVITY 8/10
  
  There are a lot of unlockables to gain by purchasing them from the in game shop in the college, 
 not many of these really do much, there are a bunch of unlockable characters and some hidden extras 
 (which are still hidden on my game as I keep blowing my in game money, or lego studs, on unlockable 
 characters) however if this is like the unlockables in Lego Star Wars they will certainly help 
 to prolong the game. It does sometimes feel as if one way they've attempted to prolong the game 
 is with even more pointless collection aspects, but if you're the kind of person who enjoys replaying 
 levels over and over in order to get every single last treasure map and artifact. Perhaps they 
 put this in to compensate for the fact that you have unlimited lives so can spend all the extra 
 times exploring every single area with every character.
  
  +Plenty of things to collect
  +Plenty of things to spend your ingame money on
  -Perhaps simply too many things to collect making 
 it a little tedious
  
  GAMEPLAY 6/10
  
  The game is a action platformer in the style of Lego Star Wars and to a lesser extent a kind of 
 child friendly Devil May Cry style game. They've added some more touchscreen and microphone support 
 which was kind of lacking in the Lego Star Wars games, this all works quite well and also if you're 
 not really wanting to use the touchscreen you can still use the buttons and so not ever need to 
 use the touchscreen at all. As with the Lego Star Wars games there are an awful lot of places the 
 get lego studs which are used to buy unlockables and hints from the college in the game however 
 there are new ways of getting these from all the surroundings which is improved from Lego Star 
 Wars, where it took hours to finish a room as you would need to use force powers on absolutely 
 everything so in this title there are quicker and easier ways to get these studs which make the 
 game a little less tedious than previous offering. One thing that has always bugged me is the fact 
 that you have an unlimited amount of lives so it does not matter how many times you fall off a 
 cliff or get stung with poison darts you will always come back almost precisely where you left 
 off. This is presumably for the younger audience they expect to be into the Lego francise but for 
 any older games this can feel a little patronising and makes it a bit too easy.
  
  +More and intuitive touchscreen/mic support
  +A little less tedious than previous offering from 
 Travellers Tales
  -Still takes absolutely ages to finish one room due to constant stud gathering
  -Unlimited lives 
 make this title a little too easy
  
  FUN 7/10
  
  This game can be pretty fun in short bursts but does get a bit tedious if played for extended periods 
 of time. It's not really the game where you sit and go through all the levels but is more catered 
 towards going though a level or two every once in a while. You quickly get bored of collection 
 millions of lego studs as the game makes it feel almost mandatory and as it is practically impossible 
 not to complete makes you feel like you haven't really accomplished anything unless you're hunting 
 down your millionth lego stud of hundreth artifact. That said in the short bursts of play it is 
 definately a fun game with all the humour and lego style make it an overall fun experience.
  
  +Humour makes it a fun experience
  -Becomes tedious if played for too long at a time
  
 
  OVERALL 7/10
  
  A pretty fun game and generally more of the same from the creators of Lego Star Wars, if you enjoyed 
 Lego Star Wars you will enjoy this in the exact same way that if you did not like lego star wars 
 you won't like this.
  
  Better Than: Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga (DS)
  
  Not As Good As: Devil May Cry (PS2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a2entertainment
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Was pretty excited about this coming out but was a little bit dissapointed when i started playing 
 it. The game plays in almost the exactly same way that the Lego Starwars games do except that they 
 are set in a different world. Also the puzzles are slightly more lengthy and tedious. The characters 
 available to play are not half as fun as the star wars characters because the only real hero in 
 the Indiana Jones series is Indy. The graphics are nice for a ds game and look similar to the Lego 
 Starwars Graphics. They are slightly more detailed though. The game makes better use of the touch 
 screen than it's predecessors but does not force the player to use it. For example if you wanna 
 dig a hole with a shovel you can use the touch screen or just use the A button. Bottom line, if 
 you enjoyed the Lego Starwars games this is a more of the same otherwise stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynwri8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  I am impressed by this game. I got it late last night and put in about 3 hours of play time. If 
 my eyes could have stayed open, I would have played a lot longer. Today the kids have gotten a 
 hold of it and I realize I may never see it again, it's a big hit! 
  The graphics are pretty good. The cut scenes are very funny and adorable. The touch screen is pretty 
 optional. If you do use it, you use your thumb instead of a stylus. It's actually nice not having 
 to hold a stylus while trying to play. 
  There has been a lot of play time on this game and so far no problems with freezing up or glitches. 
 It carries over a lot of the same play as the Star Wars series, but it has enough changes to give 
 it a fresh new feel. It's actually a bit more challenging than the Star Wars series. I also think 
 it has good replay value. 
  It's worth the cost and a lot of fun! The other thing I like is a game like this is great for a 
 family. If you give this as gift for a younger kid, no worries, age appropriate for everyone. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
