-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: LifeSigns: Surgical Unit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/kenshuuitendodokutainochinotenbin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Weird dialog and cool characters.
 Solid surgical gameplay.
 Avoids some of the pitfalls native to the adventure genre.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Broken heart battles.
 Examination sequences make you feel like a creep.
 The presentation is rough around the edges.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamcatcher
Developer: Spike
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A mostly successful operation with a couple of unsightly scars. 

  LifeSigns: Surgical Unit is like a rather bold hybrid of Phoenix Wright and Trauma Center. You 
 might call it Drama Center, or Phoenix Wright: Surgeon at Hospital. To wit, not only is most of 
 the game spent conversing with other characters, but you must also occasionally convince them to 
 see things your way by presenting pieces of evidence from your medical record, which is nearly 
 identical to the psyche-lock mechanic from Phoenix Wright. However, the writing quality in LifeSigns 
 is a little worse than what you'd find in the courtroom. Then there are the operations, which are 
 "Trauma Center lite" and occur a couple of times per episode, of which there are five total. Sounds 
 dismal, right? Don't be too hasty. LifeSigns is still a pretty good game, like Phoenix Wright with 
 slightly worse dialogue and more involved gameplay.  

  And it's weird -- really weird. The game begins during a confusing dream in which you, a hospital 
 intern named Tendo, are sitting under a cherry-blossom tree with your boss, the androgynous Suzu-Sensei. 
 The impression that she might really be a he is highlighted by the absurd jingle bell she wears 
 on a collar around her neck, which at once indicates that she might be hiding an Adam's apple while 
 ironically resembling one itself. As she strokes your chin and cherry blossoms fall, she claims 
 "It's time I taught you all about men and women... I'm going to give you your first lesson right 
 now," and the music turns to a porno funk track. From there, everyone at the hospital shows up, 
 the woman turns into your father, and suddenly they all think you were trying to get it on with 
 him, as the music changes to a circus tune. Someone says "This is oyster season, so delicious," 
 to which your character says, "That's... stupid."  

           Is that a jingle bell on your neck, or are you just happy to see me?      

  And that 
 is your introduction to the world of LifeSigns! It's a terrible start, but the actual game settles 
 into a more down-to-earth (and less stupid) routine in which you help patients and get fought over 
 by all the female characters. It's pretty entertaining, mostly because Tendo comports himself with 
 the kind of calm confidence of a person with really big feet, while at the same time seeming dorky 
 and vulnerable. Lines like this one are also fun: "You inherited my genes, don't you think you 
 have a responsibility to inherit my will?" Yikes. That comes from your father, a researcher at 
 the hospital who looks like an aged Teen Wolf. He has a Beethoven hairdo, wears a white version 
 of Dracula's tux, and has eyebrows that extend at least four inches off of each side of his head. 
 And they're spiky.  

  But for all of its sexual innuendos and anime eccentricity, the storytelling in LifeSigns occasionally 
 flatlines. During the parts where you must convince characters to see things your way, you can 
 fail and the game will still go on. For instance, at one point you must convince a father that 
 his daughter loves him before she succumbs to stonefish venom. If you fail, the entire narrative 
 thread between the father and daughter, which has been building throughout the chapter, dies, while 
 the little girl magically recovers with no explanation. You'll feel ripped off, and compelled to 
 reload and play the heart battle until you win.  

  That's no picnic, either, because the pieces of evidence you must present are by no means intuitive 
 or rational. You're usually reduced to algorithmically going through every one until you stumble 
 on the beach ball of revelation. ("This beach ball reminds me of my childhood! That makes me agree 
 with you!") Although it shares that stumbling block with Phoenix Wright, it avoids others. For 
 example, you'll rarely have to wander from location to location looking for the one piece of evidence 
 or dialog trigger that will let you advance. In fact, there's very little scene searching, and 
 all of it is easy. Likewise, it's usually pretty obvious where to go next, and who to talk to. 

  You'll eventually (and literally) talk your way into an operation. When someone is hurt, you ask 
 them questions about their condition until they start repeating themselves. That's when you take 
 the stethoscope to them. Their suffering face then goes to the top screen, and their uncovered 
 body goes to the bottom screen, where you can rub it, stethoscope it, or just stare at it.  

  The idea is to identify a set number of symptoms, which Tendo will use to make a diagnosis. The 
 reality is creepy and lame. Your first patient is a young woman with a hot body that can't fit 
 entirely on the bottom screen. So you have to scroll up and down to prod and ogle effectively, 
 like you're looking at a DS centerfold. The next patient makes you feel even more depraved: a little 
 girl in a school uniform. Even worse, her last symptom is nearly impossible to find. It's on her 
 wrist ( pervert ) , and by the time you go online and figure that out, you will hate playing doctor. 
 The problem is that you must find that last symptom, or the game cannot go on, and yet the only 
 hints are misleading. There needs to be a mechanism in place that leads you closer to the answer 
 the longer it takes you to find it, and we don't mean GameFAQs -- although that certainly helps. 

  Once you finally make your diagnosis, the operation begins. Unlike Trauma Center, you never have 
 to choose which instrument to use, and every operation is broken up step-by-step. It's like playing 
 through a series of short, stylus-centric minigames rather than one giant body puzzle. What's helpful 
 is that you can hold a shoulder button to get a guiding arrow that shows you the gist of what you 
 should be doing, whether it's the line of an incision you need to make, or the places in a skull 
 you need to drill through. The operations are fun and make creative use of the stylus and touch 
 screen, and represent better gameplay than anything seen in a Phoenix Wright game or similar adventure. 

  Best yet, a performance in an operation can affect the plot, just like a heart battle. In some 
 cases, you can get the happiest ending to a chapter only if you race through one operation and 
 quickly get to another. Unlike the heart battles, this gives you something real and challenging 
 to shoot (or slice) for, and the consequences are usually more heartrending if you fail.  

           No, you aren't supposed to put your lips to the DS, shake your head side to side, and 
 do a raspberry. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't try.      

  The presentation is mostly fine, given that the characters are well drawn. However, there are complications. 
 At one point, a fruit truck overturns and you have to play a fruit-collecting minigame. Never mind 
 that you're cleaning up after a fruit-truck accident ("That's... stupid") , the text formatting in 
 this and other mini-game sequences is worse than a spam email. You feel as if your DS is getting 
 a virus just looking at it. On top of that, anytime anyone in the game speaks, it's accompanied 
 by the "tika-tika-tika" sound that should've stayed in the '80s, from whence it came. The music 
 is mostly poorly produced, although when things get serious in real life, you may catch yourself 
 humming the tune that indicates things are getting serious in the game. That's the sign of a good 
 song.  

  LifeSigns: Surgical Unit is a surprisingly good game. The main character is likeable, the other 
 characters are suitably interesting, the surgical gameplay is a success, and some of the branching 
 paths are cool. It does stumble in a few areas, but it is a suitable adventure for the Nintendo 
 DS, and an operation worth undergoing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shindark
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Those kinds of games never sell great amounts of copies and is a pity.
  Lifesigns: Surgical Unit it is not a perfect game, but a solid gaming experience and an interesting 
 experiment of the potentiality of the stylus control on Nintendo DS.
  
  The game is essentially a graphic adventure and, like the name can suggest, it develop itself in 
 an hospital. After the exhilarating intro you take on control of a young doctor in training in 
 a typical Japanese hospital.
  In the beginning, your character have a dumb face. However as doctor you are not so bad, though 
 you are still a rookie. The game presents a plot pretty soft and enjoyable developed talking to 
 other people in the game like, and especially, hospital workers.
  The cast of the game is various and every character have his peculiar mind. They're various even 
 in the look thanks to a character design clever and original. Unfortunately the resolution of the 
 drawing is pretty low.
  
  Normally you'll navigate trough various situation, some of them could require a little knowledge 
 of Japanese society for understood entirely (don't worry, nothing that years of mangas, animes 
 and videogames had not gave you yet) . In the game you'll face a lot of comical situation, but will 
 be moment surely more dramatic.
  Here's the real core of the game since you are a surgeon you'll deal with operations. Differently 
 from games like the Trauma Center series (definable as Sci-Fi Medicine) in Lifesigns you'll must 
 face situation less far from reality.
  
  Indeed, the first step will be to diagnose the disease for the following operations. Diagnosis 
 can make it examining the patient body with your eyes, hand palpation (where are you putting your 
 hands you piggy!!!) , or auscultations. You'll must find all the symptoms for proceed to next step. 
 Diagnosis are pretty entertaining in the beginning, but often some of the symptoms will be hard 
 to find, making lose patience to players that shall be forced to examine every inches of patients 
 body.
  A similar lack trouble even the adventure part of the game. Often you'll don't know what to do, 
 so to unlock the situation will be forced to roam from location to location talking with all characters 
 hoping to make the right move.
  
  After the diagnosis will be time to operate. This is the most trilling part of the game.
  The 
 surgeries are various and make an excellent use of the stylus control, in some case even innovative 
 and original. Differently from Trauma Center here are requested calm and concentration instead 
 speed and skill. Yes, you have a limited time for the operation and if you commit too much errors 
 the patients could die (in this case you can attempt a reanimation with heart massage) , but we 
 are really far from the adrenalin oriented operations of Trauma Center. You could operate with 
 tranquility, but remember that succeed in a minor time is a requisite for the best endings of every 
 chapter. Moreover, if you press the L button on DS your doctor will concentrate seeing the perfect 
 spot where cut or operate.
  Only lack of the operations system is that every move you perform the game will stop a moment for 
 a phrase from your staff. For example if you have to clamp three arteries: clamped the first the 
 game will stop and Suzu-sensei (or another assistant) will say somethings. Clamped the second and 
 the game will stop again for some other useless sentence... and so on.
  Another flaw of this game is the stylus control is poorly implemented in the adventure parts.
 
  Stylus will be required even in the little minigames during adventures; some of them are pretty 
 lame, but some other are interesting and funny (cooking the takoyaki lol) .
  Player's behaviour in the adventure part should be not underestimated. Some choices of Tendo of 
 the inability of the player to convince someone to do something can heavily alter the plot (or 
 end in a Game Over screen) often with awful consequences.
  
  The good:
  Interesting cast of characters and pleasant plot with various important choice;
  Perfect stylus 
 control during surgery; Some good ideas in the game;
  
  The bad:
  Adventure sessions can be too long and shady, and the stylus is poorly used; Characters drawing 
 resolution is pretty low;
  
  Final comment
  This game was a pleasant surprise, even after the good Trauma Center. In the game there are not 
 real heavy flaws and can be recommended without reserve to the graphic adventures fans or players 
 want to try something different. Some improvement in the adventure part and a better resolution 
 for characters drawing should be this title a little jewel but is still a good experience.
  
  Final vote: 7,5
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faytheofsin
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Seriously this game is like reading a book. Hey you even get chapters!!!
  
  You spend like two hour in each chapter talking to doctors and patients and people and whoever 
 feels like talking to you. Then you spend like five minutes performing a surgery. Which is kind 
 of an overstatement because half the time in the surgery room your advisor will be talking.
  
  The surgery isn't even challenging. It's basically: 
  
  Step one: draw a line this represents 
 the cut
  Step two: draw a line in the same spot and that means you cut deeper
  Step three: hey guess where you draw a line, yup in the same damn spot, OH this time do it slower 
 you might hurt the patient
  
  Then you do random other things like poking blood clots and sliding the stylus around 
  
  Lastly 
 you draw really quick zigzags to stitch up the person.
  
  Hey that was fun, but was it worth two hours of reading, um nope.
  
  Don't get this game its 
 not worth it, as a matter of fact if you read a walkthrough of the game it might actually be like 
 playing the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endogene
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  So this game is called LifeSigns: Surgical Unit
  
  This game is mainly a bad blend of trauma center, phoenix wright and you're average Japanese dating 
 sim 
  
  The game play takes part in two times first of, talking, a lot of talking and then some more talking. 
 This would be ok if what you're talked about was interesting but really it's not.
  
  Then after having clicked on dialogue bubbles for about an hour (i'm not kidding you here) the 
 operation part comes up, almost that is. Before starting the procedure you have to examine (touch 
 up) you're patient to find out where to operate which at is core is a nice diversion but at the 
 and you'll find your self clicking all over the patient in frustration because you cant find the 
 spot that triggers the next story event
  
  Finally after an hour of reading an about 20 minutes of stabbing a half naked body with your ds 
 pen it's operating time.
  This is the sole part of the game i enjoyed to be honest and it lasted 5 minutes, it's your basic 
 surgeon game game play cut on the lines drag a organ or to back to place and staple it all so it 
 won't move, stitch up and you're done.
  
  And then get ready for another hour of conversation you don't care about in a nutshell 
  
  
 I must note that there a some mini games here that makes the experience a little bit less nerve 
 wrecking but other than that i can't say nothing really positive about this game
  
  Leave this game alone for the love of god 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Among many flaws one of biggest flaw is the story plot for each chapter. They're just plain dumb. 
 There was also spellings mistakes. And whoever wrote the stories didn't know how to explain it 
 correctly. At times I'm like, "What's going on here?" There was one story that I liked though. 
 
  
  Another problem was the names of the characters. They're Japanese names. It was hard for me to 
 remember who was who with a name that's in Japanese. 
  
  Even the operations were easy. All you have to do is hold R button and it'll tell you where to 
 cut, stitch, or rub. 
  
  I played the game for a week and the game was over. I was shocked that the story was so short. 
 
  
  I enjoyed parts of the chapters and even some of the operations though. Presenting items and such 
 to other character's was fun too. I liked the examination feature too because it was realistic. 
 
  
  It can grow on you. I'd never play this one again though, not because it was so horrible, but just 
 because it's so short a story and I'd know it by heart if I played it a second time. 
  
  I think 6.5 is a good rating for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  In Lifesigns: Surgical Unit you play as Tendo Dokuta ( the name on the Japanese version) , an intern 
 at Seimei Medical University Hospital, of which your biological father happens to be the director. 
 The adventure begins with the strangest introduction I have ever seen in a game. 
  
  Tendo is on a date with Suzu, the chief surgeon he has a crush on, when all of a sudden everyone 
 who works at the hospital starts showing up interrupting his romantic moment. 
  
  As you soon find out, Tendo had fallen asleep during a slow moment in his night shift at the hospital.
 
  
  
  Lifesigns mixes an adventure type of gameplay with the touch-screen surgery procedures we know 
 from Trauma Center: Under the Knife. There is a lot of dialog, character interaction and reading 
 involved, and you will actually spend more time doing this than performing your medical duties.
 
  
  Talking to staff and patients is a major portion of the game. Dialogs can be initiated by tapping 
 on the person with the stylus. Key items for the conversation will be displayed as icons on a side-scrolling 
 menu, so when you want to talk to someone about a particular topic, you open the menu and drag 
 down the item you want. 
  
  Many times advancing the story becomes a process of trial and error where you end up dragging every 
 icon onto someone to see which one is the right one. There are many occasions where you only get 
 a very vague clue as to what to do next, usually followed by a lot of roaming around the hospital 
 and talking to everyone.
  
  It's interesting to get to know the patients and co-workers, and some situations are pretty hilarious. 
 In traditional anime-style, there is a nurse with a thing for gossip, an over-the-top pop star, 
 a very sexy surgeon, an intern who pays more attention to food than anything else, and even an 
 old man with a thing for pinching the girls' butts. Getting to know people is often amusing and 
 the conversations are pretty funny for the most part. Everyone also has a few animations and plenty 
 of facial expressions (unlike Trauma Center) , which greatly adds to the dialogs.
  
  This does get in the way of the action, which takes place in the form of a patient examination 
 and then the actual surgical procedure. The patient examination is rather interesting, but limited. 
 You can only use a stethoscope, your hands for palpation and your eyes to look for any bruises 
 or cuts. You are given a schematic of the patient with empty spaces, and that's about it for clues. 
 You must find as many things as the schematic indicates, but you don't really know where to look 
 for them, and usually you only have a symptom or two to work with. For example, one of the patients 
 took me forever to examine because I couldn't figure out the two missing things... I started rubbing 
 the screen everywhere and eventually found out I had to check out her pulse on her wrist, with 
 no result, so logically I had to check it on her neck. And, keep in mind that when a patient says 
 "it hurts more to the right", that means their right, not yours.
  
  You also get to check ultrasounds and x-rays by circling the differences so that you are able to 
 complete your diagnosis. I'm actually using the game as a learning tool as far as medical terminology 
 goes for my interpreter training, so aside from entertaining, it's also been very educational for 
 me. If you are not familiar the terms, you might have a hard time understanding certain things.
 
  
  As for surgery, all I can say is that just when I thought Trauma Center was hard, Lifesigns comes 
 along. But mostly because of the electrical scalpel, which is very hard to get working properly 
 and not burn too much, and the forceps... for some reason, I kept "dropping" whatever when I could 
 swear it was already in place. 
  
  Tendo has the ability to focus during surgery, making it easier to perform certain procedures. 
 By pressing either the left or right triggers, you see a guideline that tells you where to cut, 
 drill or burn. The surgery is very in-depth, there's even a reanimation process where you use the 
 triggers as the defibrillator paddles, if the patient's vitals drop.
  
  Now and again, you will also find yourself out of the hospital doing a few other activities and 
 participating in some mini-games (the first one being catching fruit that fell from a truck on 
 the road) .
  
  Lifesigns has a very good presentation. The anime-style artwork is great, the characters are very 
 expressive and have some animations as well, and the surgeries show pretty realistic versions of 
 internal organs. The sound effects are appropriate, the soundtrack is passable, but unfortunately 
 there is no voice acting. 
  
  Lifesigns: Surgical Unit is an interesting medical drama with a bit too much focus on the interns' 
 life at the hospital, which ends up overshadowing the diagnosis and surgical activities. But if 
 you like the genre and enjoy anime, you should have no problem with it.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screenshots and trailer at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=lifesigns
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  People who play Lifesigns for the 1st time or getting the game will without knowing what this game 
 has to offer will think that you are going to play a game that is almost similar to Trauma Center, well, at 
 least that is what happened to me.
  
  Looking at the screenshots I got really curious of this game, because it looks more clean and more 
 fun than Trauma Center but playing it was a whole other experience.
  
  On the outside, players will think Lifesign is a surgical game, that is true, but only to a certain 
 extent because what you actually bought is a love simulation game. Playing this game in the beginning 
 was pretty fun, slicing up skins and burning muscle after which it just turns into a super long 
 dialouge where you are going around chasing your new intern whom is quite a bi-otch. And you won't 
 be doinf surgery for the next 2-3 days. So gameplay is really limited if compared to the time you 
 took to read the dialouges.
  
  So for all those who are looking for a medical kinda love story drama thing, Lifesigns is yuour 
 game, but if you want a game which focuses on surgery and you are deciding to get this, I wouldn't 
 recommend it, go get Trauma Center. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nanopertgey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Isn't this an amazing country where you can now do virtual surgery without going to jail or doing 
 it illegally at the back alley? Well now you can still do it in the back alley, without being arrested, 
 but being in handcuffs with this game. Catered to the Japanese audience, it was originally exclusive 
 to Japan, but later imported to the U. S. and A., there is still the same Japanese-style storyline 
 by plot and game play.
  
  [To be honest, I even haven't played this game, but I have seen how this game is played and I could 
 consider this game to be for the storyline with the game play to be a bit simpler. I really wished 
 with game could've been released earlier with the possible competition of Trauma Center.]
  
  Still, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  If you are a real DS mania, you might be able to guess how I finish my first line of comment.
 
  This game, in my opinion, combines the gameplay of two distinct, unique DS adventure games released 
 earlier: Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney and Trauma Center: Under the Knife. However, something's 
 just a bit strange. Well, you can't say it exactly duplicates those two games, though. This game 
 has its own style of gameplay, but may be inspired by two games I stated earlier.
  You play as a young intern named Tendo Dokuta, who will explore through a hospital (?) named Seimei 
 Medical University. Inside, you will meet various people ranging from senior doctor, fellow intern, 
 chatterbox nurse, and even in an occasion, you'll get the chance to meet an international pop star.
 
  This game introduces the elements of exploration similar to the one in Ace Attorney, player explores 
 the hospital and will interact with various people in order to get the storyline moving. In other 
 occasions, you will examine patients and perform surgery on them and that one might be similar 
 to Trauma Center in terms of process. If you fail, you might get the patient killed. Sometimes 
 your decisions will affect how the storyline goes. You will also encounter other minigames, aside 
 from exploring and performing surgery.
  The graphics and sound are more or less standard for a DS adventure game. However, you might be 
 able to find some details in the surgery process.
  If you like two games I mentioned earlier, you have to try Lifesigns: Surgical Unit, though different 
 people might get different satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirtytwoshoe
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Surgical Unit is a Trauma Center clone that attempts to be realistic. The only problem is when 
 a game is realistic it is usually like real life, boring. They tried to create a soap opera without 
 anything dramatic and unfortunately for the developers and anyone who plays it that doesn't really 
 work. I'm just going to cut straight to the chase this is a bad game and unless you like cycling 
 through boring text and repetitive mini games don't buy it. The graphics are as about as good as 
 it gets for the DS but that doesn't make the game any more fun to play. The dialogue, which takes 
 up half the game, is horrible. None of the events are exciting our non predictable and the voices 
 are horrible. The operations are what saved this game from a zero, they're fun at first but after 
 the 5th mission they get really repetitive. And to make matters worst the actually fun parts of 
 the game are way too short to be entertaining, in less than ten minutes you'll be back to the crappy 
 dialogue. There's really not much to say about this game, if for some reason you just have to have 
 this game please pick it up in the bargain bin. Trust me it's not worth your time or money, that's 
 why I'm giving it a 3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I liked the other doctor game that has been out on the DS and WII. I am 
 not sure if this is a spin off from those game or just someone else trying to make a buck of the 
 Idea. Anyway I played this game for a while and it is ok and can be a lot of fun if it wasn't for 
 all the  Yack.! You have to ask so many questions and go back and 
 fourth from room to room to room that after a while you just want to get the cutting started! The 
 graphics are ok and the sound is lacking some what. It was an ok game because after going back 
 and fourth and reading everything and trying to figure out when you get to pull out your knife 
 and do some real work you start to lose interest. There were also a few parts although unimportant 
 to the game they make it hard for you to get to what should be the hard part. I say rent it or 
 just passit by! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkcomments
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I'm not A fan of drama, just to let you know. They say a good game/show always has a great start, 
 well to me this one is boring. I've played Trauma Center Under the Knife, so it's kind of like 
 this game, only with drama, and selection in which you have to listen to your patient. Basically, 
 you drag Item to talk with your patient, which takes a long time before you get to perform surgery, 
 and that is what bogged this game down. Unless you have a tolerant to listen/ putting to these 
 virtual life-imitating patient (The first one is a typical negative person, who is an example of 
 Drama-ness/Drama queen, which I find boring, and find her stupid intellectually and her brother) 
 then yeah, you try out this game, and review it, if you can, because I can't put up with this game, 
 to me it started off boring. The First operation was pretty cool, I was looking forward for more, 
 but I don't want to put up with a lot crap. Also If you end up liking this game, then try out Trauma 
 Center: Under the Knife! That's pretty much it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Ah finally Lifesigns hit store shelves. Well can I say it was worth the wait? not really. The game 
 concept is really cool, meshing PW and TC together but it just seems like something is missing.
 
  
  Graphics: Not bad. Your typical anime style just like PW (can't go wrong)
  The colors are bright and catch the eye really well and well drawn characters make it a joy to 
 look at. 8.5/10
  
  Sound: Some catchy tunes and good sound effects and the occasional scream or yell. Nothing to rave 
 about! 7/10
  
  Gameplay: The surgery part of the game plays really well. the controls are spot on. But there is 
 not enough of it. The adventure mode has you running around the hospital and other locations talking 
 to people and progressing the story along but boy there is a lot of dialouge and it seems the writing 
 is to soap operay. Not as intriguing as PW. The thing about the dialouge that I hated was the use 
 of sensei and san after everyones name it got annoying.
  After about 3 hours into the game I felt like someones errand boy with all the running around I 
 was doing. Maybe the game should have been called GENERAL HOSPITAL DS: LTMS (lots of talking minimal 
 surgery) . 5/10
  
  Final Thoughts: It's not a bad game but it's not a good game it's mediocore and lacking that little 
 something extra to bump it up a little. I wish I could say if you liked trauma center get this 
 game but I can't and the same goes for PW. It lacks the best elements from both of these games. 
 But hey at least the game isnt lacking in length because its a really long adventure if you can 
 get through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katosepe321
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  When you think of extremely original games for the DS, two series come to mind immediately: Trauma 
 Center, a great medical sim, and Phoenix Wright, an attorney sim. If you've played these two games, 
 you have basically already seen what Lifesigns has to offer, without the good parts of either.
 
  
  Lifesigns: Surgical Unit can be divided into two different parts: surgery and adventure modes. 
 I'll start with the surgery mode. The first, and probably the most disheartening, problem the game 
 has to offer is the extreme level of difficulty. It's not so much that the game is really hard, 
 it's just that there is basically no tutorial and no guidance during the surgeries. While Trauma 
 Center offers plenty of guidance while doing the surgeries, Lifesigns basically just expects that 
 you know how to perform them already. I suppose if you are in med school or a real doctor, you 
 won't have a problem with lifesigns but if you don't fall under either of those categories, you 
 won't have any clue what to do. Fortunately, when the main character Tendo "concentrates" he can 
 see a general idea of what he's supposed to do. The problem with this is that, not only does it 
 waste valuable time, it takes up some of the patients health to use. The only good thing about 
 this skill is that you can use it as many times as you want (as long as your patient isn't dead) . 
 If the surgery was all you did throughout the game, it would be impossibly difficult but fortunately 
 they have...
  
  An adventure mode! This is where you can clearly see Phoenix Wright influence. You must wander 
 around the hospital talking to people and showing them various medical notes and whatnot that help 
 further the storyline along. Unfortunately, anything good about these portions of Phoenix Wright 
 was ripped out, thrown on the ground and stomped on so that only the awful, repetitive boredom 
 remains. The reason that these portions are entertaining in Phoenix Wright is because of two things, 
 the storyline is actually interesting in PW, and because you actually feel like you are accomplishing 
 something. Neither is present in Lifesigns. There is no obvious plotline and each mini case is 
 just as boring as every other one. It's always extremely obvious where you're supposed to go next 
 and what you are supposed to show each and every person. Normally, this would seem like something 
 just thrown in the game to get you from surgery to surgery but no. You will spend the vast majority 
 of your gameplay, going around talking to people like this, desperately trying to get to the next 
 surgery portion as fast as possible. Then you remember just how horrible the surgery is and fall 
 into this desperate cycle.
  
  "But the storyline! It's got a classic anime storyline, right katosepe? So since i'm an anime fan, 
 it'll be fun for me, right?" Wrong. I'm personally an anime fan and can stand even the cheeziest 
 storylines. But this really isn't even an issue for lifesigns since theirs no storyline to stand. 
 The characters aren't interesting at all and stay completely static throughout the game. In fact, 
 some of the secondary characters are more interesting than the main ones. At least they have some 
 personal problem to get fixed. Half the time, you'll rather listen to the patients than the doctors. 
 Oh sorry, did I say listen? I meant read, since there is absolutely no spoken dialogue at all. 
 Although this is probably a blessing considering the quality of the rest of the game. On the other 
 hand, maybe if we had voice-overs, we wouldn't have to suffer through horrible translations and 
 obvious typo's practically slapping us across the face over and over again.
  
  In the end, you look to the music for comfort, trying to find relief by tuning into the gentle 
 song. Except that then you realize that the screechy, annoying, repetitive music is almost as bad 
 as everything else. I say "almost" since if it was as bad, I don't think it would be considered 
 music.
  
  You're probably thinking at this point, wow, he really hates this game. How much more can there 
 possibly be? Well, there's one thing to the game's benefit. It's long. Although considering how 
 horribly painful this game is, length will only extend the torture. But don't worry, I have found 
 a cure for this pain we call Lifesigns: Surgical Units. It's called a trashcan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Lifesigns - one of the games I had longed for, yes. Since it's constant weekly delay, I got anxious 
 waiting to test this game out. However, it's finally out, and I got a taste of what is one of the 
 best, if not the best, medical simulator on the DS.
  
  Graphics: Surprisingly, this game features lots of aspects taken from the Phoenix Wright games, 
 and graphics is one of them. The backgrounds are slightly cel-shaded 2D statics, with a tiny 3D 
 touch. As playing PW, the characters will also move and have their own animations. A style that 
 has been used before, but nevertheless good and well adapted. 8/10
  
  Sound: It has some pretty great themes that will appeal to practically everyone. The SFX is basic, 
 and instead of PW Objection!, you have sometimes someone screaming and the Japanese word on the 
 screen (Lifesigns is a game deeply attached to it's roots, so it's like a subdubbed anime game, as 
 the -San and Sensei terms, and all kinds of characters names are basically translations to our 
 alphabet and not completely different names like some games use in their US region translation) , 
 and you also hear the 'ping' which indicates that you did something right (present correct information 
 to this or that character, that will advance the storyline) . 8/10
  
  Gameplay: Really good. Unlike Trauma Center, this game makes great use of text, seeing as it's 
 an adventure med simulator, instead of a puzzle one. TC failed in this aspect, as the text was 
 basically a fill in to the actual operations, while in Lifesigns the storyline is essential and 
 very well written, not to mention the great operations that are quite simple to perform. If you 
 press the L or R buttons in an operation, it will tell you where to incise, suture, etc, with a 
 tiny health loss penalty, however. Adventure wise, you basically go around the hospital or other 
 locations, interacting with patients/characters involved in that episode (another PW similarity) 
 and present information or objects that they will talk about and give more info and hints to help 
 complete certain objectives. It's a good way of distracting you from the operations, which is not 
 the only important part in a med simulator. 9/10.
  
  Replay Value: I cannot evaluate this game based on it's multiplayer, because it doesn't feature 
 any. Nope, that's true, but what multiplater activities would you put on a med sim? Mini-games? 
 Neverthless, the main adventure will keep you well busy, not to mention the addiction it will give 
 you. 8/10
  
  Resuming, Lifesigns is a very good medical simulator. It's quite addicting, combining PW aspects 
 that go well with this genre, with a great adventure and gameplay, reason why this game gets my 
 seal of approval!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermon2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up and started this game, I thought the introduction was fabulous. They introduced 
 everyone vaguely via a medium-length cut-scene which actually turned out to be a dream of the main 
 character, Tendo. Also, the first operation was indeed kind of like a tutorial for both experienced 
 and inexperienced players. However, I found out that the gameplay wasn't exactly same as Trauma 
 Center. Firstly, you have to diagnose the patient via three ways. You can visually diagnose the 
 patient, use your stethoscope or sort of like rub the parts where you deem suspicious of injury, 
 etc. Also, almost no hints are given, except for the accident or patient information. Example, 
 hit on the left body. You are expected to know what to do, like a 2nd year intern doctor Tendo 
 is.
  
  Secondly, there is sort of like a superpower of Tendo, where he concentrates and you can see where 
 to cut, slice or whatever you have to do at that time during the operation. Thirdly, there is much 
 more interaction with other characters. Like running around to get keys and getting presents and 
 stuff. That's all I have to type. Well, this being my first ever review on Gamespot, expect very 
 little from this. All I have to say is, if you're finding a game with interaction and hospital 
 stuff, this is for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
