-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Little Red Riding Hood's Zombie BBQ
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/zombiebbq/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Traditional arcade shoot-'em-up gameplay.
 Good weapon variety.
 Challenging bosses.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor controls.
 Frequent slowdown with some freezes.
 Drastic spike in difficulty.
 Requires more luck than skill to complete.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 36 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Destineer
Developer: EnjoyUp
Genre: Rail Shooting
Date: Nov 6, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pesky controls and irritating slowdown curtail the fun you'll have in this zombie shooter. 

 
  If there is anything that can turn even the most banal of arcade shooters into a grotesquely adorable 
 slugfest, it's zombies, and Little Red Riding Hood's Zombie BBQ is loaded with an impressive array 
 of undead. It also boasts a great sense of humor and combines fast-paced shoot-'em-up gameplay 
 with twisted fairy tale characters to create a more unique experience. Unfortunately, control issues, 
 frequent slowdown, and a slew of other quirks often undermine your joyful zombie slaying, reducing 
 Zombie BBQ to just another mediocre shooter on the DS.  

   

  Little Red Riding Hood's latest adventure opens in Fairy Tale Land, where a devastating zombie 
 plague has turned the lovable denizens of folklore, such as Sleeping Beauty and Pinocchio, into 
 gruesome flesh-eating zombies. You'll assume control of either Riding Hood, who is deeply fond 
 of her machine gun, or Momotaro, who riddles his enemies with ninja stars, as you search for the 
 source of the infestation to save the world. Though the simplistic, disjointed plot barely holds 
 the game together, it still emphasizes Zombie BBQ's refreshingly dark humor, which should be a 
 treat for fans of classic zombie films.  

           Slay the zombie horde with gigantic ninja stars when your flamethrower isn't an option. 

  Gameplay is straightforward, spanning both screens with an isometric perspective and challenging 
 you to plow through zombies as you advance through a stage. Zombies appear on either screen and 
 slowly shuffle their way toward Riding Hood, who is positioned on the bottom screen on a horizontal, 
 seven-panel movement field that you tap to dodge enemy attacks. You simply select a zombie or touch 
 the screen in the general direction you wish to fire and hold the stylus down to shoot, while lifting 
 the stylus reloads; if you get touched by a zombie or level obstruction, your health meter depletes, 
 and if it diminishes entirely, the game is over. The lack of objectives, character ability growth, 
 or even weapon modification is disappointing, but there is sufficient weapon variety to keep things 
 interesting. Weapon icons are conveniently displayed on the bottom screen, which you merely tap 
 to select, making weapon cycling fast and efficient -- a necessity when a horde of zombies is stumbling 
 your way.  

  The game's most fun aspect is its healthy zombie variety and inclusion of minibosses, which are 
 steadily introduced as you progress. You'll encounter spitting zombies, slimes that cover the field 
 in goo, creatures that lob objects at you, and even flying skulls and laser-projecting nutcracker 
 men; you'll also notice creative, if simple, boss design that forces you to pummel zombie bosses 
 while quickly memorizing their attack patterns in standard arcade fashion. Though defeating bosses 
 can be exciting, there is very little depth or strategy involved other than memorizing these attack 
 patterns or shooting the occasional exploding barrel, which is often oversimplistic and dull.  
 

  While slaughtering zombies should be quite enjoyable and extremely entertaining, poor controls 
 can make it frustrating at times. When you tap Riding Hood to instruct her to duck, for example, 
 the game will sometimes register the command as shoot and you'll end up as zombie fodder. Similarly, 
 when you target a zombie that has approached your movement field, the game will often misinterpret 
 this as a movement command and position you in the path of imminent danger. The poor controls are 
 accentuated by a drastic leap in difficulty that occurs about a third of the way through; at this 
 point, disposing of zombies requires more luck than skill due to cheap enemy attacks that block 
 you into a corner, where you're forced to take damage from other foes because you're unable to 
 move out of the way. Furthermore, some boss attacks or even environmental objects significantly 
 obscure your field of view.  

  Despite the game's control errors and steep difficulty jump, its most vexing problem is frequent 
 slowdown, which occurs whenever multiple enemies are onscreen in conjunction with gunfire or explosives. 
 This slowdown is highly disruptive when you're dodging attacks, cycling between guns, or dispatching 
 a large zombie horde that's dangerously close to surrounding you, because it slows the action to 
 a crawl. It's also incredibly frustrating when the slowdown causes you to die, because the game 
 only autosaves between stages, which forces you to restart the level from the beginning. The slowdown 
 is also often accompanied by bullets that go through zombies without dealing any damage, or even 
 by the occasional freeze.  

           Tackle challenging bosses by memorizing their attack patterns.      

  Graphically 
 the game's 3D environments are rather primitive, but they're adequate for a DS title, with colorful, 
 slimy dungeons and moderately detailed enchanted castles to blast your way through. Zombies are 
 usually 2D with 3D bosses and are sufficiently grotesque; they spout blood as they take damage, 
 and you can easily spy beating hearts and fresh zombie brains spewing everywhere. Very peppy, exaggerated 
 rock music supports the action without being too annoying, while ambient sounds, such as explosions 
 and zombie gurgles, are sufficient if not spectacular.  

   

  You should find yourself soaring through Zombie BBQ's 21 stages in a few hours since each stage 
 is about three to four minutes long, but this will depend on how much bad luck you're having with 
 certain bosses and what difficulty setting -- normal, hard, or extreme -- you're enduring. You could 
 go back through the game on a harder setting, but you may find anything other than normal mode 
 absolutely grueling considering the rate at which you experience slowdown or die from poor controls. 
 Three additional modes -- Survival, Boss Attack, and Stage Select -- offer a bit of fun if you enjoy 
 slaying bosses in succession or revisiting a favorite stage, but they don't add any new gameplay 
 aspects. There's also no point in completing the game a second time to achieve a high score because 
 you aren't awarded points. While there's no denying that Little Red Riding Hood's Zombie BBQ is 
 an occasionally fun shooter with a good sense of humor, its low replay value, finicky controls, 
 and frequent slowdown may make it a more frustrating than pleasurable experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aaalzx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  First: this game is not a serious one. Has a great sense of humor, a outrageous history and don't 
 even take himself serious. The graphics are not as polished as Dementium, right, but don't hurt 
 the gameplay.
  
  The slowdowns are there, true but so far they don't ruin the game. also to move is more reliable 
 the game pad, I use the stylus only to dash.
  
  The difficult right now is good, is steeping up, but I don't want a game that takes one hour to 
 beat.
  
  The enemy designs are varied and keeps you thinking how to beat then, also the diferent enemies 
 makes the challenges rise when appear 3 types at once.
  
  The weapons are not very varied, but make their work. Also the music is not something amazing, 
 but is there and makes their work. Also the boss sequences have better music than the normal levels.
 
  
  So is a good game if you like the shooters on foot. Don't think is contra 4, not nanostray either. 
 But could prove their worth if you give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Now, I'm not sure why the game developers decided to call this game as it is but I was a bit surprised 
 by its gameplay cause it's actually pretty fun. 
  
  The game is pretty much space invaders in 3d. You have a choice between a male and female character 
 that shoots but can only go left and right. And you have enemies walking down the screen trying 
 to eat your head-off. As retro as this may sound, the addition of multiple weapons and grenades 
 to its somewhat simplistic gameplay actually made the game fun to play. There are a bunch of other 
 things that you should worry about other than the zombies like coffins, gas filled barrels to fry 
 those zombies up, etc etc. 
  
  Everything here is in good looking 3d with the exception of your character, which sadly makes them 
 look like one of those old school actors acting in front of a rolling film on a white screen. The 
 reason for that however is immediately going to surface because the game has some serious performance 
 issues. The game goes into a crawl when there is a hefty number of zombies on the screen. It could 
 have been fixed if they created a pre-rendered background, but I guess it would look weird given 
 its camera angle.
  
  The game tends to get on the repetitive side and the only break you'll get from the occasional 
 shoot everything that moves theme of the game is when you end up with the stage boss which are 
 well done. The levels in my opinion is quite on the lengthy side and if you're going to play this 
 game on-the-go, you might have issues because you cannot save in the middle of a level. Pausing 
 it and then trying to finish the level so it can auto save on its own might work though.
  
  The controls is pretty easy to master. The touchscreen is used to move and shoot but you can also 
 use the directional pad to move left or right. You simply point to the direction you want your 
 character to shoot at, lift the stylus to reload, double-tap to throw a grenade, etc etc. 
  
  If there's anything that held this game down in my opinion, its probably the repetitive experience 
 that you're gonna get from shooting wave after wave of zombies. Add to that the slowdown issue 
 that ruins a what supposed to be hectic shooting game, the game only deserves a 7.5. Which is still 
 a really good rating for such a title.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
