-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lock's Quest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/locksquest/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Building defenses is easy and intuitive.
 Great variety of mission objectives.
 Intuitive stylus-intensive controls.
 Challenging multiplayer mode is icing on the cake.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera view can make it difficult to build on some maps.
 Occasional control snag when the screen gets crowded.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: 5TH Cell
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date: Sep 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lock's Quest's intuitive build mode and frantic, engaging battles are great for an action strategy 
 game on the go. 

  The Internet is chock-full of flash-based games in which you build a fortress and then protect 
 it from invading armies, zombies, or cows. In Lock's Quest, developer 5th Cell has taken the addictive 
 qualities of those games and deepened the experience with strategy and role-playing elements. The 
 result is an exciting and engaging genre-blending game packed with action.  

  The world of Lock's Quest revolves around source, a mysterious resource that is used by archineers 
 to build defenses and by the evil Lord Agony to fuel clockwork minions. When these minions show 
 up in Lock's peaceful little town, the talented young archineer teams up with an injured soldier 
 to protect the villagers until they can be evacuated. During the siege, Lock loses track of his 
 sister, Emi. With the town lost to the clockworks, Lock sets off on a quest to find his sister 
 and uses his archineer skills to help out where he can. The story is slow to start, but it's generally 
 entertaining and contains a few unexpected twists that will keep you playing.  

           Turrets and walls snap into place, which makes building a strong defense easy.      

 
  Each stage is split into two phases: building and battling. During the building phase you're given 
 a couple of minutes to assess the layout of the land and build and repair defenses. Dragging, dropping, 
 and arranging pieces on the map is easy, and the organized interface is responsive, which is good, 
 considering that you'll usually be building in a hurry. Building complex fortresses in less than 
 two minutes is simple for the most part, but there are times when the isometric view makes building 
 difficult. Objects and environments become transparent when you try to place items near them, but 
 on some maps, it's still hard to tell if a piece is flush with the scenery. It's frustrating to 
 be in the heat of battle and find out that the wall you thought was impenetrable has a gap big 
 enough for enemies to waltz through.  

  Building flaws are just some of the many things that need to be attended to during the hectic battle 
 mode. In addition to repairing fortresses, you'll need to take care of your mission objectives -- which 
 can be anything from rescuing hostages to defeating selected enemy encampments -- and fight off some 
 of the clockworks in hand-to-hand combat. To engage a clockwork, you simply tap it with the stylus 
 and watch Lock pummel away, and that works about 80 percent of the time. When the screen gets crowded, 
 it gets harder to select the enemy or object you want. In later levels you will build massive fortresses 
 as you fight off hundreds of enemies. Battles are intense and chaotic as you scramble around the 
 map repairing defenses, fighting enemies, and collecting source. Nearly every action has a quick 
 minigame associated with it. Whether it's grinding gears to execute a finishing move or ratcheting 
 levers to repair a broken turret, the battles keep you engaged as you furiously scribble all over 
 the screen.  

  In most stages, you'll have to go through at least three consecutive build-and-battle phases. A 
 steady stream of new traps and defenses (which you have to assemble with collected scrap from the 
 battlefield) and a wide variety of mission objectives keep the battles fresh. Sometimes you need 
 to defeat every enemy on the map, and other times you have to survive until the timer runs out. 
 The constantly changing objectives keep you on your toes and give Lock's Quest an addictive, "just 
 one more" appeal.  

  After your first few battles, you'll be introduced to siege mode. In siege mode the view is shifted 
 to the side and you're given control of a turret. You spend the day bombing clockworks and the 
 night purchasing upgrades and special abilities. This mode is simpler than the main build and battle 
 mode; it feels a lot like the dozens of tower defense games on the Internet. It's a nice change 
 of pace, and it serves as a nod to the games that inspired Lock's Quest, but it isn't challenging, 
 and it doesn't offer much customization.  

           You'll need to multitask during battles to keep defenses in good repair and enemies at 
 bay.      

  Lock's Quest is a very stylus-intensive game. You can drag the stylus to move Lock or tap a location 
 and watch him run to it. When the screen gets crowded, there are times when you'll tap a badly 
 damaged turret only to have Lock run behind it and stand there, or you'll direct him toward a battle 
 and he'll get stuck in the environment. These problems don't ruin the game, but they occur often 
 enough to be irritating. Other than the random stylus hiccups, the controls are intuitive and make 
 you feel like you have an active role in the action.  

  Lock's Quest has a fully featured multiplayer mode that's just as much fun as the single-player 
 game; you just need a friend with a second copy of the game to play it. After connecting to another 
 player, you can select your map, the number of rounds, the build and battle time, and more. Your 
 source in multiplayer games funds more than your building materials; you'll also need it to purchase 
 clockwork minions. Each round you'll select a gaggle of bots and choose the route they take into 
 the heart of your enemy's camp. During a battle, the top screen displays your map and one for your 
 opponent, so you can see how your minions are faring against your opponent's defenses. When the 
 round ends, your scores are tallied up, and you're given a chance to tweak or add to your defenses 
 and select different bots. Playing against another person is challenging and adds a bit of unpredictability 
 to the game.  

  Those who played 5th Cell's last game, Drawn to Life, will notice a few similarities in the visual 
 design of Lock's Quest. Both games feature a vibrant color palette, attractive detailed scenery, 
 and smoothly animated characters. A more mature art style might have suited this game better, but 
 the visuals are great regardless. The game can support a ridiculous number of character sprites 
 and animations on one screen with little to no slowdown. The top screen displays a map of the battlefield 
 and shows you enemy locations as well as defenses that need repair. Many of the objects and environments 
 have square, gridlike designs that help them blend in with the defenses and give the presentation 
 a cohesive look. The music is full of sweeping orchestral tunes in MIDI form. None of the tracks 
 are particularly catchy, but the epic swells and fast-paced battle tracks fit the action well. 
 The sounds consist mostly of satisfying grinding ratchets and metal clanks.  

  With a lengthy single-player campaign, exciting multiplayer, and addictive gameplay, Lock's Quest 
 has elevated the defense genre high above mere Internet distraction. Those who have spent lazy 
 afternoons clicking through flash-based defense games, as well as those who haven't, would do well 
 to give Lock's Quest a try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: peterh778
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:33 am PT
Review:  As a fan of webcomics 'Girl Genius' I was really pleased, when I learned of Lock's quest. But contact 
 with gameplaying was really disappointing, Real time battles are very hectic, Lock can't be on 
 every attacked place at all times and higher level enemies do short work with walls&turrets without 
 constant repairing, mines last only one wave of enemies, source&scrap is gathered, only when Lock 
 is present in vicinity ... and building walls, minefields etc. in limited time, without easy way 
 to look over all battlefield (rotating, zooming ... sometimes is view of terrain obscured by obstacles) 
 is plainly stupid. It really hurts, because game had good story and settings. With turn based battles, 
 more characters to control (Final fantasy tactics - like, in example) and probably another method 
 to control combos it could be really addictive game ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  Lock's Quest takes the simple gameplay of many Tower Defense Flash games you can find online and 
 builds upon it by adding features - therefore vastly improving the overall experience - that could 
 only be successful on a system like the Nintendo DS which brings the benefit of two screens and 
 the ease of the touch screen for quick response to enemies' action during battle and intuitive 
 controls that work very well during most of the time.
  
  The game kicks off on an apparently peaceful village located on the shore. There a young boy named 
 Lock is doing his usual daily tasks, as his grandfather ordered him to do so, when all of a sudden 
 he comes across a man named Isaac that is seriously injured and being attacked by an army of robots 
 called "Clockworks" as Lock decides to help Isaac little does he know he is about to enter an 100-day 
 journey that will change his life forever.
  
  Lock finds out Isaac is an archineer, an important position on the Kingdom's army, archineers basically 
 build defenses to protect targets from the incoming enemies. The Clockworks are the work of a mad 
 man called Dr. Agony  thought to be defeated on an ancient war - who used to be Agonius the most 
 skilled of all the archineers, but that suddenly turned evil when he discovered his power to build 
 robots and give them life using source, which is a very valuable asset on the world where the game 
 takes place.
  
  This world now full of war and destruction holds many secrets and mysteries that will be unveiled 
 little by little as you advance in your quest. While the storyline is far from a masterpiece it 
 is good enough to keep you playing and highly interested on what may be behind this big war as 
 the script has been carefully written to leave the player with many doubts and questions concerning 
 the main characters' actions.
  
  As good as the storyline is it won't be the only reason why you will play the game. On Lock's Quest 
 what you basically do is to protect one or various targets scattered across the map from the Clockwork 
 army, and each one of the battles has two different stages. First there is the building process 
 where you build walls, turrets and traps to stop enemies from reaching their target. To build all 
 you need to do is that the options on the menu, select the structure you want and drag it to the 
 screen, by using the L and R buttons you can rotate it to make sure it will be facing the right 
 direction.
  
  The controls work perfectly during this stage of the battle and it makes building a fast and engaging 
 activity as you can do, redo and undo things just by tapping an option on the menu carefully placed 
 on the right side of the screen.
  
  Due to the large variety of enemies, traps and turrets it takes a lot of strategy to be victorious 
 on the battles even though the game's level of challenge is not very high  for those who want 
 more challenge there is a hard mode to be unlocked after you finish the game. Turrets can hit a 
 single target, hit many of them at the same time, poison the enemy, and slow them down; Traps can 
 freeze them, explode, electrify underground foes; and some clockworks can make magic, attack physically, 
 dig tunnels beneath your walls, fly, become invisible or even heal. There are also "helpers" which 
 increase a certain status of your nearby walls and turrets.
  
  In order to unlock new turrets and traps lock will collect scrap left by enemies, once you have 
 enough pieces to form a new weapon the game will let you know, redirecting you a creative build 
 mode where you will gather the pieces that form the weapon in order to assemble it successfully.
 
  
  After you spend all your source building defenses it will be time to start the battle, once you 
 do enemy waves will start entering the map and heading straight towards their goal. On the battlefield 
 you will move Lock by using the touch screen and pointing at the place he should go while you can 
 check other areas of the map using the D-pad. As an archineer you can use three basic strategies, 
 defend, attack or mix both of them. Lock has the power to fix damaged walls and turrets, which 
 will allow you to simply stay protected behind the walls while fixing them but on some stages it 
 may be a good idea to get out of your fortress and face enemies.
  
  If you feel like fixing a wall all you need to do is touch it and Lock will head straight to it 
 to fix the damage, unfortunately in some cases, when there are enemies between Lock and the wall, 
 the character will get stuck behind an enemy and won't be able to reach it, the best solution is 
 to guide Lock little by little around the enemies so that you can get to the wall. On easier stages 
 this shortcoming will not bother you but on later battles when there is little to no time to lose 
 getting stuck behind an enemy may cause your wall to be destroyed as every little second matters 
 on harder battles.
  
  When battling enemies Lock has a bunch of special attacks to use besides his usual punching the 
 enemy, once your power gauge is filled you can unleash a vast variety of skills such as attacking 
 enemies with lightning, poisoning them or even fixing all your walls automatically. As you perform 
 these attacks or fix walls you will have to perform some actions on the screen. For example, when 
 Lock fixes a highly damaged wall you will need to flip a switch that will appear on the bottom 
 of the screen from right to left and vice versa so that he fixes them faster, the same goes for 
 special attacks where you will get to tap a big button, the more you tap it the more effective 
 your skill will be. This adds some more action to the already action packed battles of the game.
 
  
  Mastering building and battling may seem slightly complicated but the game is fair when it comes 
 to its learning curve as the levels get gradually harder, making your experience much more enjoyable. 
 Between battles there are some RPG-like sections where Lock walks through cities, villages and 
 other places giving you the opportunity to talk to people and know more about the storyline of 
 the game, those sections are nice as they take you away from the battles for a while but truth 
 is they could be much deeper as there is usually little to do on towns, the developers could have 
 added some sidequests or shops to improve your armory.
  
  The game presentation is very ambitious and successful, from the graphics and scenarios that look 
 really good to the metal-themed menus and sound effects. The most impressive area of the game is 
 definitely its impressive cutscenes that posses a very original and incredible art direction, only 
 matched by a couple of other DS games. The "orchestrated" soundtrack is also brilliant as it gives 
 an epic mood to the game and its awesome plot that happens on a sort of medieval setting.
  
  Lock's Quest may have its share of shortcomings but when it is all said and done it is a very 
 enjoyable and addicting game, from its engaging build mode that uses very smart control options 
 to the thrilling battles with its minor control issues. The difficulty is fair and some of the 
 more advanced battles against bosses or powerful armies will make you restart them time and time 
 again until you successfully find a strategy to deal with a specific kind of enemy formation. Lock's 
 Quest is an ambitious title that should be given a try by those who appreciate an original strategy 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodchip50
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:25 am PT
Review:  Locks quest, oh locks quest. How to describe it 
  
  Simplicity at its best?
  
  I don't quite know what impulse moved me to the counter with this game in my hand, but for once 
 im pleased I went with my instincts!
  
  The game play is nice and easy, the learning curve is explained well and easy to understand, the 
 visuals are fun and charming, and the greatest achievement is the excellent utilization of the 
 touch screen! Something which is missing in far too many DS releases
  
  The fortress building schema is something well known to anyone who knows anything about internet 
 flash games. Locks Quest plays on these forms of games and ultimately is a tribute to the excellent 
 design. However, it goes further than any freebies on the interwebs can. The advantage of releasing 
 it on the DS is of course the touch screen, which offers the player a more interactive and subsequently 
 stimulating and more invigorating gaming experience. 
  
  This is furthered during the 'battle mode' in which you gain control over Lock and have to manage 
 the battlefield. You normally have a choice between defensive and offensive strategies, or a combination 
 of both. Considering the offensive, you can confront your enemies directly, engaging with special 
 attacks all of which are activated via quick touch screen commands. Or in the defensive perspective, 
 you can work towards maintaining your structures and repairing the damage cause by the ever evil 
 and numerous 'clockworks'. And of course, depending on the objective of the current 'day' you will 
 have to be juggling these alongside several other side missions, such as rescuing hostages... 
 
  
  The 'build mode' which takes place before battle gives you a few short minutes to build your defensives 
 before the day begins. Although there are a few occasions in which its hard to co-ordinate your 
 builds, and determine if they are assembled effectively, generally this interface is easy to use 
 and works well.
  
  The controls are flexible in that they can be both automatic as well as controlled by the player. 
 This allows multitasking without the need to multitask! Which is obviously for all us men out there! 
 For instance; a simple tap on one part of the map sends lock over there, and at the same time you 
 can monitor the advances of the opposing armies, quickly check up on another area, or your defences. 
 However, when the screen has too many objects which can be interacted with (such as multiple enemies 
 and defensive structures) often valuable seconds are wasted by attacking/repairing the wrong enemy/structure, 
 or even attacking an enemy when attempting to repair 
  
  The visuals as I mentioned earlier are best described as charming. There's nothing too complex 
 about them and are certainly not a thing of beauty. However they continue with the simplicity of 
 the games structure and fun, enjoyable nature. To be fair, had they been the quality we see from 
 games developed by the like of square enix, the game would an element of seriousness about it. 
 Something which would go against the loving history of these types of games.
  
  My one main pick at this game is the repetitiveness. 
  Something I can never quite get over in 
 any game. 
  It is hidden well. 
  But it can't be lied about.
  It is there.
  And unfortunately it is noticeable.
  And consequently it is the greatest vice of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paully3433
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Lock's Quest - Nintendo DS
  Other Platforms: None
  
  Publisher: 5th-Cell
  Developer: THQ
  Release Date: Sept. 8th 2008
  Genre: Strategy
  Number of Players: 1
  ERSB 
 Rating: Everyone
  
  Review
  
  I am sure all of you have played a game where you build a fort and then try to defend it from massing 
 armies, whether it is bugs or aliens or in the case of this game, Clockworks. Now this isn't your 
 standard tower defense game by any means. From the creators of Drawn to Life bring you a wonderful 
 adventure into the world of Clockworks and Archineers. Think of it as a combination of Architects 
 and Engineers, that you use to create forts and then of course defend them. However there is more 
 to this game than the standard build and defend mentality. Lock's Quest throws at us a great little 
 adventure. Now lets take a look at some specific areas.
  
  Story
  
  The story of Lock's Quest at first may seem kind of cliche in that a girl gets taken from you and 
 you must rescue her. Except this time it isn't your love interest, it's your little sister. After 
 some slow starts to the story, you find yourself wanting to play more and more just to see what 
 happens. The story plays fairly straight through but does throw some curve balls in mix as well 
 as some things you might expect as you travel through the kingdom of Antonia looking for your sister 
 and trying to defeat the evil Lord Agony - Chief of the Clockworks.
  
  Game play
  
  There is a ton of game play in this 100 day mission that brings to life a journey to rescue Lock's 
 sister. The game can be broken up into two main stages of playing, although there are several other 
 parts to the actual game. For the most part throughout the game you will take on the role of building 
 towers and walls, placing traps and mines, and battling Clockworks. The first stage in this is 
 to construct your towers and fort. This is fairly easy, using the stylus you simply click the tower 
 you want, then click again to place it and rotate it if you need to. That is about it. You have 
 a time limit to build and it is usually 2 minutes and sometimes 3. This goes fast and can be rather 
 hard to set up your base in the first stages when you have a clean slate. After your time is up, 
 a 2-3 minute stage of clockworks coming at you usually from one or more locations to attack your 
 base. This is the cool part of the game as in this stage of things you can now defend your base 
 by attacking the clockworks yourself, which leads to special attacks, or you can repair your towers 
 to defend yourself. You heal automatically which is kind of nice I suppose, simply by running away 
 from battle you will gain life back in a few seconds. Your special attacks are pretty handy and 
 speed things up nicely. You will run around the entire time, it is crazy how much action is involved 
 in this game.
  After you kill a clockwork, a thing called Source is dropped and it shows up in a blue flame. This 
 source is the main reason why you are fighting as the clockworks want your Source wells. Also randomly 
 during your fighting the clockworks, a new scrap might be picked up and after the battle has ended 
 you can navigate your way through a few screens to build more towers, traps, and helper towers 
 from that scrap. It is a handy little thing, specially the freeze traps as I pretty much spammed 
 them right in front of my towers and put some poison traps near the spawning points and breezed 
 through most stages fairly easily.
  
  Other stages to play in Lock's story is a series of days where you man the turret to defend town. 
 This is very much like the tower defense games all over the place that you might have seen. But 
 they are a fun change of pace and add to the game instead of just building forts and defending 
 those all day. Another stage I really enjoyed was one where you have control of Lock but there 
 is not town to defend. You must go through the map and take down enemies in hand to hand fighting. 
 This was a blast and I wish there were more of these stages, sadly if I remember right, there was 
 only one or two.
  
  The only few gripes I had with Lock's Quest is that sometimes during the building stage where you 
 set your towers can make it difficult to see where your others are. For example, your building 
 a |_| shaped town, sometimes they can be hard to see the sides if you have your front built already. 
 It is a very stylus heavy game which for me is hard to play through and I am not a big fan of the 
 stylus. But this makes good use of and gives you a heck of a hand cramp if you play it for to long. 
 The game runs around 20 hours but it never really feels like it as you are always wanting to get 
 to the next stage to see what happens in the story. I ran my battery down several times and I remember 
 thinking that I just charged it, even though it was 5-6 hours ago.
  
  
  Sound and Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are fantastic to put a good word on it. The 
 game has a ton of stuff going on and it always ran smoothly. Think of this, you have at any given 
 time, Lock running around, towers going off, 15-30 enemies on the map all attacking or walking, 
 traps going off and it runs smoothly. I saw one review saying they had a map of over 300 things 
 and it never hiccuped at all which is pretty amazing. The sound is simply awesome. From the battle 
 music that really gets you in the mood to bash some clockworks to the menu music that doesn't get 
 annoying at all which is a trend I am afraid, happening entirely to much. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 the music and animations of Lock's Quest. The characters look good and animations work and run 
 smoothly. Lock's hair even flows smoothly when he is running around. The clockworks also look good 
 with a nice variety of types to have to overcome. The ones I hated most were the ones that charged 
 your walls with explosives on their back. Not cool! Oh and also the ones that were ghosts I didn't 
 care for much at all either.
  
  Overall
  
  Overall Lock's Quest is a great adventure to take on the go or sit in bed and play until you want 
 to sleep. Be prepared that you will not be able to sleep after playing as it is very intense action. 
 The music and animations are great and sound awesome coming from the heavy emphasis on battle. 
 The graphics are also nice and look good on the DS. The heart of the fun is truly at the game play 
 and it runs for 100 days in the mission and 20 hours in your life. A great value at $20 now and 
 even cheaper on the internet, you would be silly not to want to pick this up and play it if you 
 are a fan at all of Tower Defense games or just a great intense action title. Overall I give Lock's 
 Quest a sore wrist and a score of 8.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  About a year ago, I got hooked on a free flash game called Desktop Tower Defense. The game was 
 ridiculously simple in concept - you built up a structure of turrets, and used them to fend off 
 waves of enemies. Since then, games like PixelJunk Monsters on the PS3 and the DS' Ninjatown have 
 allowed the genre to break into the mainstream. The newest addition to the tower defense craze 
 is 5th Cell's Lock's Quest. 
  
  When you compare Lock's Quest with Desktop Tower Defense, it's quite apparent how much the genre 
 has evolved in the past year or so. While Lock's Quest many of the same ideas as other games in 
 the genre, it offers up more than enough twists to keep it feeling fresh. This is tower defense 
 redux, and while all the ideas may not work out perfectly in practice, it's still a decent collection 
 to any DS owner's library.
  
  Lock's Quest tells the story of Lock, an orphan who lives with his grandfather and sister in a 
 quiet seaside village. Lock is an 'archineer' in training - someone who can use the power of 'source' 
 to build structures. In the game's introduction, Lock comes across an injured archineer named Isaiah, 
 who's been injured by members of the Clockwork Army. The Clockworks are the henchmen of the Lord 
 Agony, who supposedly died in a battle years before. Lock suddenly finds himself in the middle 
 of the struggle when his sister gets captured by the Clockwork forces. The story is told in long, 
 un-skippable cutscenes with the amount of text I'd expect from most Atlus games. But despite the 
 quantity of dialogue, the characters all feel cut from the most basic mold and the story never 
 really seems worth paying attention to. 
  
  While battles in Lock's Quest vary in objectives, they usually always come down to protecting a 
 source well from enemy forces. There may be side objectives such as protecting ally troops or wiping 
 out certain enemies, but generally, your effort will go into the source well. Lock's Quest battles 
 take place in two phases: Build and Battle. In the Build phase, you have a set amount of time to 
 build up your fortress in hopes of protecting the source well. During the battle phase, you manually 
 move Lock around the field, fixing damaged structures or engaging enemies directly. After a set 
 period of time, the Clockworks will break down and another brief Build Phase will begin. 
  
  Thankfully, your creativity is the limit when it comes to constructing protective structures. 
 You gradually unlock new walls, turrets, and traps, which can be placed almost anywhere to build 
 your dream fortress. Providing there's the source required structures can be built to match any 
 strategy. One strategy I use involves building rows and rows of walls, which can waste precious 
 seconds of the Clockwork's attack phase. Experimenting with the building tools is very fun, and 
 in later missions a bit frantic. When I found myself low on source, I had to figure out which lines 
 of defense had to be fixed and which I'd have to try and live without, all within the two minute 
 time limit. It's an absolute blast. 
  
  Defending these structures from advancing enemies is not quite as fun. You move Lock with the stylus 
 a la Phantom Hourglass, and by fix walls or engage enemies by tapping them. The trouble is, there's 
 always a lot on screen, and it can be difficult to select the one thing you want. It's infuriating, 
 as battles can often be decided in a split second. I kept finding my defenses breached because 
 the game misread a command I gave. Lock's Quest also uses an isometric camera that fights you every 
 step of the way. Characters too often go behind a structure and become just about invisible. With 
 no way to control the action from an overhead view Lock's Quest's combat often feels cluttered 
 and sloppy. 
  The other flaw with the campaign is the repetition - every one of its hundred days feels virtually 
 the same. After the first couple of days the novelty wears off, and you'll just be repeating the 
 same motions until you've finished the game. Build your fortress, fend off enemies, make repairs, 
 repeat indefinitely - that's basically the single-player Lock's Quest in a nutshell. The only breaks 
 you get from this routine are optional Siege Mode missions, but they're a complete waste of time. 
 Basically a Defend Your Castle rip-off, they didn't provide nearly enough depth to keep me entertained 
 for more than thirty seconds or so.
  
  Thankfully Lock's Quest also includes a multiplayer mode, and it's actually a lot of fun. When 
 you're going head-to-head you're forced to be offensive as well as defensive, which gives the formula 
 a welcome twist. In the multiplayer, you go one-on-one with a friend, and you each have limited 
 time and resources to build your defenses as well as an army to storm your opponent's side of the 
 field. The great thing about this mode is there's really no limit as to what can be done. Being 
 able to build a perfect fortress as well as creating my own waves of Clockworks and determining 
 their route was a ton of fun. Providing you can find a friend with equal skills, Lock's Quest multiplayer 
 matches can go on indefinitely. It's a great way to spend an afternoon if you've got a friend with 
 his own copy.
  
  Visually, Lock's Quest is quite similar to 5th Cell's last game, Drawn to Life. Every character 
 and item is a 2D sprite, with very well-done animations. While it may be initially a bit unimpressive, 
 Lock's Quest can have upwards of 200 sprites on the map at the same time. Over all the time I've 
 spent with the game, I never encountered slowdown even once. The epic battles are accompanied by 
 a majestic score, which is among the best on the DS.
  
  Much like Drawn to Life, Lock's Quest is a game that looks great on paper. In practice, however, 
 many of these ideas prove to have huge problems. If the game sells well enough, perhaps we'll see 
 a sequel addressing the game's numerous problems. Lock's Quest's awesome gameplay ideas are balanced 
 out by poor execution, and the final product is a mere shadow of the game's full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavenders12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Do you want a game with Building and battling? Well Lock's quest has made its way to DS. Now after 
 hearing what it does, I easily suspected that it would be terrible like all the other Turret based 
 strategy games. However, it wasn't. I rented this game because I have heard good things about this 
 game, and 2 days later I was hooked. With great visuals and nice cutscenes, it is a game you could 
 only appreciate by playing it first.
  
  Graphics: Are lovely made and desinged for this game, with cutscenes having them too. But, it isn't 
 worth the fact that they could be much better. Shows basic ideas of scenery (starfish on ground 
 and such) and does have its way with battle. It's worth a 8/10
  
  Sound: I for one thought that this was a lovely sound idea. The only problem was repeating music. 
 The sound you here on one of the phases you will hear all the time. On other occasions, the sound 
 really adds the theme to the game. Definitely a 8/10
  
  Gamplay: What more could you possibly ask for? A guy named Lock gets to run around the Kingdom, 
 defeating the evil clockworks that stand in front of you, building defences to with- stand the 
 enemy and helping the village through a disaster that they thought was over. If you get the game, 
 you will see the simple addictive playing. Deserves a 9/10
  
  Value: Worth its money? Yes! This game really is worth what the price is at about $59.99 Australian 
 money. Then you get this addictive game with so many features, it deserves a pat on the back. If 
 you find any better deals than this, it makes matters better (and prices do go lower, this is a 
 high price) . A whopping 9/10
  
  Overall: To sum my theory up, it is a game that is well worth buying and playing around with. However, 
 I don't garuntee you will like it like me and a lot of other gamers do. If you feel this is you, 
 rent it for a while and decide then. But overall, it is a 8.5.
  
  By the way, for those who wish to know, I did end up buying the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The making of an RTS on DS has been done many times before; it just has not been done very well, 
 with the possible exception of Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings. Lock's Quest is here to set things 
 right and prove that the DS can harbor a mean RTS.
  
  As a Tower Defense Game, Lock's Quest never gets overly complicated, nor does it reach the point 
 where it feels dumbed down. The premise is simple; defend an object or person (s) from invading 
 clockworks. Building defensive structures is the only way to stop these unwelcome 'robots,' although 
 Lock himself can pull a powerful punch.
  
  Gameplay is broken down into two main phases: Build and Battle.
  
  During the build phase, 
 players place turrets, traps and/or support towers [with the stylus] that all work together in 
 order to defend what the game tells you to defend. The player can also repair damaged towers. There 
 is a time limit to Build mode, usually lasting from 2-4 minutes; players can skip to the end of 
 a countdown if they finish construction early. Unfortunately, the game does not tell you what types 
 of enemies you're up against before the Battle phase, but this is a minor complaint in the game's 
 Presentation.
  
  In the Battle Phase, the player controls Lock with the stylus and camera with the D-Pad/L button. 
 Like in Build phase, there is a timer here; if your objective is not met by the end of the time, 
 you lose and are asked to try again. Lock is controlled simply by tapping where the player wants 
 him to go; tapping on an enemy attacks it and brings up a little mini-game menu. If the player 
 succeeds in the mini-game, which typically lasts a couple seconds, they either give the enemy a 
 negative status effect, buff Lock or deal extra damage (depending on which attack is selected) . 
 If Lock is in combat frequently, he gets to perform a Super Move, which can either heal all towers 
 in the map, deal a large amount of damage to nearby enemies or give status effects. Until useful 
 support towers are introduced, Lock will also be needed to repair towers while being attacked by 
 advancing clockworks.
  
  Unfortunately, when moving Lock along he can frequently get stuck in some maps throughout the game. 
 It's not as big of a problem as it sounds, but it can be frustrating, especially when playing on 
 a high difficulty setting.
  
  Although a simple formula, the game gets complex when new buildings and enemies are introduced; 
 you'll end up getting everything you'd expect from a TD (Poison towers, freezing traps, healing 
 structures) and more inventive ideas. If you have the slightest love for TD's, Lock's Quest will 
 not disappoint.
  
  At about 10-15 hours for skilled players, Lock's Quest is not especially long; if you have a friend 
 with another copy, multiplayer can be a blast for a little while. The game is also very replayable, 
 given its short missions perfect for portable play and addictive forumula.
  
  Lock's Quest is not a story-driven game, but it has a decent tale to tell. It's cutscenes are incredible 
 from an artistic point of view and the epic soundtrack helps the feel of the game. To help further 
 the Presentaion, Lock's Quest is a good-looking game, especially when there are dozens of enemies 
 on-screen without a hint of slow down.
  
  There really isn't much to complain about when discussing Lock's Quest. Sure, it can be vague, 
 and it has some control issues. But overall, this is one of the most impressive titles to hit the 
 platform all year, and it easily tops this year's non-existant home console RTS offerings. If you've 
 ever enjoyed a TD, do yourself a favor and pick Lock's Quest up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsiPhiTy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Far too many games are made in which the description doe shte game no justice or the game isn't 
 what the description cracks it up to be. THere is a flash version of this atached to thier promotional 
 site which give you a good feel for the game in full... kind-of. You see, of all the games where 
 the descriptions are different from the actual contents, in the case, the game, if you have read 
 and like the description, chances are you will enjoy the game as well because the description here 
 is highly HIGHLY accurate to the game play feel, action and contents. It can feel repetitive, mostly 
 if you are playing it wrong. There is strategy here that can easily be missed if you are playing 
 the game wrong. You may feel as though the game is easy at the onset, the reality IS that the game 
 ramps up in difficulty rather quickly.
  Simply stated, if you like the description, GET IT, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Lock's Quest seems like a perfect fit for the DS. Take a lite-RTS style game where you control 
 one character. 
  
  However, this character can not only fight enemies on screen with a simple tap. He can also, before 
 a match starts, create walls and cannons to fortify the area he wants to defend, giving it a "Defend 
 Your Castle" or "Pixeljunk Monsters" feel to the game. 
  
  There's also a variety of shooting and "siege" mini-games sprinkled throughout the game to diversify 
 the action on-screen.
  
  However, to make this game work you need a responsive control scheme, which Lock's Quest sadly 
 doesn't have. Dragging your character to one spot can become painfully tedious and does a number 
 to your hand on the DS. On top of that, tapping the numbers for stronger attacks doesn't respond 
 as well as it should, leading to frustrating deaths.
  
  The placing of walls is also made frustrating not only by the control screen, but because of a 
 placed time limit to do so that seems rather unneccesary to put in. Having to put a lot of your 
 time limit just to correctly place your wall when it should be easy ends up being one of the more 
 annoying problems with this game.
  
  In the end, Lock's Quest had a lot going for it, but ends up being a disappointing game that I 
 hope improves greatly when the sequel is eventually released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fast1marine
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Overview Lock's Quest is only the second game from new developer 5th Cell, the innovative Drawn 
 to Life being their first title. This game has the essence of both a real time strategy and a turn 
 based strategy. Summed up, it is similar to Tower Defense from Warcraft 3. The game takes place 
 in an original world in which one type of profession is the literal architect of aspirations, if 
 we were to refer to George Costanza, that profession being the Archineer. The Archineer uses a 
 mystical material known simply as "source" to build walls and defenses to help his fellow citizens 
 from the menace of the clockwork army. As it is explained to you in the beginning an Archineer 
 way back in the day was experimenting with this mystical source material and tried to use it to 
 bring mechanical things to life, which in this universe is the parallel of summoning Satan himself. 
 So the King says "Hey cut that **** out", bad dude says "Screw you, I'm going to make a huge mechanical 
 army and come back to kick you ass". So a war ensues and our antagonist is apparently killed in 
 the final assault on his fortress. Although with the recent surge of clockwork raids it's quite 
 obvious that the bad fellow is still kicking. So all this leads to your character, a young fellow 
 who is interested in a career as an Archineer, but has only had informal apprentice training. He 
 must use the skills he has learned to initially help his village against the clockwork army and 
 eventually help save the entire kingdom. The story isn't ground breaking but it's decent, not cheesy, 
 and serves the purpose of the game very well. Also your character is Lock, I add this at the end 
 because I've heard sometimes people lack contextual reading skills.
  
  Gameplay So after you watch the little introduction to the universe your character occupies, which 
 has some animation that is quite stunning, you get thrown into a little tutorial. In which your 
 character is building a sea wall to protect his village, then after that you get thrown into some 
 combat to save a fellow who is being attacked by some clockwork baddies. The tutorial is fairly 
 quick and the interface is very simple and does a good job of using the stylus and the top screen. 
 It's used to show a mini-map of the entire area you are defending so you can see incoming bad guys. 
 Now although most of the game is controlled through the stylus, one of my favorite things is that 
 it doesn't find every obnoxious way possible to use the stylus. It only uses it for what it's appropriate 
 for. I say this because there are some games that get way to excited about the stylus function 
 and you end up having to do some really obnoxious **** that's just annoying. 5th Cell avoided being 
 stupid about it which I really appreciate. I just wish Nintendo would try to discourage going nuts 
 with some of the more gimmicky features that you run into with systems like the DS and the Wii. 
 The game basically operates in two different modes, build and battle. Build obviously coming first. 
 So in the build mode you create your defenses with walls, turrets, and traps designed to stop your 
 attackers. Building these costs resources or source that I was referring to earlier. You acquire 
 source by defeating clock work enemies, when you kill them they drop source and sometimes they 
 drop scrap as well. Scrap is basically little pieces of the clockwork army that you use to design 
 new turrets and traps. There is also a mini game once you reach the capitol that allows you to 
 earn extra source in your upcoming battles. Then we have battle mode. I didn't mention it earlier 
 but you have a limited amount of time in build mode to construct your defenses, usually 2 to 4 
 minutes. In battle mode you have to hold out for a certain amount of time, when the time is up, 
 your enemies break down and crumble. During the battle you have two basic options on how to encounter 
 your enemies. You can fight them directly with melee attacks along with different special attacks 
 that you acquire throughout the game. The other option that you have is to repair and upkeep your 
 fortifications as they are damaged. Usually the best strategy is a combination of both. Some missions 
 will have specific objectives that require your character to venture outside your fortifications, 
 when you accomplish them, the battle ends early.
  
  Pros Controls. The controls are simple and easy to pick up, and as a result makes the game very 
 easy for anyone to pick up and play. Yet on the same hand it's not easy, it requires some creative 
 thinking to design good fortifications, but whoever said creativity was a bad thing? Well I'm sure 
 someone did but I don't like them and neither should you. Story. A good story that's only there 
 when it needs to be. I like a good story because it pulls you into the game and makes the things 
 you're doing in the game have a lot more meaning. What I mean by "only there when it needs to be" 
 is that the story isn't trying to pull off some obnoxious Final Fantasy crap, when it's there it's 
 interesting and when it shouldn't be there, well it isn't. Saving games. One reason I've always 
 been a PC gamer as opposed to a console guy is save games. PC games have always been the pinnacle 
 of saving whenever you want, consoles usually just screw it up. Minus during cinematic and dialogue 
 sequences you can save any time you damn well please.
  
  Cons Movement. The one thing that I really noticed was the character movement. Sometimes in battle 
 if there are more than two enemies around you, your character just refuses to go anywhere. It's 
 not really that terrible but it can annoy you if it happens at the right time. I also had a few 
 issues with the point and move function and having my character going through doorways but it was 
 easily solved by using the drag movement method. Camera position. The camera is in a fixed position. 
 Sometimes it's just hard to see if you blocking every nook and cranny with your walls, and it happened 
 a couple of times where I missed something and I had clockworks all up in my **** It could just 
 be my own fault for being a dumb ass though.
  
  Buy If you like real time strategy or turn based strategy games as it serves as a nice middle ground 
 for both. It also is a buy for anyone who likes building Sims, as a fan of those as well it did 
 appeal to my need to construct.
  
  Don't Buy Obviously if you don't like strategy games, also if you're not a fan of anime since a 
 lot of the story has an anime look and feel, but to be honest even if you don't like that you still 
 probably wouldn't mind it. There aren't to many reasons not to buy unless of course you just don't 
 have time to play it.
  
  Most games for the Nintendo DS end up being just cutesy and good for some novelty, while only a 
 few actually break away from that mold and end up being good games. This one does that and ends 
 up being a very enjoyable experience because of it, which easily helps this game earn 8 Chewbacca 
 Points.
  
  Copyright 2008 Nerd Transmission
  www. nerdtransmission. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgba
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  I just love these kind of games. you can run and attack other idiots.. You battle large armies in 
 the game
  {well at the ending of the game} There are bosses and other stuff. The best part is you can design 
 fort to keep your defences, you can set traps to hurt your enemy or do some other thing and you 
 can put cannons to hurt your opponents when they attack you. The game is kinda long. I 
  only took about 30 hrs because i couldent beat this leavel. The other bad thing about this is game 
 is that it only has 1 charactor you can fight with. I think. BEcause i havent completed the whole 
 game. I just thought i would rate it right now. So yeahhhhhhhhhhh. Oh yeah another bad thing is no 
 magic and no items. But when you can run around and heal your hp then who needs items? IF you 
  like these ff12, lost magic and all thoes other games like that then get this 
 
  its only like $30 bucks. your main object is always to protect something i think or to kill the 
 boss and protect.
  The way to win a battle is to survive until the time is 0.
  I think you have to do this 6 times. But sometimes at the sixth battle you probly have to face a 
 boss. And when you go to the second lvl more armies come. I would reccomed anyone getting this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this relatively short, since I've already discussed the game elsewhere. But it's 
 a game that certainly deserves attention, and I hope fans of this type of gameplay give it a look-see.
 
  
  Lock's Quest is based upon the Tower Defense style of gameplay, but you also have direct control 
 over Lock during skirmishes. There are two main phases during events: Building Mode and Battle 
 Mode. During the Building Mode, you're given a short amount of time to construct and repair defenses, 
 lay traps, and research new items. Once that phase is over, you move into the Battle Mode. What 
 makes this part so enjoyable is the control you have over Lock. You can command him to repair towers 
 or engage enemies in one-on-one combat. During both activities, Lock can either add special abilities 
 to his attacks or more quickly repair tower pieces by successfully playing through a variety of 
 micro games. They're cool, little tidbits thrown into the furious action, and it's what sets this 
 game greatly apart from any other take on the Tower Defense formula.
  
  In-game graphics aren't great, but they aren't terrible, either; they're just plain and uninspired. 
 But the presentational cutscenes are beautiful, and the sound effects add a really visceral quality 
 to the micro games. The music is nothing special, but the instrumentation is top notch. The story 
 isn't console quality, but I'd say it's almost on par with Golden Sun, sans the epic length and 
 depth.
  
  There are a couple of drawbacks to the gameplay, however. The main culprit being the pathing for 
 Lock during Battle Modes. Since this is mostly a Tower Defense-type game, there are lots of environmental 
 objects on the field, and Lock gets hung up on them often. In the later levels, it really can become 
 quite frustrating, though it rarely hinders gameplay to the point of failing a skirmish.
  
  In the end, though, the game has so much originality and so many truly fun ideas thrown in that 
 it's just really enjoyable to play. The whole production is very polished, and the package offers 
 a lot of bang for your buck. It gets pretty dang hard later on, but it remains fun pretty much 
 the entire way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aniljoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  What can i say ... the game ... is just too good. The concept of the game involving both a strategic 
 build phase, an attack mode as well as a small part rpg mode is well "revolutionary" or at least 
 amazing. I mean, i have seen a lot of games but nothing of this sort on the DS. Sure there are 
 games like age of empires, advance wars, etc etc but those kind of games are too intense and strategic 
 to the max. But here is a game which provides the same RTS genre but with the exception that you 
 feel like playing an rpg title. The multiplayer mode is an amazing feature of this game, and allows 
 you to play head on battles with your friends.
  I don't know what the majority populous will think about the game but I'll definitely tell you, 
 that this game is definitely worth playing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I only got the game a few days ago, and I love it. This game is a real time strategy, something 
 that the ds needed, and it's a success. Sure you don't have armies of archers and swordsmen, in 
 face you're a one man army, with lots of turrets and traps helping you =D. The campaign is nice, 
 I just started, and the first chapter is good at telling you what to do. The game may be easy for 
 many people, the default difficulty is normal, so you can just set it to hard in options. I have 
 no idea how long the campaign is, but so far so good. There's local multiplayer, multi card, I 
 have no idea what it's like, but im just saying that's one type of game play. 
  Overall the game is defiantly worth it. It'll keep you attached. The downfalls are, there's no 
 free mode, and there's no wi-fi. Sure those are downfalls, some a bigger downfall then others, 
 but the game is well worth it. Two thumbs up!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
