-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Looney Tunes: Duck Amuck
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/looneytoonsduckamuck/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Figuring out all of the ways you can annoy Daffy and then watching him react is fun.
 Seamless melding of video clips and game graphics makes you feel like you really are interacting with Daffy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There aren't enough minigames, and most of them are lame anyway.
 Shorter than a Looney Toons episode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 57 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: WayForward
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Interacting with Daffy Duck and watching animated sequences unfold is fun, but there's barely a 
 half-hour's worth of entertainment here. 

  In 1953, Warner Bros. produced the now-classic animated short "Duck Amuck," in which an unseen 
 animator does everything in his power to frustrate Daffy Duck. The scenery is constantly erased 
 and redrawn, forcing Daffy from one costume change to the next. At one point, the animator erases 
 Daffy's body and transforms him into a bizarre cross between a lizard and a houseplant. Between 
 all of the frequent scene changes and the numerous instances of Daffy expressing his indignation 
 to both the animator and the audience, "Duck Amuck" is seven minutes' worth of hilarity that's 
 still side-splittingly funny even in today's cynical times. Looney Tunes: Duck Amuck for the Nintendo 
 DS is basically the video game rendition of this classic cartoon. In it, you draw on the touch 
 screen and blow into the microphone to interact with Daffy Duck and play minigame gags meant to 
 torture him, leading to one hilarious animated sequence after another until the poor frustrated 
 duck literally blows his top.  

           Tap the stick repeatedly and it will break, causing the black curtain to smack Daffy on 
 the head.      

  The game opens in unique fashion, with Daffy standing idle on the touch screen, vocally berating 
 you to get his adventure started. From there, you'll discover that tapping Daffy causes him to 
 squirm, drawing the stylus across him cuts him in half, and tapping the white space around him 
 causes various things to happen in the background. For example, swiping a corner of the screen 
 will tear a piece of the background away. In turn, Daffy will react, make a comment about "duck 
 tape," and place a piece of tape over the rip. Pulling the tape away will send Daffy into a wordy 
 tirade and eventually initiate a minigame. Another inspired interaction involves tapping Daffy's 
 body to make an eraser appear. Using the stylus, you then get to erase his body and draw him a 
 new one -- which he'll be wearing during the track-and-field minigame that follows.  

  Figuring out all of the ways you can mess with Daffy and discovering how to initiate minigames 
 is a big part of the game's charm. The truly delightful thing, though, is that the transitions 
 between the interface, minigames, and the recorded animated scenes that play out as a consequence 
 are seamless. You'll tap Daffy and drop an anvil on his head, and he'll pace around delivering 
 a slobbery verbal tirade while the background for the next minigame fills behind him. Once the 
 minigame is done, Daffy will be thrown, smashed, or exploded directly into a 10- or 20-second animated 
 scene showing his unfortunate fate. Afterward, he'll tromp back to the white interface screen where 
 you can return to poking him and get the process going all over again. In total, the cartridge 
 contains a solid 20 minutes' worth of high-quality cartoon clips and recorded voice dialogue. And 
 it's Grade A comedy, too, chock full of references to modern video games and other classic Looney 
 Tunes cartoons.  

  Unfortunately, while the execution is innovative and delightful, the minigames themselves are a 
 major letdown, both in terms of quality and quantity. Twenty-two different single-player games 
 and three wireless head-to-head games isn't much content when you consider each game lasts five 
 rounds of about 10 seconds each. Worst of all, for every minigame that's genuinely fun and engaging, 
 there are three or four that are just plain garbage. Dropping TNT onto Daffy while he's skiing 
 is amusing, as is the Robin Hood game that involves blowing into the microphone to guide an arrowlike 
 Daffy over obstacles as he sails toward his intended target. Sadly, though, the major share of 
 minigames involve inane things like bouncing generic food items off of walls or rotating arrows 
 to guide an electric current from one side of a maze to the other. It's the sort of drudgery that 
 will irritate you as much as it will our fine feathered friend, Daffy.  

  Looney Tunes: Duck Amuck is a truly brilliant concept that's almost completely ruined by the limited 
 selection of generally crummy minigames. You'll find yourself smiling quite a bit for the first 
 30 minutes or so, as you discover all of the ways you can interact with Daffy, uncover new minigames, 
 and watch the different animated sequences unfold. However, once you've seen everything there is 
 to see, you'll probably shut the game off and never feel compelled to play it again. To put it 
 bluntly: "Duck Amuck" works as a seven-minute-long animated cartoon that doesn't cost anything 
 to see, but it fails as a video game because it can't even muster an hour of entertainment for 
 the 30-dollar asking price.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jon_To_The_C
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Being the Looney Tunes fan that I am, I saw this game advertised and fell for it. In fact, the 
 very first time that I saw the actual episode "Duck Amuck" so many years ago, I had wished that 
 they would create some sort of game so that I could torture Daffy Duck as well.
  
  That wish came true. Unfortunately, the game turned out to be a bummer. It seemed like a rush-job. 
 It was disappointing, as the game just had so much potential.
  
  The game DID have a couple good points. Poking and prodding at Daffy was fun and couple of the 
 mini-games were entertaining on the first try. After that, things went downhill.
  
  For one thing, the game was just way too short. The mini-games all took little more than an hour 
 or two to get through them all. And they were painfully easy. There was very little challenge.
 
  
  Secondly, it was redundant. The only thing that could make the game go for a little longer was 
 the coin collecting, which was basically done by clicking on shining-spots on the screen when they 
 appeared at set-instances. So in other words, unless you wanted to sink low enough to follow a 
 game guide, one would be playing the mini-games over and over trying to find all the coins.
  
  So in the end, you end up having a game that will make you laugh for about an hour. A day later, 
 you're trying to get back into it, but it's honestly all "been there, done that", as there's nothing 
 new left to do. In all likelihood, you'll end up never touching this game again until the day comes 
 that you take it to trade in at the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic8846
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off with the good: the graphics are nice and true to the cartoon, and Daffy's voice 
 sounds just like it did during all the old shows. The backround music is passable, and that's about 
 it.
  
  "Now, how can I give it such a terrible score with great sound and graphics?" you may ask. Well, 
 there's about 5 minutes of fun in the entire game. I'm dead serious. The game doesn't even seem 
 to hide it, seeing as you encounter the end credits every ten minutes or so. The goal it to fill 
 Daffy's anger meter, a ridiculously easy feat. Thing is, the game fills it a bit EVEN IF YOU LOSE. 
 That's right, this is one of the first games in history you can beat by losing repeatedly. 
  
  Now, the game starts you off with a blank, white screen with Daffy standing in he middle. Get 
 used to it, because you'll be seeing this screen a lot. You then proceed to poke Daffy until something 
 happens. Namely, the screen tears or Daffy carrys in a few paint cans. These will lead to minigames, 
 depending on what you do with the paint or how Daffy handles the rip. Of course, the games are 
 no fun and repetative. I honestly got more playtime out of the minigames in New Super Mario Bros. 
 And if that wasn't bad enough, you'll end up playing the same crappy minigames and watching the 
 same dull cutscenes OVER AND OVER AGAIN. And that reminds me, the cutscenes. They are devoid of 
 humor, entertainment, or any of the charm that the old cartoons provide. I didn't even chuckle 
 on my three beatings of the game (roughly 20 minutes) . This is the first game I have returned the 
 day I bought, and I advise that you go out of your way to prevent anyone you know from making the 
 same mistake I did. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME, PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunestar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Ever since Chuck Jones brought us Duck Dodgers and the Road Runner, I've noticed how many of his 
 shorts have been transformed into video games. The Road Runner scored two on Genesis and SNES, 
 while Bugs received one on the SNES (Rabbit Rampage) , and Daffy scored two as Duck Dodgers on the 
 SNES and N64.
  
  So it's not surprising the DS would get an appropriate game based on Jones' classic LT Short, Duck 
 Amuck.
  
  Basically anyone recalls this short, especially if you've watched The Bugs Bunny/Road Runner Movie: 
 Daffy ends up at the mercy of an unknown animator who torments him relentlessly by putting him 
 in odd scenes, messing with his character design and even the sound fx. Later we discover the Wascally 
 Wabbit is behind Daffy's malady.
  
  Thus here in Looney Tunes: Duck Amuck, you have the same premise. Except here, you're the one tormenting 
 the duck with your DS Stylus, putting him in situations familiar to him and with a bit of a DS 
 twist .
  
  For instance, there is one minigame which spoofs the DS Pictochat function where you and Daffy 
 have a battle of wits with words and images. Another deals with a clever spoof of Brain Age and 
 Cooking Mama where you help a certain Rabbit stew a duck.
  
  Whereas the other minigames are based on classic events taken from the cartoon, like the black 
 drop falling on Daffy where you have to smash his sticks to make it fall on him.
  
  LT: DA does put an interesting twist on the casual gaming genre, where Daffy does seem to interact 
 with you at times. In fact when you go back to play the game he quips, Well, look who's back! Sheesh, 
 you sure took your sweet time! 
  
  The only problem here is, some of the minigames you have to figure out through trial-and-error 
 like the one where you have to move a flame on a trail of gas towards Daffy, or the Duck Dodgers 
 one where you can tap the Instant Martians out of the way in order to complete the circuit.
  
  Also accessing some of the games you want is a bit tricky, since some happen randomly, and 
 the ones you 'unlock' can be accessed either by tossing Daffy off-screen to the left , summoning 
 a menu, or if you know what stunt will make the duck respond correctly. Sometimes it's easy to 
 get Daffy mad to where you can see the ending of the game. Which seems a bit too swift to do, especially 
 if you're really good at these games.
  
  The only thing making it replayable happens to be the fact Warner Bros Games managed to retain 
 the classic Chuck Jones' atmosphere of the characters and short it was based on. Also the hidden 
 coins (which you can access by tapping on glittering stars randomly appearing during the cutscenes) 
 make it a challenge to unlock other new games along the way.
  
  So far my favorite of the groups happens to be the Piano Bomb game where you trick Daffy to get 
 blown up by his own dynamite keyboard, and the rare Creature Hunt where you have to close the DS 
 and listen to Daffy's instructions in order to hunt down a certain red-haired monster.
  
  Overall, Duck Amuck is great for those who love the minigames of Brain Age and the retro arcade 
 game titles, but just want to have mindless fun aggravating the little black duck. The only beef 
 I have with Daffy's foray into the world of handhelds however is, the games are a bit short, and 
 not much challenging once you figure out the strategy behind them. There are a few like Robin Hood 
 and Cannon Fodder where skill is involved getting the duck his due, but most are just fun games 
 you can get through with ease. While the Daffy Events only let you pass through Five Levels, the 
 Menu-Select Screen allows you to go through Ten, earning you a better rating and even a Daffy Anger 
 Head (if you can get through the levels without making one mistake) .
  
  Other than that, LT: Duck Amuck is something worth giving a try if you're looking for something 
 just to have fun with, especially after you've been drained playing Zelda or waiting for another 
 epic game to come along the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCruel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I read the reviews of this game, saying how bad the minigames were, and so was leery about taking 
 the $30 plunge for this title, but I'm glad I did. It's more like Electroplankton - although you 
 do have a clear objective, that is, to be the unseen nemesis for a hapless cartoon duck, it's more 
 of an excuse to screw around with your DS for a few minutes (or, in my case, a few hours) .
  
  The game might not be for everyone. It's clear the designers are out to screw with the head 
 of the player as much as the Duck - you basically poke and prod Daffy until something random happens, 
 which usually puts you into a minigame where the rules have to be puzzled out . Once triggered, 
 you can go back to a minigame by basically picking Daffy up and throwing him off the left side 
 of the screen. The minigames, however, are hardly mind-taxing, and you can usually figure them 
 out quickly enough - if not, pausing the game will give you a hint as to what you should do.
  
  If you're the sort who wants a straightforward game, with specific objectives and difficult 
 puzzles, this isn't the game for you. If you'd rather waste some time screwing around with a cartoon 
 duck, and especially if you're a fan of the old Looney Tunes shorts (as I am) , this is a must-have. 
 I'm glad I bought it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
