-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: LostMagic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/lostmagic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent controls.
 Clean, colorful visuals.
 Enjoyable offline multiplayer duels.
 Varied level design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Micromanaging monster movement.
 Laggy online play.
 Rollercoaster difficulty.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 6.9, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Apr 25, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
LostMagic is a role-playing game that starts well and gets deeper and better as you spend more time 
 with it. 

  The Nintendo DS stylus has performed many different functions in its relatively short life, ranging 
 from the inspired to the impractical. In LostMagic, an action role-playing game from Taito, you 
 get to use your stylus both as a magic wand and as a tool for commanding units on real-time strategy 
 battlefields. LostMagic's varied use of the stylus is undoubtedly one of its strongest features, 
 and the good news is that the game backs up its great control system with an engaging, story-driven 
 adventure mode; good multiplayer support; clean, colorful visuals; a decent soundtrack; and loads 
 of cool monsters that you can choose to kill or capture in every level.  

          LostMagic's story is told through conversations that the protagonist has with other characters. 
     

  In LostMagic, you assume the role of a young mage named Isaac who sets out to find the father that 
 he hasn't seen in years and winds up with the fate of the whole world resting on his shoulders. 
 The storyline has plenty of interesting twists and turns, and although Isaac's noncombat interactions 
 with other characters are mostly limited to linear conversations, they're an interesting bunch 
 and you never really know who you can trust. Many of the other mages that you encounter in the 
 game, for example, spend parts of the game under the influence of the evil Diva of Twilight, and 
 the only way for you to free them from her spell is to defeat them in battle.  

  Real-time battles are what LostMagic is all about -- you don't walk around towns and talk to people, 
 you don't wander aimlessly around a world map hoping to avoid random encounters, and you certainly 
 don't waste any time scouring areas for clues as to what you're supposed to do next. You fight 
 battles, you move between key locations on the world map instantly, you fight more battles, and 
 you occasionally get a dose of storyline via brief and mostly linear conversations that Isaac has 
 with other characters. LostMagic deals with exploration and conversation in such a way that neither 
 can really be considered gameplay features, which is just fine, because the last thing you want 
 is to get bogged down with that stuff in between the game's enjoyable and surprisingly varied battles. 

  At the start of your adventure, you have access to only a handful of spells, including fireball 
 and ice-shard projectiles, as well as the ability to heal yourself. There are six schools of magic 
 in the game, which can be divided up into three pairs that are particularly effective when used 
 against each other: fire versus water, light versus dark, and earth versus wind. Most of the monsters 
 that you'll be battling are attuned to one of the six elements, and you can generally tell which 
 one it is by paying attention to what color they are. Water monsters are blue for the most part, 
 for example, while earth monsters are brown and light monsters are yellow. Choosing the right spells 
 for the job is crucial when attempting to kill monsters, but the real challenge comes when you 
 decide that you want to catch one so that you can choose to have it fight alongside you in subsequent 
 engagements.  

          You'll need a good selection of monsters on your roster if you want to save the world. 
     

  To catch a monster in LostMagic, you have to beat it to within a pixel of its life and then cast 
 a trap spell in its vicinity. If the trap succeeds, you'll add the monster (a pair or a trio of 
 them, in fact) to your roster, which has room for almost 70 different types. Your mission objectives 
 in LostMagic invariably involve killing all of the monsters on a level, protecting villagers while 
 killing all of the monsters on a level, or killing a bunch of monsters en route to a battle with 
 a rival mage. Sounds simple right? Wrong. Succeeding in many of the game's levels -- which are played 
 against some pretty tight time limits -- requires not only mad stylus spell-casting skills, but also 
 good strategic thinking and, in many cases, the right monsters at your side. Choosing monsters 
 that are attuned to an element that works well against your enemies is one of the most obvious 
 examples of this, but you'll also find that certain levels are a lot easier if you have minions 
 that can fly, fire projectiles, or move quickly. Furthermore, you'll find items that you can use 
 to buff monsters' abilities as you progress through the game, and these can make a huge difference 
 when used wisely.  

  Controlling all of the monsters under your command is pretty simple. You use the stylus to click 
 on or drag a circle around the monsters that you want to move, and then you touch the area that 
 you want them to move to. Your monsters will engage enemies that come within range automatically, 
 and their only real failing is their complete inability to navigate corners and obstacles without 
 some degree of micromanagement. You start the majority of the battles alongside your chosen monsters, 
 and aside from the monsters that you occasionally leave behind to block up enemy-spawning portals, 
 you can pretty much keep them close for the entire level -- healing them with your magic as necessary. 
 Some of the more challenging levels force you to split up your winning team, though, and they even 
 go so far as to start you at opposite ends of the map, which is when having to micromanage your 
 monsters every move gets problematic.  

   

      

  For better or for worse, beating levels in LostMagic is often a case of trial and error. You'll 
 have no idea what enemies and objectives are waiting for you the first time you enter a level, 
 so you'll often end up playing them at least twice just so that you have the right monsters at 
 your side. With that said, there are very few levels in the game that are impossible to beat if 
 you're rolling with the wrong crowd -- they're just a  lot  harder. The difficulty level of the game 
 can feel like a rollercoaster at times, but you've always got the option to backtrack to previous 
 battlefields to capture monsters that you need or simply to level up before attempting a difficult 
 level again.  

          Some of the more-powerful spells in the game are quite spectacular.     

  Trial and 
 error also comes into play when you gain the ability to combine multiple spells. You'll be taught 
 a total of 18 different spells (each with its own shape for you to draw) as you progress through 
 the game, and by combining two or even three of these shapes, it's possible to cast far more powerful 
 spells. A simple example of this would be the fireball spell, which is performed simply by drawing 
 an inverted V on the touch screen. Follow that shape with one from another school of magic, and 
 it'll be a completely different projectile that gets hurled at your enemy. There are almost 400 
 different spells for you to find in LostMagic, and while many of them are variations on the same 
 themes but using different elements, some really are quite spectacular. Fireballs are nice and 
 all, but they're not nearly as cool as being able to summon dragons, turn enemies into walking 
 time bombs, or call meteorites down from the sky -- all of which are possible once you figure out 
 the correct spell combinations.  

  In addition to its enjoyable single-player adventure, LostMagic boasts a multiplayer duel mode 
 in which you can pit your skills (and your monsters) against those of other players. If you choose 
 to use the character and monsters that you've collected and leveled up in the single-player game, 
 they'll continue to earn experience on the multiplayer battlefield provided your opponent is of 
 a similar or higher level. Alternatively, the both of you can choose to use preset characters and 
 monsters of the same level, although the majority of these choices can only be selected once you've 
 defeated them in the single-player game.  

  Duels can be played wirelessly with friends nearby or online with other players from all over the 
 world, though we found the two experiences to be quite different. When playing locally, the game 
 was completely lag-free, and although some of our battles ended up being quite tactical, splitting 
 up the group was rarely a winning strategy, regardless of the fact that there are plenty of powerful 
 area-of-effect spells in a mage's arsenal.  

          Roll with the right monsters, and there's no enemy you can't defeat.     

  Without 
 exception, the games of LostMagic that we played online suffered from noticeable lag. After choosing 
 to play against a friend, a rival (player of similar ability) , or a completely random opponent, 
 both players will have an opportunity to vote for the map that they'd like to play on, and then 
 the duel to the death plays out in the same way as it does when playing locally -- except that it's 
 completely different due to the lag. Fractions of a second can mean the difference between life 
 and death in LostMagic, so playing the game when every spell you cast and move you make is delayed 
 can be an exercise in frustration at times. Playing the game while dealing with lag can feel a 
 bit like chess at times, since you need to think two moves ahead and anticipate your opponent's 
 actions whenever possible. Online play is still fun, but the lag is unfortunate nonetheless.  

 
  LostMagic, then, is a game that combines some of the best features of action RPGs and real-time 
 strategy games, and then throws a Pokmon-style monster collection and a moves (ok, spells) list 
 that's comparable to those of any fighting game into the mix. The result is a thoroughly enjoyable 
 game that, although not without a few flaws and frustrations, starts well and simply gets deeper 
 and better as you spend more time with it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (120 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kirby684reader
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Lost magic is a great game that many people don't appreciate. Over four hundred spells and plenty 
 of enemies to fight, this game is great. With wifi it is even better. The story and concept is great 
 and the attack method is also satisfactory. The player must draw runes to use spells and that can 
 be quite difficult sometimes. The graphics aren't bad and the music is great. The game is a mixture 
 of action, roleplaying, and strategy. The bosses can be quite the challenge sometimes. This game 
 provides endless hours of entertaintment and once it is beaten you can beat it again with the same 
 profile. Each time you start over you can make different decisions in the game. Monsters can be 
 captured and used as your minions. and the multiplayer is quite fun when people get creative. The 
 battle variables are endless. I would recomend this game to anyone looking for a fantasy action 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 29, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Just let me say that this game is hard. Not just kinda hard, or sorta hard. It is HARD. That, and 
 you need quick reflexes and good timing to beat a level. This game starts out promising with the 
 very unique way you can customize your spells and level up your person. But as you go, you will 
 realize that no matter what spell you've choosed, it's still way too hard.
  
  The graphics are semi-decent. They aren't great and take a while to get used to. The sound is kinda 
 fun at points. But can get repetitive if you're repeating levels over and over again due to the 
 high level of difficulty, then you will probably get sick of it like I did.
  
  This game should be only touched by people with very high patience or are just looking to test 
 themselves. This game is reccomended by me to only a certain audience, this game is without a doubt 
 not for everyone. Happy Gaming
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic is a great game. The core of it is casting spells by drawing symbols on the touch screen 
 with the stylus which works really well and is fun to do. You can also combine spells later in 
 the game to do bigger, cooler attacks. On the map, you move your character by touching him with 
 the stylus and touching the point you want him to go to, which also works well. You can also capture 
 monsters that fight for you, which is pretty cool, and they feel kind of like Pokemon as they level 
 up and fight on the battlefield. The story is all right too and (if I remember correctly) is pretty 
 emotional and deep as you can alter which direction the story goes and make the ending dramatically 
 different each time you play. Overall, LostMagic is a great RTS game with good controls and is 
 just an all-around good game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffinthraka
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  With your single character this is a great game. A little hard but if you walk around the wood 
 at the beginning of the game you'll soon level up. The addition of monsters is great, the spells 
 are great and although the difficulty is quite high it's a fun game.
  
  The biggest problems come about three quarters of the way through the game when you hit level 50 
 and stop, the same is true of your monsters. So now whilst all your enemies slowly get stronger 
 you no longer are, great.
  
  The second problem is collision detection, so often monsters (and you) walk into walls, sometimes 
 just a single pixel is touching the wall, and it stops. This means you must micro manage all your 
 monsters.
  
  The spells become annoying, half of them I never use and the other half seem to be quite similar.
 
  
  The graphics are my biggest complaint. After watching FF12 RW's FMVs and comparing them to the 
 GBA type of Lostmagic I just feel annoyed.
  
  The other problem is the plot, often dialogue confuses rather than helps, such as when our character 
 meets his mother. The whole scene is awfully executed and ou feel no emotion regarding the scene.
 
  
  There are other niggling complaints, you can't leave battles, only exit to the menu, which means 
 if you didn't save your game... oops. 
  
  There are also times when you're unsure what you're meant to do and why you're doing it. 
  
 
  I've defeated all the mages (a 2nd time!) and now I just want to fight the diva. But no! There 
 is another mission before that (and before that and so on) .
  
  That is the biggest problem, the game becomes soooooo repetative. You've beaten the mages once, 
 so do it again!
  
  I just want to get rid of this and try something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic is a great RTS for the DS. It was also one of the first games to use Wi-Fi. I definetly 
 reccomend it.
  
  You follow the adventure of Issac, a young mage, who has to save the world. It's not an original 
 story (in any sense) , but your'e not going to be playing this game for a great story. However, 
 the story does arc at one point, and the ending reflects on your dialouge choices early in the 
 game. 
  
  LostMagic is all about touch control. You control ythe action on the bottom screen, by touching 
 the unit you want to select (or by draggin a circle, if you want to select more than one unit) 
 and point at an area on the screen. Although, units do not automatically go around obstacles, so 
 they can get stuck in areas.
  
  To cast magic, you hold down the L or R button and draw a symbol on the bottom screen. Your basic 
 spells include a fire ball, a rock wall, and a healing spell. Later in the game, you unlock other 
 runes that are more difficult to draw, but have different effects. Later, you can also draw two 
 runes in succesion, which combine to make a new spell. (Level 1 Light spell (heal) + Level 1 earth 
 spell (rock wall) = an area heal spell) Near the end of the game, you can also draw three runes, 
 making even more different spells.
  
  The other catch in the game is that you can capture monsters and can later control them, like your 
 own personal army. Although you can have only three different untis at a time, and you have SP 
 that you have to stay withing (each creature costs a certain amount of SP) . This makes everything 
 different once you learn the spell. Each monster has an element, so you have to plan before battle 
 what monsters you will take with you.
  
  The Wi-Fi in LostMagic is superb. At the beggining you pick the character you would like to use 
 (either your story mode character, or a sage from the story mode) . After finding an opponent, you 
 pick a location, and then you pick your monsters. Human opponents are mcuh harder, and usually 
 have dragons (secret monsters you can capture in the single player) that are very powerful. 
  
  Overall, LostMagic is a great game, and you should buy it if you're an RTS fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Since the DS's release in 2004, there has been a dearth of one of the most popular franchises in 
 gaming: role playing games. Fortunately, Ubisoft fills that void with its title LostMagic, a solid 
 RPG with some innovative twists thrown in.
  
  Many RPGs are known for their deep plots. The plot in LostMagic is simple, but still done well. 
 Isaac Lightbrand is the protagonist of the story, and you follow his journey throughout the world 
 to defeat the Diva of Twilight and restore peace to the land. It's not the most inventive, but 
 what's most interesting about it is the options that the player is given. In numerous situations, 
 you are given options of what to say or do. Many of these decisions will have a direct impact on 
 events that occur in the story. Towards the end of the game, the player is forced to make a heart-wrenching 
 decision; this final plot twist is certainly one of the high points of the game.
  
  The game play in LostMagic is incredibly innovative, and could only have been pulled off on the 
 DS. Throughout the game, you will learn magical runes, which you can then use to cast spells. Runes 
 are performed in a simple yet creative way: they are drawn on the touch screen using the stylus. 
 Also interesting about the rune system is the level of runes: you can perform first, second, or 
 third level runes of any of the six elements (air, fire, water, earth, light, and dark) . The higher 
 the rune level, the more complicated it is to draw. By far the most fun aspect of rune drawing 
 is the potential combinations. Every single rune produces a spell; however, it is also possible 
 to combine up to three runes to create an even more powerful spell. Runes of any level can be combined, 
 so the possibilities are huge. There are a total of about 350 spells in the game, all of which 
 are performed through combinations of just two or three runes.
  
  The second major aspect to game play in LostMagic is the monster system. Monsters roam the land 
 in LostMagic, and using a special rune, you can capture them. Once monsters are captured, you may 
 command about them to complete certain objectives. Each monster has a certain affinity (the affinities 
 are the same as the elements of the rune system) , and this drastically affects their strengths 
 and weaknesses. For example, earth monsters are immune to earth magic, but are particularly harmed 
 by wind magic. This rock-paper-scissors-like battle system adds a huge layer of strategy to each 
 and every battle. This is because despite the huge number of monsters you may capture, you are 
 allowed to take a maximum of three monsters into battle. You must evaluate the terrain and the 
 enemy, and decide which monsters to bring. If you make a mistake and choose monsters that don't 
 fare well in the battle, you'll loose very quickly and easily. The rune and monster system working 
 in conjunction form to make a very interesting and enjoyable game play experience.
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics in LostMagic are sub-par. It seems that in their rush to cram all the 
 innovation possible into the game play mechanic, the developers glossed over more mundane aspects 
 of the game. Everything about the graphics in LostMagic is very simplistic. You move from location 
 to location on a world map that looks like something I could have drawn. When a battle is initiated, 
 a very inelaborate environ. Monsters, both the ones that you control and the enemies, are very 
 amateur. Even the graphics of characters when they are in a conversation aren't that great. Games 
 like Trauma Center and Phoenix Wright have shown that there's such a thing as good 2D graphics 
 on the DS; unfortunately, they're certainly not present in LostMagic.
  
  Like the graphics, the music is also done poorly relative to the rest of the game. While the music 
 is mildly catchy, it's certainly nothing great. Music in games, and especially in RPGs, should 
 serve to immerse you more in the world your playing in. Sadly, the music does not serve that desired 
 effect in LostMagic. Also not as good as they could and should be are the sound effects. There 
 are mild sound effects when you perform a spell or when monsters are fighting, but they seem to 
 be just thrown in there. Frankly, the music is disappointing; it should have served to make the 
 game better. It's not that difficult to get good music in a game, but LostMagic didn't put music 
 high on the lists of priorities.
  
  Like many other RPGs, LostMagic provides a good, lengthy, and challenging game play experience. 
 The game will probably take you around 15 hours to beat. There are several different required battles 
 throughout the game; these battles are always the most difficult. However, the vast majority of 
 the battles that you will fight are random battles, whose sole purpose is to level up your character 
 and monsters. While these battles are what gives the game it's respectable length, they are pretty 
 boring. The objective rarely varies; it's usually just to defeat all the enemy monsters. They're 
 important to beat the game because of the necessary leveling, but you will likely get sick of them 
 pretty soon.
  
  While the random battles are pretty bad, the required battles in LostMagic are very enjoyable. 
 The vast majority of the required battles are when you get to fight an enemy sage. These are very 
 fun and very rewarding. In addition to maneuvering your monsters around and sending them into battle, 
 you can actually duel the opposing sage using your spells. These battles are also what makes the 
 game relatively difficult; you must either be at a pretty high level, or be very good at monster-directing 
 and spell-casting if you wish to clear these levels.
  
  Possibly the most rewarding aspect of LostMagic is the expansive rune system. As said before, there 
 are approximately 350 spells that are available to you in the game, and it's quite a task to perform 
 all of them. The game is great at recording which spells you've casted and which spells you've 
 seen, so it's actually a reasonable goal to achieve all of the spells. Because of the myriad of 
 rune combinations, it's very fun to simply experiment with all the spells. While the random battles 
 are lack any sort of difficulty and are very monotonous, they do serve as a way to practice and 
 experiment with runes.
  
  Replay value in LostMagic is virtually nonexistent. While it has a decent plot and very enjoyable 
 game play, there's just not much incentive to play through it all again. There are two different 
 plot endings, but to be honest, it's not worth replaying the game just to see the one you missed 
 the first time through.
  
  Overall, LostMagic is an enjoyable RPG for the DS. It's strength is obviously in the spell-casting 
 system; it provides tons of depth and strategy to an otherwise simple game. LostMagic may not be 
 a game for the ages, but it certainly has its share of enjoyable moments. RPG fans should definitely 
 look to pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linknightshade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The touch screen style behind the gameplay in this game is brilliant, pure brilliance. I haven't 
 been able to play the multiplayer for anyone wondering as my wireless router... well I just can't 
 ^_^!
  
  The freedom behind different spell effects and types is insanely brilliant!
  
  If your a true mage lord ( (uber geek) ) like myself you will feel right at home having to remember 
 spells as if learning a true spell book yourself! -- You can understand why in certain shows or 
 games certain people will only stick with 1 type of attack, because you feel safe it what it can 
 do and it's easier to pull off!
  
  The times I tried to rush casting a max level spell and failed and then jumped right back to doing 
 lots of quick ones was often, and dangerous -- but, in the end I mastered the shapes beautifully 
 although 1-2 give you trouble even if you do it, to what seems correct.
  
  Final Words: Quite simply maybe I love this game so much because at the time I bought this game 
 I was about half way through Full Metal Alchemist, and THIS is perfect for FMA. This IS the alchemy 
 except simply called magic in a happier world too ^_^, if your a lucky enough FMA fan to see this 
 review dodge the palpable FMA game and get this just call the main guy Alfonse if you like :P -- 
 ^_^.
  
  ANYWAY Lady and Gentleman... ENJOI!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ped101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic is the perfect example of usage of the DS controls. Never before we have seen a game 
 that lets you interact so deeply with the magic within it, and with the gameplay itself. The use 
 of the stylus was perfect and what is the most impressive, is the recognition system for the runes. 
 Because let's face it, it was in everyone's mind when they first bought the game: "Is this going 
 to be one of thos ames that unless you are incredibly specific in the drawings it wont recognize 
 it?" But we were relieved to see that the game does a fairly good job with that, although sometimes 
 we see there are some problems with it
  
  The only solid negative point for this game is the "rollercoaster difficulty" as Gamespot has already 
 put in their review. There are times that you breeze through the game and all of a sudden hit a 
 "brick wall" of sorts, and that is very discouraging. However the fun in having to raw runes faster 
 than you thought possible, choosing in the blink of an eye the right spell, is undeniably fun
 
  
  The sound in the game is disappointing. We have seen better sounds in Gameboy's Pokemon. There 
 are about 2 or 3 battle musics, 1 or 2 theme musics and that is about it. There is no variation, 
 and we saw that the DS is capable of some decend sounding, so on that area the game left us wishing 
 for more. 
  
  In my personal opinion it is a very good game that, although will not please everyone, is very 
 recomendable and garantees hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupidllama1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This was actually a great game. it had moral decisions for your character. allowing you to roam 
 the lands as evil ike if you so chose, or to help those less fortunate than yourself. anyway. the 
 downside to this game is, that after you get so far, alot of your power is stricken away and the 
 game gets much harder. you now not only have no magic staff, you now have to beat all of the element 
 masters again, which was a headache the first time around. but now they are just harder. The game 
 actually has a kind of free range poke'mon feel to it, with the ability to capture monsters that 
 you encounter and use them to aid you in battle, but they are not the main element, although they 
 are necessary. also, the difficulty of the game, which shifts dramatically, and i actually thought 
 it was a major headache, and only prolongued the game, which is either a good thing or a bad thing, 
 depending on your veiw. but the game was an overall success, and used the DS's stylus to its full 
 capacity, and its really a great game, i would definately reccomend it, to not only new, but moderate 
 and even a few heavy gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  when i was at walmart i saw this game i thought it looked kinda fun and cool but i was so wrong. i 
 dont like this game its confusing and the monsters that help you are weak the spells are week. the 
 game is hard you'd have to be a hardcore fantsy kinda person which is kinda me i like shooters 
 and some fantsy but enough about be lets get on with the game its hard its nearly impossible to 
 beat this water wizard guy but i don't recommened this game to many people its good for an hour 
 but then it gets old dusty and BORING!!!!!!
  graphics 5/10 looks like something out of a cheeze-it box
  game play 6/10 can't stand this game
 
  sound 2/10 annoying!!!!
  overall 6/10 not soomthing to make a big fight about like its a really boring game so why bother 
 ? i would save the money and buy something worth it i mean like this game is bad as it can get 
 and whats with the name?
  lost magic? whats lost and wheres the magic because this is not the best game of all time....
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegiman12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  this game is in my view one of the best ds games that there is! this is an absolutely great game, 
 it starts ou slow with only 4 spells once you find them all then not only do you unlock more, you 
 gain the ability to mix and match them to create uber powerful ones! and then depending on the 
 path you choose you can get triple combinations! but even without all that it has immersive gameplay 
 and a deep story line, the game itself is comparable to mariokart DS in tearms of how fun it is. 
 even if this style of game is not your style its still fun having to draw runes and such and seeing 
 what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfury2008
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  It's got a great story line, but has almost like a 'manga' type of play out, useing mainly pictures 
 and the classic speech bubbles for cut scenes. theres realy no exploribility at all to the game, 
 just useing a single map for the hole of it and having travel as simple as tapping the destination 
 on the map and your charecter travels a specified path to reach that destination, sometimes encountering 
 a random battle. furthermore you can't enter into towns or shops, and the onlyway you can get items 
 is to find them on the rather small battle maps, in which you have a time limit to stick to or 
 you loose the battle. but...
  though this makes the game a little boring in a way, the story line is great and... well... casting 
 magic is just plain fun! you can't do anything to customize your charecter and the movement set 
 up is rather limited, you cast a myriad of different spells, combining some together for different 
 effects, like shooting fire-lances through walls and destroying enemie's with and explosion of 
 dark lightning!
  you may wonder what use items are for sinse you can't use them for yourself. well you have the 
 ability to catch monsters, and once you catch a monster they stay in your roster till you say otherwise. 
 giving another fun objective to the game till you have every single monster out there and have 
 made an undefeteible party of the most powerful Dragons and Golems and what-not, than equiping 
 them with items and leveling them up. there are even a few with their own unique abilities.
  So though the game is small it is quite fun and under appreciated, a perfect game for a rainy day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintmanag
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic was the second game I purchased for my Nintendo DS. I sat down and started playing, and 
 from the moment of the first battle you face, I was hooked.
  The gameplay consists of commanding Isaac (and later his monsters) in an RTS fashion around a map, 
 completing the objectives shown on the top screen. This however, is not why the game is so great. 
 To kill the monsters, you must draw magical symbols called Runes . As you progress, you will learn 
 different runes and be able to combine them to form powerful spells. The sheer variety of spells 
 in the game would rope almost anyone in, boasting over 350 different incantations, each with varying 
 levels of power. Some even mix in some humour, if you look closely.
  The soundtrack is also quite good, giving depth the levels. The graphics are again, quite good, 
 with distinctive maps and carefully drawn monsters. Spell graphics are solid, with alpha masks 
 being carefully placed.
  The story same old, same old. An evil ruler invokes the power of an age old god and decides to 
 wreak havoc.
  Multiplayer: Now this is where the game really shines. Normal duels against other players are always 
 really thrilling and fun, and each battle usually comes with something funny that happens. For 
 instance, I was versing my friend, and we both used Ice King at the same time, hence, the Double 
 Snowman .
  The new game plus feature is very helpful, as fighting through the second time with all of the 
 spells you previously had unlocks new possibilities and strategies to destroy (Or run away from) 
 your enemies.
  This game exudes a lot of charm and radiance, and keeps you playing through as much as possible 
 to complete every extra and fill your spell book.
  
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Story: 6/10
  Extras: 8/10
  
  Total:
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshifreak102
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Pro: this game has awesome multiplayer. The gameplay is great.
  what is also great about this is taht its portable. so you can play it any where.
  The sounds 
 on thi is just ok. it could have been better. the best part of this is that it is wifi is great. 
 this is one those rune drawing games. So you'll
  have fun with this. This game is just great to have . So when you get the time get one!
  
  
 O_o
  
  Con: Now its time for the cons.
  There not much here. the only thing is that while you play with youll tend to get alot of scratches 
 on the screen. Other than this game is a must  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingster78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This was among the best games I've played. It adds the unique power of a stylus into the DS for 
 an addictive RTS. Although I really, REALLY, hate the time limits, it adds an extra challenge. 
 The game has a very easy control scheme. Drawing the runes is a nice idea especially since people 
 are trying to draw the runes perfectly and fast. It adds a nice twist. Also, thy managed to make 
 a monster catch and control system without pokemon ripoff!!! (Is that a first?) The story was simple 
 and pretty fun with lots of characters to with. The gameplay was addictive and enjoyable. It usually 
 didn't go as far as frusterating. SIMPLE AND FAST, I loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBlueZentaro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing I dont like about this game!! The characters are great, the story is indulging, 
 the game is extremely difficult to beat, the story is a good long length. The use of the stylus 
 is impeccable there is no reason not to get this game. The replay value is way up there with rachet 
 and clank. the graphics are good and the entertainment value is great. This game will have you 
 constantly cleaning your screen so that you wont be delayed is drawing the runes. Oh yeah and I 
 really wasn't joking about the screen protectors get at least two to add to the one you should 
 have now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teamking
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Lost magic is a game about a boy that can use magic. He can use like 5 elements: Fire, water, wind, dark 
 magic and light magic. All elements have three
  spells (Of course, the third one is the strongest.) and you get like after a boss battle 1 spell. 
 Oh yeah, these boss battles are very hard so i say.. train i mean, train VERY VERY VERY good if you 
 want to win, use monsters that are the same or opposite element. the game would be more easy if 
 the player had
  more HP and would walk faster. nothing after so... BYE! :D
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oswall
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game at game spot when i read the back. I thought it looked like an enjoyable game 
 with a fun plot. And i was right, for the most part. The game was really fun and has an entertaining 
 plot, but the main character seems kinda lame. And some of the really good spells are really hard 
 for me to cast, like the 2nd water spell and the 3rd dark spell and all of the earth spells. But 
 you can capture monstrous which really added to the game and your strategy. The graphics are not 
 the best, but the best part is the way you use your stick to cast spells. Overall, i would borrow 
 it from a friend, or buy it in a bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  LostMagic has an enormous amount of potential, but its all wasted.
  
  You are Isaac, a young mage who receives a magic wand from his father. An evil Diva of Twilight 
 threatens the world and only you can save it. Story is actually more interesting than I just made 
 it sound like with many different characters, but dont expect to see any video cutscenes or voice 
 acting. There is text, A LOT of text.
  
  Graphics are not impressive by any means, but the use of colors is rich and they help to bring 
 this world a little more alive. Sound in terms of music is good, but the sound effects could have 
 been more varied.
  
  Gameplay sounds pretty simple, because you use only your stylus, L-trigger and control pad: all 
 four buttons are totally omitted. Be warned: this game is not about exploration. Its purely about 
 strategic battles using your stylus to create magic spells and ordering your army of previously 
 captured monsters around the map.
  
  Drawing spells with the stylus is a huge part of the game and some of the spells require quite 
 a lot of practice to master. Unfortunately there is no practice mode what so ever, so you have 
 to learn them during battles. This means lots of trial and error creating a steep learning curve 
 to LostMagic. Game doesnt pause while you are trying to draw the spell and in tight spots it may 
 very well be game over if you draw the spell wrong two times in a row. This happens because there 
 are no melee attacks what so ever in LostMagic. Also when theres a lot of movement on the screen 
 and youre in a hurry, the frame rate drops and makes drawing the spell even more difficult than 
 it already is.
  
  The biggest source of frustration is that for some unknown reason there is a strict time limit 
 during battles and if your time runs out its game over. This would be a lot more tolerable, if 
 after a failed battle you could keep your experience points and captured monsters, but no: you 
 start all over again from your last save point and get zero points of experience and zero captured 
 monsters. I simply cannot see the point in having a strict time limit during these real time battles.
 
  
  Very early on youll learn a spell which you use to capture monsters in order to create your own 
 army from them. The game doesnt force you to capture a certain amount of beasts during missions, 
 so if you dont want to capture monsters it will make your life a lot more difficult a few missions 
 later. For this reason I had to start the game again from the start after playing for two hours. 
 Again this would not be a problem, if it just would be possible to play previous missions again 
 in order to get more monsters and experience points. But for some reason this is not an option.
 
  
  Strict time limit and inability to play previous missions again spoiled my gaming experience. Im 
 very disappointed: so much potential and all of it was wasted just because of a few frustrating 
 gameplay issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truk1600
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  If you live in a city that has a game stop or anything like it buy this game used.
  if you buy this game new its not worth it but if you buy this used its totaly worth it. THIS GAME 
 IS HARD!!!!! manily because of the 5min. time limit half the levals feel like you wont be able 
 to beet them EVER!!
  But over all its a fun game of you like a good hard chaling, witch is mostly found in drawing the 
 runies to cast the spells. But all-in-all its a fun game.
  So if you have the $20 to buy it used ts worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klyern
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  The most Important thing i got to say before i even start this, is dont buy this only for the network 
 mode, you wont ever make it into the rankings if you play honestly, if two persons are playing, 
 and one disconects wheter its by accident or not, its not a win by default, its not recorded. So 
 people disconect when they are loosing 99% of the times, meaning this game's network gaming mode 
 is disturbingly USELESS.
  
  WHAT is it with these DS rpg games that you have to push tiny spaces to select each unit, wich 
 are all the time overlaping, and the DS pen's tip is bigger than those spots. i never used it for 
 FF3, and here you are forced to use it, but its imposible to select one unit from a huge crowd. 
 and you have to move them separatedly extremelly often wich is a pain. (but really FF3 could have 
 been for something else since they wasted the ds's touch screen -.-)
  
  I got this has a gift, they told me it was in the used section, worked fine.
  
  After i started 
 playing i soon notice the next few things, first of all the program figuring out how you draw the 
 runes sucks, you are suposed to shoot or heal more powerfully if you drew them perfectly, but the 
 program requires that you to ALMOST specifically draw them in an angle and size that is unknown 
 to the user from just seeing the drawings, and even once you get the hang of it it can never be 
 mastered.
  
  Took me a week or a lil more to figure out were each line ends to max the healing rune, and still 
 now i dont get it often.
  
  The game is fun dont take me wrong, for the first playtrought. You get bored before the final boss. 
 The game is more like a time trial since you loose if you dont have a fast pace and are unprepared 
 in some stages. actually the game is super easy, but kinda draggin in the end.
  
  Also, multiplayer maps suck, and the lag is incredibly sucky too. (not to mention that you dont 
 get points if the enemy player disconects/turns off before loosing)
  
  
  ah and lastly the history and characters suck too.
  
  well what do i have to personally say? 
 3 things
  
  1- i understand why the guy that sold it did it, might do the same.
  
  2- it feels like a good experience, if you got the us cash then buy it for fun, but dont expect 
 a masterpiece.
  
  3- extreeeeeeeeeemely dissapointed, bought the DS mainly to play this, FF3 and Club House, only 
 club house was a remarkable purchase, FF3 was fun but this one lowered my DS online expectations 
 a LOT
  
  Sorry but thats how i feel about this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doreensum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  The DS is a touch screen console. To find a game that utterly utilised it is great. However, my 
 hands do get tired holding up the DS just becuase I have to hold the L button. I do wish that I'm 
 able to configure it to be able to hold other buttons such as on the D-pad so as to place the DS 
 on the table.
  
  The storyline is entertaining though I feel that the learning curve is not very even. I have to 
 increase my level a few times before going for the bosses sometimes. Micromanaging the characters 
 can be a hassle and I wish my hero is able to hold items. However, it's a very good game tailored 
 for the DS which no other console can match just yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty horrible. Every level you do has a time limit, so if you don't complete it 
 within that time you fail and gain nothing. No exp on the mobs you killed, and you lose any mobs 
 you captured. Also, using the stylus in this game is retarded, because you have to stand still 
 to cast anything. If you are trying to attack a monster, you have to let it beat on you while you 
 try to draw some stupid symbol on the screen. Then you end up having to stop what you were doing 
 to spam draw-heal yourself to try and stay alive. The monsters you can have on your team are retarded. 
 They will run into walls while enemies beat on them and kill them. It requires micro management 
 to the extreme. The fact that there are NO MELEE ATTACKS in this game make it horrible as well. 
 You have to hold up the DS with your left hand while drawing with the right. The D-Pad and A, B, 
 X, and Y buttons go COMPLETELY UNUSED and it really devastates this game. You SHOULD have been 
 able to move with the D-Pad and cast while moving. Having to stop to cast every single spell turns 
 from, Ok, I can get used to this. to OMFG MOVE YOU FAT PIECE OF CRAP! If you mistarget or mis-select 
 ONE time it can get you killed. THIS GAME SUCKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shigeru_san
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all, at the beginning of the game i realized how fun that game would be by practicing 
 with the tutorial witch the drawing of runes with the stylus and everything else the character 
 could be able to do. Then, the story was like getting attracting, but when i though the game was 
 going to go up and up , the story started to make me get frustrated , just pressing A continuously 
 without reading anything. With a bad supported story, all left was to see how the gameplay was 
 doing.
  Like the story, the game play was pretty interesting at the beginning, with the character learning 
 many runes and learning how to train monsters with their own stats each of them, but then, the 
 game play just went annoying cause the next missions where nearly the same as the others Ive passed 
 before.
  The graphics were just fine, the game didnt show any spectacular sprites or any 3D good looking 
 stuff. I just loved the dragon rune but it didnt show off anything that a graphically well balanced 
 game might be able to do.
  What I can rescue from the game is the sound part, I think I enjoyed all the songs of the different 
 places I visited in the game, I think Ubisoft got a 10 by making all that really lovable songs, 
 they like made me get surrounded by the game the first time I heard each of them.
  Well, mostly Ive just written negative things about the game, but dont get disappointed, this is 
 the part where I begin to write the things I liked. I simply loved the concept that made me continue 
 playing the game and the usage of the stylus was really really great. To be honest, i just loved 
 this game cause i could play it with my DS anywhere and the new way to play this RPG just made 
 me enjoy it a lot with different kinds of runes and monsters to start the battle and with different 
 options to choose that might lead you to the dark side or to the blond side. And in conclusion, 
 I simply recommend the game, (surprised? me too xD) , but first better taste it before buying it, 
 I know you will like to play it , I dont think it has too much replay value cause there are just 
 two different endings, but the expierence is what is important, I didnt get disappointed with this 
 innovative RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eystanda
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Ah, LostMagic. Well, it SOUNDED like my kind of game. Turns out to be a waste of my time (as many 
 games nowadays do) , and money. Thank god that I ordered Trauma Centre at the same time.
  
  My main point is, has their ever been a truly amazing handhold RPG? Answer = no. Sure, theres 
 been a few that could be known as decent on the go hack and slashers (Baldurs Gate: DA for the 
 GBA comes to mind) but LostMagic isnt even that.
  
  Its a watered down version of your generic RPG game- and while the concept had potential to be 
 fun, it just doesnt cut it.
  
  Sometimes Im willing to waste my time with a game if it has a decent storyline and likable characters. 
 Sorry, but who CARES about the little blond dude? Or his wacko grandmother? I dont, and thats 
 why the game falls back on its behind.
  
  The combat system is shameful and the whole game gets rather tedious rather quickly, due to the 
 repetitive gameplay. Games need to hit me with something straight away if they want me to carry 
 on playing- whether its amazing graphics, a strong storyline or fun gameplay.
  
  That being said, its not the worst game ever made. The way in which you cast spells is very interesting 
 and if you dont care about storyline or anything like that, and just want to waste a few hours, 
 LostMagic might be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtyd100
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  So, this is my first RPG for the DS and also my first game for it. This game is surprisingly good. 
 When I bought I thought I should have never bought this game. But when I fist played it was this 
 game is good, even though some battle might be frustrating, is still very fun.
  
  Gameplay:
  Pros- The gameplay is amazing, especially with the drawing so you can get spells is 
 really cool. This game really depends on the stylus for everything from moving to casting spells. 
 Even though the graphics are like a gameboy advance, the gameplay really lives up to it.
  Con- The only con I found so far is that when you cast a spell, the monsters can still hit you 
 and can get really frustrating. Graphics:
  Pros- Even though the graphics looks like a gameboy advance game the gameplay makes it fun and 
 makes you forget the graphics are like that.
  
  Sound:
  Cons- a the sound can get really annoying sometimes but good thing you can turn off the game.
 
  
  Value: This game has alot of replay value, even when you are battling a hard boss it really gets 
 you to try and find strageties to beat the game.
  
  NOTE: I haven't finish the game yet so I wish to get farther in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jstur14
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  This game is a good start for RPGs on the DS, It uses the stylus in a new fashion for casting spells. 
 Over all though I got bored of the game quick, For one having 50 monsters following my guy around 
 and trying to get them to attack what I want them to attack gets annoying. The spells can all be 
 mixed together to make new spells which makes about 70% of them pointless because your only going 
 to remember the ones that you find useful and you can't remember every combination and what it 
 does. I still had a lot of fun playing it while I did. I think this game was needed for the DS 
 because it starts to give RPG makers some ideas for how to make a game like that on the DS. I would 
 recommend this to people who just want a RPG on the DS, I didn't see a lot of replay value myself 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avand963
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  This is a perfect example of a game trying too hard to utilize the ds touch pad. the game in itself 
 is fun for a while, but every battle is exactly like the last one. And with so many different spells 
 that you can cast by using the touch pad i tended to cast the same spell over and over just because 
 in some battles there are soo many mobs comming at you taht you dont really have time to decide 
 what spells would work better. The story line is also a bit of a rip off; it mirrors the story 
 line of FFIV but instead of crystals and a badass ex-solder you have a sissy little kid trying 
 to help his grandma :-S, and wands. The script is also a little akward, you have an annoying little 
 bird that your character can talk to but you cant read what he says, it just says karu karu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcellblack
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  When i first picked up this game, i was kind of skeptical to be sure. It wasn't until i actually 
 got to cast magic to enjoy myself. To be perfectly honest, i thought the graphics were neat. I 
 was also questionable about being a kid, because only a few games have impressed me with younger 
 characters.
  
  It was cool that you actually had to draw out magic, it was just plain cool. But the fact that 
 there wasn't a random battle system and it was pretty much, win or lose. There whare no close calls 
 really. You either fight or don't fight, and i thought that; that robbed some features that could 
 have made this RPG better.
  
  But all in all, Lost Magic is a rather addicting game, with a good amount of gameply. An aqurried 
 taste to be sure, but those who do taste it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomayo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Lost magic is a game that you can always go back to for a good challenge with its VERY innovative 
 Wi-Fi option. The game itself is fun to a certain extent where you can always enjoy drawing out 
 spells, mixing and matching to see what you come up with, but the story is somewhat bland, and 
 bosses at times are extremley difficult. The only reason i go back to this game so often is the 
 Wi-Fi. Being able to duel others online 1 on 1 online is something that deserves praise. With such 
 a innovative and creative to play a game it gets major bonus points. but becareful of burning out 
 midgame due to difficult maps and bosses.
  
  I reccomend this game as a quick timekiller to help an hour or two go by faster. To enjoy this 
 game to its fullest extent i say take your time and dont be scared to redo some maps so that you 
 are a higher level to take on those thougher bosses.
  
  Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanthrus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The spellcasting system in this is pretty cool, you have to draw a shape on a star shaped board 
 to select what spell you wish to cast. The strength of the spell is decided by how accuratly you 
 draw this. This is using the touchpad of course. The other part of the game is controling your 
 small army of monster you can have up to nine and different kinds at once. This can be tricky as 
 you may have to keep checking up on minibattles throughout the larger battlefield, but their real 
 job is to protect Ivan.
  
  The game quickly get hard though and you get stuck regularly. The storyline also isn't great and 
 is the usual sort of beat all the 6 bosses then the main boss. Its also only in 2D the whole time 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic has been one of the most underrated games for the DS becaus eof its difficulty and high 
 learning curve, but once you get past that it's really one of the most enjoyable games on the DS.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY- The advanced rune-drawing system is hard to master and sometimes the DS isn't able to 
 recognize the symbols correctly, but it is one of the only games that takes advantage of the touch 
 screen so well. The story is pretty lame, but the battles are intense; giving a maximum of 10 minutes 
 to complete a boss battle can be extremely difficult and take alot of strategy. Random encounters 
 throughout the game are very easy, and usually non-existent unless you are trying to find random 
 enemies to train. The RTS gameplay works almost flawlessly on the DS, and hopefully there may be 
 more games like this in the future. The onyl downside to this amazing game is the crappy online 
 play; playing online against opponents is very frustrating and has a lot of lag, unlike the DS-to-DS 
 gameplay which is very poor planning on Ubisofts part.
  
  GRAPHICS- Could be better. The GBA style graphics fits nicely with the game, but just makes people 
 sad because the DS is capable of so much more.
  
  SOUND- The sound effects blend in nicely to the game, never sounding out of place. And the music 
 is able to blend into the background as if its almost not there making for some very intense moments 
 in the game.
  
  If you are a fan of RTS gameplay or like the feel of an RPG than this game should definatly be 
 on your list somewhere, even if its not the top. Ubisoft did an over all amazing job, and lets 
 hope they can do it a few more times in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinstarr
Rating: 2.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  At the time of writing this, I have played up to level 8 and my play time is 1 hr 16 min, which 
 IMO is long enough. I stupidly believed the Gamespot review and bought this one from EBay, so Im 
 glad to say I didnt lose too much money on this. The problem I have with this game is that it 
 feels totally like a GBA game with the exception of the touch-screen spell-casting. Everything 
 feels so unimpressive. It totally under-utilizes the powerful, better-than-N64 DS hardware. The 
 graphics could have been done on the SNES. In fact at times it reminded me of Secret of Mana, because 
 most of the enemies look like they have been ripped off from that game. The gameplay is basically 
 travel to the next battlefield in the route, fight some monsters, level up, watch some crap cutscene 
 with stupid, childish dialogue, repeat. It doesnt have any towns to wander around in like FF or 
 CT. Its more like HOMM except the fighting is a bit more real-time.
  
  Most people will buy this one for the single-player, so the multiplayer probably isnt going to 
 be the focus here, but I think they missed out on having a co-op mode. All you get is duel. Not 
 very original.
  
  Does it have any good points? The battle system is okay. Not amazing, just okay. Its 1/2 RTS, 1/2 
 RPG. You fight by clicking on your kid and your pokemon-type monsters and moving them around, and 
 attack the enemies with your spells while your pokemon fight with their bare hands. Your kid doesnt 
 even have any melee attack. Lame. The only decent aspect of the presentation is the music, but 
 even that gets dull after you hear it for the 30th time because they only really use one tune, 
 apart from the battle theme.
  
  To be honest I wouldnt even recommend you waste your time renting this one. I feel like I totally 
 wasted my time and money and from now on I will be more careful about believing the Gamespot score. 
 Poor effort, Taito. Were on DS now, the GBA was last generation. (Marking it down because they 
 ripped off SoM, one of my favourite SNES games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glaexeaus
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic is a very innovative game with a very creative use of the touch screen, but the magic 
 doesn't last long.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  1) Very fun battle system.
  2) Capturing monsters and leveling them up? Not entirely new, but better than fighting alone.
 
  3) Weee drawing spells. Highlight of the game.
  4) New game plus that allows you to keep your items and stats, and present higher level enemies.
 
  5) 3 paths to the story.
  
  THE BAD
  1) After you've done the 3 paths, it's over. Not much to keep you playing. At all.
  2) More trio 
 rune combinations would have been fun.
  3) There may be 3 paths, but they all lead to the same fights.
  4) Not many sidequests.
  5) Keeping 
 up your spell levels can be very high-maintenance.
  6) Story is very bland. Bad dramatics. Predictable.
  7) WTF is that last boss fight. Too easy.
 
  8) Endings are very bitter-sweet.
  9) Level maxes are pretty low.
  10) Not the best graphics, even for DS.
  
  FINAL WORD
  
  Lost magic is a great game to RENT. 
 After you've played 13 hours, you never feel like touching it again. It's just too much of the 
 same stuff. But for that 13 hours, it's a hella fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me89me89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of good things in it . For starters the storyline is fairly simple you are 
 some kid who is trying to rid the world of an veil demon queen and have to save the world. The 
 gameplay is great because it allows you to draw various spells and combine up to 3 at a time for 
 over 400 spell combinations!! Graphics are simple 2d sprites taht attack each other and the music 
 is nothing amazing. I really love this game because i haven't played anything like it. The reviews 
 are way too low for this game because it deserves at least a 9. When you paly this game you travel 
 across the world and battle various monsters which you can trap and have them fight for you on 
 your next battle. You can have up to nine monsters fighting for you in a battleand the amount of 
 spells you can make is unbelievable. You can even battle people from around the world using wifi 
 and either use your monsters you have collected from the single player game or if you aren't a 
 high level then you can chose a premade cahracter with decent monsters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushgoil
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The game has a great idea and the mechanics are pretty good (except when a character gets stuck 
 walking into a tree) , but there are few levels so trying to get your characters leveled up gets 
 boring pretty quickly. The control of the characters is similar to that of Valkyrie Profile 2, 
 where you can split up your party, but the stylus makes this much simpler in Lost Magic. The large 
 number of spell combinations and effects are also brilliant and make for a small distraction from 
 the tedious nature of leveling up against the same enemies over and over. The characters can be 
 somewhat annoying as well.. the story line is basic and there is no room for individual choice. 
 Overall, the concept is neat and it keeps you interested for a while, but the game had much more 
 potential than what it turns out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackshiel
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  I must be honest that I have not played the game all that much yet, but so far I am losing interest 
 rather quickly.
  
  First off, I think the magic system very interesting and innovative. It uses the stylus in a great 
 way.
  
  The things I do not like about the game is that I don't get to wander around the towns, the AI 
 is pretty dumbed down. It may just be me, but I am not so keen on the time restraint on some of 
 the fighting lvls.
  
  Maybe I have to play more, but I am having a hard time getting into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmaster33
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  lost magic is a perfect rpg game it is very simple and decent.
  
  you are a boy called isaac who lives with your grandmother (or so it seems for some time) At the 
 begining you get to learn three spells fire heal and ice.
  you will learn some history about the past and some sages along the way. your quest is to defeat 
 the diwa of the twilight who is a sage who wants to rebuild the world.
  
  as you travel you get to choose what you say when you meet people, some negative and positive traits. Once 
 you defeat sages you get spells and lost magics that they pass on to you when you defeat them and 
 show your power. you meet a girl in the begining who is called trista and a mysterious boy called 
 leonard.
  
  you will have to use ure stylus to move yourself and your moster units which you will learn how 
 to do it. there are loads of different spells!
  if you like an adventorous game which is simple and uses the stylus a lot then buy this game.
 
  thnx for spending your time reading this rewiew i hope it helped you. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilikfire
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Monsters. Magic. Evil Witches. Possessed Mages. Ubisoft. Real-time strategy. How could you possibly 
 go wrong? Lost Magic is a real-time strategy fantasy game by Ubisoft. In the game, you are Isaac, 
 a boy who is an orphan and is learning the ways of magic. When his teacher is killed by an evil 
 witch, he must go to all the other mages and learn their trade. (Earth, Fire, Water, Wind, Light, 
 Dark) He goes only to find that each mage has been possessed by the Diva of the Twilight, the same 
 witch who killed his teacher! Can you stop her and free the other mages? Only time will tell.
 
  Gameplay is good, but possibly a little too ambitious. You cast spells by drawing symbols on the 
 touch screen. That works without a hitch. Movement is controlled by tapping on your character and 
 tapping where you want them to go. However, your allies' AI is dreadful and they always go in a 
 striaght path and will get stuck on walls, rocks, and other things, requiring you to babysit them 
 and take them step by step to the area you want to go.
  You can capture weakened monsters by casting special spells on them, and then you can use them 
 in battle. When one of your monsters dies in battle, it can no longer be used that battle but will 
 be healed for the next battle.
  Online play is dreadful because of one word: lag. You will not be able to stand playing online 
 due to it, and that's a real shame. Multicard play, however, does not have lag and is real fun.
 
  If you love fantasy or RTSs, pick this one up. Otherwise, stay away. An ideal buying price is 
 $30 or under.
  Note: my gameplay rating is an average between the game's online play and single-player and multicard. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingPhill1234
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic is a mix of RSG and RPG. While you have choices you can make throughout the storyline 
 you basically end up in the same position. You travel as a young mage through an overmap and fight 
 battles against opponents, whether they are monsters or other mages. Though this is partly RSG 
 it is based on realtime rather than turns, which is a big plus to the game. The spell system, while 
 not original, is definitely interesting as one tries to find awesome combinations of rune drawings. 
 The graphics at some points are grainy, and conversations show mostly static characters against 
 a backdrop, often the cheerful anime-like graphics look good. The soundtracks are not bad but are 
 definitely repetitive when you have fought 20 battles to the same track. The quick learning curve 
 and easy play in the beginning are deceptive. If found the boss mages later in the game to be suprisingly 
 challenging. The storyline, while original in some parts, was common in the fact that some young, 
 untried boy must rise to save the world from an unstoppable evil villain (Diva of the Twilight) . 
 The replay value is minimal. All the twists and turns of the plot have you wondering when will 
 you be able to finally defeat that annoying Diva. After you beat the storyline you can save and 
 start from the beginning again with all your runes, monsters, and items you collected. However 
 besides a few new monsters and more difficult battles, there is little change. The Wi-Fi multiplayer 
 option, while interesting in theory, is quite slow and easy. You send your monsters after the other 
 player and use spells to heal and support them. While I have not played DS to DS, I assume it is 
 a similar speed, with slow reaction time. While the battle system is novel, it is basically worth 
 one round of play and then sell it. I'd rent it first to see if you really like it. It was fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Synchro456
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 21, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic is a great RPG that mixes fantasy elements to the DS. Isaac a young wizard who is just 
 learning magic has to save the world. Diva the Twlight has stolen all the magic wands given to 
 them from the creator. But only one is not in her hands which is the wand of light. But where is 
 it? Isaac son of the mage of light was given the wand. Now the game uses runes and u have to draw 
 them to use them. The runes are somtimes annoying when u try to draw a water rune and u get a dark 
 rune it gets annoying but still it brings somthing creative to the table. The graphics are amazing 
 and very nice and goes with the music. Now the controls are somtimes hard to control. Somtimes 
 yr monsters are blocked and they just keep on trying to go to the destination and soon they stop. 
 That can be a majoy problem when yr trying to run away. I look forward to a Wii version and hope 
 they can fix a few things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlatformGuy
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I recently went out and got Lost Magic for 30 dollars at the game store and I must say, it is a 
 very poor game. The graphics are nice and the sound is alright, but the gameplay just isn't there. 
 It's boring, repetitive and over-rated. Just the same thing over and over: draw, tap, draw, tap. 
 It would be nice if there was more to do, like walk around town or something but no. just fight, 
 fight, fight. a waste of energy.
  
  It would be excellent if it was a standard RPG with the drawing and strategy mixed in, but it's 
 not. its just boring. so boring and frustrating, that I can't describe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Knight6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic starts out slow and a little boring but as you play it longer it becomes very fun and 
 interesting. This game stars Issac, a young made in training that is earths last hope. Right before 
 Issac's father falls to and evil mage, he entrusts the wand of light to Issac. The Diva of the 
 Twilight needs his wand to become the new creator and re-shpae the world to her liking. The gameplay 
 is very interesting, you click on your character and he is higlighted then you click someone where 
 on the map and move him. You must hold in the "L" button and a a symbol appears, you then draws 
 runes and cast spells. The better you draw the runes, the stronger the attacks are. But, you must 
 be quick when drawing them or you'll leave yourself open to enemy attacks. There are many spells 
 and later can be combined to make hundreds of different spells. One of the most interesting parts 
 is that you can use your magic to capture a weakend enemy and add him to your battilion to give 
 you an upper hand in different situations. The graphics aren't to great but are managable. The 
 sound quility is good . And the controls could use some work but are use-able. There is also mutliplayer 
 with local and wi-fi connections. You can pick a pre-set character or load your character. Both 
 Wi-Fi and local are semingley the same but Wi-Fi is glitchy and lags and can leave you open to 
 the other players attacks.
  
  Lost Magic can be frustrating at times and will make you put it down for a little but, its a great 
 game thats worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fluffalubigus
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic is an RPG that envelops you in an obvious yet interesting story and an odd, fun battle 
 system that could use improvement, but it still shines. 
  
  You take on the role of Isaac, a magician in training. Apparently, he was seperated from his mother 
 and father when he was little, and when he ran into the forest, Isaac encountered an old woman 
 who took him in and raised him. Isaac considered her a Grandmother, and the game starts off as 
 Isaac is being tought basic spell runes. 
  
  This game has a very unique battles system, and is mostly a controlling game. On screen when you're 
 not fighting, the bottom screen is a dot map, and you select a dot that's next to you in any direction 
 to move to that dot. The top screen is just a description of the area any dot represents. Unfortunately, 
 you cannot go into towns and walk around or buy items for you. You just go to dots, and if there 
 is an event there (a blue symbol that resembles your staff) , than the top screen becomes a cutscene 
 where the characters involved talk to each other. 
  
  Now for the battle system. Early on in the game, a man named Leonard will teach you a Dark Rune 
 (Trap) . This Rune has the ability to capture monters that are weakened enough and use them as your 
 own. When using monsters, you can have up to three battalions (that's what I'm calling them) , and 
 what I'm calling a battalion is a monster that goes into one of the three slots. The selected monster 
 may have three of that kind, two of that kind, or possibly even one of that kind (not sure about 
 that yet) . However, monster battalions have a certain amount of UP (until points) that are required 
 to use that monster, and you cannot exceed that UP amount. So, if you have 5 UP and you choose 
 a battalion that takes 5 UP, than you cannot select anymore battalions for any other slots unless 
 you change the 5 UP one. Oh, and UP is increased sometimes after reaching a certain a number of 
 levels higher. The actual battle system is bascially touching monsters and Isaac and touching the 
 spot you want them to go and the head there. You cannot directly control your monsters' attacks, 
 but you can choose where they go and what they attack. Isaac, however, can cast spells by pressing 
 the L button, holding it down, and drawing the coreect Rune with the stylus. When letting the L 
 button go, you can cast a spell by giving the correct amount of Mana (automatically doe this, obviously) 
 and drawing the Rune correctly. However, neatness does count, because the better you draw the Rune, 
 the more damage it will do, and drawing a Rune completely out of whack will do nothing. Oh, and 
 you also have time limits, so be sure to use your attacks carefully, because sometimes wasting 
 your Mana will cause you to lose the match!
  
  All in all, LostMagic is a fun game that has a few moments where it gets frustrating, but if you're 
 leveled well and keep trying, then you'll find this game to be a very enjoyable experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantlooseu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  as you probably already know, this game has some good medicore reviews, and the only thing stoping 
 it from getting hight ratings is its difficuly because i can easily tell you... it is one DIFFICULT 
 GAME!
  
  ok now a brief analysis. LOST MAGIC, has an addictive and attracting soundtrack, makes you feel 
 the emotions that the character is going through. so thats definatly a plus.
  
  graphics wise, this is not the best looking DS game out now, but i can tell you that, it does have 
 some decent speciall effects that show, when you use magic, like using an explosion.
  
  The gameplay, is slow at first, like most games, but the story becomes more and more interesting. 
 Perfect RPG story.
  
  It uses the DS touch screen feature very well, as you control your character and his/her party 
 with the stylus, almost like how you use a mouse in a Strategy PC game. The touch screen is also 
 used to draw magic spells.
  (there are over 300 magic spells to learn and master, all from healling white magic, to disastrous 
 black magic.
  
  Lost magic also supports Online WIFI along with LAN wifi.
  you can battle with one opponent online, and use either your story mode character, or preset characters 
 with preset skills. Unfortunatly this game does not support any sort of communication while online.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodafountan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Lost magic is a game about a young mage named isaac. he is trying to find his father who is also 
 a mage. this game works great on the ds. and heres why, using the touch screen you draw spells 
 to cast at monsters and rival mages there are over 300 spells to cast and experiment with so the 
 game almost never gets old. plus the game has a good story line that keeps the player interested 
 and makes him or her want to play more.
  
  ok now that i have the basics down i will go over each induvidule feature
  
  GAMEPLAY: the 
 gameplay is pretty good the game reconises most of the spells when you draw them and isaac moves 
 well on screen. when you command monsters it feels like your playing command and conquer
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics are alright considering that its a 2d game
  
  SOUND: the music doesnt 
 get very annoying so the sound is good too
  
  ONLINE: like i said online play can be laggy in online play you go heas to head agenst another 
 mage you can have a rival duel, a freind duel or just a plain old duel its fun to see what your 
 oppenent will cast at you!
  
  well i hope this guid was usefull (by the way its my first so go easy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_Hanks79
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  At first when you actuly play the game you'll have to walk to a chest and to do that you must tap 
 on his head then tap the place you want to go. At first you you might say thats a bit unnesesary 
 considering you have a perfectly fine D-pad right there (or bottun pad for you lefties) . But later 
 on it makes sence when youeaet your alies. People are saying it's a lot like pokemon but I don't 
 see it, I maen Lost Magic is an RPG where you battle monsters, get them weak, capture them, put 
 them in your battle party, and level them up... I don't see it. But realy that one aspect is like 
 pokemon but trust me the game play is comprtly diffrent. Any way my point earlier about moving 
 and it being wierd it makes sence when you have 10 people (or monsters) to controll. You have to 
 tap the screan then drag the stylis to form a circle around your party, or a few monters at a time, 
 or independed people. The monsters can be a huge help during missions as they can fight for you 
 and are a huge help when you have no magic. Spell Casting is a huge part in the game and is the 
 charactters only ofence, and defence. You hold down the the "L" (or "R") to get a drwing pad rune 
 thing and draw your spell. Through out the game you get diffrent runes (spells) and by the end 
 you get 18 but alittle lated in the game you learn duo runes and are able to compined diffeent 
 runes for diffrent spells, 200 in all. A big promblem with the game (as if it was avoidable) is 
 your mana (magic) points. At first it's not a huge problem but later in the game when your fighting 
 an enemy and you run out of mana points you are left defenceless while an enemy is attacking you, 
 you gain mana points atomaticly but sometimes it can take realy long time and on higher levels 
 more times then not enemys will kill you (it's realy hard to just run away) . Agian this is where 
 the monster you capture come in, they can pretect you while you draw in mana points. Another hard 
 part are the bosses of the game, sometimes it seemes imposible to hurt them, your allies can hardly 
 hurt them and you cast spell after spell. One spell you have is the power to heal but it's duficult 
 and under presure you can keep messing up all the spells and the game dosen't under stand what 
 your drawing so it makes this worific sound, kinda like the sound Family Fued makes when you answer 
 wrong but over and over agian. Any way with the bosses your fighting and going and in the end you 
 end up doing it 2, 3, 5 on realy hard ones like 10 times! Any way besides that the game is realy 
 good and agian it's not like pokemon, and for you pokemon fans remember it's exacly like pokemon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColonelWilks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  The story in LostMagic is about a boy named Issac, who's father one day mysteriously disappears, 
 leaving him but one thing to remember him by -- a magic wand. Then, the game flashes forward a few 
 years, when Issac is a teenager and has been taken in by a woman who calls herself "The Forest 
 Witch". Under her guidance, Issac discovers his surprising magical talent.
  However, an evil character known only as The Diva of Twilight seeks to "remodel" the world in her 
 own twisted fashion. To do this, she must collect the seven wands of the seven sages. Unfortunately, 
 she already has six. The last wand is possessed by none other than Issac himself...
  
  Okay, so the story is your typical "boy saves world", but gameplay is where LostMagic truly shines. 
 In the game, each spell corresponds with a specific rune, of which there are exactly 18. But how 
 do you write the rune, you ask? With the stylus. With either your right or left hand (the game 
 has settings for right-handed and left-handed people) , you scribe runes on the touch screen, and 
 then launch the appropriate spell at the desired enemy/ally/area by simply touching it with the 
 stylus. Oh, and did I mention that you can combine up to three runes at once, creating a spell 
 library of nearly 400 spells?
  
  LostMagic's RPG elements are mainly the customization of your allies. Often, you'll come upon a 
 monster in LostMagic, and when you do, you can capture it by use of a simple rune. Then, you can 
 open the menu and click on "Lineup" to make the monster fight with you! Choosing monsters is often 
 a tactical decision, for example: In Windmill Plains, there are numerous platforms that contain 
 treasure. To get to these platforms, you'll need a flying monster, therefore you put a Wyvern in 
 your lineup.
  
  The graphics, although they aren't 3D, certainly get the job done. They look smooth, and the spells 
 look fantastic. In true RTS style, to move units, you simply click and drag a circle around them, 
 and then click the desired point where you wish your monsters to move. On occasion, units will 
 get stuck behind trees and such, but not on a regular basis.
  
  In conclusion, if you're looking for something with gameplay that is like no other DS game out 
 there, look no further than LostMagic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: salamisandwich
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Most bad reviews for this game come from people just starting to play the game. Before this game 
 becomes less fustrating, you must get to chapter 2.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, frankly, suck due to Nintendo DS limitations. For the viewpoint, it becomes 
 very pixelated. Anime drawings are usually like em or hate em, so i rate by quality. The drawings 
 aren't very good. Also, the game is a bit laggy
  
  5/10
  
  Sound: Music is fitting, and has a really pronunced rythem. Not the amazing, hummable tunes you 
 get out of games like zelda, but still pretty darn good.
  
  9/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is awesome after a point. The game is fustrating before you learn the basics, 
 so much that many would give up. Look up guides for first few levels. Otherwise its perfect gameplay. 
 The game forces stratagys to recover magic. Its such a tricky bit you can have trouble for a long 
 time.
  
  9/10 (lost a point for diffuculty and learning curve)
  
  Value: Fairly long game, wifi connect, and good multiplayer. Pretty solid.
  9/10
  
  Reviewers 
 tilt: Completly origional gameplay, super fun, and the diffuculty isn't all that bad. This is now 
 my 5th favorite game (after Mario 64, Mario 3, Zelda 64, and Advance wars) . May not sound that 
 great, but i've played hundreds of games.
  
  My final word - the best game i've played in a long time. I love it. Give it a rent, and don't 
 quit till you get a few levels into chapter 2. You will love this game. Even if you suck at writing 
 like I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickgamer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I heard about this game through my monthy addition of Nintendo Power and decided to give it a shot. 
 I went to the local Gamestop to purchase this game. Minding my own business with a game I chose 
 to buy when here comes the checkout clerk with his bad mouthing my decision. He litterly said "that 
 game looks like sh*t". I am not a rude person so I just gave him a awkward 'wtf is your deal' smile, 
 bought the game and went home. 
  
  Seriously, who cares if the graphics are a cartoonish design? I was interested on the gameplay 
 and with over 400 spells available for the gamer to experience and discover at his/her leisure, 
 I couldn't care less. In fact, the style is based off of the popular anime Nikki's Delivery. You 
 could imagine that I was pretty sour at the clerk's attitude. What a jerk.    
  With that aside, I fully enjoyed LostMagic and was very impressed with the array of spells you 
 can choose from. The discovery of all the spells is up to the player where you experiment with 
 different combinations which I found refreshing. 
  
  The story is decent, nothing too new except that you can choose between "good" and "evil" near 
 the late-middle game and it completely changes the story and endings. I played out the game three 
 times to find the different variances. The game itself is around 10 hours to fully complete the 
 first time, after beating it once, I breezed through it in about a few hours since you can keep 
 your spells and monsters the second time around. 
  
  Playing with wi-fi was pretty fun, but I felt bad that a level 17 player was pitted against me, 
 who was maxed out at 50. So perhaps you shouldn't challenge other players if you haven't beated 
 the game yet. =p 
  
  All in all, this game is worth playing. Don't let cartoonish graphics keep you from enjoying good 
 gameplay. And definately don't listen to gamestop clerks, they tend to be biased even though they 
 are supposed to have an open mind to all games, thus working at a GAME store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furnace782
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  First off I just quickly want to say that this game would be the first on the Nintendo DS must-get 
 games list. It is one of its kind, and is probably the funnest DS game I've come across, and I'll 
 tell you why.
  
  Storyline-7/10
  In my opinion the storyline is just okay, and not very original. The main character is a 14-year-old 
 boy name Isaac, whose father is the greatest sage out of 7 sages, his name is "The Bishop of the 
 White Night." Recently and evil witch named "The Diva of Twilight" unleashed the power of the Monster 
 Realm on Isaac's world. Isaac's father tried to stop her, but he couldn't, so he passed down his 
 wand to Isaac who is now the only hope in saving the world. 
  
  Once you start playing the game you'll realize that it's just the average "Darkness World Domination 
 story, with a little twist, and is very predictable. I give the story a rating of.
  
  Graphics-8/10
  The graphics in this game are great, and I was really satisfied with them, only 
 a few things looked bad here or there. I have nothing else to say here.
  
  Sound-8/10
  The game has great music and sounds that aren't annoying, usually fitting in with the scenario.
 
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  Though the game is a bit hard to get used to at first, it has an amazing casting system and an 
 amazing monster system. There are 396 spells that can be easily casted by doing motions with your 
 stylus on the touch pad, which makes it fun and easy. As for the monsters, you get to capture monsters 
 and train the, although you get a limited amount of monsters you can use in a battle. The game 
 is very fun, and what makes it even better is the Wi-Fi, it is very challenging at first, but as 
 you learn new strategies you can easily wipe out opponents from around the globe. Also, many people 
 say the game is very hard, but it isn't, just battle as much as you can so that you can level up 
 a lot, and you'll have no problem beating bosses.
  
  Overall-9/10
  This is probably the best DS game I've played yet, and I would recommend to everyone who has a 
 DS.
  
  Storyline-7/10
  Graphics-8/10
  Sound-8/10
  Gameplay-9/10
  Overall-9/10
  Final Score: 8.2
  -Furnace782
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Lost Magic combines the RTS genre with the RPG genre to create an interesting experience 
 that isn't quite like anything else I've played before. The game is an RPG in the sense that you're 
 main character and units gain experience and grow levels, and by the fact that the game has a detailed 
 and engaging story. However, the game is an RTS in the sense that you control an army of units, 
 using your stylus to select and move these units. The single player mode is mission based, and 
 contains a heavy amount of dialogue. The story itself is pretty awesome, and while it's not the 
 same calibur as some of the higher RPGs (e. g. Tales, Fire Emblem) , the story is still engaging 
 enough to keep you constantly wondering what's going to happen next. Most of the story is told 
 similar to games like Fire Emblem, where you see two still hand-drawn images of characters speaking 
 to each other.
  
  However, while the story may be powerful, the gameplay has a few flaws to it. For one, when you 
 select a group of units and tell them to move somewhere, they will move exactly in a straight line. 
 If they hit a wall or an obstacle, instead of walking around it and continuing they will continue 
 to walk straight into it and continue walking straight into it without ever moving around it, causing 
 you to have to re-select the units and send perform multiple clicks to move them around the obstacle. 
 This gets annoying in levels where there are narrow passageways and such. Furthermore, the game 
 is just too difficult for it's own good. I mean, whenever I made it to a boss, I would have to 
 try around ten or fifteen times, on some of them upwards of twenty times even! And when I would 
 win, it seemed purely on luck (e. g. the enemy didn't heal itself when it would have the other fifteen 
 times) . It just seems nearly impossible when a boss wipes out your entire army in 2 hits, leaving 
 just your main character left, and since the boss heals at a rate faster than any spells you can 
 cast can damage him, it's like you've instantly lost. Considering you spent 7 or 8 minutes just 
 getting to the boss, it just seems so frustrating. And it's like this with every boss too. I did 
 beat the game, getting the best ending, but even so, there were times when it was just too frustrating 
 to continue (for example, I'm stuck on a certain boss while trying to get the lowest ending and 
 it really is impossible to win this fight, so I've given up on that) . In the end, Lost Magic has 
 good gameplay most of the time and a good story, but has a few flaws that cause frustration at 
 several occasions.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Lost Magic are very good for a 2D game. All of the sprites are colourful 
 and cartoony, and the variety in all of the enemies is very nice. There can be some severe drops 
 in framerate when there are a lot of enemies on the screen though, and the online mode is in a 
 constant state of lag and command delays, always. Even with some framerate issues however, the 
 visual aspects of Lost Magic are of high quality.
  
  Sound: The music in Lost Magic was clearly the game's biggest strength. A couple of these tracks 
 just blew me away, and I really wish that there was a sound room so I could listen to some of these 
 whenever I wanted. Purely awesome music. The sound effects are all very nicely done as well. Overall, 
 the audio in Lost Magic was very amazing.
  
  Value: Lost Magic is a somewhat short game, especially by RPG standards. I finished the game my 
 first time through in 10:45, and I supposedly took the longest path (and ended up getting the best 
 ending, too) . However, while this might not seem like a huge amount of time, the game does boast 
 quite a significant amount of replay value. For example, the game has 4 different endings based 
 on choices that you make throughout the game. Since the game's story is high quality, you'll feel 
 motivated to go back and get a couple if not all of the endings. Furthermore, Lost Magic also features 
 multiplayer, and is even playable over Wi-Fi. While the Wi-Fi mode is in a constant state of lag, 
 you eventually don't even notice it, and can play for hours at a time against various people from 
 around the world. Since the multiplayer aspect to the game is 1v1, finding an opponent can usually 
 be done in under a minute, which is a huge improvement over the substantially lengthier wait times 
 that must be endured during some of the DS's other Wi-Fi games. Overall, while Lost Magic is somewhat 
 short, it's got plenty of extra options to keep you playing after you have beaten it for your first 
 time.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Lost Magic is a good game that is hindered by a few key flaws. It is definitely 
 worth checking out, however, since the story great and the music is awesome. The graphics are great 
 also, and the game's got quite a bit of lasting value to it. While it's got an unneccesary level 
 of difficulty, and could have had some of it's gameplay mechanics refined during the testing process, 
 overall, Lost Magic manages to deliver a solid playing experience and is easily recommendable to 
 anyone with a DS that's looking for a quality playing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyoyo11111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Lost Magic, for the Nintendo DS, is a great game by Taito and Ubisoft in which you draw shapes 
 (called runes) to cast spells which each belong six elements, water, fire, earth, wind, light, 
 and dark. The storyline is much deeper than most Legend of Zelda games and pulls you into it by 
 letting you make game altering decisions. The main character of the game is Isaac, a fourteen-year-old 
 boy and a mage's apprentice. The Diva of Twilight, keeper of the Wand of Balance, has lost hope 
 in humanity and decided to open portals to the monster realm and destroy humanity. Along Isaacs 
 journey he must battle Sages, rescue damsels, and save people from ultimate destruction. The battle 
 system of this game is probably the most creative part. You must draw runes to cast spells. Different 
 spells do different things from healing, to trapping monsters for your own use, to turning enemy 
 monsters to your side, to making a dragon that harms anything in its path. You also build your 
 own party consisting of monsters that you've captured in battle. You can have up to three units, 
 each unit having two to three monsters. The monsters come in six different categories, wind, fire, 
 water, earth, dark, and light, just like the runes. This game also has Wi-Fi capabilities. In Wi-Fi, 
 you pit yourself against one other person and test your skills either with your own single player 
 file or as the bosses youve beaten and unlocked or multiplayer use. If you use your single player 
 file, all the experience transfers over to your single player campaign. The only downside of Wi-Fi 
 play is that the battles start to get slow and lag a lot. Overall Lost Magic is a great, immersive, 
 though underappreciated game. Though the larger and Wi-Fi battles become a bit laggy, overall they 
 are great. I personally think this may be the best RPG since Final Fantasy and hope that the good 
 people at Taito and Ubisoft make this excellent game into a series. GAMEPLAY- 10/10GRAPHICS- 9/10SOUND- 
 8/10VALUE- 10/10 OVERALL --- 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knife_prty
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  First off, I'd like to salute the "They Say" reviews for their surprisingly ignorant and biased 
 opinions. A 6.8 is very wrong. Gamespot's review was good, but I still don't think a 7.9 does this 
 game justice. Here's why:
  
  A friend of mine (japanman2) and I drove to gamestop to check out some games (of course) . Lost 
 Magic was in the back of both of our minds as a game we may get, my reason being the lack of RPG's 
 on my ds. We both knew the game had received only decent reviews at best, but we were still interested 
 being fans of Final Fantasy Tactics and Fire Emblem. Besides the magic system of drawing and combining 
 seemed cool along with the "Pokemon" style monster ranching. We had the same thoughts going through 
 our heads as anyone else that didn't have this game: "Does this game suck?" That's mainly because 
 the game is not made by the well known companies that would make a game like this, so we were rather 
 anxious. Taking the chance, we each bought it and went back to his house to try it out. I'd have 
 to say we were surprised -- very, very, veeeeeeeeeeery surprised. This game is what you call a hidden 
 gem, an underappreciated classic.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  
  Drawing the runes is fantastic and the strangest way (but best way) ever to use magic in a game. 
 The more accurate your rune is the more powerful the spell is. There are 18 spells and 400 combined 
 spells -- yes combined spells. This is FUN. The first fire spell is a fire ball, the first earth 
 spell is a protective wall. Drawing the first fire rune then the first earth rune will make a stronger 
 earth projectile attack. Drawing the first earth rune then the first fire rune will make a stronger 
 fire protective wall that burns enemies that walk into it. 2 first fire runes make a strong fire 
 projectile attack. 2 first earth runes make a strong damaging earth protective wall. You can also 
 combine up to 3 spells but only in certain ways. This is just 2 spells with only their duo combinations. 
 And then there are monsters. Think Pokemon and Starcraft mixed together -- yah. They are your prime 
 level of defense. One thing about this game that makes it fun is, you can never permanently lose 
 monsters. They may die on the battle field but they'll be back to use again in the next battle. 
 This allows you to sacrifice and experiment a lot more. There is no such thing as a game over in 
 this game; if you lose then you'll continue at the place right before that fight, not losing any 
 data. That's not to say the game isn't hard, because it can be. There is a surprising amount of 
 strategy involved. And of course there's multiplayer, and it's up there in fun factor with MPH 
 and MKDS.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  
  Not much to say here. Look at the pics. The graphics are simple enough for the gba but still looks 
 nice and clean. There's a lot of different environments in this game with plenty of obstacles. 
 Not the best graphics, but they're not bad at all. Besides what do you expect from a game with 
 so much data in it anyway?
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  The sound is pretty nice, fairly catchy and diverse; fitting the scenes in which they are played.
 
  
  VALUE: 10/10
  
  A long story mode, branching story paths, different endings, a special mode after beating the game, 
 plenty of monsters, tonnes of spells, MULTIPLAYER, MULTIPLAYER ONLINE, what is there not to love 
 about this? This should keep anyone busy for a nice long time.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: 9/10
  
  With its flaws being only technical (graphics, and hardly a flaw) this game is very good. My 
 only real problems with this game is:
  -the game is one of a kind.
  -because of the bull **** reviews, there probably won't be a sequel.
  -games with big brand names 
 are overrated compared to this underappreciated game.
  
  So there you have it. Stop reading this review and steal a copy from your local Gamestop.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: japanman2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  Knife_Prty and I just got finished buying copies of LostMagic at our local Gamestop, and right 
 afterwards we went back to my house to try out the multiplayer. It was quite possibly the most 
 fun I've ever had playing multiplayer on a handheld console. It even managed to surpass the multiplayer 
 experiences I've had while playing Mario Kart DS and Metroid Prime Hunters.
  
  IMO, the multiplayer duels typically consist of two halves (if the two mages are anywhere near equal 
 matches) . The first half typically consists of a Starcraft-style RTS showdown between your battallion 
 of about 9 to 11 monsters, and you're opponent's own battalion, usually consisting of an equal 
 number of monsters. During which time it's also a good idea to use your magic to assist your monsters 
 somewhat, by either sending homing fireballs or stone pillars, or mana dragons into the battlefield, 
 or by using special magic spells to increase your own monsters' stats, or to even lower your enemy 
 monsters' stats.
  
  The second half is where things really start to get crazy. Typically, if both mages are fairly 
 good at the game to the point where they can survive the first half, then the fight turns into 
 a one-on-one magic duel between you and your opponent. You have up to 400 different spells at your 
 disposal to wreak whatever havoc you want upon your opponent. However the 1-on-1 duel isn't just 
 about sending out big attacks. It's also about defending yourself, using teleporting wind spells/ 
 barriers made out of stone pillars/ healing light magic/ etc.
  
  In many cases, a 1-on-1 duel between you and an opponent can last several times as long as the 
 initial RTS fight between your battalion and your opponent's batallion.
  
  There are only two problems I have with the multiplayer, and here they are:
  1. The basic healing 
 spell fills your HP up completely, and requires hardly an MP to use, and this is just when you 
 first start out in the game. Sure this spell is good for you, but it's also incredibly cheap in 
 multiplayer.
  
  2. There is absolutely no way to get rid of the 10:00 time limit in multiplayer. It's required. 
 Also, if a fight ends because it reaches the time limit, then the match is considered a draw. It's 
 not decided based on which mage has the most HP left over, or anything like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfemanTRITON
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic's gameplay is a great idea. Drawing shapes to call forth the magic floating around in 
 the air into your wand to take down the badguys. When I heard of this concept, I rented the game 
 from Gamefly because it sounded interesting. After playing through a few levels, though I was somewhat 
 disappointed. Every attack that you use is some form of magic. If you run out of MP, (which is 
 briefly because the air has MP in it and you absorb it to fill your MP gauge again after like 5 
 seconds) , you have no melee attack. In a matter of 5 seconds you could easily get killed with your 
 health at around half way full. The level that I stopped playing at required melee attacks. There 
 were monsters that killed me in 3 hits that were surrounding me. The object was to use your Earth 
 attacks to create a wall between you and the monsters so that you can escape without dying. Unfortunately 
 after calling up 3 mounds of earth the MP gauge is out and you have monsters crawling through the 
 gaps or if 3 mounds was enough, just waiting 5 seconds for the mound of earth to return back to 
 normal and then proceed. There probably was a way to do it that I hadn't thought of but I didn't 
 have the patience to want to play through this level over and over anymore. The creativity at Ubisoft 
 is amazing with the Prince of Persia series, GRAW, the upcoming Assassin's Creed and just the idea 
 of this game, but LostMagic did not fully use the basic components of an rpg, along with being 
 difficult in areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcomm
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Such a wonderful specimen of Ubisoft genius, and yet, they seem to have put the levels in the wrong 
 order. The difficulty is a constant rollercoaster, frusturating all I know who have played it. 
 Ok, that's it for the slamming :)
  
  The storyline is original enough on its own, and definetly shocking at times. The gameplay system 
 is the most unique example I've ever seen! Now, if you think that the touch screen won't respond 
 to all but the most specific runes, think again. You won't get tired of doing the same old thing, 
 either, for each level is very creative in design, so there is always something new! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Lost magic is a wonderful game, but it has its own set of flaws. However, the game introduces a 
 few innovations that are wonderful for a game like this.
  The rune system of magic is fun, and using it more effectively is intergral to the game. If you 
 draw certain things, a spell might occur. However, sometimes the game has trouble distinguishing 
 between runes. The RTS style is fitting, and the monster capture system is well done, but the game 
 has a nasty tendency to lag just when it shouldn't. It's challenging to have to rely on a small 
 amount of magic that regenerates at a slow pace, and this forces you to rely on your monsters.
 
  However, even though the game may not seem long, you will definittely spend massive amounts of 
 time leveling up to meet the next chalenge. however, the story (ANOTHER young kid gets forced to 
 save the world from an evil, or misguided, source of trouble) is wonderfully done. This game is 
 absurdly difficult, though, so patience is required. The timed missions don't make life any easier.
 
  All in all, this is a great game on the go, and a lovely gem on a system that has so much crap 
 on it. If you have patience, the game could be the greatest experience currently available on the 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fimbulvetr2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8. This gameplay is just plain awsome. The spellcasting system is great. The only flaw 
 is on the menu. I had one big trouble when i was trying to equip items. It was a big pain but this 
 games gameplay is the kind of gameplay i want to see.
  
  Graphics 10: This game has awsome grpahics. I thought that guy from studio Ghibli made some pretty 
 amazing graphics. The old lady looks like the old people from Hayo miazaki's movies. It is just 
 pure goldan what these graphics are. The Opening title Grpahics was the best out of the whole game. 
 Dangit
  
  Sound 6: It was Barely above average. But I have only played this game for a little so i might 
 change this when i play a little more. But I like the begining music.
  
  Value 9: Ok this is the best Value. 30$ thats pretty good for a game like this.
  Pretty much 
 as good as The New Super Mario bros but 5$ cheaper.
  
  Review Tilt 10: This game goes into my top 25 games placing in number 9.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- As a basic synospsis, you go through levels (using an RTS control scheme) casting spells 
 with the touch screen and capturing monsters to aid in your adventure. And to be honest, it really 
 is much better than people give it credit for! There are 400 different spell combinations that 
 you can draw, and each one of them does somethingdifferent. While most are a bit pointless and 
 dont last long, many are useful and are especially useful in Wi-Fi duels! In that sense, not one 
 LostMagic user will be the same, for most of us will have our own preferences.... whether it be 
 fire magic, light, dark, water, earth, or wind magic. As far as the story goes, it may not be the 
 best scripted game but it is a nice touch to the game that brings you back for more constantly. 
 The game is moderately long for a handheld game (between 8 and 10 hours) , and is never boring. 
 Between the challenging bosses, and variety of spells and monsters, the gameplay is the strongpoint 
 of this game.
  
  Graphics- The graphics arent anything spectacular as far as characters, but many of the spells 
 you cast are enjoyable to watch. Considering the effects are constant, it helps to make up for 
 the GBA look in this game.
  
  Sound- While the sound definitely isnt the best part of this game, it isnt really bad either. There 
 surely is nothing here that will make you amazed, but certain spell sounds, and a few of the songs 
 are great!
  
  Replay Value- Replay value is another strong point of the game. There are two multiplayer modes 
 in general, free mode and duel mode. While there isnt much difference, it is pretty convenient. 
 In free mode you use other characters that you unlcok in single player. The character is automatically 
 lvl 40 and has a variety of monsters, this way you dont have to actually do anything before you 
 can play multiplayer. In duel mode, you use your customized character from single player mode... in 
 this mode, if you log on to the WFC, then you will have an updated rank used with points. You lose 
 them, gain them, but yet for some odd reason they are not effected if you turn off the system in 
 a WFC battle. The Wi-Fi in this game definitely is fun, but between the laggy server (which you 
 get used to) , and the poor calculations of rank it certainly could have been better.
  
  Overall, if your looking for a great RTS/RPG to hold you over this is definitely a game to get. 
 It is a one of a kind game that you should surely consider picking up next time your out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red-Neck
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  Lost Magic cought my attention because it is an RPG, and as I had mostly every other important 
 gaming genre, I need Lost magic too complete my collection. I havent played multiplayer yet, as 
 I only have this game for, about 3 days. It is a clever game, with more then 400 spells to be used. 
 The stroy is basicly this, the land is ruining in destruction becaus a Diva stole wands. And now 
 she rocks, and kills everybody to get their special wands, She hurts our Daddy, but he had given 
 us his wand, and we have the futere of the lan in our hands. So, than you grow stronger as you 
 kill (obviously) and you can even make your batallion of monsters. It is really worth buying, because 
 it is an RPG for the DS, but dont be fooled, you may not like, the graphics, really are not DS 
 like. And the sound remembers me of Pokemon, and Final Fantasy, but, Ubisoft, was able to do their 
 first solid game for the DS, in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince0fAngels
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is a blend of Final Fantasy and Pokemon in one, yet it truly stands on its own. 
  
  The game is innovative in the way one can cast magic by using the stylus to draw "runes." This 
 technique offers a new challenge to the genre and brings the player into the shoes of Isaac, the 
 protagonist of this story. 
  
  Another great aspect of the game is the ability to capture monsters and use them in battle. 
 
  
  Many people complain about the "Time Limit" during each battle. However, the time limit makes the 
 game more challenging and adds edge. Though some levels may require more than one play through 
 one must ask themselves, "Would you want it any other way?"
  
  I highly recommend this game to all DS owners who enjoy RPGs! I can't wait for more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falcon_crest
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  The story is a bit too cliche-ed, so it's kind of deceiving on the storyline. The characters are 
 nice though and the player might get attached to them.
  
  Here comes the revutionary point: The gameplay: The player actually does his spells with the stylet. 
 Later on, the player can even combine two or three spells. The fighting happens like a real time 
 strategy game. The player can also capture monsters who'll help during the battles. Regretfully, 
 the non-battle movements are much too basic and remind Final Fantasy Tactical Advance.
  Another remark that can and should be done, this an RPG that can be played with wi-fi. In other 
 words, this game can become a MMORPG.
  
  The difficulty is slightly to hight, an enormous amount of extra training is required to play correctly.
 
  
  The graphics and the sound, are very medium, kind of deceiving for the DS.
  
  It is very regretfull that equpmets can only go on monsters and that the main character cannot 
 be equiped. Also, there are no shops to buy them and can only be aquired during battles.
  
  Over all it's a game with the most original fighting style and that can become an MMORPG. Slightly 
 deceiving on the graphics the sound and the world map. And gets finished fast enough even with 
 a lot of training.
  
  Good game. People who want to try a new kind of RPG's would like it but not a game that will reach 
 everyone. Rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValKilmerStyle
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic is a unique strategy RPG that puts you in command of a young mage, Isaac. By capturing 
 monsters and drawing runes to create spells, you set off to save the world from stereotypical video 
 game doom. The game has its share of issues, but if you can learn to cope with them, you will find 
 an extremely deep and rewarding experience within.
  
  The overworld in LostMagic couldn't be more straightforward. Each area has it's own spot on the 
 map, and you simply move between each mark to get around, much like Super Mario World. Battles 
 that move the story are marked with a special icon. These missions usually have a bit of dialogue 
 before or after them, but other than that there's nothing to the game but fighting. The game's 
 maps vary in size, although they are all manageable. Once you clear a mission you return to the 
 overworld and open up new paths. Moving between areas without mission icons will initiate random 
 battles, although these are significantly easier than those that are within the game's simple storyline.
 
  
  The basic gameplay mechanics in the game are as follows: 1. You pick a character; 2. You tell the 
 character where to go; 3. You draw runes to cast magic; 4. You pick a target for your magic. There's 
 nothing any more complex about controlling the game. All of the aforementioned actions work well 
 in the context of a fight, and allow you to manage your team pretty quickly. Herein lies the games 
 biggest problem, though. Once you tell your party where to go, they are at the mercy of any trees, 
 rocks, or corners that lie in their path. You'll have to plot out a path around any of these obstacles 
 if your want your characters to get anywhere. This can be frustrating when you're racing against 
 the clock to complete all your mission objectives, or when you're trying to coordinate an attack 
 on a distant enemy. Eventually it becomes natural to take small steps towards your destination, 
 but it's still lame.
  
  The spell-casting in LostMagic is the game's biggest draw. During the course of the story Isaac 
 will learn different runes that can be drawn on the touch screen. To cast a spell, you simply hold 
 the L button and draw the combination of runes you want. There are over 400 different spells in 
 the game that can all be made in this way, each of them based on one of six schools of magic. Once 
 you learn a new rune, it's up to you to find out what new spells you can make with it. The spells 
 range from projectiles to curses to barriers to buffs to cures.
  
  Your party will consist of Isaac and any monsters you should choose to bring into battle with you. 
 Certain spells in the game allow you to capture any of the games various animals for use in your 
 group. Your monsters will level up when you take them into battle, so you can make just about any 
 of them good enough to help you. Each animal is aligned with a different school of magic, providing 
 one of LostMagic's more strategic elements. Each type of magic has an opposing type, meaning that 
 a fire spell will do more damage when used against a water-based monster than an earth-based monster. 
 While choosing your group, you can opt to bring monsters of the opposite alignment as your enemies 
 to inflict more damage, but you run the risk of the enemy monsters doing more damage against you. 
 The wrong group of monsters will all but ensure your defeat in a fight.
  
  This brings me to, what most people will consider, one of the games biggest flaws: the difficulty. 
 If you know what you're going up against, and you know what conditions you must fulfill to clear 
 the mission, most of the battles are fine. However, you won't know any of these things until you 
 actually start the fight. On top of this, all the battles are fitted with a pretty stingy time 
 limit. This means that any decently challenging mission will take at least a second time to complete. 
 While it might be annoying at first, you can learn to use this as a means of finding the fastest 
 and easiest way to finish a match. There's just something gratifying about besting an enemy that, 
 two turns ago, you never stood a chance against.
  
  The graphics are generic, but they don't detract from the gameplay at all. None of the spells look 
 particularly impressive, but none of them look dull. The environments are varied enough to keep 
 things from getting boring, but none of them really stand out. The same is true for the audio. 
 The battle themes are dramatic and upbeat, and the sound effects work well. Nothing too great or 
 too bad here.
  
  If you can get past the control issues, the generic look and story, and the bizarre difficulty, 
 you will find that LostMagic has a lot to offer. The strategy elements are well implemented and 
 the spell-casting is a lot of fun. If you're looking for a unique use of the DS functionality, 
 or just a compelling RPG, LostMagic is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flan_Man
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Lost Magic sounds like fun when you start things up. A strategy title using the touch screen to 
 input magic runes and order unit movement. Things get a little sloppy at times and it brings the 
 experience down a little.
  The game proceeds with little snippets of a plot before and after every time you fight. On the 
 battlefield you must move around your group and launch spells to complete one of four different 
 objectives: 1) Kill all monsters, 2) Kill the leader, 3) Protect the villagers, 4) Purify the crystals.
 
  Your character performs spells by holding the L-trigger (R-trigger for south-paws) and drawing 
 one of 18 different runes to use one of 18 different effects. Some symbols are easy to slice through, 
 but some other ones take several attempts before they are recognized. This often led to launching 
 off an icicle when I wanted to lay a trap or vice versa. The 18 runes may be combined after reaching 
 certain points in the adventure allowing for combined spells. There are tons of combinations, but 
 you'll only rely on 5 or 6 to hammer your opponents into submission.
  Movement of your character is handled by tapping him and then tapping a destination. If there is 
 a tree in the way, he will hug it until he manages his way around it or get stuck in a niche. After 
 a certain point you gain the help of monsters to serve as a shield or battering ram. They control 
 identically to our young protagonist. Group selection is possible by dragging a circle over the 
 group you wish to select, just like any RTS. It can be difficult and frustrating to pick out a 
 single unit from the fray to make it retreat or to heal it.
  The game's plot is presented as a background on which still frames of the characters talk to one 
 another. Large, bright, and anime-style as they are, it still works rather nicely with the story 
 presented. Yes, it is another young-boy-saves-the-world plots, but there is an opportunity to branch 
 for good or ill. You get some sway over how your character interacts with the others. The plot 
 gets the job done, but doesn't go any farther.
  Some levels are nearly impossible unless you bring along the right assortment of critters and use 
 the proper spells. Once you get more than 20 sprites moving around the map at once the game tends 
 to lag something fierce. While it may not be for more than a second that is all that is needed 
 to mess up your complex set of runes needed to heal yourself before a blast of fiery death forces 
 you to load up and try again.
  No questionable material whatsoever. Well, if you make some wrong choices then there is some life-and-death 
 scenarios, but nothing graphic. Creatures and villains collapse on the ground, the first fades 
 away after a few seconds. I suppose anyone who protested the Harry Potter movies for their "witchcraft 
 and wizardry" would find the use of magic and the constant talk of "the creator" to be offensive. 
 If you are easily offended by fantasy situations involving magic and the mentioning of a god then 
 you may not like this game.
  Despite the occasional lagging and some of the flaws, it was still enjoyable to play. It is annoying 
 to play a mission at level 50 and get wiped out by one spell from some crazy old hermit, but it 
 is quite enjoyable to march straight up to the final boss and take her down in under 30 seconds 
 with a good old bum rush. I found it fun to play, but easy to put down and forget after about 13 
 hours. Fun while it lasts, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael2021
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  Lost Magic is an Real Time Strategy (RTS) RPG for the NintendoDS (NDS) , and is, obviously, better 
 than the other RTS game that are out for the NDS, as of yet.
  
  The Character Art, I must say, is not bad. I'm amazed that Taito got the Director of Studio Ghibli 
 to do Character Art for this game, quite an accomplishment.
  
  The graphics are okay, spells seem to use nice fog effect, and is necessary for a game of this 
 caliber.
  
  The controls are very easy, using the L Button when casting magic is a nice option.
  
  I must 
 say, though... the difficulty is mostly jumbled. Even early on, if you get swarmed by monsters, 
 you will die, and you'd require to level up substantially, just like in Final Fantasy Tactics. 
 There's also the timer for each mission, I wish they didn't have that. I'm a tanker, which means 
 I do things very slowly. Attack, prepare, move.
  
  Gameplay and Touch Recognition are great, also. The game can know what Rune you're drawing so you 
 can do it quickly.
  
  The things I have to regret, though, is the lag of the NintendoDS while coping with huge levels 
 and a massaive amount of sprites. Another is the difficulty.
  
  The upscale, though, is the variation of Magic Spells. You first learn to draw one Rune at a time 
 for a spell, but later on, you'll learn how to draw two Runes at once to cast different spells, 
 they vary between which Runes you used, and what order you draw them in. And not only that, but 
 you learn more Runes, later on. According to the game, you can cast over 400 Spells.
  
  All in all, Taito's shot for an RPG is a success, and is a great worth of $29.99/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitrobeat1019
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  LostMagic is a very fun RTS/RPG game. The gameplay is great using the stylus and all. This game 
 will require you to be a fast thinker and get good at drawing with the stylus.
  You are a 14 year old boy named Isaac who is learning magic from a nice lady who he calls his grandmother. 
 You will learn the basics of the game from her in the beginning and there are also tutorials throughout 
 the game. 
  As you progress you will learn new spells, meet new characters, and learn to capture and use monsters 
 for yourself. They become a big part of the game (the reason why its a strategy game.) As the game 
 goes on, you will need to use different monsters for different tasks such as flying over holes 
 or walking over lava.
  You travel throughout your journey on a world map which is similar to the map of Final Fantasy 
 Tactics, where you can find random battles by revisiting places. The map itself isn't very big 
 though.
  
  The graphics in this game are wonderful, except for the occasional lag when there are too many 
 objects on the screen. Thhe cutscenes arent movies but they are good enough.
  
  The story is satisfying. You never know what's going to happen next. There are also decisions throughout 
 the game that can change your outcome.
  
  The controls of this game arent that hard to grasp. It jus might take a while to get used to drawing 
 on the touch screen a lot. You will draw different objects for a different spell, such as an upside-down 
 "v" will cast a fireball.
  
  There is some replay value. There is a new game+ that you can play but is only worth it to see 
 all the endings or get stronger for wi-fi.
  
  Overall i think that this is a great game for the DS. It's like this is what they made the stylus 
 for. I would highly reccomend purchasing this game to get the full use out of your stylus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god_yggdrasil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  i would say lost magic is a pretty much must-have for DS owners. its very addictive, as the gameplay 
 is almost flawless (just a few points of it are a little frustrating and need some touches) and the 
 story can be interesting for some RPG fans out there. for me, so far the story is dull, but i have 
 only had it for 2 days now. right now i would be at the climax for most RPG games, but as i said, 
 it is challenging. VERY challenging at that. i'm only on the 2nd chapter (the game goes in chapters, 
 not as fire emblem does, but like Tales of Legendia does, or Riviera) . and with the games i named, 
 i would probably be at chapter 5 or 6. with this though, it is much harder than your average RPG. 
 it takes awhile to get used to and has a very complex battle system. once you learn how to control 
 you, your spells, and all your monster recruits, then its on to some fast and intense gameplay. 
 once you start to get the hang of it, the game throws another extra adding at you like another 
 new spell you have to memorize if you want to draw and use it, or new monsters to level up and 
 control, or even a new way of using spells or using monsters. the movement is pretty simple, you 
 touch your guy in the touch screen with the stylus, and then touch the place you want him to move. 
 the flaws of this is HOW he moves. he moves like a dumb rat. lets say you are standing one side 
 of a wall and there is not much left to walk down so you start to turn a bit. but if you turn too 
 much, he will head toward the wall before he is even past it so he just walks at the wall forever 
 and ever until you get annoyed and decide to go little by little again. with this, it goes very 
 slow when walking far distances. mostly, thats my only complant of the gameplay. everything else 
 i find very enjoyable. it keeps you busy with nothing else to do while doing it. in other words, 
 its just about impossible to multi-task with this game (and this is in a good way) . the game is 
 so intense that if you look away for a second, your entire monster army will be gone and there 
 will be 5 guys on you all at once. with this, you have to draw as fast as you can. oh yeah, another 
 flaw. since you have MP, well you cant do unlimited magic. which can be a pain when trying to heal 
 all your guys dying. if there wasnt any MP (mana points) then it would be a lot easier to progress. 
 anyway, i have been talking so much on the gameplay because there isnt much else, the graphics 
 look like it could be on GBA, and the story so far hasnt gotten my attention too well. but i dont 
 really mind graphics of games at all and the gameplay makes up for the story and even more. 
  if you know me, you know that the story is my favorite part in a game. with this game though, i 
 dont even care about the story being dull, the gameplay makes up for it completely. its tough, 
 and movements can be annoying at times, but the battles are addicting and pull you through. thats 
 all there is to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon790
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic is an amazimg game, there are 3 main modes: Single Player, Multiplayer and Wifi. The 
 single player isn't that long but it's fun and hard! You use the stylus to draw runes to use spells, 
 you can use up to three runes per spell. You can also capture mosters with a dark spell, then youy 
 can command them and they will be a part of your team. The point of the game is to find and cure 
 the three sages (water, fire and wind) . The multiplayer is two on two death match and isn't fun. 
 The Wifi is like the multiplayer (laggs sometimes in wifi) but you can be Izzac (the main character) 
 or you can be the sages you defeat, they atomaticly have every spell and an army of monsters. The 
 wifi is great! But most people on the wifi are around lvl 50-60 so it can get hard.
  
  Good: Fun story and wifi
  
  Bad: bad menu screens random difficlty levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  The moment I saw this game I knew it was gonna be great and it was. The way you do your commands 
 for your magic skills, the hundreds of combinations that you're able to cast, the monsters your 
 gather. Really Good. Probably the game with the most use of your touch screen. Is kind of like 
 Starcraft for the PC, but I think is more difficult, so there's more strategies for you to think 
 of.
  I would recommend this game to everyone with patients because some of these level are really hard. Trust 
 me, I know. But that is shouldn't be a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gammagoat
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has many revolutionary points. First, the game being able to detect drawing runes is 
 truly a shock. I couldn't believe that something so good would be on a system like the DS, but 
 maybe within the next decade. Surprisingly, I was wrong. Also, being able to capture creatures, 
 and cast over 400 spells is an awesome attribute worth making a sequel over.
  
  I absolutely love the Wi-Fi capability, giving you the power to battle worldwide. Battling and 
 training in single player simply prepares you for fighting people online.
  
  Here is a complete list of Pros and Cons;
  
  Pros :
  -Draw runes to cast spells
  -Wi-Fi
 
  -Can send a demo to others using DS Download Play
  -Learn new, exciting ways to beat the game after every battle
  -Creature weaknesses allow different 
 strategies to form
  -Collect items to increase your monsters' ability to survive.
  
  Cons:
  -Not a very "great" gameplay. All you do is move from place to place by clicking on it. 
 The only way to actually "play" the game is to engage in combat.
  -The AI is too hard to beat at the beginning.
  -The sound is a bit jumbled and jarry
  -DS cannot 
 recognize all drawings, even when they are close to accurate.
  
  I believe that the style of this game could be used as the precedent for greater things to come, 
 like handwriting recognition.
  
  Overall, this is a great game, and I recommend it to any RPG fan who owns a DS. It is simply genius! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooperthefool
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Thia is a great and addicting game. Although I although i have yet to finish it this is what i 
 think: 
  
  LOst magic is a great strategy, magic based rpg. it has a fun storyline that keeps you wondering 
 what is going to happen next. There are a few overlookable flaws in this game but it's still a 
 game that i reccomend for purchase.
  
  The game starts out and it takes about a half an our to learn the controll syystem for spells and 
 then your off on your journey. You have a limited amount of mana which is another challenge to 
 keep you playing. The game gets harder and the spells more complex but as the game gets harder 
 you and your character get more experinced and learn what spells you do to defeat different enemies. 
 The main flaw is that the game does not pause for you to draw the rune so you have to have your 
 captured monsters hold them off while you do the spell.
  
  Overall this a good game that will keep you playing and finding new runes and combinations.
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DZAPPER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Don't be fooled by Lost Magic's highly RPGish look, this is an RTS at it's core. Sure you level 
 up, but the core game machanic is commanding your maonsters and casting magic spells using the 
 very innovative Rune Drawing system. Basically you draw simple symbols to cast spells but then 
 as you progress through the game you can combine spells making limitless amounts of spells. The 
 single player missions are very striaght forward, they give you a goal and a time limit. Then after 
 you conclude the battles you are treated with catchy jingles and text driven dialouge. The only 
 problem I have with single player is that the difficulty is so unpredictable. You could be thinking 
 your god one minute and then the next minute your running with your tail between you legs. But 
 overall single-player is great. The local wireless is good but it should have had a single card 
 download option. Now on to the Online play. It's good except for a few problems. One it's lagging 
 all the time, two there is limited stat tracking and three people love to just rush all there monsters 
 to your sage, well I guess that's not Taito's fault. But despite these minor flaws I still find 
 myself giving this game at least an hour of my time each day. This game is great fun and is highly 
 addictive. Online or Offline you will love Lost Magic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic IS a very good RPG for the DS. First time where you can scribble differnt patterns on 
 the touch screen to cast differnt magic spells, which is extremly fun. There are over 400 spells 
 that you can combine and mix to make even stronger ones. First time on any game you can do that (except 
 Tao's Adventure) . Some down falls of this game is the lack of good online sapport. I think they 
 couldev done a little better, but what they did is fun. Online play consists of you and another 
 human player useing the Nintendo Wi-Fi service, to where they have a 1v1 battle against each other, 
 and you can have all the monsters that you captured, oh yea, you can also capture monsters in this 
 game haha. But the monsters often get stuck behind walls, or trees or something like that, but 
 its not that hard to just click them, and move them down, then right if thats where you needed 
 to go and if you can picture that. Im sure any RPG fan will like this game, and even people that 
 dont like RPGs that much will get hooked because of the magic system and stuff. This game is really.... grood.... or 
 uh... good and great.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerox0409
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  Personally?, I'd recommend this game to anyone with or without a DS here's why.
  
  It's a game that fully utilizes the Touch Screen and has a nice even pace that even non Harcore 
 gamers can handle with a little play time,
  
  Some reasons this game is great.
  
  1. "Rollercoaster difficulty" 
  indeed, this game keeps you on your toes by letting you have 
 a few easy fights and then throwing you into a fight that makes you say "Oh SNAP! I need to power 
 up before i fight this thing!... or at least change my monster line-up" Speaking of which, this 
 game allows you to catch monsters and send them into battle to help keep you from being destroyed, 
 when you do this you must consider what you need for the fight (you have a limited amount of UP 
 or "Unit Points" that you use to bring in monsters, this get's really fun later on.
  
  2. "Rune magic system" 
  that's right, RUNES you use Runes to cast magic, how you ask?, by drawing 
 them on the touch screen! sounds good right?, well you need to get used to drawing all 18 Runes 
 (divided into elemental groups of three) for Fire, Wind, Water, Earth, Dark, and Light in order 
 to cast powerfull compound spells (known as Duo/Trio Runes) that become more and more intricate 
 in the shape of the runes as well as the combinations for the spells,
  this magic system will bring you constantly back for more. 
  
  3. "Level your butt up!"
  
 yes you can level up to gain more hp, mp, up (unit points) and base stats that effect speed and 
 such things on the battlefield, another interesting note is that you can also level up your Monsters 
 to make them more effective... neat huh?.
  
  4. "Online duels" 
  FInally you can own friends and rivals alike using m@d ski11z0rs and wifi!
  
  Some reasons 
 you might not like it.
  
  1. "Rollercoaster Difficulty"
  you will no doubt get frustrated with some areas and want to return this game.
  
  2. "Rune 
 magic system"
  Some runes are difficult to draw and may help to lead to that whole Returning it thing.
  
  
 3. "Level your butt up!"
  the experience system in this may seem a little slow to some players causing them to feel they 
 may never get strong enough to own some areas... once more leading to the return issue.
  
  4. "Onlne duels"
  During said duels over Wifi there can be a nasty lag problem, this will lead 
 to you getting killed... a lot, once more, Return issue.
  
  Over all this game takes a bt of patience to master, (I haven't quite mastered it myself) and will 
 take a bit of getting used to, other than that it's smooth and VERY responsive, a must buy for 
 any Nintendo fan/gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  now i was not too sure that i would buy this game, but my friends pushed me and i was wrong to 
 doubt them. it's a great game.
  so, you're a young boy called Isaac, a wizard. which brings up the point."magic". the game play 
 is awesome, you draw magic! yes you can draw you're magic this is what a D. S game needed.
  apparently there is a variety of over 400 spells! the battles are great fun, you control a bunch 
 of monsters and you send them into battle while you stay in the back and wreak havoc with your 
 magic. 
  the game play may be a bit slow for some but you may get used to it.
  the character animation out-of-battle is really colourful and nice.
  the in-battle is not as 
 great but i love it anyway. there is a great storyline from what i have played so far. and believe 
 me i haven't gone too far.
  there is 1 precaution though and i will say this clear.
  THIS GAME IS HARD!!!!.
  
  Though if you're good enough to overcome it, you'll love it to the 
 max.
  i loved it, you will love it. everyone should love it.
  this is a must for all D. S owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okami_kon
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 28, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all the concept of this game is very interesting. But the controls are sometimes 
 hard to get used to and sometimes it feels like they're working against you. The story of the game 
 is decent and It'll keep you interested in the game for a while. The Multi Player is also pretty 
 good i wish the battles were abit more fast paced though. The game is a good blend of RPG and RTS 
 but it's a but to complicated to control at times. It's a decent game worth a rent or buy if you 
 want it for Wi-Fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_wiz99
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  To Start off people that like drawin' things will love this game! If not stop reading my review.
 
  
  Gameplay
  The game play is pretty unique. The areas of playing range from a small easy area to a wide open 
 harder area. The game has different missions for each area one being defeat all enemys, another 
 being clear mana crystals (which heal you and your monsters without using your magic) . During your 
 missions you can use a spell to catch different monsters, which is a pretty neat touch. The neat 
 drawing of magic is cool in my mind, though it gets a bit repetive. One downfall though for every 
 mission there is a time limit. Usually 5 minutes though that seems like a lot of time it is not 
 enough to put a plan into place. Other than that real Fun!
  8 out of 10
  
  Graphics
  For a DS game the graphics are excellent! the main character Isaac looks really cool other than 
 the fact he looks a 10 year old in a thirteen year olds body. All the monsters are pretty detailed 
 and look amazing. My favorite is the spells and how they look. When you shoot a fireball it leaves 
 fire residue in the air. ANd the same with ice balls.
  9 out of 10
  
  Sound 
  the game doesnt show any amout of different music changes other than in a boss mission. the music 
 isnt exciting or that boring there is nothing more a could say.
  6 out of 10
  
  Value
  I bought the game for 40 bucks so I guess its a pretty good price.
  9 out of 10
  
  Signed,
 
  Game_Wiz99 :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Writer1983
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  About Lost Magic for the DS... This was one of those games that you either love or hate, and has 
 been getting a lot of mixed reviews. I decided to rent it from GameFly, and liked it so much I 
 bought it outright. I will say this about it, it's slow to get into for about the first hour or 
 so, but if you stick with it, it gets better, and you can even go back and repeat maps for extra 
 experience. If you liked Pokemon, Dragon Warrior Monsters and games of their ilk, I think you should 
 give this one a shot.
  
  Note: 
  The Bad: 
  You will be re-playing certain maps over and over usually due to the strict time limit or your 
 monster's lack-of-pathfinding skills. And if you can't sketch the runes (or, like my hubby, can't 
 draw anything at all) this game will be an exercise in frusteration. But, if you are willing to 
 overlook these small issues, you'll find a creative rts/rpg hybrid that really does use the touch 
 screen of the ds to great effect without being gimmicky. Folks, THIS is the sort of thing that 
 simply CAN'T be done on any other system. Pehaps, if they deign to make a sequel they could get 
 rid of the stupid time limit, work on the AI intellegence, and fix the rollercoaster difficulty. 
 Yes, it's hard, but fun, and I find I keep picking it up to play again-and-again when I swore I 
 wouldn't play it anymore..
  
  The Good:
  LostMagic is kind of an action RPG, but it's sort of an RTS, with a few puzzle and strategy RPG 
 elements (as well as monster-catching) thrown in the mix. It broke down such genre barriers with 
 the power of the stylus. That's why it's such a great title.
  
  You are primarily in control of Isaac, and you also direct a host of monsters that you capture 
 and then add to your ranks based on a "unit points" system. Both you and the monsters will gain 
 experience points for defeating enemies. How you defeat them is up to you.
  
  Depending on whether you're left or right handed, you will use either the L or R button to call 
 up the rune screen to enter a rune to cast magic. There a total of 18 runes (3 levels of runes 
 for 6 elements) that you learn throughout the game. Mid-way through the game you'll be able to 
 combine any two runes for a unique spell using the Duo Rune feature. And, if you take the "good 
 ending" path, you will even be able to execute a limited number of Trio Runes. Yeah, the magic 
 system is hot.
  
  During battles, the top screen shows all information along with a zoomed out map. The bottom screen 
 is the field where the action takes place. Using the stylus, you can cast magic, move you and your 
 monsters around, and check the stats of enemy units.
  
  Battles may have one of any number of objectives, including the standard "kill your enemies" or 
 "kill the big boss." There are also "escape from the battle" and "purify the crystals" (sort of 
 a "king of the hill" objective) . Every single battle (even random encounters) comes with a time 
 limit (usually five minutes, sometimes three or ten minutes) . Even if you're an expert at all the 
 genres of gameplay represented, I promise you this game will be a challenge. Plan on losing more 
 often than winning.
  
  The reason for the number of exceedingly high losses (besides the tight time limits) is that you 
 really need to learn and master spells, as well as plan a decent strategy, before taking on any 
 serious battle. I found that area-based explosions were very helpful most of the time, but they 
 alone cannot do the trick when it comes to taking down rival magicians. You'll also need to discover 
 for yourself the various forms of healing magic, enhancing magic, and enfeebling magic. There is 
 no in-game guide; you learn the spells by experimenting and then reading the description for the 
 attempted spell.
  
  HP and MP are also a significant factor in gameplay. MP regenerates when you stand around not casting 
 magic. MP will regenerate faster if you purify crystals and stand near said crystals. This definitely 
 adds to the strategy factor.
  
  Throw in a decent competitive multiplayer option for kicks, and LostMagic is a clear victor for 
 DS RPGs. I had so much fun with this title, and it challenged me in so many ways, I simply have 
 to recommend it for its gameplay if for nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieed15
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 21, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  
  The DS has been rather unfortunate when it comes to quality RPGs, with only a few games even worth 
 mentioning at all. Luckily, for RPG and RTS enthusiasts it looks like that trend may start to dissolve 
 starting with Lost Magic.
  
  In Lost Magic you take the role of a young orphan boy, who lost his entire family and home in a 
 monster attack. As time goes on, he is raised by an old witch and taught the ways of magic and 
 eventually is confronted by his ownsupposed deadfather who gives him a power magic staff. The 
 fate of the world falls on his hands as he stands up against the evil Sage of the Twilight and 
 her otherworldly monsters. 
  
  Lost Magic is a RTS (Real Time Strategy) game, and it is far more challenging than one might guess 
 at first glance. The action takes place on the bottom screen, and you can move you or your allies 
 by selecting them with the stylus. Once youve moved to where you want to be, however, youll want 
 to take offensive action against the enemy. This is usually done by casting spells via the touch 
 screen and stylus, drawing different symbols casts different spells and as you level up and gain 
 more power youll even be able to combine the symbols to create more spells. Master of the spell 
 system is key, as the action in Lost Magic can go from easy-going to near death in seconds. Not 
 only will you have to be quick on your feetor hand in this casebut youll also have to gather 
 a wide variety of allied monsters. To do this, you must weaken a monster in battle and capture 
 it via the dark rune spell. The higher your level, the more powerful and numerous your monster 
 allies can become. 
  
  As stated above, Lost Magic can go from being very laid back to fast and furious within moments. 
 This is because the game doesnt stop while youre moving or casting your spells. If you think 
 an ally needs healing, waiting until hes in critical condition to start a spell is unwise because 
 he could very well be dead before you even pull off the rune drawing. To master Lost Magic youll 
 have to think fast and execute your actions both quickly and efficiently.
  
  For the most part, however, the game is pleasant and rather fun. When you start out, youll only 
 have a few spells and little to no allied monstersbut if you put a lot of time into it, you can 
 end the game with a myriad of spell combinations and an army of powerful creatures by your side. 
 
  
  Graphically, Lost Magic has a very nice style that separates itself from other RTS games in a variety 
 of ways. The in-game sprites are much larger than most other of the RTS variety, and while this 
 makes it a bit harder to plan your attacks and movementsit does look very nice. The story is told 
 by conversations that take place between the characters, which are drawn in a quirky style that 
 almost seems inspired by anime in the vein of Hayao Miyazaki.
  
  The sound is decent, although it could have lived with a bit more variety on the music front. The 
 sound effects are nice as well, and different spells and actions create different sounds accordingly. 
 Its not the high point of the game, but sound isnt truly neglected either.
  
  Lost Magic is one of the few RPGs for the DS that is actually any good, it puts games like Lunar: 
 Dragon Song to shame, and while it doesnt reinvent the RTS genre it certainly succeeds in creating 
 a nicely made, assessable game with enough challenge and charm to keep you playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukevsLuffy
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  Story: a mix of same-old-same-old to wow
  Graphics: pretty good, but there are games with better
  Sound: nicely and smoothly composed
 
  Difficulty: its harder than some other games, and it puts up a fight
  Replay Value: Moderately-High
  Style: RPG/RTS
  
  While Lost Magic looks like a sort of "kiddie" 
 game on the outside, it is a hard-core awesome game. The story at sometimes feels like a been-there-done-that 
 kind of game, with an orphan boy who has strong powers and has to save the world, but it mixes 
 in magic, which is the whole point in this game. By holding L, you can bring up a screen where 
 you draw spells. using the spells, you can fire fire, freeze enemies using ice, blow enemies away 
 with wind, create a barrier using earth, heal with light, and capture weakened monsters with a 
 dark spell. Once you catch a monster, you can use it in battle, as extra backup. Once you learn 
 how to, you can mix 2 spells together to make more powerful attacks, but it uses up more MP. This 
 game uses a sort of RPG style, but you move your units using the touch screen, making it an RTS 
 style game.
  Multiplayer is fun. You can either use your data to duel (where you use every spell YOU know, and 
 any monsters you captured) , or you can use a free-play style mode, where you can use Isaac, the 
 main character, or any other characters you beat in Story mode (all characters have different strengths, 
 and in free play, they all start out on level 40, with all spells, but a preset number of types 
 of monsters you can use) .
  If you love Role Playing Games, or just love witchcraft, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wario264
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  first off this game is very innotive in the way it uses the touch screen to draw majic runes which 
 transform into majic attacks which can help your friends and hinder your enemies
  
  gameplay
  very simple controls using the same controlling mecansim as comand and conquer were 
 you can drag a circle around you and your allies.
  
  graphics
  very nice 2d graphics but with 3d majic attacks. not entirley using the ds's capability but still 
 nice and couloufull
  
  sound
  gets anoying over time and that brid thing really hacks me off with its cherping ( its stuck in 
 my brain ) 
  
  features
  not a very deep RPG because there is no exploring and has a linaer story but the gameplay and mulitplayer 
 features make up for the lack of individuality
  
  in conclusion i think this game is a must buy for ds owners as the game uses the touch screen to 
 the full. but to all hardcore RPG fans this is not a particulary deep game and has a linear story. 
 but the mulitplayer (using the wifi) is very addictive and uses the friend code feature to make 
 a very fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 18, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic is an rpg that takes place in a fictional world where there are six sages who wield 
 powerful staffs to keep the world in order. But the sixth sage, the Diva of Twilight, has decided 
 to destroy the entire human race. She tries to steal all six of the magical staffs.
  
  You play as Issac, a young mage who aspires to become as powerful as his father, who mysteriously 
 disappeared, never to be seen again. As the game continues, Issac becomes stronger, learns powerful 
 spells, and finds the whereabouts of his father.
  
  The meat of the game is in the gameplay which involves you attacking enemy monsters with runes 
 which must be drawn on the touch screen to be activated. The strength of the spell is based on 
 how well the rune is drawn. These spells can involve things as simple as firing a fireball to summoning 
 a god of light who destroys all who are foolish to stand in your way.
  
  Another great part of the game is the monster catching. By using the basic Dark rune, you can capture 
 monsters and have them do your bidding, such as opening chests, capturing crystals, and attacking 
 enemies. 
  
  While the game is easy in the beginning, the game's difficulty becomes much harder by the end. 
 Forcing you to fight in unfavorable conditions, against staggering numbers, short time limit, and 
 many other obstacles. In the later levels, don't be surprised if you have to try four or five times 
 to beat one level.
  
  Though the story sounds overused, it's surprisingly good and has quite a few twists throughout 
 the game. Also depending on choices you make throughout the game, you can also get different endings.
 
  
  The sound is average and while pleasant to listen to, it does not have anything spectacular or 
 groundbreaking. Expect to listen to the same song more than once throughout the game. Especiall 
 in the monster edit menu.
  
  The graphics are the game's main weak point. While the art is drawn very well and characters and 
 monsters all well detailed, the gameplay graphics are lacking and are a bit simplistic on the battlefield.
 
  
  Lost magic also has a wifi mode allowing you to use the monsters you've caught in the game in battle 
 against other players and their monsters. While amusing, it's not exactly on par with the multiplayer 
 of games like Animal Crossing: WW, Metroid Prime: Hunters, and Mario Kart DS.
  
  The only complaints I have with this game are it's lacking gameplay graphics, average music, and 
 the AI of the game. Now the AI of the game is mostly good, there are times when your allies bump 
 into walls, walk on spikes, and fall into lava and can require a lot of micro managing.
  
  Overall, Lost Magic is a fun, challenging, and has a great story to go along with its innovative 
 and addicting gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Surllio
Rating: 6
Date: May 17, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Lost magic is one of those great ideas that is wonderfully executed but allows little for those 
 who can't keep up with the pace.
  
  The game starts you off as a student of magic, learning the ways from a kind witch. What she teaches 
 you is simple stuff, and basic runes. This is all fine, but then you find out you also have to 
 control monsters while drawing runes and giving orders to yourself.
  
  When I first got into this game, it was something great. I loved the rune drawing, I liked the 
 way the stylus was used. I loved everything about it. Then you get to the first town, and your 
 taught about monster controlling. Alright, doesn't seem too hard. Right?
  
  Wrong. Unless you have incredably fast hands, this game suddenly turns into a nightmare. I found 
 myself dying at least 2 for each battle. Roughly half way through the game, I pretty much gave 
 up. My wrist has problems enough.
  
  I'm not saying this is a bad game. I rather enjoyed it. Its just a little too difficult for some 
 people.
  
  Lost Magic is a something that some people will enjoy, and others will despise. Its not for everyone. 
 I would have loved it more if the game wasn't real time and more turn based. However, I still will 
 recommend at least trying it. Its worth the time, if anything for the simple but great artwork 
 and massive use of the touch screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gersh100
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 17, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  At first when you actuly play the game you'll have to walk to a chest and to do that you must tap 
 on his head then tap the place you want to go. At first you you might say thats a bit unnesesary 
 considering you have a perfectly fine D-pad right there (or bottun pad for you lefties) . But later 
 on it makes sence when youeaet your alies. People are saying it's a lot like pokemon but I don't 
 see it, I maen Lost Magic is an RPG where you battle monsters, get them weak, capture them, put 
 them in your battle party, and level them up... I don't see it. But realy that one aspect is like 
 pokemon but trust me the game play is comprtly diffrent. Any way my point earlier about moving 
 and it being wierd it makes sence when you have 10 people (or monsters) to controll. You have to 
 tap the screan then drag the stylis to form a circle around your party, or a few monters at a time, 
 or independed people. The monsters can be a huge help during missions as they can fight for you 
 and are a huge help when you have no magic. Spell Casting is a huge part in the game and is the 
 charactters only ofence, and defence. You hold down the the "L" (or "R") to get a drwing pad rune 
 thing and draw your spell. Through out the game you get diffrent runes (spells) and by the end 
 you get 18 but alittle lated in the game you learn duo runes and are able to compined diffeent 
 runes for diffrent spells, 200 in all. A big promblem with the game (as if it was avoidable) is 
 your mana (magic) points. At first it's not a huge problem but later in the game when your fighting 
 an enemy and you run out of mana points you are left defenceless while an enemy is attacking you, 
 you gain mana points atomaticly but sometimes it can take realy long time and on higher levels 
 more times then not enemys will kill you (it's realy hard to just run away) . Agian this is where 
 the monster you capture come in, they can pretect you while you draw in mana points. Another hard 
 part are the bosses of the game, sometimes it seemes imposible to hurt them, your allies can hardly 
 hurt them and you cast spell after spell. One spell you have is the power to heal but it's duficult 
 and under presure you can keep messing up all the spells and the game dosen't under stand what 
 your drawing so it makes this worific sound, kinda like the sound Family Fued makes when you answer 
 wrong but over and over agian. Any way with the bosses your fighting and going and in the end you 
 end up doing it 2, 3, 5 on realy hard ones like 10 times! Any way besides that the game is realy 
 good and agian it's not like pokemon, and for you pokemon fans remember it's exacly like pokemon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Well I pick up every DS game that has Wi-Fi and try it out in Wi-Fi. I played the Wi-Fi in this 
 game and it was pretty good. Wi-Fi raating 8/10.
  LostMAgic isn't a button masher you must draw symbols for spells. You can combine spells which 
 makes for thousands of posible spells.
  Ubisoft (the mind behind Prince of Persia and Far Cry and now Red Steel for the Wii) made this 
 game amazing. It is an innovative way to play Wi-Fi now we just need an RPG in Wi-Fi maybe 2K will 
 make Elder Scrolls on the DS no way on Earth they would. Let's look at the Wi-Fi games.
  LostMagic-Action/Adventure
  Metroid Prime Hunters-First Person Shooter
  Mario Kart DS-Racing
 
  Animal Crossing Wild World-Community 
  Tetris DS-PuZZle
  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland-Skating
  A genre for everyone except Stargey and Role Playing 
 Games.
  Now let's head to the review.
  
  Gameplay: Innovative. Did Nintendo make it? NO! WOW! The characters are okay but kinda weird!
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are okay but not too good. They're okay in my opinion a 7.
  
  Sound: If you could chat in Wi-Fi like on MPH. But the music is okay voiceovers would have been 
 could.
  
  Value: Some gameres might like this but I didn't. A 9.
  
  Didn't like it alot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spider524
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game but very difficult. Im stuck at the posseds fire god. I got toasted : ( .
  You should try this game. If your a mage wannabe then play this game!
  - --- ---- ----- --- --- 
 --- ------ ----- /""""" '''|"" /""""
  - | | |__ | | \/ | /__\ | __ | | | | _
  ---- --- __| | | | / \ |___| ----- \___ _|_ \__|
  
  (sorry about the bad lostmagic sign)
 
  
  awesome game.
  
  _ _ __ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ ___
  / \/ \ /__\ / _ [] / [] /__\ /\ / |___
  / \ / \ \___] _ [] _ \___ _ [] _ / \ / \/ ___| 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eppy105
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  This game will provide hours of fun. The writing recognition is great, the story is great, and 
 the game is just soo much fun!!! This game reminds me alot of the original final fantasy with some 
 really great RTS qualityies. At times, this game can become excedingly hard, but it's still fun. 
 The good thing about this game is there isno town exploration, so you dont go around hoping to 
 not find a battle. You will be looking for the battles beleive it or not. The only problem this 
 game has is the Wi-fi. It's can become laggy, and it doesn't match you up with opponents of considerable 
 skill. The characters are colorful and well, designed. The backrounds are bursting with color, 
 and the spell system is supurb. The only reason i wouldn't reccomend this game is because of the 
 level of diffuculty. You will find yourself expirementing with different things to win, and not 
 many games make you really think like this one. I recommend this game if you are looking for a 
 game with great story telling, an awsome speel system that will keep you experimenting, and a game 
 with hours of fun. Once you get this game you will not be able to put it down!!!
  
  P. S. The sound is also good and changes between different scenarios. Some retro nintendo sounding 
 music spices up the mood of this game. The sound is quite injoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovely_lemons
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. There are tons and tons of spells, of which I still have a few left to figure 
 out. For the gameplay being so new, this is a really excellent game. And it isn't just a game where 
 you can always rush your opponents, you have to use strategy too. If you always rush your opponents, 
 they could be the ones that get you instead. My favorite part about this game is playing friends 
 not on wifi. Because on wifi it tends to be a bit slower and when you bring up your spell drawing 
 thing, it takes some time for that to come up. But wifi is still incredibly fun. The story mode 
 is short, and a classic storyline, but it is still fun. You can even choose to branch off to the 
 evil side, or stay good. One player mode is also good training, so you can be stronger than the 
 people that use preset characters. I just wish that you could be stronger with the preset ones, 
 I love being Trista ^^. Anyway, I wanna find out some people's friend's codes, and play them online. 
 That is the strongest point in this game - multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Lost Magic is about a young boy aged 14 called Isaac who gets his home town attacked, he runs away 
 thinking his perants are dead when he gets tired an old lady brings him into her house and trains 
 him to become a Sage.
  
  GOOD- over 400 magic to cast, Pretty challanging at parts, clean-good visuals, fantastic story, 
 great charecture designs.
  
  BAD- quite hard at some points, trying to remember all the spells
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay 
 is sweet, use the stylus to draw magic spells on a rune, neater you draw it the powerful it'll 
 become. Lost Magic is crossed between a good RPG and a well done RTS, and both of them together 
 works like Icecream &amp; Jelly, cos they taste well together.
  
  SOUND:
  Well?... i cant say the sound is wickedly good, but i would'nt complain about them.
  
  GRAPHICS:
 
  The graphics are well sorted out, tho the DS could've done better, its still a solid clean-good 
 visuals and great Charecture desgins in both looks and presented
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY IT?-
  If you like magic, or if you like a full use of the stylus then this game 
 will be a blast. exspecaly if you love both RPG &amp; RTS or even just one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantarget00
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic has been described as a cross between a role playing game and a real time strategy game, 
 and that is accurate to an extent, but really it's something entirely new. The touch screen spellcasting 
 system of combining rune symbols to discover new spells along with the fun of collecting and commanding 
 monsters creates a special blend of gameplay that really grabs you. With just a little more fullness 
 to the feature set, this could have been an all time classic.
  
  Long story short, this game is just unique and there's nothing else quite like it.
  
  Pros 
 and Cons:
  
  +Easy to Learn/Hard to master
  +Great depth of play
  +Rewarding casting system
  +Online WiFi Multiplayer Dueling
  
  -Too limited movement A. I.
 
  -Hard to select a particular unit in a crowd
  -Hard to know what you're doing wrong on some missions
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thatkoolguy
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Pretty crazy, considering soo many things cna be packed into suck a small cartridge, 300+ diffrent 
 combos, 20+ runes 9 (i think it was 24??) and all of them are cast with ur stylus, in diffrent 
 patterns and shapes! Even better, theres moster u can or dont want to capture, and they to cna 
 also level up with your person. Wifi capibillity was pretty crazy but it would have bene alot better 
 if mroe then 2 ppl could fight (imagine 4 ppl going head on to each other!) plsu the selectable 
 premade characters wraps it up and make sit a formidable game for one of the first wifi's out there! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thx4datips
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  So, this game is great, got a problem with that? I didnt think so... lol im jk. There are over, 
 what, 300 spells? well nonetheless they are easy to remeber, but the runes can get complicated. 
 This game is defenitely worth the money. The RTSRPG (one of the first of its kind) is very fun, 
 and addictive. The story mode is, pardon my language, crap. I mean sure, you save the world or 
 whatever, and it would be better if it had better music and a better way to tell the story. Overall, 
 Im keeping this game, because I keep all of my good games (like MK, MPH, Bleach DS, and JSS) . This 
 game shines in gameplay, but is rather weak (comparatively) to the other catagories. The graphics 
 are good for a 2d game (yeah, I judge graphics not on if its 3d. I do take into account the power 
 of the system) . All in all, I suggest you buy it, whether you like rpg, rts, or hate them. I for 
 one was expecting it to be worse (and the GS rating may have caused that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillplaygbc
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game not knowing what to expect but it is amazing. I almost bought the game Lost 
 in Blue for the Nintendo DS but it said cooking and fishing and that is what all the reviews say 
 what makes for a boring game. So far I am on level 3 and it looks really good from here! I love 
 the begginning when the woman says something of go off I you want your tail in between your legs, 
 and I just finished the 3rd level I think the Tamta village defence. It reminds me a bit of the 
 Warcraft Games, which I dont own myself, so it seemed like a good alternative, at a much lower 
 price. I very much suggest buying this game if you like the concept of Warcraft! Even if not just 
 get it! It is an Amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_MKRPG
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The overall gameplay is great. At first you start off with simple spells but then it starts getting 
 challenging with complicated spells , but they more powerful. The good thing is that your drawing 
 doesn't have to be exact so the system would read it, you can also start to draw your spell which 
 ever angle is more comfortable. The story line is o. k the bad witch wants to take over the world 
 and you must grow and learn spell to save the your homeland. The only down side is that you have 
 a time limit of 5:00 minutes and in bosses 10:00 minutes which leaves little time for strategy, 
 but if your looking for a unique and challenging game get lost magic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Days
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 7, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  LostMagic is a RPG-RTS title from Ubisoft -- And a good one at that.
  
  Gameplay-
  The Gameplay in LM is solid. Although it's not without it's flaws. It is a mix of RPG (Lvling up 
 units) and RTS. You basic ly manoeuvre your units about a set map, killing (or catching) any monsters 
 you see, with the occasional: 
  "Get Away in time!"-like goal, and boss battles in between.
  
  My biggest problems with the 
 gameplay are the point and clicking of the units, which is frustrating in some cases when you need 
 one specific unit and not all 9. And the Slowdown during battles. This doesn't matter THAT much, 
 but in some instances, you have to won't see a particular attack coming your way, and your too 
 late too heal. Dead.
  
  Graphics-
  The Graphics in LostMagic are all Sprites, but most of them are nicely animated, and well done; 
 With some spectacular effects when you release those extra devastating spells.
  
  Sound-
  The overall sounds are nice. Don't expect anything amazing here though. It's solid. That's all.
 
  
  Value-
  I think this game is very worth the purchase, coming in at $30 and 30, it is easily one of the 
 best RPG's on the DS yet. With free online play added in. (If you are able to go online)
  
  Tilt-
  I am in love with this game, so :P, easily a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlepat117
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic by Ubisoft is a original approach to RPG's with the the quick thinking and non-stop 
 action in a fight, there is much downtime though in between fights. It makes the game much more 
 challenging with the spellcasting with the stylus and is very solid and makes the gameplay excellent. 
 The graphics could be better but as I always say good gameplay always overcomes good graphics (see 
 my mkds review for that) . The Wifi is ever present in this game which could be tweked a little 
 like every time you are finished with a game you must find a new opponent which can be frustrating 
 if you beat them and you wanted to play again if you know what im saying: D. Well the difficulty 
 can get up there a littlebit but usually you can squeeze through but I reccomend this game to all 
 so pick it up. I give it a four out of five
  
  Littlepat0- Nintendo Enthusist 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the411monkey
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 6, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. At first I believed it was an online rpg game where you can play 
 with other friends. Boy, was I wrong. The game is merely an RTS strategy action game with RPG elements. 
 Yes, it tries to be all of that in the tiny DS cartridge.
  
  You take the role of Issac who has not seen his father in a long time. You see his father battle 
 this witch in the very beginning of the game. However, the art animation and the way the dialiague 
 is presented is laughable. Anyways, Issac is then trained by his Magic indived grandmother and 
 you use the stylus and the L trigger to use your magic ability. The idea is great, and slightly 
 mimics what we saw in Castlevania, however, usually in an RPG you can control your character... 
 not here friends!
  
  The combat is heavily RTS (Real Time Strategy) where you select your units and/or character and 
 your point on the map where you want them to go. There is no world where you can explore, which 
 then beats out a good RPG element. Instead you have to follow a map (Very similiar to Final Fantasy 
 Tactics.) The only RPG element is developing your magic ability. Most of it is RTS sadly, which 
 in my world, isn't the best.
  
  Graphically the game is great... for a gameboy advance system. The game does not take the advantage 
 of the DS' 3D rendering, therefore the visuals can sometimes get dull. The art form design is also 
 very horrible, the "evil" characters look as threatning as a Zelda CDi game!
  
  Overall, if you like RTS game you will love it, however, with only a Battle only online mode, its 
 not that great. Hopefully soon we will have are online RPG, but for now. This isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerodragones
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS has become one of the most popular gaming systems around, giving the player a new 
 way to play games. Until recently the stylus and touch screen feature has been nothing more then 
 a more portable and compact version of a mouse. You could not do much then select, draw, and move 
 objects in a limited fashion. In fact, until Trauma Center: Under the Knife came along; the DS 
 seemed to be nothing more then an expensive Gameboy with an added touch screen. This vision of 
 the handheld changed when the team of Ubisoft launched something that would hopefully put the new 
 features of the DS to the test. 
  
  When you think of an RTS title, most people dont usually associate this with any handheld currently 
 on the market. But Ubisoft and their latest game, Lost Magic shows that an RTS can in fact work 
 well on a portable system especially with the use of the stylus on the Nintendo DS. Lost Magic 
 places the combat style similar to Age of Empires with the control and movement of games such as 
 StarCraft and Diablo. Using the stylus allows the player to control the main character and units 
 with ease while not forgetting the classic D-Pad when it comes to scrolling through the battle 
 field and over-world map.
  
  Moving and controlling units with the stylus is great and makes the game that much simpler to handle. 
 But what makes Lost Magic special is the fact you can use the stylus to draw symbols, and cast 
 spells that weaken, destroy, and even capture other monsters. The Symbol System is a DS first 
 and hopefully future games will come out with a similar use for the stylus. Dont get me wrong, 
 the standard way of combating on a handheld RPG was great. Selecting the attack name, and then 
 selecting the target in a Turn Based battle format. But now instead of choosing the spell name 
 to activate it, you are drawing the symbol to activate the attack, making the game that much more 
 interactive. Which in most cases, people who play games find that more interaction in a game makes 
 the game that much more enjoyable to play as you feel that closer to truly being part of the experience.
 
  
  The storyline for Lost Magic is common in most RPG titles. The forces of darkness have taken over 
 the world, and monsters are becoming the more prominent force. A chosen hero must battle the darkness 
 and take bring back the light of the world. The story has its charms with the names of the characters 
 being nice and elaborate. For example the main antagonist is called the Diva of the Twilight. Even 
 that becomes very repetitive when the names are being mentioned each time you begin to take up 
 the storyline again after completing a quest or when you get to a certain part in the game.
  
  The Symbol System is the main reason that people will flock to this new undertaking by Ubisoft. 
 Although a close second reason would be the fact that you can connect it to the Nintendo Wifi Connection 
 system. This allows those who play the DS to connect using a wireless internet connection to play 
 certain games with and against others from around the world. With Lost Magic, you can link up to 
 the WFC and battle in two modes, Duel and Free Duel. 
  
  In Duel, you can battle anyone using your own saved game data. This means you use your current 
 level, current spells, and current monsters captured. There is no rank matching so a level 40 character 
 can still go against a level 7 or lower. This does have a little unfair advantage but it is also 
 nice to see how the stronger characters play and vise versa. Another nice aspect of this battle 
 mode is the fact that you can gain experience and level up your character and monster team. So 
 you still get a great gain even if you are not playing in the story mode although it is still important 
 to go into the story mode as you gain new spells and items that make your online battles that much 
 more interesting.
  
  In free duel, you are battling in the same fashion but you are using pre made game data, spells 
 and monsters. You get all of the spells to use at your disposal so that is nice, your character 
 is level 40 so there is no unfair advantage there. Your team of monsters are also all at level 
 40 as well. This means that in free duel, the only way you can win is by using the right spells 
 and monsters at the right moment. Making the strategic aspect of Lost Magic truly come out. Both 
 forms are equally fun and rewarding. 
  
  One last feature in this game that is very nice to have in this type of game, is the leveling up 
 and training. Besides having the main character do the combating, you can capture monsters to add 
 to your arsenal. Along with leveling up the main character as well, you have to level up the monsters 
 you have in your line up too. This adds a different challenge as not only must you be strong, your 
 monsters must be as well to effectively defeat the enemy threat. In a lot of RPG games on the Gameboy, 
 there are very few areas where there are monsters to train with that match your current level. 
 This makes it very hard to train for the final boss if you are a very high level above the monsters 
 but the final enemy is much stronger then you are. Not only does it take more time to train, it 
 becomes very frustrating when you want to beat the game right then. This is not the case in Lost 
 Magic. The monsters get stronger as you and your line up do. Even if you are back in the starting 
 area of the world, you can still effectively level up. This makes it not only faster to train, 
 but much better to get that level you need. 
  
  With all games, no matter how great it seems, and how much time and work that goes into the game, 
 there are always things that could for sure be improved on. Lost Magic is no exception. The largest 
 let down of all in this game seems to be the movement patterns of the characters. In most RTS games 
 such as StarCraft, when you tell a unit to move to a location, even if it is on the other side 
 of the game map, past several obstacles such as cliffs and water, the units always take the best 
 path to reach the designated area. In this game, the units always move in a straight line pattern. 
 Meaning if you want then to go around something, you literally have to highlight the unit, and 
 move them around the obstacle. This drastically cuts down on the respond time, and makes the player 
 have to focus constantly on moving the character rather then actually attacking. Since you are 
 using the stylus to cast your spells, you need lots of attention to do this, so with the movement 
 system the way it is, it makes it very difficult to do both moving and attacking, especially in 
 boss battles.
  
  Another flaw in this game is the in the monster training system. Due to the fact enemy monsters 
 are leveling up with you, there really is no need to build up your line up monsters strength. Why 
 take the time to build up your teams power when you can just capture a monster that is at the level 
 you need to beat the boss. Yes you need a strong monster to capture that higher level creature, 
 but if you train your main character at least two levels above the target creature, you do not 
 need to do much to weaken it for capture. Again, if they do come out with either a sequel or a 
 variation on this game, the publishers truly need to do some minor changing to the monster training 
 side of the game.
  
  Although these problems do slow down the game, Lost Magic still is an amazing game considering 
 it is bringing the Real Time Strategy aspect into a handheld game. This title uses the stylus well 
 when controlling the characters, scrolling through game options, but most importantly it excels 
 immensely in creating and casting spells. After someone who truly enjoys the interactive aspect 
 of a video game plays Lost Magic, it is highly doubtful they would want to go back to your standard 
 handheld version of an RPG or other types of Gameboy based strategy game. 
  
  The movement system of the units can with out a doubt deserve an improvement, as it slows down 
 the game play entirely. Also the storyline could do with some miner changes as well due to the 
 repetitive and common similarities it has with other fantasy games. Yes, problems with a game 
 slows down the enjoyment one gets while playing, but as Lost Magic is venturing into new portable 
 territory, hopefully most people will still give it a chance and find it a great game. All and 
 all, this game is a keeper in my book and I personally will be playing it for a long time to come, 
 and I know others will too. This writer gives Lost Magic a score of 8.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash_and_Pikachu
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  At first glance it was a little different than what I expected. The first few battles were a little 
 mundane and felt a little lacking, but it was only because the game was slowly taking you through 
 a tutorial while going through the actual in-game storyline instead of just placing everything 
 on the table all at once. It is slow-paced with no apparent plot points that move the story forward, 
 but that all changes once you get deeper into the game.
  
  About an hour into it, the game starts to really pick up. Once you learn more magic and how to 
 capture monsters to use them in battle, the battle system actually becomes charming. It's kind 
 of fun. It's innovative in the use of the touch screen where casting magic has purpose instead 
 of just being another turn-based type of control scheme. Plus the way to move your character and 
 the monsters you captured in battle feels like a combination of real-time strategy as seen in games 
 like Starcraft and Warcraft. So this game basically is a combination of RPG elements with RTS and 
 the unique touch-screen interface makes this game set-apart from other types of games in this similar 
 genre.
  
  However, let me advise you that there are some down points to this game as well. The first and 
 foremost complaint I have is the set time limit during every battle since the game gives you a 
 limited amount of time to defeat the monsters whenever a battle takes place. Also, another aspect 
 about this type of game to be aware of is the routine playing style that it incorporates. Obviously, 
 after one battle too many, the game will become a little monotonous since you'll be taken to the 
 battle screen every time in order to move the story along. But be encouraged to know that the variety 
 in magic and the monster-capturing aspects of the game should be sufficient enough to make every 
 battle seem various and different every time. And on a final and important note, although the game's 
 attraction is mainly for a younger audience, its difficulty level and learning curve can be a little 
 jolting. So expect a number of frustrating deaths and continues while pouncing monsters. Afterall, 
 like any discipline that takes hard work, diligence, and focus, it appears that Lost Magic's central 
 theme is concentrated on placing the role of the player on training in the way of becoming a more 
 powerful wizard quite literally. 
  
  And finally I have to note to you that when it comes to the story, Lost Magic feels like you're 
 searching to find a more intriguing plot throughout the game. But sadly, you'll only find remnants 
 of what could've been a more engaging storyline since Lost Magic has a plot that's mostly geared 
 toward younger gamers rather than for full-fledged RPG veterans. So the game will focus more on 
 its magic aspects and its school of wizardry rather than presenting a story of epic grandeur like 
 Golden Sun, or Final Fantasy IV & VI, for example. So it's important to tell yourself that this 
 game is worth playing more for its innovative use of the touch-screen rather than playing it to 
 experience a compelling storyline. 
  
  In conclusion, although it's a game for all ages, I highly recommend this for the younger DS gamers. 
 It's fun for what it is and it will keep your attention at least until Final Fantasy III, Tales 
 of the Tempest, and Children of Mana make their way to the western shores. It's a loooong wait 
 for those RPGs to hit stores, so Lost Magic is a worth-while experience until the much more anticipated 
 RPGs are found on the game-store shelves later this year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oginsnfox
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Well lets start with,
  
  Gameplay: Lost Magic play much like an RTS. The monsters that you get in the game are controlled 
 like normal units but need to be constantly monitored cause they will get stuck on everything (especialy 
 corners) . The main character (Isaac) is moved in the same way but has no close range attacks. Instead 
 by holding L you bring up a magic circle in wich you can draw runes on to activate spells. There 
 are 6 begginer spells and 12 more you can learn (making 18 basic spells overall that get harder 
 to draw the more powerful they are) . The amazing thing is when you gain the ability to do duo and 
 trio runes (combining two or three runes) , this makes for over 400 spells!! As for bad things, the 
 levels have pretty steep time limits at times which can make things even harder. Also the sheer 
 difficulty of the game means you'll die plenty of times on your first time through. Multi-play is 
 good, it consists of duels with your monsters against your friend and his. Overall the hardness isn't 
 enough to make this a bad game just because of the sheer fun involved: 9/10
  
  Graphics: Nothing spectacular but they do look fairly good. There is some slowdown during 1player 
 but nothing to bad. Online play on the other hand has some pretty bad slowdown at times. The cutscenes 
 are the normal still anime characters yelling at each other in text (though they're drawn by the 
 same man who did ki ki's delivery service and Porco Roso) . Overall they work well and the spells 
 do look nice: 8/10
  
  Sound: All the same here. The music is nice and the spells sound like spells. Overall well uuuuh...: 
 7/10
  
  Value: There are over 400 different spells to find, Plenty of monsters to collect and level up, and 
 two story paths. What more do you need: 9/10
  
  In all this game is the first good rpg for the DS and all should own it.
  Final Score:8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 4, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic is one of the few DS games that is completely dependent on the stylus. It's an interesting 
 game, but has many flaws.
  
  GAMEPLAY is fair. The stylus is used at all times in order to command Isaac (the main character) 
 and his monsters. The stylus is also used to draw the many spells in the game. 
  
  Unfortunately, this simple task can become frustrating because Isaac will constantly be drained 
 of MP leaving him defenseless. Too add more annoyance, the poor AI of Isaac's monsters will blindly 
 follow enemies into hot lava pits or run into a horde of enemies only to be slaughtered. 
  
  Some of these control issues could easily be solved by adding shortcut commands assigned to 
 any of the A, B, X, Y buttons that would allow for creating groups and giving them battle commands 
 like "wait, follow me, or attack." 
  
  Furthermore, the ridiculously difficult time limits and powerful bosses make this a challenging, 
 but not very fun game.
  
  GRAPHICS aren't the best. This game looks more like a GBA game rather than a DS. There is nothing 
 really impressive looking about this game except for maybe a few of the spells.
  
  SOUND is okay. The game has decent music, but is full of annoying sound effects. Especially when 
 trying to connect for Wi-Fi duels. The constant Beep Beep will have players muting the game until 
 the battle starts.
  
  VALUE is good and probably the best thing about it. It will take some time to finish the game since 
 retrying is inevitable. The Wi-Fi duel is fun enough, but random Wi-Fi battles aren't chosen accordingly 
 because your opponent's level isn't necessary anywhere near yours.
  
  OVERALL, Lost Magic is just too full of annoyances and frustration to be highly recommended. There 
 is some fun to be had, but this game isn't for everyone. Rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tailscoolio
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  Lostmagic might sound like a typical RPG, but it isn't, Lost magic makes use of the DS's touch screen 
 in the best way possible, throughout the whole game you won't need to use two hands to press buttons 
 at once.
  You will always have the stylus in one of your hands to cast spells, command you're monsters or 
 skip throught text while the other will be used to scroll the screen or bring up a quick and easy 
 magic menu.
  The story is about a 14 year old boy called isaac whose father recently passed away from an evil 
 mage (she's a women though!) and has been left with his fathers magic casting staff.
  The game starts with a short introduction of isaac's father trying to defeat the evil mage after 
 though you play as isaac awaking from a dream after you're then learning the three most basic spells 
 from your dear old grandmother! She sends you to another town to complete an errand for her you 
 end up fighting monsters though and after meet a dark fellow called Leonard who teaches you how 
 to capture monsters (He teaches you all the dark magic throughout the game!) . On your way home 
 a girl falls from the sky and onto your head! Boy meets girl, boy and girl talk, boy takes girl 
 to see his grandmother you get the idea, anyway she ends up traveling with you on your quest when 
 the evil mage comes looking for that staff i talked about earlier, she attacks your grandmother 
 you and the girl escape your adventure begins!.
  There are fairly simple ideas put into the game but they are extremely effective and you get addicted 
 to wanting more magic as soon as the first spell is cast.
  It's a great multiplayer too, But hard in places because of lack of tactics that can be used 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naggyDS
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay so here in Australia, about a week ago, we received Lost Magic for the DS. Being as excited 
 as I was to see an RPG/RTS on the DS I had to buy it fresh off the delivery truck. Stylus at ready, 
 I was keen to turn art into magic. 
  
  So what's LM about?
  It's about a boy, Isaac, who happens to be the son of a great sage of the elements; these sages 
 are pretty much the corporate giants of peace and tranquility throughout the world. 
  
  Though all turns awry, when the Evil Mistress known as The Diva of Twilight seeks the wands of 
 the elemental sages so that she may pretty much take over the world and destroy humanity. 
  So you play Isaac, who receives his fathers wand after losing in battle against the Diva of Twilight.
 
  You then undergo training as a mage as a student of your 'grandma' to save your father.
  
  The system of LM is quite simple; in order to progress through the game you travel along waypoints 
 on a map, engaging in various battles and story sequences at specific points along the way.
  
  In respect to the games storyline, it's not one which makes for the reason for you to play 
 on; it's pretty much there so you have some reference to why youre fighting this person or, why 
 you learnt this skill. 
  The main aspect of the game is battle, and the game puts big emphasis on battle, whether it be 
 over Wi-Fi, or in story, it is the main concept behind the game. 
  
  The battling system in LM can be described as different, similar to the system used in Black & 
 White originally for the PC, using your stylus you hold down 'L' and draw 'runes' then letting 
 'L' go to cast spells of a certain element at your enemies or defensively at your allies, but its 
 not always that simple, as you progress through the game you unlock more runes giving you access 
 to other more powerful spells and various effects.
  The great thing about LM is the ability to create rune combos, after unlocking the skill called 
 Duo Rune, you can begin to create combos of runes drawing two runes on the one casting circle which 
 can open up to many combinations and effects for battling enemies. Eventually later on in the game 
 a Trio Rune becomes available allowing you to cast up to about 400 different combos to thwart your 
 enemies. 
  
  The other important aspect of LM is controlling creatures, like any RTS, they are your army, whether 
 they be there to help you on the offensive or whether they be there to protect you while you inflict 
 all the damage depends on your style of play, there are a library of creatures to use to your advantage, 
 although the strategy of the game uses a point system which allows you to only equip creatures 
 up to that maximum limit which keeps the game interesting, as you find yourself capturing creatures 
 for different purposes, rather than amassing an army.
  
  There are flaws in the battle system though, the most noticeable is unit control, there are many 
 times where youll find yourself in a crucial point in battle moving your units across the screen, 
 only to scroll back down the map to find one or two of your units stuck on the corner of a wall 
 or tree, meanwhile your rescue proves futile when half your advancing army is defeated by numbers, 
 also the aggressive side of units can prove untimely as they move into a crowd of monsters only 
 because one of them got a little too close, and could soon find yourself employing a different 
 strategy, though this can be looked over easily if you can stay involved and watch the details 
 of your army. 
  
  Gameplay wise LM is great, youll find yourself using your head quite a bit and turning the tide 
 of battle with a few spells on the heroic occasion. Wi-Fi too has excellent gameplay where the 
 whole structure is dueling, whether you use your story character or maxed out story characters 
 you have unlocked as you progress through the game, Wi-Fi battle still makes for an excellent addition 
 to an already strong title. 
  
  Sound and graphics could have been a tad better, in respect to sound sometimes I feel like Im 
 playing Pokemon, not that theres anything wrong with that, but the SFX could have been more NDS 
 and less SNES and maybe the spells could have had a bit more of a magic feel to some of them. But 
 still its not the sound or graphics of a game which makes a title great, unique gamplay is the 
 shining star of LM which will keep you entertained and racking your brain for many, many hours, 
 as you try to save your Pop and unlock the library of magic that is Lost Magic.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greyfox_1980
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Lost Magic is a game which will get deeper as you play longer. It is a real-time strategy game 
 that is so flexible that you can think of hundreds of way to win a battle. 
  
  Mixing of spells are amazingly crazy and more than 350 of different spells for you to explore. 
 
  
  Graphics is average. The design of the characters are awesome and it reminds me of the cartoon 
 "My Neighbour Totoro" drawn by yoshiharu sato.
  Music can be irritating at times, and online mode lagging is a down point!!
  Overall, this game 
 is still great, and innovative, and you can't find a similar game like this elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wario_and_Fox
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic, make not mistake about it, is a highly original game. The concept behind it is partly 
 a real time strategy with RPG elements (using the stylus to control units, much like a keyboard 
 control) and partly a new type of battle system. In this game you are a mage that has the ability 
 to do many different types of magic, using the stylus to draw runes that makes the magic. 
  
  There are 6 types of runes: fire, water, wind, rock, light, and dark. All have different effects 
 on the battlefield. Fire is used mainly as an attack, water is a weaker attack but freezes enemies, 
 wind is used as a way to send enemies away from you, rock is more defensive, light is healing and 
 the like, and dark is used to capture monsters and afflict status conditions on enemies. There 
 are 3 runes for each type of magic. The first 6 are pretty easy to draw, but the effects are not 
 as great as the later ones. They get harder to draw as you get more runes. While using the rune 
 system, you can combine 2 or even 3 runes together to make a stronger spell. 
  
  However, you only have a limited amount of mana (the MP of this game) and you'll have to walk around 
 once you run out to gain more. That is why you need to capture lots of monsters. These monsters 
 level up, just as you do, when they are in the field. There are many types of monsters and each 
 have an element. The enemies you face can be on an element with an advantage, or the terrain can 
 give you a disadvantage. So more often then not, you will lost the first time and have to assemble 
 a new team of monsters, which are good for the terrain or the enemies, and try again.
  
  That is one of many problems of the battles. Other then having to do each level more then once 
 unless you already have a good team, the boss fights are too difficult for the part of the game 
 they are in. And that isn't the only difficulty problem. Many times the difficulty abruptly changes, 
 going from extremely hard to extremely easy from level to level. In fact, I'd say the earlier levels 
 are harder then the later levels. Another problem, but one that is easily ignored, is the fact 
 that when drawing a rune, the battle still goes on. So when you try to cast a healing spell, by 
 the time it does the person you wanted to do it on could already be dead. So it makes it difficult 
 to do the Duo and Trio Runes. However, the game, unless you do it obviously wrong, is very forgiving 
 for a non-perfect rune, so that can make things easier when in a hurry and can't take time to draw 
 it perfectly. 
  
  The graphics are nothing to brag about, but the characters do look rather nice and it is easy to 
 tell one enemy from another, so all in all, the graphics don't add or take anything away from the 
 game. The sounds in battle aren't great, and other then a few memorable tunes, the music is nothing 
 to call home about as well. But the music always fits the mood of the situation.
  
  The main game lasts fairly long, especially for a DS game. And with so many combinations of spells 
 and monsters to use, the game has a fairly high replay value
  
  Buy/Sell
  
  I would recommend renting the game if possible first to see if its a type of game you would enjoy, 
 and then buying it. Ultimately it is the best RPG on the DS at the moment, and is very enjoyable. 
 I would recommend it to RTS and RPG fans, DS owners who are looking for a challenge, and people 
 who are looking for something new as a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migaru
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  LostMagic starts out with a boy named Isaac that his father, The Bishop of the White Knight as 
 he's called, entrusts him with the Wand of Light, and after a battle with an evil force threating 
 to take over the land, the evil force, Diva of the Twilight, seeks out to find the Wand of Light 
 to take control of the land. So now Isaac must free the other Sages from her mind control and stop 
 her from being "The new Creator". It may get a bit boring going through the tutorials on LostMagic, 
 but if you wait it out, that's when the fun really starts, you can control and capture monsters, 
 cast more powerful spells using the touch screen, and play over Nintendo Wi-Fi. You can choose 
 if you want to use your own data, or use preset data. Sometimes when you're controlling your monsters 
 Isaac might get stuck in between and it could be a pain trying to get just him out, but other than 
 that, the controls are pretty good, but the thing I don't like is the strict time limit in random 
 and significant battles, but if you train yourself, it shouldn't be a real problem. And another 
 downside, the game has a "roller coaster" difficulty. Ay, Ubisoft, if Golden Sun on the GBA could 
 have outstanding visuals on a GBA, so can LostMagic on the DS. The music can get a little annoying 
 because it has the same music in EVERY conversation, and the sound could be a little more, say, 
 booming. But if you're a strategy fan, or just looking for a unique DS title look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r_m_8_8
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 1, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Lostmagic is basically an excellent mixture of Final Fantasy, Age of Empires and Pokmon. The difficulty 
 varies considerably from a mission to other, but thats not necessarily bad, in fact it makes 
 you think about what youre going to do next instead of sending all your monsters against 
 a foe or throw fireballs to no end.
  
  The spell casting system is excellent. The fact that you have to memorize each spell and try to 
 trace it precisely gives the game a special feeling. Perhaps the only flaw is that selecting a 
 unit may be inaccurate due to two or more allies/enemies trying to step on the same place 
 nothing serious.
  
  Graphics are anime-ish, simple, colorful and in general good. The sound well, thats 
 Lostmagics weakest point. The music does the job, but dont expect anything spectacular. 
 Sound effects vary from average to bad, some of them being almost NES quality.
  
  The game seems pretty long, that along with Wi-Fi mode (somewhat laggy, by the way) , different 
 storyline paths and a harder (even harder?) secret mode once you finish the game for the first 
 time, youll be playing this for a while.
  
  Overall this is a great game that non RPG and/or RTS fan who owns a DS (and Wi-Fi Connection) should 
 miss.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDW101
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  I thought this was going to be a title for the more youthful but, I took a chance and bought it 
 anyway based on some comments at the video store. First, I really like the very intuitive and comprehensive 
 tutorial it take you through to 'learn' the necessary skills required to play. I think too many 
 games assume 'everyone' will somehow 'know' howit works. Or, that you'll be able to read and understand 
 ALL of the tiny lttle manual. Having first read the manual, as always, and then jumping into single 
 playe mode, the in depth tutorial was not a disappointment at all. I think the developers that 
 pay close attention to ALL of the paying customers will be well advised to see what LOST MAGIC 
 has done in this area. I have only jusy begun my quest with this RPG and look forward to continuing 
 and feel that based on the difficuly curve I'm seeing right now, this game will present whatever 
 level of challenge you think you need. It's very addictive and is a great way to take your mind 
 off of the daily grind. I think you should check this one out for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACaddict
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Salad, that's how I feel about this game. On one hand, it has pretty cutscene graphics and a nice 
 concept, real time strategy RPG. However, there are so many letdowns. Multiplayer isn't as fun 
 as it should be. Having 6 monsters on field with you slows the game down to a point where its a 
 slow movie with barely any interaction. The in game graphics have no charm. There are underwhelming 
 and uninspired monsters. That one strikes me most, I mean, COME ON! Taito, you have a great concept 
 for a game, but you stick in such boring monsters. Well, in conclusion, I'm going to repeat what 
 I said before. Salad. Okay game. Buy it if you like generic rpgs, if you don't, you aren't missing 
 out on anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Child_of_Bodom
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, right off the bat, this game really can hook you. When I got it I couldnt put it down for at 
 least 7 hours! I'll start with the story. It is a litte fast-moving and it feels like there rushing 
 it but if you look past it and it's some-what cliqhe story (boy's dad is mysterouis and he thinks 
 he's dead so he's looking for him, so-on so-forth) it's still deep and satisyfing. The gameplay 
 is a refreshing outlook on using the DS' stylus and with over 400 spells that you dont have to 
 break your back to get, a ton of monsters so capture and use, everybody can have there own character, 
 not just a clone of your friends character. Speaking of friends this is where the game gets a little 
 weak. While the normal play against your friend sitting next to you flawless, the Wi-Fi isn't even 
 worth playing. The lag is just a little too much to make it worth your while. All-in-all, buy this 
 game (which is only 30 bucks instead of 35 bucks) and you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingassman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic starts you off as the main characters father. You battle a dark evil lady, using some 
 of the more advance spells. Later you find your self as the main character and he tells the story 
 of his past. He ends up living with an old lady who took him in, she knows magic and teaches it 
 to you. In this game you will explore many different areas and learn many different spells. Each 
 spell has a unique style and the stronger the spell the harder they are to draw/cast. The key to 
 the game is being able to know your spells and cast them as fast as you possibly can. Capture monsters 
 and having them help fight your battles is one of the coolest features in the game besides being 
 able to cast spells with your stylus. The game supports Nintendo's new WI-FI capability and is 
 very fun as you will be able to duel rivals all around the world. In wi-fi you load your main single 
 player file and use all the spells you've unlocked. Lost Magic is definatly an awesome game and 
 I most definatly recommend it to any RPG fans. With its unique style of game play and its beautiful 
 sense of bright colours and art, Lost Magic is no doubt the best RPG on the DS so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 29, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Lost Magic is a great RPG game from Ubisoft, also the first game that Ubisoft has made that takes 
 advantage of the nintendo Wi-fi connection. The game is very intruging in its own right, and keeps 
 you playing with its intresting style of RPG gameplay. The game is lengthy, and with NWC, the card 
 should stay in your DS for a while.
  
  Gameplay
  Lost magics intresting style of gameplay is the biggest hype up to the games release. And it dosent 
 dissapoint. With over 200 spells, you can summon monsters, and draw magic attacks using the touch 
 screen. In story, lost magic is pretty intresting. The main charater, Isacc is in search for his 
 long lost father. In hopes of finding him, he journeys arcross the world, only to get himself into 
 a crisis. Soon enough, he has the whole world on his sholders. There are many twists and turns 
 throughout the game, which keeps the story intresting.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in Lost magic could have been better. Te polygons, and textures look like lesser gameboy 
 advance games. Games such as golden sun, and metroid fusion end up having better detail than lost 
 magic. Although picture animations are pretty good looking on the DS' LCD screen.
  
  Sound
  The sound is ok, could have been better though. A few good tunes are in gameplay, but 
 only a few. So the music gets rather annoying after a while. The fighting sound effects are not 
 all that great, but are still able to keep the game intact.
  
  Value
  Lost Magic should last you a while. With a pretty legthy compain, and a worthwhile Online mode 
 that has you magic duel, and load anything you have unlocked from single player mode to battle 
 people across the globe, lost magic doesnt dissapoint in this aspect.
  
  Overall
  Lost magic is not without flaws, but it is still a great game. A worthwhile single player story, 
 and a good, although sometimes laggy online mode, Lost magic can have hooked for quite a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Here it goes another review 
  
  I just picked up lost magic today and i am an hour and a half into it and boy what a game I cant 
 put it down. so lets start my review shall we.
  
  Gameplay- Simply put i dont think i've seen nor played any game with controls as prestine as lost 
 magic they are spot on. No complaints in this department. The gameplay is smooth and very easy 
 to understand were you are at all times there is almost no lag and lets see after 2 years of the 
 ds being out us nintendo fan boys finally get what we deserve an rpg that kicks ass.
  
  Graphics- Ok not the greatest but the colors are bright and what it lacks in the graphics department 
 it makes up for everywere else so if you dont mind lold school looks you wont mind the graphics.
 
  
  Sound - Awesome old school rpg music the music changes with each scenario and doesnt really bothre 
 the ears.
  
  Final Thoughts- all in all a great rp. Its old school meets new school and finally someone took 
 there time and came up with a very enjoyable rpg with a great story and i can see this is going 
 to be a great adventure. LETS HERE IT FOR UBISOFT AND TAITO FOR THIS RPG (clap clap clap clap) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apple_of_doom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  This game mixes many good aspects from RTS's and RPG's and the combination woks very well. I found 
 it highly addictive and was hooked fairly quickly. The touch screen is used well, and it is overall 
 a unique game that is fun for everyone
  
  Gameplay: 
  Overall it is very good, and the magic spell casting works very well. The touch screen makes it 
 quite easy to select units (monsters) , and the controls are simple and easy to learn. My only problem 
 is the speed of which your character moves, very slowly. Also, the time limits on levels can get 
 irritating after a while.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are good, it's in 2D but who cares about that?
  The story telling scenes are good and 
 i like the style of graphics in them.
  I can't say much else, just check out screenshots and videos
  
  Sound:
  Good at first, but 
 it gets annoying after playing the game for a while. But you can just turn sound down
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer is very good and the dueling pace is very fast and exciting. It is 
 alo challenging against an experienced player
  
  Replay Value: 
  After you have beaten story mode, you can replay it again with your same character (levels, monsters 
 etc.) I don't know how good this is as i haven't beaten the game yet
  Also, there is abranch in the storyline between good and evil at one point, so you may want to 
 play both of the sides (i don't know how much they differ)
  And then, you also have multiplayerand Wi-Fi to play which will probably keep you playing for a 
 fairly long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -InsrtNameHere-
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is a good game, In my opinion. There are Pros and Cons to it.
  
  Pros: 
  -Another DS RPG
  -Tough
  -Online Wi-Fi
  -Lots of Value
  -Long SinglePlayer
  -Great Tutorial
 
  -Gain Powers Overtime
  -Capture enemys
  -Upgrade Mp, health, spells, etc.
  
  Cons:
  -Almost Too Tough
  -Decent Sound
  -Decent Graphics
  -In-Game Lag
  -Cant Upgrade Speed. 
 Stuck running slowly.
  -Boring Storly telling.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  So Over all:
  -This is a great RPG, definiatly worth a Rental. A buy for those who like RPGs. It is very tough, 
 and a bit laggy. If you can get past that, then you will find a very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sushibot12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning, when this game was first announced, I thought, meh it was just gonna be another 
 RPG game. At first i thought it would be another Sword of Mana, or action RPG game. However, i 
 was very surprised that we can control an army at the same time. Kind of like Warcraft.
  
  NOTE:: (RUNES) are the pictures you draw to cast a spell.
  
  Content:
  
  Spells:
  
 
  Firstly, there are 6 different classes of magic: Water, Fire, Earth, Wind, Light, and Darkness. 
 Each class has three levels of power. To use each spell , we need to hold either (L or R) , and 
 we draw a (RUNE) , and let loose that spell. One thing i like about it is there is tons of room 
 for customization. We can mix and match different RUNES, and we can create different spells, by 
 mixing up to 3 different RUNES. 
  
  Armies: 
  
  Now, here is the mechanic that i like. In order to use specific units in your army, we need to 
 "CATCH" them with RUNES. This mechanic reminds me of Pokemon, which is perfectly fine, because 
 it gives a lot more content for the user to complete. The units that you capture level up with 
 the hero, and may be customized to a degree. Each unit is given 1 slot in order to equip an item. 
 These items can increase HP, Speed, etc, of that specific unit.
  
  Story:
  
  The story is fairly generic. There are these Sages scattered throughout the world that command 
 each element, and they hold the power of magical staves. Now one of these Sages gets the bright 
 idea of taking over the world. 0 ___ o And starts hunting down the other Sages, and taking their 
 staves. One sage tries to stop this evil menace, however fails, and entrusts his son with his staff. 
 It is up to our main character to save the day.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  General:
  
  The game is a strategy RPG game, that plays quite like a watered down Warcraft III. You command 
 your armies, and you cast spells from your character. However there is a major slowdown if there 
 are too many units on the screen at the same time, which can be detrimental in late game, when 
 there isn't much HP left, and you need to duke it out carefully. A lot of micromanagement, especially 
 since your units do not have good path finding, so you must guide your units the entire way, otherwise 
 expect a lot of Wall Crawling.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  I haven't played around with the multiplayer yet, so i can't comment on this aspect yet.
  
 
  Music:
  
  The game has a decent soundtrack, however the music is very very repetitive, so bear that in mind. 
 Also the sound effects of casting the spells will bother you at some point.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Ok, the graphics aren't the greatest aspect of this game, but it will do. The sprites remind 
 me a bit of those from Square Enix's "Bahamut Lagoon", except shrunk down to the size of the DS.
 
  
  Summary:
  
  Pros:
  Lost Magic is a very fun and addictive game, with plenty of content to go around. This game has 
 enough content to allow us to customize our characters to our specific playing styles, which is 
 a plus, and our ability to recruit (CATCH) enemy units to place in our armies adds a collection 
 aspect very much like Pokemon for us to enjoy. 
  
  Cons:
  If you are a graphics nut, this game is not for you. The music can get really repetitive, and there 
 is slow down in areas of the game. The lack of proper path finding will cause an unnecessary extra 
 amount of micromanaging. Other than that the game is still pretty good.
  
  I recommend this game for those who enjoy playing Strategy games, and wants one on the go. Its 
 system is very intuitive, and allows us to experiment, with a large collection aspect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: da2730da
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  When i got the game, it was hard to describe what is felt like. It felt like i was playing a starcraft/warcraft 
 game with a little sprinkle of RPG. Any body who wants a good rpg or love warcraft/starcraft games, right 
 now, get up, run down to the car and drive to where ever you get games and BUY IT!
  
  Gameplay:9
  I will say the magic system is very interesting and a hard one to master. It's weird 
 because it's like your playing a rts game and drawing symbole on the screen. It dose get very confusing 
 but its really funny to see people frustrate.
  
  Graphic:9
  Nothing special, a 2d bird eye view graphics. but fits in very well. you don't want to play a game 
 with graphics like tao. Sometimes better is worse.
  
  Sound:9
  Very umm, whats the word.... classic. it sound like a pokemon game, when you get into random battle 
 it makes like a very high squeak. it's still good, i like that noise. in battles it feels more revolutionary 
 compare to the gameboy squeaks. you will hum it all day.
  
  Replay:8
  there is not much replay value but you can sqease a few hours out of side quests. The good thing 
 is, theres wifi! when your playing wifi, the game turns into like a turn based game. you move, he moves, you 
 sneak attack him by bombing some of his monsters, he burns you monster with fire. I would have gave 
 the replay a 6 but wifi boosts it up.
  
  OVERALL:9.2
  This is a fast graber, you may need to pratice the magic system but if you master it, you can dominate. So 
 if you want a good game that your going to love, Lost magic is you order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meleeboy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I stumbled upon this game this afternoon after hearing that it would come out soon. I didn't know 
 when it came out when I saw it on the shelf, so I went ahead and bought a copy. I didn't hear much, 
 but it's amazing how great this game is.
  
  The Graphics aren't as good as one would like, but the gameplay and sound makes up for that big 
 time. From what I've heard the story is very long, but keeps you hooked.
  
  At first it just throws you into it in a way, but you learn quickly once you get the hang of it. 
 I was really impressed by the battle system personally. The controlling is very similar to games 
 like Warcraft 3 and Stronghold 2.
  
  As you have minions to control, you can highlight them and tell them what to do exactly rather 
 than having a poorly made A. I. system. Even at the beginning you get to heal yourself as well as 
 party members and anyone else in the area.
  
  One thing I didn't like was the fact that they made the main character's head bigger than everyone 
 else's during dialog. They may have just zoomed in on him, but I think it just looks weird.
  
  Overall I think it's a great game. So far my second favorite game for the DS. Of course, nothing 
 beats Phoenix Wright. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoWarrior
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  ok, this game has a LOT in common with Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, you an't go to towns regularly, 
 instead you go around points on a map completing the story. You cast spells by drawing symbols, 
 and you can capture monsters to fight with you. Pretty simple, andhis game (like Advance Wars: 
 Dual Strike) gets hard qickly. One major complaint of mine is that the game relies way too much 
 on the battle system, which can get boring sometimes, but is usually very fun. There are around 
 300 spells, each with thir own unique system and function, and of course, you can capture every 
 kind of monster. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  meh, not that good, the characters and monsters are pretty ugly in combat, and that's where you'll 
 spend most of your time. However, the graphics look great during dialogue, with great character 
 and background art.
  
  Sound:
  
  Average sound. Theres your battle themes, themes for emotions during dialogue, themes for boss 
 battles (which are pretty good) , sadly you don't hear the dialogue and the music sometimes isn't 
 that good.
  
  Value: 
  
  The story mode's pretty lengthy, and outside of that, you can capture loads of monsters and and 
 runes.
  
  Tilt:
  
  If you're one of those people that were anticipating Lost Magic, then don't worry, it'll meet your 
 expectations. As for other Rpg lovers, this game has a great story and battle system. And any RPG 
 player should check this game out, or just buy it if you're looking for a fun handheld game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
