-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost in Blue 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/lostinblue2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The minigames, both new and old, are enjoyable and varied.
 It's fun to explore the island and uncover new items and activities.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Surviving requires repeating the same mundane tasks and traversing the same areas over and over.
 The graphics and sound are all heavily recycled from the original.
 Constant micromanagement is a heavy burden.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.7, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 221 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: KCE Hawaii
Genre: Adventure
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lost in Blue 2 features some fun minigames, but overall it's a remarkably tedious example of a formula 
 not worth continuing. 

  The original Lost in Blue was a tedious but interesting look at life on a deserted island. It was 
 also better as a stand-alone game, which is apparent in its sequel, Lost in Blue 2. It features 
 several new activities like diving and archery, but it's also heavier on the monotony. The whole 
 "survival of the fittest" idea is great for a game, but the two castaways you must rescue are hardly 
 self-reliant, and the resulting micromanagement negates a lot of the enjoyment.  

  Skye and Keith are gone, replaced instead by Jack and Amy, though the stories of both games are 
 similar. This time around, you can choose which character to play, and the dialogue will change 
 throughout the game depending on your choice. The two high school students are the victims of a 
 nasty shipwreck and wake up to find themselves on a desolate island. Your goal is to escape, but 
 keeping you and your companion alive is your main purpose, and accomplishing it is a lot harder 
 than you might think. While you explore the island using either the D-pad or touchscreen to move, 
 you need to forage for food, water, and resources, all while avoiding a visit from the grim reaper. 

          You'll visit this river about a zillion times, thanks to your ravenous thirst.     

 
  Once Amy and Jack are settled in their local grotto, you'll notice that they may be the coldest, 
 hungriest, and thirstiest characters to ever appear in a game. Your first activities involve scouring 
 the island for various types of food and finding a watering hole. You can either leave your companion 
 behind while you forage, or you can hold hands and travel together. Either way, you'll be collecting 
 a lot of foodstuffs like clams, carrots, and the most enormous raspberries grown on earth. You 
 can eat a lot of it raw, but it's better to head back to home sweet cave, where you can slice it 
 up, grill it, boil it, and more. Meals can actually get a bit complex, since you can serve up to 
 four dishes, with four ingredients and two spices each. To create them, you use the stylus to simulate 
 chopping or turning items on the grill, and how well you perform the minigame directly affects 
 the quality of the meal -- and in turn, how much of your hunger it appeases.  

  As you slowly explore all the nooks and crannies, other minigames and creature comforts get added 
 to your repertoire. You'll spear fish, create furniture, set traps for animals, fight crocodiles, 
 and milk a goat. These little games are the highlight of the experience, and there are several 
 more here than in the original. They are also varied and amusing to play, particularly because 
 they're directly tied to your survival and escape. It's mild fun to juggle milking a goat while 
 patting its head with the stylus, or to build a fire by blowing into the microphone; and when your 
 life depends on it, the comforts you earn are all the more rewarding.  

  The glaring issue with all of this is that staying alive just isn't that much fun on its own. You'll 
 want to explore the island and engineer your escape, but Jack and Amy require constant, detailed 
 attention. You need to keep an eye on their hunger, thirst, and energy levels, as well as their 
 total health points, which start to diminish when one of the other stats fall to zero. Your companion 
 will forage or cook for the two of you, but you have to issue the command to her, lest she simply 
 fall down and die before you can provide a meal yourself. These kids must eat large meals multiple 
 times a day, and they need constant rest. Scouring the same beach for abalone and shaking the same 
 trees for coconuts over and over again just isn't fun. You'll want to explore, but you can't, because 
 you're chained to a brain-dead companion and your own literally unquenchable thirst.  

  Lost in Blue 2 takes place on a different island than its predecessor, but it looks mostly the 
 same. The menu screens, the items, and minigame animations are all lifted right from the first 
 Lost in Blue. Even Jack and Amy look an awful lot like Skye and Keith, and it's disappointing that 
 everything is so similar. It looks decent, though, and the island has some occasionally nice scenery. 
 Overall, the environments look pretty simple, but they're clean and it's easy to find items on 
 the ground or in the sand. It sounds pretty much the same as before, too, and features a number 
 of low-quality but well-composed digitized tunes and some synthesized voice quips.  

          Your initial diet consists of coconuts and seaweed, but you won't remain a vegetarian for 
 long.     

  There's an unlockable mode in which you can survive as a single castaway and ditch the companion, 
 and you can also play a few minigames with a buddy via the download play option. If Lost in Blue 
 2 is your thing, there are a good dozen hours or more to squeeze out of it. But so much of that 
 content is just revisiting the same basic activities out of necessity, and the new minigames can't 
 gloss over how frustratingly dull and mundane everything is in between them. Some formulas just 
 aren't meant to be repeated, and this competent but bland sequel is a perfect example.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ashcatash
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Remember Tribbles? Those furry little creatures in the Star Trek universe that eat all of the grain 
 in the storage bin? Yeah, well, that's what your partner will feel like after about ten minutes 
 of playing this game.
  
  You can play as either the guy or the girl, but it doesn't really matter. Your partner will be 
 a bottomless pit constantly whining about being hungry, or thirsty, or tired. And they're completely 
 incompetent, only drinking or eating when you tell them to (although later in the game, they'll 
 drink bottled water by themselves, thank goodness) . And they do absolutely nothing except throw 
 some logs on the fire. You can ask them to cook, if you want burned food. 
  
  So apart from a totally idiotic loser hanging on to you, the game isn't so bad. You pick mushrooms 
 and shake coconuts off trees, fight wild animals and build furniture for your cave (or treehouse) . 
 But still, the hungry hungry partner is always there, always whining.
  
  The game has multiple endings to choose from. Personally, I'd prefer the ending they didn't include 
 - impaling my partner's head on a stake, ala Wilson the Volleyball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperjj3000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Lost in blue 2 is basically like the original with a few more things added. It follows jack and 
 amy who have been shipwrecked and are now on a deserted island. The main goal in this game is survival, 
 You have to keep yourself aswell as amy alive which can be really difficult. Your first goal is 
 to find food, you can fish later on but at the beginning you can find fruit on the ground around 
 the trees. The first few days on the island are spent getting enough food to go exploring and thats 
 where it gets tricky. You have to make sure you have enough food and water especially if you decide 
 to take amy exploring with you. Chances are you will die a few times until you get used to it. 
 You have to eat and drink ALOT which makes this game frustrating but i guess this game is meant 
 to be challenging. 
  
  Amy can be left behind to do jobs in your cave/house. If you collect different food, amy will try 
 and cook it for you. She sucks at cooking in the beginning but give her time and she'll get better! 
 You must also fight enemies like wolves, snakes and tigers etc. I would recommend this game for 
 anyone who wants a good challenge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4life02
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game at first was a little complicated and difficult, but once you got the hang of going to 
 the little area to get water and fishing nearby your cave, it was pretty easy. Then when you get 
 how to make traps, it becomes even easier. Now you're traveling to the other side of the island, 
 fighting wolves and tigers as you go. Thats where it started getting fun. Then working on a new 
 house, a treehouse, was fun and exploring the land even more waiting for that moment when you get 
 rescued and get your characters off that island. Overall i would say this game is one of the must 
 play games on my list. So once you see it, you should buy it. I admit that i got stuck and died 
 a few times, but i didn't give up, i kept trying and figured out my problem, and if you really 
 need help, like i did a few times, come on here to gamespot and ask some questions or check the 
 forums because i'm sure someone has already asked that question, or even i have. Once beaten, for 
 me, it was an enjoyable experience and happy moment when i watched the ending video that was showed 
 for your success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanakha
Rating: 2
Date: May 4, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I just do not like it. I am returning this game back to GameStop tomorrow. Good thing it was a 
 used game. It would have been a shame to buy this new and find out it was so lame. The graphics 
 are not that great, the story just does not draw me in... it's a little boring. Virtual Villagers 
 has a better story than this, even in it's simplicity. It is difficult to keep their health levels 
 in check, even with a walkthrough to help me through it. I would only reccomend this to those who 
 are up for a real challenge and don't really care how bad the story is. I bought this game thinking 
 it would be fun and challenging. Now I find that it's not fun and a little over my head. I would 
 describe it as disapointing, rip-off, boring, and frustrating. I thought this game would be good. 
 Allwell... I guess I will have to find another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adraa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is really hard at first but after you discover more and more it gets easier. I have not 
 played Lost in Blue 1 so I can't say which one is better. But this game is really fun I think. 
 In the game you use your stylus a LOT! You use it to do almost everything. From digging up washed 
 up bottles to fishing with spears to checking traps you use it for almost everything. The graphics 
 are pretty good too. The sound is great. I keep coming back to this game but sometimes I get so 
 frustrated I put it away and play something else for a while but I always seem to come back. The 
 bad: it's really hard to go places and explore. Sometimes you partner doesn't eat the food you 
 leave him when you go somewhere so you have to go all the way back home just to feed him. Same 
 problem with water. You CAN DIE in case you didn't know that already so when your partner is starving 
 and thirsty you have to help him SOON!
  
  
  This game is good. But if you get frustrated very easy I wouldn't play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galadreil782
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Just imagine, you are a senior at high school. One day you go on a cruise.... of a life time ! 
 Your boat sinks and you end up on a deserted island, with only you and another survivor. You struggle 
 to survive whilst trying to gather food, protect yourself from vicious beasts, and survive natural 
 disasters! Well this is what the two young people in Lost In Blue 2 have to do. This is a game 
 for the Nintendo DS. If you like games with a lot of free-roaming and a game that you really need 
 to take your time with, you've found your game! This game was released in North America by Konami 
 on March 20th, 2007. Now... on with the show! Game play ----&gt;7/10 The game play in this game 
 is very challenging at first. You are trying to get a hang of the game, while at the same time 
 struggling to survive. I had a great challenge with the game at first and I must say, it was a 
 fun time! But soon the things you do start to become a routine/pattern. You basically wake up and 
 collect food all day! Then soon it becomes so repetitive you just get bored. This game used a great 
 combination of the touch screen and the control pad. You use the control pad to walk around and 
 the A and B buttons for talking and investigating stuff, whilst you use the touch screen to: fight, 
 cook, collect things off the ground and more! I think this combination of control pad and touch 
 screen is very effective!
  
  Story ----&gt; 5/10 This is one of the area's that the game lacks in. There is no real story besides 
 trying to survive and get of the island. While there are a few twists here and there, there is 
 nothing major. This game really needs a good story to go along with the great idea that this game 
 presents to us (which is surviving in the wilderness. This is one of the places where I think Konami 
 could have done better.
  
  Graphics ----&gt; 10/10 The graphics for this game are amazing! Konami really outdid their selves 
 with this game. The graphics look really real (for a DS game) and it really makes island life great. 
 You could spend hour just gazing at the sheer beauty of this game! The effects of shadow really 
 stand out on the trees and such. Also everything has a 3D quality. If you don't like the idea of 
 this game, you should at east give it a try for it' graphics! Sound ----&gt; 9/10 The sound on this 
 game is good! I found myself anticipating the arrival of the next "area on the island, just to 
 hear the music! The music blends in with the game very well. The music is different wherever you 
 go. My favourite was the jungle theme, it really brought out the fact that "Well, this is a jungle! 
 I loved the music and hours after playing, you could find me humming a tune from this game. Replay 
 Value ---&gt; 7/10 The replay value on this game is ok, since you could just start over and try 
 to survive again. That part is great for replay, but since you already know one what you have to 
 do to get off the island and such, there is not a big change in playing again. Of course you could 
 try other ways to get off the island, but for me this does not cut it. One survival on the island 
 is good enough for me, although it might not be for some people. In conclusion this is an alright 
 game. In a buy or rent situation, I would strongly recommend you rent it first. Then if you love 
 it, go ahead and buy it! This game had great potential and it was a great idea. It just wasn't 
 brought up to its maximum potential with its lack of story and constant repetition. But although 
 it has quite a few flaws, its good points are great. I recommend renting this game at least once 
 to try out your survival skills! But for me, I think watching Survivor on TV is enough
  
  Final Score ---&gt; 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Violetto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  I've always thought it would be fun to be castaway on a desert island, this game really simulates 
 that. The graphics are very good for DS, the island is beautifully detailed and little things like 
 the tide going in and out make it the more realistic. The game starts out with you having nothing, 
 you and a fellow castaway take refuge in a cave. From then on you have to build up the cave, collecting 
 raw materials (vines, wood, bamboo) and storing it, building furniture and tools out of the materials. 
 You also have to collect food everyday, this becomes easier as the game goes on as you can do spear 
 fishing, leave traps for wild animals and shoot big game animals. All of this hunting is done in 
 the form of neat little minigames - again these minigames are much easier than in LiB1, you won't 
 get annoyed so easily!
  Other minigames include cooking which is quite logical - just don't throw all types of food into 
 the recipe, choose carefully i. e. all fish together, or two fish and two cocounts. The other minigame 
 is building furniture, this game can be challenging at time as you have to use logic to find out 
 where to place the wood.
  Your partner is much more useful in this game than in the first Lost in Blue, he/she will collect 
 firewood and food if you ask, and they are essential for turning raw materials into useful things 
 such as rope. They also can survive better if you leave water and packed lunches in the cupboard.
 
  It will probably take you about 25 game days to be ready enough to think about escaping the island, 
 there are 5 different endings which means you can play again to get all the different endings. 
 Again common sense can be used to trigger these endings - i. e. getting to the highest peak on the 
 island to spot a helicopter. But there are also more obscure endings - i. e. diving for a map, or 
 retrieving a radio from a gorilla...
  Exploring the island is very fun, there are lots of hidden things that can be found and events 
 that can be triggered. Even when you are prepared enough to leave the island, you will want to 
 stay as there are plenty of things to do such as building treehouses to live in and making all 
 your furniture as good as it can be.
  Unlike Lost in Blue 1, you can be either gender, which is good for us females. For those who have 
 played LiB1, I would say this game is much easier as although the island is bigger, you can create 
 many shortcuts that shorten the journey time. It also seems like its easier to stay alive as there 
 is more food available and forms of storing food in packed lunches and bottles, I always used to 
 spend 2 or 3 days preparing for a journey in LiB1 and still die very quickly. However there are 
 of course some downsides, collecting materials can be tedious and you have to wait a few gamedays 
 for it to respawn. Dying still happens if you aren't careful, and this can mean that you have to 
 replay whole days. Also the game does become boring after a while, I wouldn't say it is the kind 
 of game I would like to restart completely, once you have done everything there is to do (built 
 both treehouses, upgraded all furniture etc) then the cartridge will most likely just sit gathering 
 dust. I haven't played the multiplayer mode, but it is only available through wireless (No wi-fi) 
 and as far as I'm aware it just consists of three minigames (goat milking being one..) . Serious 
 Survival Mode is available once you've completed the game once, it is the original game except 
 you have no partner to help you, meaning it is harder.
  
  Overall this is a very addictive game, when you first start playing you may find it a bit overwhelming 
 but after you've got used to it you won't be able to put it down once you've escaped from the island! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is just awesome! Every part of it is awesome! The storyline is really good, the sound 
 is really good, the graphics are ok but they could have been better! I think that gamespot is wrong 
 this one is better than the first! Don't get me wrong the first was good but not as good as this 
 one! This one is really hard at times ,and can get very boring because your basically doing the 
 same task almost everyday! But trust me it all pays off in the end!! I would recommend getting 
 this game if your looking for a time consuming game that is challenging! You don't don't really 
 need to play the first one to understand this game like most sequels!
  Overall this game is very time consuming and is a good challenge to gamers!! I give Lost in Blue 
 2 an 8.5 out of 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireOcean
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I've bought Lost in Blue (the original version) the first time and loved it, so naturally, when 
 I heard the second game was coming out, I was thrilled. When I bought it and played it, frankly, 
 I thought it was harder than the first game, and died the first few times through. Then I got the 
 hang of it and began to enjoy it properly.
  
  For a start, no longer do you need play through the guy's version to get the girl's version. The 
 problem with that is, even with two strong and able people, your partner seems to need serious 
 taking care of. Thankfully, the improved ability of your partner to survive (leaving lunchboxes 
 and water bottles on the shelf) and the fact that you can ask them to get firewood and food offsets 
 the chore of frequently needing to head back to feed/water them.
  
  Most of the aspects of the game haven't really changed at all - you still need to forage aroud 
 getting twigs, food and the like to stay alive. What did surprise me pleasantly was the addition 
 of many different minigames and the music, which was based on the last version, but with different 
 keys added to it. Personally, my favourite minigame was the one where you build - instead of drawing 
 symbols according to what the game gave you, you had to cut and slice the wood, rearrange them 
 and then nail them into place. There's a slightly odd plothole here - we have no idea how the nails 
 got there in first place, but that's just a minor thing.
  
  Another pleasant addition was the ability to be able to build treehouses throughout the island 
 as bases, as opposed to the caves that you found in the original Lost in Blue game. Mugwort and 
 random animal/critter attacks were also very nice and interesting.
  
  However, I also think that if Konami could make the partner more independent, that way, it could 
 save a lot of hassle in the micromanagement which is constantly present in the game.
  
  Overall, Lost in Blue 2 lives up to its predecessor, and with a bit more fine tuning, could do 
 perhaps even more spectacularly than before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1914
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  When I first reviewed this game, I really didn't understand it, and I gave it a 6. However, I was 
 so amazingly wrong! This game REALLY grows on you!
  Note: I don't have the first game, so I'm just reviewing this game by itself.
  
  GRAPHICS: 
 9.5
  It's very hard to believe how good this game looks. It's hard to see a single polygon in the environments, 
 and nearly impossible to see on on Jack and Amy. The animals look good, and everything else looks 
 remarkable. The frame rate is very good, although you will encounter some slow-downs when Jack 
 and Amy are walking together.
  
  SOUND: 9.5
  The soundtrack really suits the game, and the animals sound good to. Jack and Amy can sound gritty 
 at times, they don't sound bad enough for you to not think they're not real kids. Even when you're 
 walking around the jungle, you can hear birds calling in the distance.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8.5
  While some minigames may get old, exploring the island is really cool.
  
  OVERALL: 9.0
  While 
 it may not appear as much at first, the game really comes together, and great minigames plus download-play 
 multiplayer really add the shiny touch. Good job, Konami. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TNgal22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  At first, I hated the game because I could not stay alive. But once I figured out what to do (I 
 nevered played LIB) , I was hooked! I would play for literally hours at a time! It is so addicting 
 that it is hard to put down. You will let me just do this one thing and I will quit, but then you 
 find something new or think, well, I can do this too. Before you know it, 3 hours have past!!! 
 It does take some time to get used to what to do but once you do, you will totally enjoy this game. 
 I finished the game after a few weeks (played in between work) but I just picked it up again to 
 play. This game is so addiciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Lost In Blue 2 is the sequel to the quite good (but kinda fussy) survival game. And it's made some 
 improvements over it's predecessor. The graphics for instance, okay so at first glance it's excatly 
 like the the first game. But as you get further you'll some nice minimal improvements like that 
 the name of the spice picked up appearing over it. The difficulty has also been improved to make 
 that much more accessible. While early on in the first Lost in Blue the food really stunk it still 
 does in Lost In Blue 2 but you'll be able to gain access to wonderful food like fish and meat much 
 earlier than the first game. Also you'd have to get a fair bit in the get the home upgrades in 
 the first game but in the sequel you'll be able to get the upgrades much earlier (Also to speed 
 things along tree vines and logs are in abundunce here) . This helos to speed the game up abit, 
 also new to this game is the addition of treehouses. These are a great help as the first one you 
 can get (which is pretty early) is very close the animals you can capture and get some really filling 
 meat (Instant meat! Just stick in the campfire for a few minutes) . What it is lacking is gameplay 
 variety Lost In Blue's Skye mode provided some diversion from the usual exploring as Keith as you 
 had householding duties to tend to. While as this addition is almost identical whether you choose 
 to play as the boy or the girl except the odd small plotline (which are optional except once while 
 playing as Amy) . What it does have is the Serious Survival Mode this is basically a differently 
 named version of the Challenge Mode in the first Lost In Blue (and it's alot easier and kicks you 
 off with a fully upgraded cave Yay!) . Lost In Blue 2 picks out all the best bits from Lost In Blue 
 1 and makes it easier and more accessible despite it's lack of a different game mode other than 
 Serious Survival. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game a week ago and im hooked on it. I havent been to impressed with the ds 
 lately but now am i becasue this game is really fun. You can choose wheather you are a guy or a 
 girl and you boat sinks and then your standend on a mysterous island with a whole lot in front 
 of you. The only bad thing is you can't stay out to long are you will die. You to stick toghether 
 in some parts becasue you need to push boalders over and other things along that line. The graphics 
 are pretty good for the ds and the sound is just the dame old music that gets bornig after a while. 
 I deffintly recommend this to any ds onwer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreakLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Lost In Blue 2 is an amazing game that is fun and lasts a long time. The most important thing to 
 a game is the gameplay and this is where Lost In Blue 2 really shines, you use the touch screen 
 to fish, hunt, cook, and many more tasks. Another positive thing about Lost In Blue 2 is the graphics. 
 They are not going to win any awards but they are excellent for a DS game. The sound in this game 
 might just be the best on the DS. You hear everything from animals growling, to people talking, 
 to fire flaring. Lost In Blue isn't without it's flaws though one major flaw is the difficulty it 
 might scare away many gamers. Another flaw is after you beat the game as both characters is there 
 isn't much to do. In the end Lost In Blue 2 is a surprisingly excellent DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Lost in Blue 2 is the sequel to the first game, Lost in Blue released a few years ago. Just like 
 its predecessor, LiB2 focuses on two young adults who have been stranded on a desert island and 
 have to survive and find a way to get rescued.
  
  One thing that should be noted is that unlike last time, you can choose to play as either a boy 
 or a girl, each with his/her own advantages. In example, Jack, the male, is a better cook, while 
 Amy, the female, is a better archer.
  
  The gameplay remains relatively the same as last time, you control your character using either 
 the buttons or the touch screen to move, find food, water, build tools, solve puzzles, cook, and 
 more. Many of these tasks involve mini games such as blowing into the DS to create a fire or stirring 
 a pot to make soup.
  
  Unfortunately, while the same format will appeal to those who played the first one, little has 
 changed which could make it somewhat bland for some. Also, many of the graphics and sounds have 
 been recycled making it seem just like the exact same thing all over again with only a few added 
 mini games. Also, Jack and Amy are probably the weakest, hungriest, thirstiest people on the planet. 
 Neither of them can go more than a day without food and water and require both nearly on an hourly 
 basis to stay alive. As time goes on, you will be able to counter this better with more filling 
 meals and bottles to carry water with, but in the end, you will still spend lots of time feeding 
 and watering these two.
  
  Despite this, the game is still fun, and when you beat the game, you can unlock a mode which allows 
 you to survive by yourself and see how long you can make it.
  
  Lost in Blue 2 offers new mini games and concepts to make things more interesting for old fans, 
 and it's also a completely new experience for those who have never played it before. I recommend 
 this game for anyone who wants to play more intuitive games on the DS and fans of the first Lost 
 in Blue. But for anyone who played the first, you'll probably want to dock 2 full points from this 
 review because it's pretty much the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slash_out
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The game offer a lot of what was already in Lost un Blue 1.
  Similar graphics, lot's of stuff came back like. But with lot's of adition. Like weapons, the cooking 
 system, the builder's one, you can now fight wild animals. The game is a little more simple than 
 the first one but still pretty challenging. As fishing is really easy. To get meat you just have 
 to fight wild animals even bare handed, you can ask the girl to do stuff for you, like finding 
 food or wood.
  As for the story it is similar to the first one. You and a girl drift on an inhabited (?) island, 
 and your goal is simple... survive.
  It definively is worth your time. People playing for the first time might be discouraged at first, 
 but don't hesitate to play it more and explore more. With every little thing you'll find or do. 
 Your life will become simplier.
  
  For those who loved the first one, this is really worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Birdybot
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Survival still rocks.
  
  Gameplay: If you haven't been introduced to the series yet, Lost in Blue is all about surviving 
 on a deserted island. You'll spend a good portion of your time dashing around the island providing 
 for you and your counterpart castaway, whether it be collecting firewood or food. However, the 
 designers have implemented plenty of new mini-games that make the different tasks much more fun 
 than the first time around. Cooking, for example, actually feels like cooking, because the food 
 is represented, and the player is required to stir, fry and boil their food to perfection. Not 
 only that, some new elements have been added as well, like combat with wild animals. How can a 
 game that incorporates bare-knuckle fighting a wolf be bad?
  
  AI: Yeah, if there would be a problem with this game... it'd be the AI. We're not just talking 
 any random AI, I'm referring to your partner on the island. They still can't go get their own water 
 or food, and often leads to situations where the player will be rushing back to feed/clothe/burp 
 the AI, only to keel over themselves from multiple spider bites. The learning curve has EVERYTHING 
 to do with adjusting to the uselessness of the AI. Keep in mind though, that unlike in Lost in 
 Blue 1, your alternate is a LOT faster, and barely slows you down. My tip here would be to bring 
 them along, everywhere. It's like having an extra backpack, and you can feed them when they get 
 low on food. Additionally, the AI can be sent to collect food for you to cook, and firewood. So, 
 not entirely useless.
  
  Sounds: The music has been remixed, but often recalls the original score. I'll be honest, it can 
 occasionally be annoying, especially when entering swamp zones and hear that ridiculously depressing 
 music cue up. Additionally, I'm pretty sure they've used the same voice actors who did Skye and 
 Keith to voice Amy and Jack. Do I really care? Meh,
  
  Graphics: Everything seems a little bit nicer than the previous version. The characters displayed 
 on the top screen are colourful. Some of the textures are a little grainy, like the grassy areas, 
 but, I'm not complaining much. Overall, the graphics are really the least of my concern.
  
  Random Notes of Interest: -You can choose to be Amy or Jack. This changes the storyline slightly, 
 but especially the dialogue. -Thank GOD, the bamboo is in a convenient location. Anyone who played 
 the original knows what I mean when I say the high tide was the bane of my virtual existence. -There's 
 a new mini-game for making shell-necklaces and building as well, and they're fairly decent.
  -There's multiplayer, but I haven't had the chance to try it out.
  
  Overall: I really enjoyed 
 Lost in Blue 1, and Lost in Blue 2 hasn't disappointed me so far. I actually plan on finishing 
 the game! Considering I rarely if ever finish games I'm playing, this is saying a lot. I'd recommend 
 the game to anyone interested in survival and a slower paced game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
