-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost in Blue
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/survivalkids/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Island is fun to explore.
 Plenty of items to collect to help ensure your survival.
 Real sense of fighting against the elements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Constant micromanagement required.
 Limited inventory space enforces timesinks.
 Travel has a tendency to get tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.2, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 968 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: KCE Hawaii
Genre: Adventure
Date: Sep 27, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While some inventory and travel issues make eking out a living a shade more tedious than it really 
 needs to be, at its best the game is an addicting exercise in the power of human perseverance. 
 

  It's not just reality TV show stars who're getting thrown into the wild without the benefit of 
 modern amenities. Lost in Blue is an adventure based around survival, where you fight the unassuming 
 and insidious enemies of hunger, thirst, exhaustion, and time. While some inventory and travel 
 issues make eking out a living a shade more tedious than it really needs to be, at its best the 
 game is an addicting exercise in the power of human perseverance.  

          It's sort of like Survivor, if they didn't feed the contestants.     

  You'll play 
 as Keith, a senior in high school who's relishing his first solo trip of summer vacation right 
 up until the point where the oceangoing ship he's on capsizes. He comes to on a deserted island 
 and his only company is Skye, a young woman who's pretty blind after the tragic loss of her glasses. 
 It's up to you to find a way to explore the island and eventually engineer your escape, while also 
 keeping yourself alive. You'll need to collect food and water, build tools, and stockpile supplies 
 of all kinds if you want to leave something for the rescue crews besides a pair of sun-bleached 
 skeletons. In fact, with all the harvesting, hunting, digging, and organization you'll be doing, 
 the experience ends up being much like a Harvest Moon game -- a Harvest Moon game where you'll die 
 horribly if you don't get out to pick the vegetables.  

  Just about everything you need on the island can be found lying around somewhere or other, and 
 it's just a matter of roaming around to gather things up. Most items can simply be picked up, while 
 in the case of certain foods, like clams or plants, you'll need to bend over and use the stylus 
 to dig them out of the sand or the earth. There are even a few cases where you can "persuade" trees 
 to drop you supplies by shaking them and hoping fruit or firewood falls out of them. A great deal 
 of your time in the game is spent just gathering food, firewood, and other supplies, and then bringing 
 them back to your humble cave abode where Skye can cook you a meal or weave you baskets and rope. 
 Skye generally stays at home all of the time (without her glasses, she can't see where she's going 
 and gets lost) , though you can hold her hand and take her outside when you need to. However, getting 
 her anywhere is a pretty big pain, as you have to manually haul her over ledges and logs, and she 
 can't climb certain areas that Keith can.  

  You can chat with Skye while visiting the cave, and she often has a number of helpful hints about 
 life on the island. Talking to her also triggers Keith's ability to build various kinds of furniture, 
 as she suggests needed items for their crude home. While wandering the grasslands and jungles, 
 you can find a couple of different items for Skye to serve food on, which will improve her cooking 
 so meals will be more satisfying than they would be otherwise. Depending on the foods you give 
 her to cook, she'll make a variety of different things with bizarre names, like freaky clam bake 
 or mystery carrot salad, though she can also produce things with more pedestrian names, like baked 
 potato.  

          I ordered the filet mignon. This iswhat the heck IS this?     

  Tools and items are also big necessities, from the crude fire-starter you craft at the very beginning 
 to the furniture you can build to make cave-living a bit easier. You make tools by combining simple 
 items you can find, like sharpening a rock into a stone point and then fastening it to a stick 
 for a spear. Weapons like spears (and bows and traps) let you hunt some of the indigenous wildlife, 
 and the fish, birds, and mammals are much more filling than the fruit and vegetables you find. 
 Using a bow or spear brings up a close-up screen where you can aim and strike using the stylus, 
 though the control here is a bit imprecise. Building furniture utilizes a minigame where you need 
 to trace stylus gestures on the touch screen at certain times to accomplish a successful build. 
 The thing is that these motions don't have much to do with the actual mechanics of building, so 
 it ends up feeling like a gameplay gimmick to use the touch screen more than it immerses you in 
 the joy of woodworking.     

  You need all these ample materials and food to keep your characters in tip-top shape. There are 
 four main stats on Keith and Skye that you need to watch. The water gauge measures your thirst, 
 the stomach gauge your hunger, the stamina gauge your energy, and the HP meter measures your life. 
 Eating eases hunger, drinking eases thirst, and resting or sleeping replenishes your stamina. If 
 you let any of those three main attributes drop to zero, you start to experience problems. When 
 your stamina is zero, you won't be able to run and you'll have to crawl over the terrain. An empty 
 stomach steadily saps your strength, and your character won't be able to sleep while hungry. An 
 empty stamina or water gauge starts to drain your overall HP, and if your HP reaches zero, it's 
 game over.  

          Do I pick up the firewood I need to live, the food I need to live, or the building materials 
 I need to help me get off this stinking rock?     

  Time drains all of these stats (except for HP) , and time passes at an accelerated rate compared 
 to real time, so the weight of keeping your characters well-fed and rested is always hanging over 
 your head. The day can start out just fine, but if you bring Keith too far into the surrounding 
 jungle and allow him to exert himself too much, you can easily get yourself into a dangerous situation. 
 Problems with Lost in Blue stem from the fact that you do need to invest so much time gathering 
 food and such to keep your characters healthy, while also investigating the far reaches of the 
 island and gathering supplies for necessary items, all of which has to be crammed into a backpack 
 that can only hold 20 items at a time. This forces you to make many, many trips back and forth 
 to various far-flung locales to gather items or do things that have to be done at a certain spot. 

  While you can eventually build a set of shelves for your cave that let you store some necessities 
 when you go out harvesting, you still have to carefully manage your inventory when planning to 
 visit other areas of the island. Keith's stamina is drained when he has to jump or climb, and getting 
 to the farthest regions means a lot of costly, and time-consuming, scrambling. There are hardly 
 any shortcuts, so you'll wear the same path smooth multiple times. Still, it can be said that even 
 these issues tie into the "realism" of the game. For example, if you went on a long hike, you'd 
 need to decide what you could pack to sustain you along the way.  

  The game can be pretty long depending on how good you are at hunting and harvesting, but you can 
 generally finish in about eight to 10 hours. Beating the game unlocks a new mode where you can 
 play as Skye and ply her cooking skills and find delectable recipes. There's even a third mode 
 you can unlock after getting through Skye's scenario. So, there's a good amount of content you 
 can squeeze out of it all.  

  The graphics are all 3D in the bottom screen, and the top screen is used to toggle between Keith 
 and Skye's health, an area map, or an overhead view of the island that shows the general layout. 
 The 3D figures have simple, limited animations but are put together well, and the island environments 
 are varied, from jungle to a lake, to stretches of beach, to some mysterious ruins. The areas are 
 well-organized and free of clutter, so there's a good amount of detail, but nothing that gets in 
 your way when trying to locate items or move around. The tunes you'll hear playing all sound good 
 for the most part, though one or two are a little low in the bit rate department. The characters 
 have a smattering of phrases and expressions that are also utilized well.  

          Your reward for surviving is one million clams!     

  Lost in Blue isn't a perfect 
 extension of the Harvest Moon brand of Zen -- it's marred by some inventory-juggling and lots of 
 sometimes-tedious backtracking. Still, it's a fun little journey into the land of the lost that 
 does a good job of making you realize that true survival is a bit more complicated when you can't 
 just vote yourself off the island.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ghosteye10
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game has great ideas but some aren't executed to well. Hunting and fishing, all the mini games 
 in fact are very fun. And they actually affect the game in a noticeable way. But when you play 
 as a girl the cooking can get repetitive, but still is mildly entertaining when you get real good. 
 The graphics are good but don't match up to animal crossing wild world and phantom hourglass, but 
 still decent. The story is interesting and you get to choose when to continue it or if you want 
 to find all the hidden areas, or make all the recipes then that's fine. The constant eating is 
 annoying, but you get used to it and it becomes fun to see what foods are the best. (but testing 
 the mushrooms can be tedious. This game hooked me until I finally resorted to using the action 
 replay to beat it. Gasp! There are some cool unlockables, especially after you beat the girl story. 
 There's some great anime at the end that makes up for the shoddy graphics. This game is worth checking 
 out but it isn't for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladinofmana
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Lost in blue for the Nintendo DS has got to be the only game in the series worth playing. it combines 
 the nice feeling of doing stuff yourself with the little tenseness of survival. the game is pretty 
 good when it comes to graphics. game play is very fun and makes you anxious to see the next cut 
 scene. it has very few flaws, and even the parts that upset me still don't make it any less worthy 
 of a 9/10. a wonderful game and i would recommend it to anyone. although you should be careful, 
 some people really will not like this game. i know that 3 years ago i HATED, this game. 3 years 
 later i started to play the game for laughs; Loved it! so if you not sure with all these mixed 
 scores i would recommend to RENT the game before you by it.
  Otherwise you could it up like the me of 3 years ago, hating the game, wishing you didnt buy it. 
 thinking how stupid it is, and if your really immature, hitting yourself on the head, maybe harming 
 the DS in the process. 
  
  Paladin of Mana
  
  Out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DianaHewie
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  -sigh- Alright. Lost in Blue... how do I describe this? Let down!
  
  I heard good things about it and struggled to find it. It wasn't in any store and in the end, I 
 had to buy it online for $40 (regret it, too) . Then again, a week later, I found it in stores for 
 $30 (go fig, eh?) .
  
  Anyways, I was quite excited to be able to play it. I heard that it was quite rare so that was 
 a big plus for me, since I seem to have a serious thing for rare games. At any rate, I popped it 
 in and watched the opening. Hmm... strange. 
  
  Then, playing, you are left on your own. You have to find food, water, shelter, etc. all on your 
 own. No problem, right? Wrong.
  
  The character (whatever his name was) has to eat way too often. The normal human being doesn't 
 need to do that.... seriously. Wandering the island to find said items is just far too tedious. 
 It feels like that was all I was doing, trying to find enough food to keep him alive. I didn't 
 even last a "day," dying at about 3 in the morning. Ok... humans can go longer than that without 
 food, trust me. After that, I never looked back on the game and haven't tried again since.
  
  It just wasn't my kind of game. Things were too difficult (no, I'm not one of those "soft gamers" 
 either) and just didn't make any sense.
  
  If you can't rent it or borrow it, try to find it cheap. Can't find it cheap? Let it go. Just let 
 it go... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This just might have been the worst ds game I have ever played.
  The main problem with this game is the difficulty is ridiculously high. Most of the time your character 
 will eat 5 cocunuts, a fish, a goat, and a carrot and only have enough energy to walk for 2 minutes. The 
 controls are actualy pretty decent and some of the graphics have its moments.
  
  here are the basics:
  
  graphics:8 out of 10. Pretty decent for the ds but a little too simple 
 for a game like this
  
  gameplay:6.5 out of 10. Most people will get board of this game realy fast but if your lucky you 
 will find this game to be fun for a weekend
  
  controls:6 out of 10. there are some decent touch controls but it feels overdun when you have to 
 scratch away your screen every 4 second to get 2 turnips. The movent is also terrible
  
  overall:6.5 out of 10
  
  Not the best game but you might get a weekend of fun out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespot1980
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Many reviews have thoroughly covered the prime issue with this title (as well as its successor) : 
 tiresome and constant micro-managing for basic survival, so I won't go into that.
  But there are three other major issues that keep me from really enjoying this game:
  1. The inventory 
 system, the limited room to carry items, and lack of space to store additional items (more on this 
 below) .
  2. Having Skye in the game slows things down A LOT. Some have already mentioned this. As if it 
 weren't bad enough trying to keep your own vitals up to stay alive.
  3. Building stuff -- a must to proceed in the game. You build items like shelves, beds, raft, etc 
 by playing this mini-game (detailed in GameSpot's review) . What is not stated enough in reviews 
 is that it's an extremely frustrating experience. The pace is so fast and the shape recognition 
 is abysmal. Much more often than not you will fail. And if just having to retry wasn't enough, 
 you lose your materials -- very annoying as the logs are particularly hard to come by. I managed 
 to build a basic shelf to store 5 items (I was lucky) , but have not been able to expand on it to 
 hold more items in almost a dozen retries spanning many in-game days because of the scarcity of 
 logs. I would dock a full mark or two because of the difficulty level of this vital mini-game alone.
 
  
  Positive notes:
  -Nice music and very good graphics.
  
  I'm glad I only borrowed this from a friend as I would have regretted paying $30 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  Lost In Blue is a survive on an desert island em up. Gameplay here is varied in a sense but certain 
 gameplay flaws prevent it from being a smashing good time. The way your partner has a tendency 
 to need to eat food every 10 minutes is pretty hard to manage until you get deeper into the game. 
 Also yuor stats deplete really fast unless you keep tons of supplies on you. The start of the game 
 is a bit of a slog but when you get later in the game that's where things start to pick up the 
 pace. Soon you'll have a fishing rod, be able to trap animals and are able to build pieces of furniture 
 to help you gain stats quicker. Also later in the game things become hard to figure out like the 
 puzzles are very hard without online help or alot of patience. Managing Skye (your partner) become 
 easier a few days in as you'll find alot of things to help Skye fend for herself such as a barrel 
 full of water and other stuff of the like. You can do a number of activities for survival in the 
 game like foraging for food or domesticating a goat. Graphics on show here aren't eye popping but 
 they're not horrible. They are perfectly decent good enough to make out most things. There is plenty 
 to do to keep yourself alive and you can play as Skye once you finish the game which is a nice 
 bonus. There is also plenty of depth to the survival of your character like the mysterious mushroom 
 that only when stuck in your gob can you tell what it does. Lost In Blue is a fun survival game 
 that as long as you preservere enough to know the ropes and to get in the world of survival you 
 will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainLiam
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 25, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Lost In Blue is definitely a game that requires some determination on the players part for a plethora 
 of reasons. This is more of a niche market game thats most likely to find a home with the same 
 crowd that the Harvest Moon series appeals to. This is not to say that others wont find enjoyable 
 tidbits within the game but just a warning that gamers new to the life-sim genre are going to have 
 to overcome a few hurdles if Lost In Blue is their first foray.
  
  The game introduces the player first to Keith, a teenager washed ashore after his cruise ship met 
 with a vicious storm at sea. Initially alone, Keith finds a companion when he meets Skye, a girl 
 who ended up stranded on the same island via raft. The two are forced to work together if they 
 want to survive, let alone try to discover a way home. Its hard not to draw comparisons to films 
 such as Cast Away when talking about Lost In Blue. If the premise of gathering food, making tools, 
 crafting furnishings, and exploring an island dont sound appealing to you, then youre going to 
 have a very hard time getting past a few of the games quirks. You may find it hard to enjoy the 
 game at all, given that surviving on the island is the entire objective of the game.
  
  Lost In Blue plays out with a top down view of a 3D polygonal world on the bottom screen of the 
 Nintendo DS. The top screen can be cycled to view the characters life meters, a map of the current 
 area, or a picture of the island showing how much has been discovered. Mostly the player will stay 
 glued to the meter screen but occasionally the map layout comes in very handy. Movement is controlled 
 by the directional pad with the B button causing the player to run if held down (which incidentally 
 can be a big drain on the players strength meter) and the X button opens up the game sub menu 
 offering the back item inventory, the rest command (which lets you take a quick break to recover 
 strength) , the make tool option, and the scrapbook. The Y button is more context sensitive allowing 
 for a variety of commands including pushing objects, using tools, and talking to Skye. The A button 
 also does some double duty allowing the player to jump and to search the ground. For more in depth 
 searching the player can tap the bottom screen with stylus which causes the screen to shift to 
 a first person view of the ground, which the player can dig around in with the stylus. Similar 
 methods of interacting are implemented when most tools in the game are used. By and large, Lost 
 In Blue controls well, but it definitely feels like it could use a little tweaking. It often feels 
 like it takes more time than really necessary to perform actions. For instance while running up 
 to a ledge which you want to jump across, the player must come all the way up to the edge before 
 the jump command can be issued. Should you run too far, youll be forced to watch as the character 
 acts out an animation of teetering over the edge. Rest assured that the game wont allow you to 
 fall over, but show you this animation over and over. Should the player be too far from the edge 
 when they stop running and press A, the character will instead search the ground. The sweet spot 
 for jumping is also fairly narrow, so a lot of time can end up being wasted teetering or searching 
 unnecessarily.
  
  The similarities to games in the Harvest Moon series are readily apparent, with the main difference 
 being that if you cant schedule properly, become self-sufficient, and take care of all of your 
 tasks, you die. But much like Harvest Moon, Lost In Blue has no set linear path so players are 
 allowed to experiment and discover how they best like playing the game. Lost In Blue has its own 
 time schedule that equates a matter of real-time seconds to minutes within the game, so the player 
 has a construct around which to plan his or her actions. Youre going to need to sleep every night 
 or youll begin to start collapsing due to sheer exhaustion. Theres even an in-game weather system 
 that changes from day to day and even hour to hour. Weather can heavily affect what you can get 
 done in a day because hot sunny weather will tire out a player faster and make them thirstier, 
 and stormy weather floods streams with rain making crossing them impossible. Besides the ever ticking 
 clock, there are four other meters to keep an eye on: thirst, hunger, strength, and overall life. 
 The way these work is that you need water to quench your thirst, food to banish your hunger, and 
 rest to keep up your strength. When any one of these three meters dwindles down to 0% your overall 
 life is negatively affected, so its important to keep them all in safe amounts. And multiply these 
 four meters by the two people you have to care for. Including the clock, thats a total of nine 
 steadily counting meters that you need to keep an eye on at all times. These restrictions are one 
 of the other major hurdles mentioned earlier that players must overcome, especially early on in 
 the game. As time in the game progresses the players will make or discover items that make these 
 less of a dire threat and more of a lingering concern. Containers can be acquired to store water 
 and even carry it with you while you explore allowing the player to cover a larger area because 
 they can stray farther from fresh water sources. The player will eventually be able to hunt larger 
 game using a bow and arrow, as well as fish with either a spear or fishing rod. Hunger becomes 
 less of an issue with more substantial food than just clams, potatoes, and coconuts. Building more 
 furnishings for the cave the two characters call home is also essential to besting your own limitations. 
 Building shelves will allow players to store extra food and supplies; while crafting better beds 
 helps the characters gain more rest and thereby more strength every evening.
  
  Building is one of the major highlights in the game and it adds an interesting dynamic by having 
 to scrounge the required supplies over a period of time and discover new items to build. Usually 
 Skye will tell you about new household items that would be a benefit to your cave, but things such 
 as weapons for hunting are left up to Keith to figure out on his own. These weapons amount to essentially 
 combining items to create a new one under the simple command make item. But making things for 
 your home requires a bit more work on the players part. A sequence is initiated where the player 
 must quickly copy simple commands with the stylus (and sometimes the microphone) to create something 
 new. However, while its fun to build up your new island home, the process feels a little gimmicky. 
 The commands dont correlate directly to actions so it doesnt really replicate the feeling of 
 building something. And only a few errors are allowed before you fail, at which point you lose 
 all of the items that were required for the process. Its not really a big deal in the end but 
 just an area that feels like it could be tightened up. Tools can be a lot of fun to use such as 
 timing alternating presses of the shoulder buttons and then blowing into the microphone to simulate 
 rubbing a stick and blowing on tinder to start a fire. Spearing fish as they dart across the screen 
 by carefully stabbing with your stylus can be a lot of fun, too. One of the other stumbling blocks 
 is that Keith has a certain level of responsibility in taking care of Skye, often more than it 
 seems the developers intended. Skye is totally responsible for preparing meals and taking care 
 of all the household chores, but she cant venture far on her own. This means that Keith must guide 
 her by the hand to drinking water and wherever they need to go together. There are even some tasks 
 that require the combined efforts of Keith and Skye, and the player will be forced to help create 
 paths for the slightly less athletic Skye. Usually Keith can head out to do some exploring and 
 hunting on his own without worry, but Skyes AI has a few hiccups which means sometimes she forgets 
 to eat and drink on her own, even when your cave is well stocked with food and water. This can 
 be frustrating when youre halfway across the island exploring and Skye has forgotten to drink 
 water, forcing you to return and lead her to the stream, lest she perish of thirst.
  
  The graphics are fairly well handled, if a little simplistic. But the variety of terrain is nice 
 and the water has some nice effects to it. Sometimes the graphics dip below what seems possible 
 for the DS (particularly some of the flat 2D art) , but its not generally an issue. Sound in the 
 game is about on par with the graphics. There are little musical intros played that the start of 
 each day and upon entering each area along with some music for the cave, but not too much to speak 
 of in terms of a soundtrack. There are lots of fitting sound effects for the weather, wildlife, 
 and everything else on the island. Lost In Blue has a few generic voice clips like hmmm, whoa, 
 and ok, but it would have nice to see a little bit more content.
  
  Ultimately Lost In Blue can be a highly enjoyable and rewarding experience if the player is interested 
 in the premise and willing to brave a few hardships in order to survive. It feels a little disappointing 
 when it seems like a little more work in a few areas would have gone a long way. But all of the 
 elements are there even if they are a little rough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Lost in blue makes good use of the what the nintendo ds can do, but it's not a really good game. 
 Heres the story, I do not remember how i got here. I remember a ship. I remember nothing but blue. 
 I am alive. Found some coconuts for food and a cave for shelter. I made a fire using some dry wood 
 and bark I found. Good thing I paid a bit of attention when I was in the Scouts. Am I alone? (next 
 day)
  I am not alone. Today when i was looking for food i found a girl. She was a bit confused. Something 
 that got worse after I stepped on her glasses. At least there are two of us now. Maybe we actually 
 have a chance of making it off this island if we work together. Her name is skye, she is cute. 
 She is a good cook. (next day)
  i wish i could explore the island. Oh well i spend all of my time looking for food. skye is a burden 
 she cant see. She sucks. The biggest danger to my health is boredom. This game sucks. I am a frickin 
 baby sitter to skye. I have to feed her stomacth she has to be fat or she'll die : (. The other day 
 I got back to the cave and found Skye nearly dead of dehydration. I know she's got vision problems, 
 but the river is like five feet from the mouth of the cave! Couldn't she just walk towards the 
 blurry, blue area?
  I might kill her, it would be easier.
  I made a really interesting discovery today. After venturing through a cave behind the waterfall, 
 I came across some old ruins. That means there were once humans here! Finally, a breakthrough. 
 Unfortunately, I think I ventured too far from the cave on my trip, because when I returned I found 
 Skye had succumbed to her stupidity-induced thirst. I guess that's what people would call natural 
 selection at work. Game Over. And I couldn't be happier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monthir
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Wow this game i got it for like 6 months ago, i played it for like 2 or 3 dayz then i got bored 
 from it and i thought it was so hard to play, then after 3 months later i tried to play it agine 
 i said i spent money on it i wanna try to see if i can move in this game, then actully i did moved 
 in the game and after i got new things and discover new areas new items i didnt thought this game 
 have all these kind of things but i was really shocked all these things was there in the game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Lost In Blue is pretty fun for a while, but then it just gets boring to explore and collect food 
 and make items. It's difficult to take Skye anywhere with you because she can't see, and you have 
 to lead her everywhere.
  
  It's frustrating to try and find material to make new items and have to balance your strength, 
 hunger and thirst while doing it. The game is just stressful and it gets pretty boring to go through 
 the same old places on the island and not accomplish much because pretty soon you just have to 
 go back to the cave because either you or Skye is dying. You don't feel like you're getting anywhere 
 and you are doing the same things to survive.
  
  It's fun for the first few days, but unless you like doing the same things over and over and getting 
 really frustrated, than this game isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  Stranded kids was released in 1999 on the gameboy colour. It was a survival game where you had 
 to survive alone on a desert island, until you run into a few events that turned the tides completely.
 
  
  Lost in Blue, even if not exactly a direct sequel, is made by the same company with the same premise, 
 except with many enhancements along the way.
  
  The main story of Lost in Blue is that Keith, an 18-year-old senior student, is finally going on 
 his first solo trip, which happens to be a cruise. However, just like in Stranded Kids, a storm 
 has caused a terrible accident on the cruise ship. Keith ends up stranded all alone on a desert 
 island, until he finds Skye. The game continues on there, leaving you to struggle for survival, 
 find a way to escape and to half-babysit the half-blind Skye.
  
  Gameplay in this game can be annoying at times, but it is overall enjoyable. Most of the time, 
 in the beginning, you are just digging for clams on the beach, or spear-fishing for your basic 
 sources of food. Other tims, you are exploring the island, finding key items that open up events 
 that make life in your cave home much easier. The game has many small "mini-games" that take only 
 a few seconds to complete, plus it has a whole second story (Or a different perspective on the 
 story, at least) after you finish it with Keith.
  
  Graphics in this game are alright, but could possibly be better. Sue to heavy 3D limitations on 
 the DS, the graphics look blocky, like a late PS1 game. However, they aren't total eyesores, and 
 graphics in some of the mini-games are alot smoother. However, in the fire-making mini-game, you 
 can see there's no body attatched to the persons arms... Though it's not exactly sticking out for 
 all to see.
  
  Music in this game is mainly played in the cave and inventory. Voices appear every now and then, 
 such as Skye saying good morning when you wake up, and welcome back after you re-enter th cave 
 from exploring. Other sound effects are mainly just grunts from Keith as he climbs and jumps, or 
 the sound of footsteps, or water running.
  
  This game is quite hard to find, and (In Australia) costs $80, which is pretty expensive for a 
 DS game. However, the game is worth the high price tag, even though it can get pretty frustrating 
 trying to raise your hunger and energy until you get the spear for spear-fishing; which gives you 
 some half decent foods; and rock salts for a decent hunger rise.
  
  Though this game may not appeal to all, it is at least worth a shot, especially if you liked Stranded 
 Kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Janellworks
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  Let us start with the stuff that the most people care about Like the Plot the Game play value and 
 such.
  
  The Plot
  ___
  The Plot is very good. It is strong and clear. You know what is going on. 
  The cut scenes make 
 most of the story. The only bad thing is that if you do not find anything new nothing happens unlike 
 real life.
  
  The Game play 
  ___
  The game play is huge. Once you beat Keith mode there is Skye mode. After that, there is 
 a special Mode that I will not ruin for you. Evan once you finish all three you can start again. 
 Complete scrapbooks and escape a different way.
  
  The Music
  ___
  I think the music 
 is perfect. It captures the game and unlike a lot of music doesnt annoy the heck out of me. It 
 is all an opinion. However, I think that it is very good. 
  
  The sound
  ___
  The sound is 
 clear. The voices of Keith and Skye are rarely heard. However, I do not think they need to be heard 
 more. Many games have voices that ruin characters. 
  
  The Characters
  ___
  Keith is 
 Easy to love. Other than his sometimes Dumb-brain Moments. 
  "I can make a Bow!" (When he has been seeing animals all over for ages) .
  In addition, his stupidity 
 for breaking Skyes Glasses (Hasnt he ever seen movies?) . He is sometimes annoying but I was attached 
 quickly.
  
  Skye is easier to love. She works very hard. And does not take long to realize stuff. And she is 
 so sweet, who couldnt love her?
  
  Graphics
  ___
  Ok I love this 
 game but I will admit it. Skye and Keith's faces look like Ghosts to me. However, you do not see 
 them much. The cartoonist animation is VERY good. And all other animation is great.
  
  Difficulty
  ___
  
  Hard but 
 worth it. The fishing with a spear can be very hard. I find the hardest part the furniture making. 
 However, you will get better. Another hard part is the Needs. But make a fishing rod and a bow 
 and find a few shortcuts and you will be in very good shape.
  
  The Bottom Line
  ___
  
  Unlike 
 some games this one is easy to tell what you are supposed to do. For instance, you are not going 
 to get on the island and think youre supposed to be an idiot and find clams instead of a cave. 
 You will know what to do. Call it instinct or call it good plot. This game has a charm no other 
 game has. It is sad to end it but you can start again. It shocked me greatly because I usually 
 settle for games like Nintendogs and Ping Pals. However, this game is easy to learn. And fun to 
 play. I know some wont like this review. But do not say I do not know what I am talking about. 
 This game will not please everyone. 
  However, it has sure pleased me. 
  
  I would like to add that if I missed 
 anything send me a Message and I will fix it.
  
  
  ~~~~~~~^~~~A Review of Lost in 
 Blue by Janellworks~~~~~~~~^~~~~~~~~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panicofbeliever
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  Lost in Blue although the sequel to the Game boy colour game Stranded Kids or to use its other 
 name Survival Kids takes a large step away from its roots in terms of its style of play. 
  
  Stranded Kids was based around exploration and experimentation , survival being second priority 
 as food and drink around you made it simple and fun to work your way through the game. Lost in 
 Blue on the other hand takes more focus on survival. A large portion of your time is based around 
 the collection of food and quenching the thirst of your two characters. Time for progressing through 
 the island is minimal until you get some way through the game where resources are plentiful. 
 
  
  Yet the first hour or two of this game is such a chore that all but the most dedicated gamer may 
 be put off. But persevere and here lies a real gem. After an arduous beginning Keith and Skyes 
 journey picks up, dusts itself down and becomes a game more true to its Stranded Kids roots. 
 
  
  The gameplay may eventually come to a good standard but can the graphics and sound hold the casual 
 gamers attention long enough for them to get past the laborious start? Luckily yes, the bright 
 vibrant colours of the island  In full 3d  are comparable to a N64 or a Ps1 game. The sound likewise 
 captures the setting perfectly. The sound the waves, the Hawaiian music, the characters voices, 
 all make a pleasant addition to the overall concoction that makes for a great game; but not without 
 its niggles. 
  
  Gameplay: Great blend of survival and exploration if the player can endure the slow beginning. 
 80% 
  
  Graphics: Bright, vibrant, realistic. 89% 
  
  Sound: Joy for your ears. 92% 
  
  Lifespan: After the short main storyline the extra modes and scrapbook will keep you busy. 
 
  
  Ds use: Good input  Stylus hunting and fishing  Microphone for making fires  and dual screen 
 used for stats 85% 
  
  Overall: 86% 
  
  If you have any questions you would like to ask about this game, or perhaps highlight something 
 which needs to be added to the review please contact me through msn/email on panicofbeliever@hotmail. com
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cassiopeia_can
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the first games that I have bought for my ds lite.
  
  I really enjoyed exploring islands and finding ways to escape the island.
  
  Many impatient 
 players give this game unbelievably low scores.
  
  If you are impatient person who just want to have some actions without difficulties, don't buy 
 this game.
  
  The game scores posted by many websites and users do not reflect how great this game is, because 
 impatient users who are the majority of the market just give bad scores because they die too much 
 in this game.
  
  I have never died in this game. It's all about patients and skills.
  
  Anyways, buy this game, if you are prepare to be challenged with some hardships in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viena-Dumpling
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  I thought this was a good game at first, I got really into playing it, but then after a couple 
 of hours.. it was beginning to sink further and further.
  I found it very hard to keep your stats up high enough for you to actually go out and explore the 
 Island. It's hard enough to keep your hunger stats up let alone focus on your dehydration and exhaustion. 
 Your stats drop very fast and once I was at least able to explore a bit, I found myself dying all 
 the time, from lack of food and rest. Then having to start over again, becoming very frustrating!! 
 Most times it's difficult to make it back to the cave to eat, and your inventory is quite small, 
 you can't carry many things with you. Plus if you want to take the girl with you, you have to carry 
 her around, making your progress even slower.. It becomes very annoying, with your stats dropping 
 so quickly, because before you know it.. your dying again!!
  
  I found it very repetitive, in that you have to gather food to eat back and forth all the time, 
 you hardly no time to explore or venture new places..
  The graphics were good, and the idea of a survival game I like, But I just found it much to hard 
 and frustrating to continue wanting to play.
  
  If your into a real challenge, and don't mind being repetitive, then you might like this.
  But 
 this game was just not for me at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam-o-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  well lost in blue is kinda Konami's answer to lost, you are the college senoir called kieth who 
 is on a cruise enjoying himself until one night a storm hits the ship and it capsizes, when you 
 awake you are on a beach alone.......
  
  well this is basicly a survival game that starts off really badly with an impossibly hard beginning 
 but when you get past that and start to make spears and catch fish you begin to love then you start 
 exploring, you find new materials that help you find new kinds of food, or help you while you exploring, 
 exploration is the main focus of the game. However if you go to far away from the beach you get 
 yourself in a lot of trouble, so it takes a while to get to know your limits.
  
  so once your into the game you start to experiment with what supplies you have, like i wonder what 
 will happen if i mix makeral with melon and so on and so on, you'll really enjoy this part of the 
 game, leaving in the morning and coming back with the catch of the day, eating it then going to 
 bed. But then you realise that this really is it, so then you start to realise how bored playing 
 this game makes you, the only way to play this game is to play it the way you did yesterday, dissapointing.
 
  
  so overall you will end up putting this game back on your shelf after around three hours of gameplay 
 and leaving it there, yet if you are looking for a short but really fun and exiting experence this 
 will probably be what you are looking for. Oh and also i forgot to mention if you are looking for 
 lost, the game this is certainly not it!
  
  thanks for reading
  Sam-o- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellom
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  I liked this game at first mostly because of the DS touchscreen use. I enjoyed the fire making 
 which requires you to blow and use the L and R buttons. I also enjoyed the thrill of hunting and 
 the fun of cooking and many other things. This game will keep you coming back to play again since 
 once you complete the boy's story, you can play the girl's then the challenge mode.
  
  I think this game lost out on the aspects of Ds to Ds interaction since there is none. It would 
 have been hard to put that into the game but if they did, I'm sure the gamplay would have been 
 better. It is a fun game where you collect food, hunt, cook, search and build. There are always 
 new things to do, and the game is kept interesting because of the multiple endings to choose from 
 and the scrapbook you can complete. The challenge mode also keeps things a bit fun.
  
  Overall, I would rate this game with a score of 77/100 since it is a new, imaginative and innovative 
 concept, but there are still better games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: athfplaya
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  I think that this was a really great game it is extreamly difficult at first but with time and 
 effort you can really survive. I really don't see any major flaws in this game but the one thing 
 i was really extremely with was that you really had no idea what was going to happened whenever 
 asked a question; example: Do you want to use the lifeboat to escape? Yes well too bad you starve. 
 All in all this is not a huge problem and everything else about the game is great. I strongly recommend 
 this game if you are up for a challenge otherwise i wouldn't buy it. Me I really enjoy the challenges 
 of this game. I also like the incredible potential of unlocking two other playable characters where 
 you can actually do a lot of stuff that the others can't. All in all very hard but very enjoyable.
 
  -Jake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caz345
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Its a very good game it's hard to stop playing when you first begin the only parts that are difficult 
 aren't frustrating but fun to do. The game has a few minor glitches other then that it's a great 
 game and well worth buying. The game really does start to grow on you and has great replay value. 
 Really it's not a game to get worked up about but if it's on sale or if the game your looking for 
 isn't in stock this is always a good option no matter what. After a good amount of time playing 
 it may start to be slightly repetitive the only real reason for that is that youre not doing enough. 
 The game is as fun as you want to make it the more you do in one game day the more fun it is. The 
 main problem in this game though is that they're on a deserted island yet there seems to be nothing 
 that jumps out at you and nothing real random happens so like I said earlier it's as fun as you 
 want to make it. A bunch of people just sell the game because they cannot manage to stay alive 
 you have to learn to do this though really it doesn't take so much time eventually everything gets 
 much easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jangonov
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 11, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  this is such a nice little game. i read about it in Nintendo Power and instantly knew "I MUST HAVE 
 THAT GAME!" i finally purchased a copy about 3 or 4 weeks ago, and i honestly haven't put it down. 
 i feel guilty for ignoring Animal Crossing Wild World and Age Of Empires. 
  
  its true, at first, you'll probably die within a few hours. and then Skye will die. but then you'll 
 get the hang of it. it really doesnt take very long to figure out how to take care of yourself.
 
  
  its also really fun to go hunting and fishing, building things is fun too! and honestly, waking 
 up every morning for a search for food is kind of fun. for some reason it never gets repetitive. 
 
  
  another great thing about Lost In Blue is that the action is powered by you. If you think that 
 exploring the island and seeing whats going on there is cool, GREAT! thats awesome. If you think 
 that hanging around your cave and fishing all day is cool, well, thats great too. there is no time 
 limit, there is no goal you really HAVE to complete, i mean, it's ideal to find a way off the island, 
 but you dont have to if you dont feel like it.
  
  the sound is awesome. the music is nice and very mood setting. the gameplay is so simplistic it 
 hurts. the best comparison is the gameplay of Animal Crossing. the graphics are nice and "happy" 
 as my brother puts it. they characters in gameplay are very sweet and kind of doll-looking, in 
 the scenes where you are talking to Skye (the girl you find) it switches to anime style characters 
 (think along the lines of Trauma Centre: Under The Knife, except you dont have three years of text 
 every time you talk) .
  
  all in all Lost In Blue is probably one of the most addictive and fun games i've ever played. the 
 only reason i'll say its hard is because there are puzzles at one point in the game that will give 
 you a headache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackninja18
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 3, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game stinks. I was looking forward so bad to buy this game. I traded in a psp game to 
 get this. I wish I kept the psp game.. This is a very hard game. You die every 30 seconds. I thought 
 it sounded sweeta survival game for the DS!!" But.... NO N. O. You need alot of patients for 
 this game. Its so big you get lost and then theres no water so you just die. This game is a waste 
 of 30 bucks. Maybe it would be fun and challenging for some gamers but I hate it!! Never Buy this 
 game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Wiz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  I think this game is great because it's like real life if u were stranded on a island u would have 
 to fish and hunt for your food, i wouldn't care what any one else would say if i didn't have the 
 game i would still buy, so for the people who are reading this and don't have the game i advise 
 u to get this awsome game. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . .. . . .. .. . . .. . .. 
 . . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. .. . 
 .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . .. . . . . .. . .. . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkyfoo
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  When I purchased this game I thought "Cool I'm going to be playing Cast Away!" So, I turned on 
 my DS then ten minutes later my dude dies of starvation. The main problem with this game, was that 
 it wasn't in real time. The only thing I liked about the Animal Crossing series was that an hour 
 in the game was an hour in real life. In lost in blue a couple of minutes is an hour. So I have 
 a couple of minutes to get some food before I starve to death. So I finally make it to the point 
 in the game where I find that girl. I leave her in the cave, I go out to find some food, and the 
 STUPID GIRL DIES LIKE 5 MINUTES LATER!!!!!!!!!! The graphics are really disappointing. When you 
 get a 1st person view the graphics aren't bad though. I finally made a bow and arrow, I set up 
 a trap, AND I STILL CAN'T CATCH A GOD DANGED DEER!!!!!!!!!!! This is one of the most disappointing 
 games ever. I really trid to like it, but there were just too many problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Lost in Blue is another success for DS, it takes fully advantage of the console's features, you 
 play as a young man named Keith who is a spring breaker in the company of a young girl named Skye 
 who seems to be blind because she lost her glasses.
  
  You have to collect food, water to keep yourself alive, you will need to keep your basic needs 
 fit in order to be healthy and survive.
  
  Just about everything you need on the island can be found lying around somewhere or other, and 
 it's just a matter of roaming around to gather things up. Most items can simply be picked up, while 
 in the case of certain foods, like clams or plants, you'll need to bend over and use the stylus 
 to dig them out of the sand or the earth.
  
  There are some flaws in the inventory menu but I think that they were made on purpose to increase 
 the game's difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schaefainsane
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Trust me, buying this game is definitely worth it.
  
  Basically, u were on a boat, it crashed, now ur on an island. You find a girl who has a little 
 trouble getting around by herself, so when u travel with her, ur gonna have to hold her hand (literally) .
 
  
  It starts off a little weird, becuz for the first 2-4 days in the game, ur forced to just pick 
 stuff up off of the ground.
  
  then u can spearfish for food using a fun, but hard to get used to, touch screen mini game.
  
 
  a few days after that u'll get into the cave in the waterfall and now u can hunt, make traps, use 
 a fishing rod, and build furniture.
  
  there are plenty of options of things to do in this game. ur cave will start off a little empty, 
 but soon u'll have a basket to make ropes, a basket to make small traps, a water storage, firewood 
 storage, shelves, and more.
  
  the world in the game isn't too big, but traveling from ur cave to the cave behind the waterfall 
 takes 3 minutes, so it is a little tedious as gamespot says, but not that bad.
  
  if ur looking for a game that takes full advantage of the touch screen that is just plain fun, 
 u'll find this game to fit into ur collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviliPodMan99
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is very hard because all you have to do is survive!!!!! I would rather have someone else 
 beat it, then I ask them "what happened at the end?" You get stuck on an island because you were 
 on a boat and it crashed, forcing you to live in a cave. You go Then after you go to the other 
 side of the island, you find Skky, a girl that had the same tragedy happen to her. Throughout the 
 game everyday having to make fire, you have to feed yourself and Skky, drink, yuor food is from 
 vegetables, fruit, animals, fish and crabs. I would say you would probably enjoy this game if you 
 were 16 or older. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I was never a huge fan of survival type games but when I heard all the bustle about this one I 
 had to give it a try. Heres the goal - Stay Alive. Such a simple concept but it really sucks you 
 in. I never thought such a mundane concept such as foraging for food could be so immersive. Its 
 your task to find things to eat, and find items to make tools out of. The longer you play the more 
 "advanced" you become. At first you must live off coconuts and mushrooms, but will quickly graduate 
 to fishing and hunting to provide your sustenance. Better materials make better tools, it's up 
 to you to figure out what those materials are and where to find them on the island. There's a good 
 variety of fruits, vegetables, fish, and animals to keep the game interesting, as well as building 
 upgrades for your little cave. You'll have the help of a fellow islander to cook your meals and 
 do various other tasks such as making rope, but it's up to you to figure out how to survive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robio_basic
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Lost in Blue is the story of two teenagers stranded on a deserted island. You play as the boy (and 
 later the girl upon completion of the game) and you will explore the island looking for a way to 
 escape. During your exploration you will find jungles, swamps, caves, and even a lost civilization 
 as you find a way to get off the island and survive in the meantime.
  
  The designers of Lost in Blue came up with some pretty inventive uses for the touchscreen and microphone, 
 and in fact they are some of the best the handheld has seen so far. Sometimes you'll use the stylus 
 to brush away sand to find clams underneath. Other times you'll have to blow into the microphone 
 to get a fire started. Very clever. The dual screens show you your playable screen as well your 
 available inventory, maps, and a status screen that monitors your health, hunger, and thirst. 
 
  
  The game looks fantastic and the sound effects are quite good whether it's the sound of a waterfall 
 or the crackle of the fire. Unfortunately the game's music is pretty much forgettable. Each area 
 of the island has it's own music, but it's usually very generic stuff.
  
  The trick to really enjoying the game is learning how to effectively make the most of your time. 
 You'll have to learn how to balance your time exploring the island with your need for gathering 
 supplies and food. It takes a while to get the hang of it, and at times you'll feel like you're 
 doing nothing but looking for food all of the time. If you can master that though, you'll really 
 enjoy this game.
  
  There's a lot of replay in this game. There are several different ways to get off of the island, 
 and as mentioned earlier, after you complete Lost in Blue the first time you can play as the girl 
 and experience new aspects of the game. 
  
  The game's only flaw is your partner. The girl who also is stranded isn't the best at taking care 
 of herself when you go on long trips. She'll often not eat or drink (at least not enough) and will 
 make herself sick if you're not there to instruct her. Travelling itself can also be difficult 
 as your inventory space is limited and gets filled up very quickly.
  
  Overall the game is a pleasure to play. It's worth checking out just to see all the tricks the 
 designers did with the touchpad and stylus. If you're great at games like Harvest Moon and you're 
 able to effectively manage time, this is a game that you will quickly become addicted too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwalla32
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Great game loads of feature and it so addictive altho it get repetetive everytime i find something 
 new like a new tool i just want to play mor eand more... if your thinking of ever b uying this 
 game it is a must have loads of fun wlel using all of the ds's fucntions ( microphone, touchscreen) 
 i love it and ive barely got into it yet :) ) SUPPORT NINTENDO BUY A DS! :) :)
  
  anothe rgame i reccomend is lunar genesis my bro got it it quite impressive.. well it must be he 
 hasnt stopped playing it for 3 days and thats saying something as hes not a game fan :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -AshlieHottie-
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Hmmmm.................... How to describe this game? Well, for starters, it is quite fun but is 
 a bit tiresome! It starts out OK but if you don't get the hang of it very quickly you are likely 
 to die a couple of times first! This game is fun for a while but when you start going far away 
 from the cave, it starts to get hard because if you don't bring Skye with you she will probably 
 die unless you have quite a lot of supplies at your cave or if you get back quickly. Overall this 
 is a fairly average game and is not massively fun to play, but if you have a lot of patience this 
 game would be quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Oh Lost in Blue. An odd game, it's really fun, yet really hard. I'm kind of torn on whether to 
 give this game an amazing review, or a horrible one, it could pass for both, you decide, here it 
 is, a Lost in Blue review brought to you by Lunar.
  
  Gameplay and Story:
  
  Well, the game starts with the main character Keith in a ship wreck, and then waking up on an island, 
 with nobody in sight. He finds a place to make shelter and then decides to go and explore, however, 
 with a lack of supplies and energy, it's kind of hard to get around. He eventually finds what is 
 possibly the only other person on the island, a girl on the same ship as he was, named Skye. They 
 both do they're part in trying to survive until they find away to get off the island. The actual 
 game is surprisingly hard at the beginning, it's so hard to get supplies, and whatever supplies 
 you do get, doesn't fill up your energy very well, your energy which by the way runs out pretty 
 fast. You eventually get the hang of things though, especially when you make better items, such 
 as beds, spears for hunting, and different things like that.
  
  Graphics and Visuals:
  
  The graphics are in 3D but still some thing are hard to make out, such as the smaller items, 
 but they're still pretty good, and totally work on this game.
  
  Music and Sound:
  
  There's not exactly that much music to talk about in this game, however the sounds of the different 
 things, such as waves, or just things like shooting a bow, or hunting a fish are really good.
 
  
  Replay Value:
  
  Well, lets just say the game is really hard enough the first time around, but you could replay 
 it if you wanted it.
  
  Overall, this game is hard to review because at some points it's an amazing game, but at others 
 it makes you want to scream. Lunar out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AryaSvitkona
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Lost in Blue is surprisingly frustrating. Although enjoyable, it is hard to keep the protagonist 
 alive long enough to actually DO anything. The food you find on the ground doesnt help hunger 
 at all, although it raises the hunger bar by four percent, in this game, four percent is not enough, 
 and fishing is just a pain. I haven't gotten very far, however, the part that I have done is NEXT 
 TO IMPOSSIBLE. The plot is enjoyable, but I just about took a hammer to the game card. This game 
 is very difficult, and I dont recommend it unless you have a LOT of patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardchlee
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  You have to take sometime to make yourself used to the system. But after all, it's very interesting 
 and impressive. Hunting and fishing are especially fun!!! You would definitely be addicted to this 
 wonderful game! The only thing that is not very good is that the girl is too dumb. She's just like 
 a dummy because she is only capable in cooking and making robes. Taking care of her is also a problem: 
 she doesn't know how to return to the cave if you left her somewhere out  
 tHE image is awesome and the game is thrilling. You will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invdrcats
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  the game has a good opening and a compelling story and great mini games like the spear fishing 
 and hunting and you`ll get to the part where its un playable frustrating when you cant get the 
 next point because the girl or guy are to tried or to hungry and you know what that sucks! But great 
 sound and music and perfect use of the touch pad but some people though that im just bashing on 
 it but Lost in Blue is the reason i got a DS! i was very sad the time it take then you find out 
 its soooooooooooooooo hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin578
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Hi guys, and welcome to my first review. Today, I am going to review a game that is very secretive, 
 yet very good. You probably wont find this game in stores, so it is better to buy this game off 
 the internet.
  
  Publisher: Konami
  
  ESRB Rating: Everyone 10+
  
  Name: Lost in Blue
  
  You start off as Keith, a high schooler who is traveling alone for the 
 first time during summer vacation on a boat. However, the boat sinks and Keith is stranded on a 
 deserted island. Guiding Keith with your control pad, you move around, picking up items with the 
 A button. Eventually, you will meet Skye, another survivor. She can tend to your cave and cook, 
 while you explore. Eventually, you can build a fishing rod and fish. Build a bow and arrows, and 
 hunt. Gather spices to spice up Skye's cooking, discover new places....
  
  You can also upgrade your cave with luxuries such as a twig pile, a water tank, a shelf, and 
 many more!!!
  
  Keith Only Things: Fish, Hunt, Explore, Build, Gather
  
  Skye Only things: Cook, Gather (only Skye can gather a secret item) , Explore (only limited to beach)
 
  
  But thats not all, after you beat the game using Keith, you can play the game using Skye! And 
 after you beat the game with Skye, you can play as a secret character!
  
  Ups: very varied environments
  Fun activities such as fishing, cooking, hunting and building, 
 and gathering
  Great gameplay
  
  Downs: Strictly 1 player, no wifi, no multiplayer
  Pretty challenging game
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 6
  Sound: 6
  Value:7
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt:7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamin218
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  I would My Nintendo DS with the game Lost in Blue in it. Lost in Blue is a very great game. It 
 is hard so it takes a long time to get used too. You will not get through this game with less than 
 ten game-overs. At least I didn't. But Lost in Blue offers different ways to survive the days counting 
 down to the escape of the island. You can collect food and take drinks of water and explore. Collect 
 and store food on the shelves and explore. This game is great and has lots of re-playability. Once 
 you win the game with the male character you can play again with the female character. So that 
 way you can have a different perspective during your replay.
  
  I have to say that this is a great game probably not the best but one of the best game on the Nintendo 
 DS. This game is recommended to any owner of a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electrojelly
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  I admit, this is an annoying game, but thats only the beginning and i know soo many people that 
 take it back because of this and end up dissapointed, the fact is its hard... but it doesnt stay 
 that way. 
  
  The more you progress the more accheivable things become. I know i was one of those people that 
 was going to take it back but i tried hard and found that its only the beginning which is a struggle.
 
  
  You look after yourself by eating what you can to keep your strength up, and drinking to keep you 
 from, well... dieing :P
  Later you find, skye, a girl who you need to look after as well as yourself, which at first is 
 a chore and annoying but soon that changes,
  
  She can cook the raw things you find, she makes all types of things to make getting food easier 
 and to progress through the game, you may need to look after her as well but the more you play 
 the easier it gets, she soon begins to feed herself over time... kinda...
  
  This game is great, and its truly original... from hunting deer to exploring through ruins, this 
 games continues to entertain me, and it should you... the beginning will make you want to quit 
 and i know how most of you feel but it is possible, and it does get better past that point, the 
 game seems to get more fun getting deeper into the story.
  
  Keep at it and if you get annoyed, give it a break for a while then come back, theres so much more 
 to this game than collecting food and water comsuming it just to find you need to do it again soon 
 after, look past that and think what there is to get to once you over come the start of this beauty 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedvsBlue15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Game might take a while to figrue out, but after that it can be a breeze. Animal Crossing has nothing 
 on this except for online play. This game rox if you do not have it get it. It has three different 
 stories say it has great re-play value. Yes some parts get tricky, but with help from faqs and 
 cheats you can get throught them. Oh and by the way it has a great story! It also has different 
 endings, so that brings the re-play value even higher. It is an awsome game get it now! Man what 
 else can I say. You might get hand cramps from playing this game too long I did. That is how addicting 
 it is, so go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmasd
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so sorry if its bad. This game would be good if you have:1. patience: This 
 game is a game that you need to have patience. If you Get hungry, thirsty and or tired he starts 
 to blurt this out and it gets annoying. 2: love sim games. If your a true sim game lover youll 
 be alright. If your not any of these things you will sort of like the game but your not going to 
 play it 10 hours straight.
  
  
  The Story isnt bad though. Your stuck on an island and try to survive simple, right. WRONG. you 
 find this girl and you and her work together to survive. Now like i said before they start to get 
 annoying. Im getting tired im geting hungry im getting thirsty. thats the same thing with her. 
 Nut once she starts to cook and you start hunting for more than fish everything will be alright 
 till you continue through the rest of the island. im not going to go and spoil anything so this 
 is the end of the review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasami-chan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  One of the most interesting adventure game series ever to grace the Game Boy Color and Game Boy 
 Advance makes its debut on the Nintendo DS - and what a debut it is. Lost in Blue is a deep, engaging 
 survival game that, although initially daunting, grows on you as you play more of it. For me, it 
 meant sticking with the game for two weeks straight, neglecting my Nintendog, Partners in Time 
 and Advance Wars.
  
  Lost in Blue is challenging. The lack of nutritional foods, the scarcity of materials required 
 to build the tools, and a shortsighted dependent named Skye - all contribute to the complexity 
 of survival for the first few days. All your painstaking efforts pay off, however, as you venture 
 further from your stone adobe and discover ways to make your and your companion's lives easier. 
 The sense of accomplishment you feel is far greater than what you would normally experience in 
 other games, as each new discoveries you make takes a tangible fragment of tension off your back.
 
  
  Despite the seemingly linear design, the game is very open-ended. Save for the cut scenes that 
 occasionally appear when you trigger new events, the game does not force you to adhere to a schedule 
 or limit you to any specific area. You are free to explore the island as you please. It is even 
 possible to stay on the island for a year and live happily ever after with your companion.
  
  After completing Keith's story, you can play as Skye, and look at the story from her unique 
 perspective. Instead of exploring the island to look for ways to get off the island, you look for 
 ways to make use of what your companion brings home to provide basic sustenance for you both.
 
  
  Gameplay, graphics and sound are what you expect from a quality Konami title. They deliver an enjoyable 
 experience and do a good job of utilizing the power of your Nintendo DS.
  
  A few design flaws prevent Lost in Blue from being a perfect game, most noticeably the AI of your 
 companion. Skye is competent for the most part, but starts off as an incapable cook who occasionally 
 forgets to keep the fire going or dehydrates herself. Similarly, Keith seems to take forever to 
 perform tasks that to any sensible person would do them at the first opportunity. The tool building 
 mini-game also lacks the finesse of the other aspects of the game, as it is difficult to associate 
 the sliding blocks to wood work. There are few more rough corners around the edges, but overall 
 they are unlikely to distract you from the enjoyment of the game.
  
  I recommend Lost in Blue wholeheartedly. If you have a Nintendo DS and loves adventure games, get 
 your copy. You will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowbarchris
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I consider this game the best in my collection, including Mario Kart. Its addictive and the main 
 mission lasts a long time. Gameplay is not linear and there is a huge island to explore, with many 
 secrets to uncover. It has a lot of replayability with multiple endings and an awarded Skye mode 
 that is like a second adventure.
  
  The mini games are all fun and survival mechanics are made well but not so that you can drop off 
 after a short amount of time. Graphics are 3D and one has to like that on a powerful console plagued 
 with 2D games.
  
  Sound is great and appropriate at all sections. Short bursts of music mark key moments, but some 
 of the music becomes repetitive in Skye mode.
  
  The game has an awsome sorry and the island's secret does not dissapoint. The game is at its most 
 stellar at the end when you uncover the secret and must escape. Although some parts of the story 
 are unexplained it still works as this jut adds to the cool mysteriousness of the island. This 
 is an awesome game and I highly recommend it. In ways it is many games as there are heaps of mini 
 games to play that are some of the best I played using the touch screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xem1900
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:39 am PT
Review:  First i saw lost in blue i thought that i i just have to buy this game. And now i have done it, 
 and i like this very much. It's so fun to fish and hunting with your bow, this is the best surviving 
 game ever. I loved surviving kids for gbc but this game is better and the 3d graphics on ds is so 
 beautiful. But almost every site that have reviewed this game say it's to much gathering food, what?? 
 if you don't gather food then isn't a surviving game. But i think this is a very good game so if 
 you like harvest moon or the sims you definitely gonna like this game so... BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hagismunch95
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 8:25 am PT
Review:  At first it is one of the best games you have every played then it becomes too hard. Staying alive 
 is way too hard and getting to places like the jungle and grasslands require days to prepare for 
 and days to recover from. All this eating hunting and sleeping becomes very boring. If you are 
 really enjoying it at first don't play it for more than an half an hour a day. I recommend it to 
 hard core sim gamers because it is a real challenge. There is not much to say about the graphics 
 and music. Overall it is a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidmelis
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  After getting and playing Lost in Blue, I have discovered why so many professional reviewers do 
 not like the game - they lack character. Lost in Blue is all about the PATIENCE to not compromise 
 the want to search with the responsibility of surviving; the COMMITMENT of taking care of someone 
 else; the HUMILITY of listening to someone else's advice; the MATURITY to make the right decisions; 
 the PERSEVERANCE of gathering food, hunting, making items and replacing them when they break; and 
 finally the SATISFACTION of reaching a goal after much hard work.
  
  The average video game critic does not have this type of character. It is not surprising since, 
 after all, the majority of their waking hours are spent on playing video games. Most definately 
 lack the real life experiences and character to appreciate the true immersiveness and brilliance 
 of Lost in Blue. and to pull it off. 
  
  If you are a younger player and enjoy this game - I commend you! By surviving and overcoming the 
 island you are learning life lessons that will help you succeed and accomplish more than being 
 a professional video gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  Lost in Blue puts you in the place of a teenager named Keith, a kid that wakes on a deserted island 
 after the cruise ship he was on sank during a storm. Of course, landing on a deserted island, you 
 aren't exactly equipped with the modern convienences you are used to and are forced to forage for 
 food, clean water, shelter & make tools. A day after landing, you will run into a girl on the shore 
 named Skye. Lucky for you, she wears strong prescription glasses, which you step on, leaving her 
 effectively blind. Now you must find better food supplies, and tools to equip your cave with.
 
  
  Gameplay- 7- The game does a good job of covering a lot of things you would deal with on a deserted 
 island (or that you would expect to) , like how well fed you are, energy you have, and your thirst 
 level. Some of the tool usage seems a little inaccurate (bow hunting) , while others do a good job 
 of reflecting real life probelms (spear hunting for fish & the difference in light refaction with 
 spear placement) . Overall, the game mechanics are effective.
  
  Graphics- 6- Every is shown decently, but the graphics seem to chug at times when there really 
 isnt even that much happening to cause something like that.
  
  Sound- 7- Very quiet game, but it fits the environment, you hear animal noises in the background 
 & stuff.
  
  Value- 8- This game has a lot to it & goes for a long time
  
  Tilt- 9- I really like the idea & it would do good to make another one in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirreltakos
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:45 am PT
Review:  I really thought this game was going to be awesome. But it turned out I was wrong. It's difficult 
 at many points and not much ever happens... Graphics weren't terrible. Sound was nothing special. 
 And no voice overs that I heard! It's nice to have to save a hot person and all but why can't she 
 find some food for herself? I found myself put this game down after 2 hours or less. It was just 
 not what I wanted in a game. I don't recommend buying this game but I guess if you want it it's 
 not terrible. Just quite dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhillyEaglesOwn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Lost in Blue is a really fun game it does not seem like it but it is. And at first it starts out 
 hard but then it gets better and easier to keep the people alive. The game is like a mix of Animal 
 Crossing and Sims. The game is very fun and interesting. To do all the stuff like fishing, spearing 
 fish, and making fires is a very interesting part of the game and it uses the touch screen well 
 with those. For the fire u have to tap L and R in a rythem but then when it gets half way u have 
 to blow into the mic to start the fire going which is a very interesting and good way to make it 
 fun in the game. So if u have a DS u need to get Lost in Blue it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Hi I'm Yadish! This is by far the best game for the DS and I basically have or played every game 
 for the DS. The Gamplay is outstanding it keeps you busy thoughout the game but there is a downfall 
 you have to take care of a girl who is nearsited and she cant walk outside the cave without you 
 that gets annoying but if you dont take care of her then she will DIE that's right die joy to the 
 world right wrong you start over from where you last saved.
  Graphics are the best I have seen any DS game put out this is the best game on the market BUY IT! 
 Thank you for reading my reveiw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boopuft
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game truly takes advantage of the DS features. It reeally expands gameplay into the touch 
 and sound realm and does not cheapen the experience in the process (like other games have) . The 
 game is very compelling and there is actually a sense of urgency. The game is not spoon fed and 
 really allows you to discover and develop at your own pace. It has enough variability to keep you 
 hooked. It is not time driven so you can explore the island, build your cave, and learn the secrets 
 without feeling pressured. 
  
  For me, it is the model game that I show others when I want to show off the uniqueness of the DS. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: micktendo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  Some games are just fun to play. This is one of them. You would think that fishing and gathering 
 food and water would get boring after awhile, but it doesn't. I'm addicted to trying to maintain 
 good health while exploring the island at the same time. I wish I could maintain good health in 
 the real world so easily.
  This game makes good use of the DS features, including the microphone. After beating the game you 
 can actually play through as Skye instead of Keith. So that's almost another game all in the same. 
 
  In all this game is very fun to play and should become part of any DS collection that's out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Posidin77
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I personally thought it would be better but its still pretty fun.
  I think it uses the touch screen in a more unike may than all the other games that I have played 
 on my DS system. It uses it to dig and make things. Its a pretty good game with exeptional graphics 
 and a good story line. It gets more fun the farther I get on it. The one big problem with it is 
 it is too hard in the begining because you have to keep these two people alive with very limited 
 resources, it does get a little easier the farther you get though. I have to recomend this game 
 because it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDesigner
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  It seems adventure games are few and far between these days, yielding to all the FPS and RTS titles 
 out there today. So I really did want to like this game, but I just couldn't. There's too much 
 micromanagement and multi-management involved for my tastes. I couldn't get absorbed into the story 
 because this little whiner of an antagonist kept ruining the moment for me. "I'm hungry!" "I'm 
 thirsty!" OK, let's get you some food. Ok, that's done with, now we need to get you some water. 
 Wait, you don't have enough energy to get to the shore? Uh-oh, you're hungry again? Oh, you're 
 dying now. You're dead.
  
  I restarted the game a few times, trying to make my paths to various spots on the beach more efficient 
 time-wise, but to no avail. Once I got his basic needs taken care of, it was time to get some sleep 
 in the cave, but he wouldn't because there was no fire. Running about trying to find twigs ran 
 his hunger and thirst levels up; you can imagine what happened shortly thereafter. I finally managed 
 to get him to sleep, but the next day it was the same story: I'm hungry, I'm thirsty, I'm dying 
 of starvation! Oh, and once you find the girl, then you have TWO kids to babysit. No thank you.
 
  
  It's a good thing this was a rental. I would've been really disappointed if I had purchased this 
 game. Sorry, Konami, but thumbs down. Next time, let the player focus more on the characters, story, 
 and exploration, rather than all this business of hunting down food and water every five minutes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastergamer91
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  I think this was a seriously underrated game for the nintendo DS. It takes a long time to beat, 
 so its a good travel game. And the actual game play doesn't get as repetitive as those games that 
 take way too long to beat and have no substance. if you are looking for a good game for the Nintendo 
 DS that won't be over in a flash, then this is the game for you. I have never thought that the 
 touch screen could be used like this, from catching animals to spear fishing to shaking down a 
 tree for its coconuts, it simply makes it so that the game could only be played on this system. 
 ****/four stars out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitachi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you begin playing this game, you realize that Lost in Blue is no normal platform 
 title. It is very addicting and challenging. Digging in the sand and such for items to make tools 
 make the use of the touch screen very cool. There are plenty of areas to explore and keep you busy. 
 There are a lot of puzzle type scenarios. You must figure out ways to survive on an island i. e. 
 hunting, finding shelter. If you love a challenging platform, challenging puzzles, tropical islands, 
 and the movies The Blue Lagoon and Return to the Blue Lagoon, then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: another_star
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Lost in Blue. 
  
  It was given to me as a present, with the price tag still on it. Because the price tag was still 
 on it, i was given a choice to a) return it and buy something else with the store credit. or b) 
 keep it, and just leave it in my expanding Games Library. I didn't even think i would even play 
 it even just a little. Little did i know however, how much my first impressions were wrong.
  
  At first i was questioning whether i should open it. Now i cant even put it down!!!
  
  
 The concept of surviving after an accident on a deserted island just happens to appeal me. Find 
 shelter, find food, find drinkable water, and get all the little necessities for life. Not to metion, 
 search the island and find away to get home.
  
  The only thing that really gets to me, however, is the buttons. No, its not that difficult to get 
 used to the buttons, but it seems to be really annoying that there are only two 'action' buttons. 
 One is for the weapon/tool you have equiped. If you have a spear equipped, you can only use that 
 action button when it is necessary. The other 'action' button is usually depended on the terrain 
 and your position. For example, if you want to jump, you'll have to be in the exact position so 
 the 'action' will turn to 'jump.' This is annoying because if you're not exactly on the position, 
 then you'll probally end up doing another action. 
  
  The graphics are one of the best i've seen. I was highly impressed by the graphics, as they are 
 quite smooth for a DS game.
  The sound is also great. it has sounds of an island, which sets the mood. This game is well at 
 a great price for a great game. Ever since i've got this game, i have never been able to put it 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  i thought this game was excellently done. from the animals to the mini games to, well everthing 
 it was definently worth 30 bucks. the animals in this game are abundent and they all are varied 
 in recipes. makeing furniture and stuff is confusing, but u get used to it. the exploration varies 
 from jungles to valleys to mountins to lakes to beaches to caves... the list goes on and on. keeping 
 ur freind in shape is hard at first but u get used to it after a while. the spearing is fun, hunting 
 is challenging but yet rewarding, and there is just so many things to do. buy this game, be happy. 
 after a while, lifes a beach 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XtremeDSfan24
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 14, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I was sceptical about getting this at first but I'm glad I did. This game is the first and best 
 RPG the DS has to offer.
  You start as a boy named Keith on an island. You later find a girl a year yoinger named Skye. You 
 become good friends and help eachother survive but, of course, Keith makes the worst possible first 
 impression by breaking Skye's glasses. Now she's a defenceless girl you need to help. But she can 
 cook a great meal every now and again.
  The beginning is very hard to get used to. After a good 30 minutes of failed attempted you do actually 
 get a good grasp on the game. It's cool how you have so many needs to fufil so when you want to 
 go out and explore the island you really need to stock up like you're going on an adventure. The 
 island is holding many secrets of it's past.
  Later you will have to rely on hunting, fishing, or making animal traps. I can't seem to put this 
 game down. It's lot more fun then it is "a job". 
  in the end, This game is a DS-must have. If you can't afford it then at least rent it or borrow 
 it from a friend. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanober
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game and I haven't sent it back yet! This game does what a lot of those mini-game 
 *WarioWare* games have tried to do in a better less exploited way. The DS has unique capabilities 
 and its great to see the developers finally putting some thought into the details and uses for 
 the hardware. When I play Lost in Blue I dont feel like I have to go further or play long, I like 
 that. It's nice to actually have a game that goes at my pace. You could probably spend all of your 
 time never exploring further into the islands deep forest, jungle and even the ruins and still 
 enjoy the experience. The game however does progress as you want it, like opening up a new area 
 and being able to reach it or building something only after you talk to your friend and see a need 
 for it.
  
  Not too many games out there give the gamer a sense of control. Lost in Blue does that, although 
 it seems like it was too much control from time to time, I did find myself venturing further into 
 the islands areas and found that overall this may just be the best game on the DS to date. 
  
  I would say overall - 8.4 with the graphics and gameplay being the best two things about this 
 game. I really enjoyed the hunting and fishing aspects as well as the search and find feel of the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rb7_brady
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  well this is my first review so i'll try my best. I think all the different gaming websites are 
 giving lost in blue too low of a score. If your in to the RPG genre then you'll like this game. 
 your stuck on an island and too survive you must gather all the recources needed (food, water, 
 weapons etc.) . After a day on the island you'll find a girl named Skye who used a life boat to 
 get on shore. She cant see very well because she lost her glasses so she'll stay in the cave most 
 of the time. after you beat the game you'll play as skye. After that there is even a third game 
 you play but that is unknown at the time. That is , i think, a really good point to the game because 
 you have no idea what the third game is and that's even more reason to try and beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spirit_014
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Lost in blue starts you off lost on an island under the great blue sky. you are starved, dehydrated, 
 tired, and at near death. After you get your stregth up alittle bit, you begin to explore the issland, 
 hunt for food, and constantly get more supplies. the game play and controls are very simple and 
 quick to learn. The graphics do seen nice for the DS but every now and then I did run into a slow 
 down on the beach with the girl, who's name i cannot remember right now. the game is fun after 
 you get some food in you and some supplies. If you own a DS then you should at the very least rent 
 this game if not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trinest22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Harvest moon, has allways sparked an intrest, But Lost in Blue, is nothing diffrent, It is a uneqie 
 Nintendo DS game, which anyone who owns a DS should buy. Keith (your character) gets washed ashore 
 after an accent on a boat durring a storm, to find a young lady.
  
  Lost in blue is part of the Survival Kids series, and is the 3rd game, the 2nd game didnt make 
 it out in America, but the 1st one, Survival Kids did.
  
  I recomend this game for anyone whos intrested in Surviving or anything like that. And if your 
 not, buy the game anyway, because its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawel444
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game for Nintendo DS. I like that game. In that game you are a man (boy and you 
 have a girl) who must survive in this island. You must eat, explore and discover a riddles. The 
 graphic is very very well and musik oder sound is very very well too. I think so this is the best 
 mind for doing a game. It's a new kind of game. It seems like Harvest Moon for GBA oder DS. The island 
 is very big and always you have something to do. I recommend Lost In Blue for you. I think so graphic 
 is 10/10 musik 10/10 sound 10/10 and play 10/10. I think so that mark is very special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secksncigs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of the Harvest Moon series, take a moment to check out Lost in Blue. It has the same 
 basic elements minus the crop/animal raising.
  
  After a fierce storm at sea your character, Keith, finds himself washed ashore on a "deserted" 
 island. Soaking wet, tired, hungry your first goal is to find some food. The only thing edible 
 at this early stage is the coconuts laying around, they will do for now but don't provide much.
 
  
  The bottom screen shows the action while the top screen can be toggled to show three different 
 things. Two different maps, and your characters stats. The stats view is what you will want to 
 keep an eye on most often as it can tell you if you if your about to die.
  
  On the stat screen there are four stats. Endurance (muscle) , Hunger (stomach) , Thirst (water drop) 
 and an overall health which is represented by you characters outline. If this overall reaches 0%, 
 you die. To keep your overall health from dropping you need to keep the other three stats full, 
 which can be easier said than done, luckily you don't have to keep them all at 100% to avoid death.
 
  
  After eating a few coconuts Keith goes on a short search for a place to rest. After a short journey 
 north you find a cave, this will be your base of operations in the game. As you progress through 
 the game you can find/build things to "upgrade" your new home. Now that you have a resting spot 
 its time to dry off and get some rest. So your next objective is to build a fire. In order to that 
 though you will need the proper items.
  
  There are several ways to find items in Lost in Blue. Most the major items you need to build the 
 different tools you can find just laying on the ground. You just need to search around on the island 
 to find them. Other things like spices/food are buried in the grass and sand. Spices are found 
 randomly by searching using the A button. Food like clams/vegetables you actually need to dig for 
 them. Fear not though, you won't spend countless hours digging only to not come up with anything. 
 Things buried are marked in some fashion. For example, clams are distinguishable by a mound of 
 sand on the beach. Walk up to the mound and you're character will display "???" over his head. 
 Hitting the A button brings up the digging screen on the touch screen. Use your stylus to "dig" 
 through the sand and you'll find a clam or other type of shell fish. Vegetables are obtained through 
 the same fashion but are clearly marked what they are when you stand near them.
  
  One of the options in the game is tool building, this is what you will use to create a fire maker 
 tool. In order to create one you need certain items. The game won't tell you what the items are 
 unless you actually have them in your backpack. So you'll need a few twigs, and some tree bark. 
 Once you find those you open the tool creation menu and select fire maker and you'll notice the 
 twigs and tree bark highlighted yellow while everything else is grey. That's the games way of telling 
 you what you need. The top screen shows a basic blueprint along with the items you're using. Once 
 you hit the "make tool" button the items will combine on the top screen into the tool you made. 
 Tools are rated for durability.. etc. So you can make better variations of a tool by using better 
 items. For example, you can make a better spear using bamboo and a sharpened rock than by just 
 using a stick. Again, all the items you possess that can be used to create a tool will highlight 
 yellow, so you can experiment with the different items to get different results. All in all there 
 are 27 different tools you can make which includes variations of the same tool.
  
  Once you get the fire going it's sleepy time. The starting of a fire is pretty cool but it only 
 stays lit for one day and it gets kind of annoying after awhile. It's just one of those things 
 you have to do cause if there is no fire, they won't sleep. In order to start a fire you hit L 
 & R alternatively till the little meter reachs a certain height then you blow into the microphone. 
 It's pretty simple but again.... can get annoying. 
  
  The next day you wake up and after a bit of searching you find another survivor, Skye. After a 
 brief intro, and you cruching her glasses leaving her blind, you lead her back to the cave. She 
 isn't as annoying a companion as some reviewers would have you beleive though. You do have to keep 
 her fed and watered, but she does cook food for you which means more filling food for you and the 
 fuller your stomach the more endurance you can recover by resting. She pretty much just hangs out 
 in the cave most the time, but will be needed to get access to other parts of the island. Taking 
 care of her really only requires taking care of yourself because when she cooks, she'll eat as 
 well. All you really need to do is drag her to the watering hole every few days. Another important 
 thing she does is creates items. 
  
  After you find certain things she will create items for you. She can turn bamboo into baskets and 
 vines into rope, to name a few. Those two items are essential for creating traps to capture animals 
 to eat. Also after about 10 days she will create a wood pile where you can stock twigs and she'll 
 keep the fire going! Hurray!
  
  Hunting for food now that your a regular Robinson Crusoe gets a little easier. The deeper into 
 the island you go the more items you find which allow you to make a variety of traps/weapons to 
 catch, kill, and spear food. The better food you get the more your stomach is filled which in turn 
 restores more endurance, allowing you to go deeper into the Island.
  
  Once you gather enough of the right items you can build new furniture for your cave. This can be 
 a tad bit difficult because you have to do a series of motions on the touch screen rather quickly 
 as they appear on the screen. Failing will not only not give you any results but cause you to lose 
 your items! On the flip side success will give you some new furniture which will help increase 
 restoration of stats.
  
  That's it in a nutshell, the basics of the game. Where yo go and how you survive is entirely up 
 to you. Everything you do through the process of the game will effect the ending. The island is 
 fairly large with lots of areas to explore and a few puzzles to figure out in order to access other 
 areas. 
  
  Good luck! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
