-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost in Blue 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/survivalkids3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More characters than in the previous games.
 Some fun exploration.
 Alternative endings.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lot of recycled material.
 Micromanaging gets irritating.
 Some finicky minigames.
 Tedious backtracking.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Adventure
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lost in Blue 3 recycles the series' gameplay mechanics, assets, and flaws. 

  Lost in Blue 3 is the third in Konami's survival adventure series and maintains the franchise's 
 traditional premise, casting you as either a male or female character stranded on an island after 
 the mysterious sinking of a cruise ship. After you've washed ashore and regained a few memories 
 you'll run into your partner, another miraculous survivor, at which point you must keep each other 
 alive until you're rescued or manage to escape. For perhaps the series' sole plot twist, the game 
 includes two additional characters you'll run into as the storyline progresses, and all three partners 
 offer their own unique services that'll aid you in discovering a way off this tropical deathtrap. 

           Looks like someone's stamina is about to take a dive.      

  Just as in previous Lost in Blue titles, the bulk of the gameplay tasks you with keeping a steady 
 eye on your characters' four status gauges, measuring stamina, food, water, and health. Each gauge 
 drains over time and has a particular effect when it reaches zero, either reducing you to a walk 
 during exploration, keeping you awake so you can't sleep to refill your stamina gauge, or preventing 
 you from eating dry food to raise your food bar; the steady reduction of one or several bars costs 
 you health points, and a character whose HP reaches zero dies a slow and tragic death. Because 
 it would be just plain cruel to let the other characters escape after the death of a comrade, it's 
 game over, so your immediate survival depends entirely on filling these status gauges.  

  To this end Lost in Blue 3 boasts a heavy emphasis on micromanagement, requiring you to scavenge 
 for food, trek to the nearest freshwater stream for water, and collect a full host of other items 
 that make island life a little easier. After you've gathered several items you can forge tools 
 that'll allow you to engage in simple minigames, including blowing into the mic to start a fire 
 or tapping fish to spear them. You can also grill by drawing circles on food items to flip them 
 over, cut up fresh fruit for salads by "slicing" them with the stylus, or even milk a goat if you're 
 in the mood. While most of the minigames provide a refreshing break from the monotony of downing 
 gallons of water and stuffing your face with coconuts, some of them -- in particular grilling and 
 furniture building -- are very finicky when it comes to the stylus. If you're not drawing circles 
 directly on the center of each delicious unit of sustenance or placing pieces of wood at exactly 
 the right location, with the "aesthetic" side facing upward, you'll burn your grub or spend forever 
 trying to nail two sticks together.  

  Island exploration is another key element that adds a touch of variety and excitement to the gameplay. 
 The island is dense enough to require several real-time hours to explore and contains all sorts 
 of treats to discover, like shipwrecks, new types of food, crazed crocodiles, and even a few deer 
 if your stomach is rumbling for Bambi. While it is fun to stumble upon new areas, quite often you'll 
 have no idea of what you're doing, as the game gives you few instructions; usually you just wander 
 around until you find something to discuss with a partner back at the base, which amounts to a 
 lot of backtracking. Getting hints from partner characters is also frustrating due to the discussion 
 menu, which conveniently kicks you from the dialogue screen after you mention a topic, like "build 
 me a table." If you need multiple things from a character then you're forced to waste time toggling 
 through requests. Furthermore, even if you have the appropriate partner with you on the field during 
 an important event that you want to discuss, you can't converse on the spot -- you have to drag him 
 back to the cave before he'll acknowledge what he just saw. If you're feeling lonely you can re-experience 
 Lost in Blue with a friend via a Download Play option or a cooking battle, but after you complete 
 the main storyline your only incentives to revisit the island include playing another character 
 or trying your hand at survival challenge, which tests how long you can last on the island before 
 pitifully dying alone.  

  Though the best parts of the game involve exploring and playing through the minigames to gather 
 materials, both have huge caveats: You can't explore for very long because your buddies at the 
 cave wither away and die without your constant supervision, while spearing fish, shaking trees, 
 and cooking a thousand meals gets old and tiresome fast. All you really want to do is advance and 
 find out what happened on the cruise ship and, of course, if the group ever gets off the island, 
 but you're forced to babysit idiots who will kill themselves without your undying love and support. 

  But finicky minigames and poor dialogue menus are the least of your worries, as filling the status 
 gauges will quickly vex and bore you. It's just too easy for characters to die; for example, even 
 if all three of your partners are starving at the base they will wait for you to return with food 
 instead of foraging on their own, sometimes unto their own demise. Dehydrated characters, especially 
 those standing next to a conveniently placed oil drum full of vast quantities of fresh water, won't 
 actually drink it until you leave the cave, as if they're waiting on you to fetch it for them. 

           You'll unlock some violent memories if you can keep up on your firewood and coconuts. 

  Lost in Blue 3's greatest fault, however, lies not in its merciless backtracking or tight micromanagement 
 control but in its vast amount of recycled material. Most of its minigames, food items, and menu 
 graphics are stripped from its predecessors, and the game retains the franchise's fixed camera 
 and bland visuals culminating in a poorly textured 3D island populated with 2D trees. The sad reality 
 is that series veterans experienced all this franchise has to offer two games ago.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: teddyleger
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Lost in blue 3 starts out just as the others in the series, your on the beach, events roll, you 
 find a cave, ect, but this game is unique in its own way! with great cooking ways it makes it fun 
 and exiting, and each charter has there personal unique way to escape! with a few new tools, many 
 new recipes, a entire island to explore, and many more options, it brings yet another point of 
 view to the lost in blue series. there is only 2 true downfalls i might see. the day to day chores 
 that you must do, witch can be avoided by sending each cast-away to do a job leaving you more time 
 to explore, or if you come back, not playing for awhile, and forgot what you were doing. not knowing 
 what to do or where to go is a downfall, however this is not that hard. And with all the ways to 
 escape, even if you forgot what to do, just take another way off the island! still not changing 
 that much from lost in blue 1 it still stands as a great title! if there was a lost in blue 4, 
 i would not be surprised in the least. and with the great difficulty levels for players that does 
 not make it impossible but still not a breeze, it's a instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendofmario5
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is very repetitive, with some minor tweaks added onto the game. This game is also just 
 another attempt for Konami to milk their popular product on the DS. There's not one intersting 
 aspect of this game to even merit a rental permit. There are some new features thy've added, but 
 otherwise, i's the same old pick up the coconut gameply while fending off giant wolves and alligators 
 and such. Graphics have improved slightly on the DS, but it's not that much different. If you're 
 a fan of this game, buy it. If not, you'd be better off at a beach in California.
  
  Bonus Trivia: Go to google and type in "Lost in Blue Screenshots." Get one snapshots from each 
 game. Close your eyes and randomly switch the pictures. Now open your eyes. Can you see the difference 
 between these 3 games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Birdybot
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Now, don't get me wrong, I've been a big fan of this series since the beginning. What's not to 
 like? You can fight wild animals, survive on an island using only your wits!
  
  But, by the third installment, I've gotten tired of the fact that the female characters always 
 get the shaft, literally. Be forewarned, my bias here is strong because I don't consider it to 
 be responsible for anyone to be reinforcing gender stereotypes in this day-and-age, it's just sloppy 
 and offensive. 
  
  If you choose the female character, here are just a few of the things you CANNOT do in the game 
 (in other words, these activities are locked to you) :
  -Fight wild animals (You can only dodge)
  -Fish (She claims once you've made the fishing rod 
 that she's useless with it)
  
  Also, if you choose the male character, you'll notice that the female character can't reach high 
 places, by virtue of being female. 
  
  I'm not going to rant forever about this, because, by now, the game company should know better. 
 While, yes, it may be true that there are females in this world that don't like fishing or would 
 enjoy beating up wild animals, I think it's safe to say that if you were a female lost on a desert 
 island with no food, you'd get over the stereotypes that Konami seems to think are biological differences 
 between men and women. 
  
  Lame, lame, lame. I'm taking back the game and getting a full refund, because I don't want to pat 
 Konami on the back for taking a step backwards, and slapping female gamers in the face. If they 
 want us female gamers to play their games, they've got to be a little more socially responsible 
 for what they put out in the market.
  
  I realize that this review certainly doesn't speak for all types of gamers out there, but I wanted 
 to be honest about my reaction. I am REALLY hoping for some changes in the gaming industry in the 
 ladies department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galadreil782
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  The Lost in Blue series, in case you didn't know, is always about a group or a pair of individuals 
 that are stuck on a island after their boat sank. Your main goals then, are to survive and of course 
 get off of the island. This may not sound as exciting as your hack-and slash RPG's ... but it really 
 is very fun! Especially becuase Lost in Blue 3 really fixes some of the issues that its prequels 
 had. First, let me go over the good and bad points.
  
  Good:
  * You now have four allies, before you only had two. This helps by distributing the workload, which 
 results in more work accomplished.
  
  * The game isn't as hard as before, meaning your not in the constant danger of dying all the time. 
 Your hunger and thirst meters seem to be bigger, which really helps!
  
  * The new Japenese character look really spices things up, and changes the art style from LIB3 
 to LIB1 + 2.
  
  * More items, food, more things to build and do.
  
  *Smarter game controlled characters
  
  Bad:
  
  *No improvment on the graphics which are 
 just above average
  
  *Some mini-games have some slight technical issues
  
  *The girl characters are almost useless compared to the boy characters
  
  Ok, so I played the 
 earlier games in the Lost in Blue series .. and I quickly lost interest because of the difficulty, 
 and repetitivness of the game itself. Lost In Blue 3 defenetly strays from the path of its prequels 
 a little bit, allowing more mini games, new art style, and much easier gameplay. Some people might 
 be thinking "Why is easier better?" and this is becuase it allows new players of the series to 
 hop right in. And you can have more fun exploring when your not in constant danger of death.
  
  Also, now you have four characters! Which really helps. While you go out and explore the island, 
 you can get your other allies to gather food, firewood, and water! This way, the burden is not 
 all on you. Also, the character AI is pretty good! The characters can pretty much fend for themselves 
 as long as you have a barrel for water, and you leave them food.
  
  With lots of mini-games, live diving, talking to monkeys, rafting, you are sure to have an enjoyable 
 time on the island. Also, this game has more of a "plot" or "story" than the other games. Which 
 I find is really great!
  
  As I said in the bad points, the graphics are nothing spectacular .. and you might sometimes have 
 trouble with the mini games. But these are only minor flaws, and will not take away much from your 
 overall experience. One thing that will though .. is how the girl characters cant even do half 
 of what the boy characters can do!
  
  Being a girl, I wanted to play as a girl character of course. But, this was before I found out 
 that in comparison the the guy they cant:
  
  Climb half as high
  Dive by themselves
  Fight 
  They dont have as much storage space in their bags
  
  The only thing that the girl 
 characters have for them, is that they are better at making rope/baskets, they can crawl through 
 little holes (that you dont even need to go through) and they can talk to animals. These traits 
 are not that handy unfortunatly.
  
  All in all, Lost In Blue 3 is a VERY enjoyable game that I will be playing for a long time. It 
 is very fun, keeps your interest, its different then the other types of games out there, and its 
 all in all a great game! In a buy or rent situation, I'd say BUY NOW! This is an amazing game worth 
 your purchase.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_freek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Even though there are new aspects to it (you don't drop the stick if you go too fast in making 
 fires - woo!) , some of the players from the older games may find quite a lot very similar. I played 
 as sam, the boy
  
  First off, the good points:
  Plays like the rest, which were awesome
  Might be one time, but it told me when a crab was by 
 me
  Has an intriguing storyline at the beginning
  You talk to your partner about more crucial stuff (trust me, talk to her, or you'll never ever 
 advance)
  More tools at an earlier stage (I made a bow and arrow on day 2 :D)
  Your partner, Claire, is awesome (do shorter skirts EXIST, woman?)
  4x Sweetfish +Rock Salt + 
 Purple Bean = about 75 hunger replenish :o
  Things that never filled you up a lot fill you up more, like raspberries and mushrooms (raspberrys 
 give +4 instead of +3
  
  Bad points:
  Similar to the old game
  cant find where to build :@
  Claire's stats dont show in specifics
  Stat screen has worsened 
 graphics
  
  I think that's enough. I'll probably not respond to PM's, but feel free to send them anyways 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
