-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Luminous Arc
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/luminousarc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Mid-battle level-up system adds unique twist to the turn-based gameplay.
 Likeable cast of characters.
 Lengthy main adventure with some nice replay extras.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story is formulaic and shallow.
 A few grating vocal performances.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 572 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Image Epoch
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Aug 14, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The best part of Luminous Arc is its balanced and accessible gameplay, though it lacks some narrative 
 depth. 

  It's not hard to find turn-based strategy games on the Nintendo DS to consume your free time, and 
 Luminous Arc is a nice little entry into that niche. While the game's storytelling is a little 
 on the bland side, it's balanced out by a solid battle system and voice work that's good, for the 
 most part. With 25 story chapters and roughly as many hours of gameplay the first time through, 
 this is an accessible tactical adventure with a number of extras to earn and without a bunch of 
 needless level grinding.  

  The story plunks you down in the world of Shtraberl, governed by a faith known as the Luminous 
 Church. You're introduced to the "Garden Children," a small group of young people under the tutelage 
 of the Arc Knight Heath at a place called the Holy Garden. Their training is completed just in 
 time, as the world is experiencing a monster boom that the church claims is tied to the actions 
 of witches, evil magic users who seek to wreak destruction on the world. The Garden Children are 
 given the task of tracking the witches down and condemning them, which would be a fairly straightforward 
 mission except for one thing: the witches claim that the god of the Luminous Church is actually 
 a planet-eating monster who's due to break his 1,000 year seal and finish lunch.  

           She turned me into a newt! I got better.      

  The characters run a somewhat standard 
 role-playing game gamut, from the light-haired teenage hero Alph and his brother Theo through a 
 host of assorted witches and warriors, including a manatee (OK, so not altogether standard) . The 
 story unfolds through a series of chapters that feature a lot of spoken dialogue, which is both 
 a blessing and a curse. Some characters, like the brash and confident Leon, turn in strong and 
 nuanced vocal performances that bring a lot out of the short scripted pieces. There are also a 
 few roles that are completely overdone and detract from the experience (the "valley girl" angel 
 Priel, in particular, is annoying) . You don't tend to get into much detail for certain aspects 
 of the story -- some pieces of information are gleaned only from visiting town libraries -- and the 
 characters themselves don't have a lot of depth, but that's mitigated somewhat by the fact that 
 things move so quickly. There's always a quick bit of action or drama to segue you into battle, 
 and it serves the basic need for impetus well.  

  Luminous Arc's turn-based battle system is fairly standard at first glance, with grid-based movement 
 and positional attacks playing a role; attacks from the rear are more powerful than from the side, 
 and side attacks are more powerful than hitting a foe head-on. One of the interesting aspects of 
 the system is actually how leveling up is worked into a tactical advantage. Every time characters 
 perform an action, be it a spell, using an item, or attacking a foe, they gain a certain amount 
 of experience. Once they've gotten 100 experience points, they level up. When they do so, their 
 health and magic points go back to completely full, which means that a character in a sticky situation 
 with low health can potentially perform an action, level up, and suddenly be back to full health 
 and possibly be able to move away. This creates a number of opportunities for you to pull off risky 
 tactics or expose units in ways that you ordinarily wouldn't in other strategy games, and it's 
 a really great addition.  

  Characters have melee abilities, character-specific skills, and spells at their disposal, along 
 with two special attacks, flash drives, and synergies. As you fight, your individual units will 
 accumulate flash points, gradually filling a gauge. When it fills up to the first, second, or third 
 level, that unit can perform the corresponding flash drive, a special attack that does increased 
 damage, sometimes has secondary status effects (like paralyzing enemies or reducing their speed) , 
 and often hits multiple foes at a time. These are very effective attacks with an appropriate cost 
 to them; building up FP takes time during the fight, though you can also use items to cheat that 
 a bit. Synergies are another sort of special ability that take multiple characters in close proximity 
 to complete. These combo moves are much harder to pull off because of their individual requirements, 
 but they're satisfyingly strong. Battles in the game offer a good level of challenge, with aggressive 
 enemies and several maps that require quick thinking almost from the start to guide your units 
 out of danger. The gameplay is engaging, and since both character levels and events progress at 
 a good clip, you won't find yourself with a lot of downtime or having to "grind" many battles for 
 experience. Luminous Arc offers an almost perfectly tuned progression from fight to fight.  

  The game's quite linear, though you do have the option to move around between spots on the world 
 map, picking up the occasional side quest or gathering items to improve your equipment. Called 
 "vitae," these stones are earned through battle and sometimes through conversations with your party 
 members in postbattle "intermissions." When taken to the witch village, these items can be joined 
 to your weapons and armor for increased stats. The only problem with this system is that to reasonably 
 kit out your gear, you want to know what the specific vitae do, and you can find out only by getting 
 the stone appraised. Getting a stone fully appraised costs 2,000 gold, and there are many different 
 sorts of vitae, so if you're regularly buying normal equipment at shops and not doing many extra 
 battles, you can't really afford to do much upgrading unless you want to work at it. It's a fun 
 toy to futz around with if you've got the funds already, but it's definitely not necessary to beat 
 the game.  

  Finishing the game takes anywhere from about 20-25 hours, and once you've finished it you'll unlock 
 a bunch of extras. There's a nice selection of audio and visual extras -- you'll be able to see all 
 the game's story cutscenes and have access to all the audio clips, sound effects, and music. There's 
 also an additional dungeon for you to explore that you can access with a cleared game file, and 
 wireless multiplayer that lets you pit your characters against a friend for some action. It's a 
 good amount of stuff to tinker with, adding good value to an already solid game.  

           If you manage your experience points, you can level up at an opportune time and turn the 
 tide of battle.      

  Visually the game employs character portraits and other still art for story sequences, and while 
 there isn't a big variety of different facial expressions, the art has a nice style and each character 
 has its own distinctive look. The battle maps vary over grassy cliffs and plains, castles, beaches, 
 and ice fields and serve as a nice background to the action (the same is true of the game's music) . 
 While the voice work does have its ups and downs, the bulk of it is of good quality and adds character 
 to the story and the battles.  

  Luminous Arc isn't revolutionary and the tale lacks a bit of depth, but the great pacing and enjoyable 
 gameplay gloss over some of those faults. If you like turn-based strategy games and don't mind 
 going through the paces of yet another great evil returning after 1,000 years that can only be 
 stopped by young people with fantastical hair and outfits, certainly give Luminous Arc a look. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (56 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MorbidToaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites on the DS for one simple reason. It's an RPG that is easy to progress 
 through. Not easy as far as the battles go, easy because you don't have to worry about jobs, or 
 classes, or anything of the sort.
  
  Now, I know alot of people like very in depth RPGs, and so do I. Tactics RPGs are my favorite, 
 and I love playing with everything that comes with them, but those things burn me out sometimes. 
 This is a game with a great story, like able characters, great voice acting, and it's a good one 
 to just sit down and enjoy a good story.
  
  In conclusion, Luminous Arc is, in my opinion... one of the most under-rated games on the DS. The 
 other problem is, sadly, this game was only printed for about 2 weeks before being discontinued 
 (like many other ATLUS games) , so no one even got the chance to appreciate it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drsaamah
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I will start off by saying this... if you are looking for an original and/or ground-breaking game, 
 Luminous Arc is NOT that game.
  It plays almost identically to Final Fantasy Tactics, but if that's okay with you then you ought 
 to love this game.
  The storyline is great, and the characters are so engaging that I almost cried when I heard the 
 sequel would involved a totally different cast. The story focuses around the "Garden Children", 
 a group of orphans raised by the Luminous Church to fight witches.
  The game isn't too hard which is unfortunate. Although it will take a good 35-40 hours to beat 
 the game the first time, rarely is that time spent thinking of complex strategies to win battles. 
 At the same time, that could be a good thing for players new to the Strategy RPG genre.
  Most of the game plays smoothly and intuitively. The controls could have been better, but its nothing 
 bad enough to make you want to throw your DS and curse the programmers to hell.
  The art work in the game is GREAT! The sprites look great, the character pictures during dialog 
 are all hand drawn and look as good as any "Tales of..." game you've seen.
  This is a game that is definitely worth playing unless you already have a stack of great games 
 waiting to be beaten. If you've never played an SPRG before, start here. If you enjoy a great storyline 
 to go along with your game-play, pick this up. This game is a work of art, and a great start to 
 a great franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riyk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  The only thing lacking in this game in terms of a SRPG is length since the Final Fantasy Tactics 
 game has lasted me 50 hours (A2) or 70 hours (War of the Lions) but i love the amount of voice 
 acting in it its great. Characters: Alph is your typical save them all kinda main character and 
 the game does a good job of balancing the Physical and Magical characters in it with the Ryms/Humans/Witches. 
 If your looking for an SRPG for the DS that's not all about length get this one its rare i finish 
 Tactics games but this one i just couldn't put down its a great game. Another minor improvement 
 to the game would be to allow for better leveling late game it becomes a real grind fest and its 
 impossible to get certain characters leveled up since they lack buffs/heals and get very low exp. 
 But with a little bit of grinding its not that bad so in all my scores for the game are:
  Graphics: 10/10
  Story: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Average Score: 9/10
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pai-may
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game not long after it was released, thinking to myself that I'd probably bought 
 an OK but nothing special RPG for the D. S, which at the time didn't have all that much to offer 
 me.
  
  Upon play however, I found myself pleasantly surprised. This game not only sets you off on a journey 
 of intrigue that unravels nicely as you progress through its 25 chapters, but also throws in a 
 couple of surprises as it does so, lifting the story slightly beyond that of some more generic 
 RPG's. The story does mirror modern day concerns nicely, with the obvious fantasy twist, throwing 
 environmental and religious issues at the player as he moves through the game.
  
  Play-wise, the game offers you a choice of 15 characters, each of which have their own skills or 
 magic upon which the player can call as his squad of up to eight characters attempt to meet the 
 win conditions of the isometric battlefield. 
  
  These are not the only skills available to the player, for each of the characters can learn a series 
 of three power moves and if certain conditions are met during the story, even more powerful attacks 
 can be mastered, combining the skills of more than one character to dish out massive damage. As 
 this game is predominantly based around the witches it seems only fitting that they get perhaps 
 the best attack in this regard, but it is balanced out by being difficult to enact. 
  
  Difficulty wise the game seems perfectly balanced, though there are a couple of times that the 
 game leaves you feeling that certain (often character side-quests) missions are a little difficult 
 to pull off without a certain tactic. The final boss is one of the core chapter examples of this 
 in that you must face him on two occasions. Your first battle with this being is pretty mad and 
 took me three attempts to crack, but the final fight was a bit of a let down as I won with two 
 synergy combos.
  
  
  My only real gripe with the game mechanics is the fact that sometimes you cannot activate your 
 attacks on enemies above you because of the dodgy camera angle and blind spots on the D. S touch-screen, 
 which again only seem noticeable to you when you try to attack an opponent who is massively above 
 or below you.
  
  Graphically the game is quite nice and adult humour is definitely there throughout the game, so 
 in some respects I don't agree with the games age tag.
  
  The game provides some nice sound and I was pleased to see a developer push the D. S with use of 
 voice acting. Though a bit camp at times (especially amongst the villains and one particularly 
 perverted ally) the voice cast is accomplished and adds to the overall feel of the game.
  
  Overall I rate this game as one of my favourites and I've recommended it to friends who share my 
 taste for RPG goodness. So far, no one has been disappointed and I look forward to cracking the 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I first saw Luminous Arc in the local store, while I was looking for something new and refreshing 
 to play. Though it wasn't refreshingly new, it was a nice change of pace from the tactical RPG 
 games I'd come to know and love.
  
  The story has its own twists and turns; just like any good RPG, and to say its on the DS, this 
 game is another example (along with The World Ends With You) of how to have good voice acting on 
 such a small console. Hell; on such a small cartridge, even.
  
  The characters are also very nice; giving you a nice selection of interesting personalities and 
 religious clashes that make or break the bonds between them. On top of that, the character artwork 
 is great.
  
  Though the sprites are probably nothing to write home about, the game play is what makes or breaks 
 a game, over the graphics; even in the age of HD gaming. Luminous Arc proves that in its own unique 
 way, and it also has something over some of the other Strategy RPGs.
  
  Though battles can sometimes be lengthy, that's what strategy RPGs are all about; the lengthy battles 
 and the whole making-you-think feeling, when you're outnumbered against strong opponents.
  
  Much like Limit Breaks from Final Fantasy, Luminous Arc has its own unique special attacks; 
 Flash Drives, which are unlocked for use once you gain a certain amount of FP. For every 100 FP, 
 you can use the basic Flash Drive attack your character has, and as you progress through the game, 
 other Flash Drive attacks will become known to your characters.
  
  These can be the life line you needed, if you're in a tight spot, and are a great addition to this 
 game. But be careful; some of your opponents have them, too..
  
  Its probably not the BEST strategy RPG game out there, but it is definitely worth picking up and 
 playing. I can almost guarantee that if you like RPGs, you'll likely enjoy playing this one. Get 
 it, in preparation for the sequel to be released, eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JunoWalker
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, where do I start.... Lets start with the story line. I will try my best to not spoil the 
 story, but I might slip something. Sorry
  From the start u find yourself as a member of a group of specially trained warriors called "The 
 Garden Children" whos mission is to condem the witches to death because they stand for evil & against 
 the Luminous God Zehhal. Everyone believes that the witches are evil but not true. Through crazy 
 mishaps & turn of events u find the truth. The witches are only trying to protect the planet & 
 that Zehhal will destroy everything. Near the beginning the group gets branded as traitors from 
 the Luminous Church & has to start working with the witches to save the planet. So most of the 
 game u fight along side of the witches. There are many plots twists, ups & downs, & even some revenge. 
 If this is not enough for u... then how about excellent voice overs, cool battle animations, great 
 sound track, an awesome opening movie, & tons of extras for beating the game, plus a new battle 
 dungeon the opens for a second play through. The story line I thought was so moving I was bitting 
 my nails all the way though the entire game. This is one of my favorite games of all time & just 
 what the DS needs. Plus there will be a sequel: Luminous Arc 2 coming out the November!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tactics Advance and Fire Emblem are the two blockbuster series when it comes to handheld 
 SRPGs. They sell well, they're a lot of fun, and they're generally well-made games. It's largely 
 because of this, then, that we see so many SRPGs on the market that feel like direct rip-offs of 
 one of these two popular franchises. It's rare that a title comes around that takes so many elements 
 from one of these games and still remains a good game; yet Luminous Arc is one of those games. 
 And while it may be one of the most unoriginal games I've ever played, it still is a fun title 
 that's definitely worth checking out. 
  
  Luminous Arc is a fairly simple game, at least by SRPG standards. You'll assemble a party of warriors 
 and mages, traverse the world by moving from city to city, and initiating battles. It's basic fare 
 and Atlus didn't really try to rock the boat here -- they took what worked and used it. The game 
 is divided into chapters -- 25 in all -- each of which consist of story content and then a battle. 
 
  
  The battle mechanic is also quite basic, but it's still a lot of fun. You get an isometric view 
 of the map, and select your troops to deploy (there's a limit for each map) . From there, it's typical 
 turn-based strategy, where your soldiers as well as the enemy troops take turns performing actions. 
 On a character's turn, he or she can move, attack, use skills, spells, or Flash Drives, use items, 
 or just wait around for his or her next turn. 
  
  These are all actions that are going to be pretty familiar to SRPGs veterans, and this is the core 
 of the game. There are a few minor additions, but it's nothing that huge. Each character has stats 
 in various different areas. On the battlefield, there's a gauge for HP (life points) , MP (allows 
 you to use magic) , and FP. FP is something mildly original: the gauge fills up for each action 
 that a character performs; everything a character does earns them FP. Naturally, killing a tough 
 enemy will net you more FP than just moving around. The FP bar can fill itself up 3 times total, 
 and these points are consumed to use Flash Drives (stronger Flash Drives require more bars of Flash 
 Points) . They're essentially just a different class of skills, except for the fact that they usually 
 include a status effect in addition to dealing damage. You can even combo these Flash Drives (the 
 combos are called synergies) between certain characters and unleash even more damage. 
  
  One thing about Luminous Arc that I really love is that it does a great job of balancing the strategy 
 and role-playing aspects of the game. You never really feel that tactics are unimportant, or that 
 you can win a battle just by being clever. Instead, it's going to be important to level up your 
 characters properly as well as use smart strategies in battle. It's a well-rounded gameplay mechanic 
 and this nice mix is part of what makes Luminous Arc so fun to play. 
  
  Traditional role-playing elements are all present in Luminous Arc, including experience points, 
 new skills, job classes, stats, and the like. And of course, the strategy is also there, but it's 
 in this respect that you get the feeling that the development team just lifted off ideas from Final 
 Fantasy Tactics. The tactics aspect of this game is largely characterized by such actions as attacking 
 enemies from behind, seizing the higher ground, and teaming up on enemies who are as tough as you 
 are. On the other hand, Luminous Arc generally throws more enemies at you than Final Fantasy Tactics 
 -- and these enemies are no pushovers -- so you are going to have to be pretty smart to take them 
 all out. In terms of strategy, it's a definite step up from Final Fantasy Tactics -- but it still 
 borrowed a ton of mechanics from that game. 
  
  Leveling-up is a traditional role-playing mechanic, of course, but it's one of the few examples 
 of how Luminous Arc has taken such a basic implementation and made it surprisingly interesting. 
 Fighting enemies gives you experience, of course, and reaching 100 experiences allows you to level 
 up. What's cool is that leveling up refills your HP and MP, and this can definitely be used to 
 your advantage. If you've got a character with, say, 75 experience, you can go ahead and throw 
 him into a crowd of enemies. Use him as bait, then defeat a foe the next turn. He'll level up, 
 refill his life, and the baiting technique allows other characters to get in position to attack. 
 It allows for a lot of strategy and thinking out your level-ups in advance is a smart way to play. 
 
  
  Luminous Arc is fun, but compared to the likes of Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, it's really simple. 
 For example, the skills and jobs that played such a big role in FFTA have been scaled back drastically 
 or cut out from Luminous Arc. Skills are learned not by equipping items, but rather once a character 
 reaches a certain level (some are also obtained by reaching certain plot points in the game) . Likewise, 
 while characters do have job classes, you can't switch between classes and the job that a character 
 has really only determines what sort of weapon he or she can wield. 
  
  There are a few other little additions to the core gameplay, but they don't really add that much 
 to the overall experience. For example, after a certain point in the game, you can infuse your 
 weapons with magical essences that you receive as rewards for beating battles. By taking them to 
 a certain area, identifying them, and then "infusing" a weapon with them, you can make said weapon 
 stronger. All that really happens is that you give your weapon a little stat bonus -- kind of useless 
 when you take into consideration that shops throughout the game are constantly offering stronger 
 weapons, and it's foolish to invest too much money in a weapon that you'll probably sell in the 
 near future. 
  
  Luminous Arc is one of those games that's greater than the sum of its parts, and one of the biggest 
 intangible aspect of the game that greatly contributes to its quality is that it's designed quite 
 well. While the mission objectives are nearly always the same (with a few exceptions, you've always 
 got to defeat every enemy) , the design of each map works in a way that requires you be strategic. 
 There are some quirks with the game design along the way, one of the biggest being the "random" 
 battles. They're not actually random, but by entering a non-story icon on the map, you'll initiate 
 a battle. The problem is, these battles are ALWAYS the same for each icon, and fighting the same 
 fight over and over again to level up is fairly annoying. Also, the game has some cheap ways of 
 forcing leveling on you, like placing two or three random battles before you can reach the next 
 plot area. 
  
  Atlus did a good job of working the plot into the game; each chapter has some optional plot that 
 you can take part in, and at the end of each battle you'll get to see what happens after your victory. 
 The storyline itself is fun to take part in, but it's also really predictable and clich-ridden. 
 That said, the dialogue is well-done, and the characters and engaging and charming. The story's 
 nothing to write home about, but it gets the job done. Another little addition (these seem to be 
 popping up all over the place!) is the "Life of Kopin" scenes at the end of every level that include 
 a black-and-white sketch and a few lines of text from a Kopin (a type of minion that trails around 
 a certain character) . These scenes range from weird to downright funny, and add a lot of personality 
 to the game. 
  
  Just because Luminous Arc is a simple game doesn't mean it's an easy one. Of course, you can feel 
 free to level grind to your heart's content -- thanks to the non-plot battles, it's certainly possible. 
 Some leveling is required, of course, but most players will be able to get by with just the necessary 
 encounters and some sound tactics. The title's learning curve is nice and smooth, but as you progress 
 through the adventure the difficulty increases significantly. This challenge is part of what makes 
 the game so fun, and just barely squeaking by on a tough level is really satisfying. 
  
  Luminous Arc also promises a fairly lengthy adventure: it'll take you anywhere from 20 to 30 hours 
 to complete the main story. The conclusion is satisfying, but sadly there's not a whole lot of 
 reason to replay the main mode. That said, there is reason to keep the game in your DS, mainly 
 in the way of some surprisingly fun multiplayer. Local multiplayer allows you to link up with a 
 friend who has a copy of the game. You've also got some solid unlockables, such as voice work, 
 cutscenes, music, and more. 
  
  While it is undeniably simple, Luminous Arc is also a lot of fun. It's a great game for those new 
 to the SRPG genre, but at the same time there's enough addictive fun here to ensure that vets of 
 the genre will have fun with it. Presentation and voice work are both fine, though nothing particularly 
 special (although there are a few stand-out voice actors) , and even with only one guaranteed play-through 
 it's still worth your money. All told, Luminous Arc is a great DS game that's certainly worth a 
 shot. And with a sequel confirmed for release sometime in the relatively near future, there's never 
 been a better time to check out this worthwhile title. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yue_Yuki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely adore Luminous Arc and I can't wait until it's sequel, Luminous Arc 2: Will, comes 
 out in English.
  
  Everything about this game is amazing from the art work to the voices of the characters and even 
 the cute little sprites. This game is also easy to play so that you don't get lost in how to fight 
 enemies or try to buy and sell things. I admire how they took the time to get the right voice actors 
 for each character, sometimes they add in the wrong voice for a character and that always seems 
 to ruin the mood of the game. Another thing I like was the background music, the different music 
 helps set the tone of whatever is currently happening and I sometimes like to just leave the game 
 open so I can listen to the music. The one thing I loved the most was the little sprites, I don't 
 know what it is but I have a strange adoration to little pixilated characters.
  
  Although I love this game very much, there is one problem that I have with it.
  
  The stylus 
 does not go well with this game. 
  
  Even though you can use the stylus to play I would not recommend it at all. Every time I try using 
 the stylus I always have a whole bunch of problems. During battles I sometimes end up hurting one 
 of my players when they are bunched together beside an enemy or two or when they are on a slope 
 facing away from me. I would touch the enemy with the stylus but I would get my friend instead. 
 It can get really frustrating. Another time the stylus failed me was when I'm on the menu screen 
 when you first turn the game on. I would touch the continue button but I get a new game or I would 
 touch the options button I would get the extra page. There are even times when I almost saved over 
 the wrong file.
  
  I may love this game to bits and chew my brother's arm off for touching it but I would recommend 
 that players should just use the buttons instead of the stylus because it would make the game experience 
 a whole much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgmadboy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  -STORY-
  You play as Alph and you are in a guild. Most of the members are all child hood friends. You are 
 then assigned later on to destroy all witches as they are causing disruption and chaos. But are 
 witches made out to what they are mean't to be? Luminous Arc has a basic story but it does have 
 it's plot twists. I found it fun.
  
  -BATTLE SYSTEM-
  The battle system is your basic strategy RPG. You gain exp from attacking enemies and casting spells. 
 As you gain levels you gain new techniques and spells. There all is a special move system when 
 you gain enough FP you can use them. It involves a little cutscene, which isn't that impressive. 
 Not much else to say here.
  
  -GRAPHICS-
  Graphics are 2-D / 3-D the whole way through. You do not move from town to dungeon you just point 
 and click. The graphics aren't impressive they are similar to revenant wings. They are ok.
  
  -MUSIC-
  It has an impressive opening song that stood out for me and got stuck in my head 
 lol. Er apart from that nothing really stood out but it wasn't bad by any means.
  
  -OVERALL-
  Luminous arc is a fun and cute RPG. It shouldn't be missed if you are craving an RPG 
 for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolveFang
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  I love this game its fun to play and it has a good storyline its so awesome im addicted to it man 
 i cant wait for another ATLUS game ATLUS is a fcken awesome good company man i wish other games 
 were like Luminous Arc but some r good their own way. I LOVE THIS AWESOME GAME, if ATLUS can make 
 a game like this then i wonder whats gonna be their next creation
  
  this game is GENIOUS man i LOVE IT LOVE IT LOVE IT
  
  THIS GAME IS very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very
  AWESOME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Within moments of starting your new game, players are thrown into a religious discussion. We see 
 a Pope-like figure and one of his cronies discussing their God, power and the struggle of the church. 
 All the while, we are (depending on your point-of-view) treated to the voice-acted dialog with 
 subtitles thrown in for good measure. The first impression I got was that the game, although slightly 
 unorthodox in it's presentation, remained a quality production. The voice recordings were first-rate 
 quality, if not a little strange in their delivery.
  
  Luminous Arc lets player take control of a pre-selected group of characters - orphans actually. 
 Each, like any role-playing-game worth it's salt, come with their own strengths, weaknesses, abilities 
 and attitudes. And, after only a few "missions" (as they're called) , you begin to differentiate 
 and appreciate the distinction between your motley crew. Some become more favourable, some become 
 less so, and some become out-and-out annoying. But no one could argue that there's not enough variety 
 between your team.
  
  Players move about on an over-world map. It is prettily drawn and promises many different climate 
 zones and variety. You exist on this map as a little sprite of the leading-man in the game: "Alph". 
 (This is a silly name. Every time I read it, images of that puppet from Melmac trying to toast 
 the cat fill my mind) . And, you move to your next mission which is indicated by a little "Next" 
 with a tap. This is as far as the games navigation goes -Luminous Arc is a 95% linear adventure.
 
  
  Between missions, we can take an "Action". This includes shopping, reading at many of the land's 
 libraries, or talking to your team-mates. Let's just say the most rewarding action is the first 
 I listed. I never really got off on all the supplemental dialog and back-story. In fact, I just 
 wanted more of the games turn-based action. Which, I must say, is surprisingly fun, addictive and 
 satisfying.
  
  Left- or right-handed exclusive stylus use is what Luminous Arc boasts. You never have to hit a 
 button - (or so the theory goes) . The missions are a played-out on mini game-board areas, divided 
 into squares and presented isometrically. Your team pretty much start at one end, your enemies 
 at the other. And you can make your move, attack, and spell-cast all with menu navigating and mini-map 
 touching. It works well most of the time, but fails when the game-board is crowded. Picking out 
 your man, nevermind your target (s) can be like a pixel-hunt. Often, I've had to rapid-fire tap 
 the screen just so that the software might detect that I've hit the right area, even if it was 
 a millimetre square. Of course, you can flip to D-pad control and manually select, but this really 
 isn't in the spirit of the games design or the hardware.
  
  There are loads of different attacks, skills and what they call "Flash Drives". These are represent 
 a sort of special move, only playable when the individual team-mate has gathered enough experience 
 in the current battle. These are pretty creative and very useful, but, you have to make sure you're 
 aware of when they're ready, as the game makes no alarm or mention that your moves are now ready. 
 Once I got in the habit of using these "Flash Drives", this wasn't really a problem.
  
  The enemies you see a pretty varied and act fairly convincingly too. You don't see them making 
 idiotic moves or harming their own kind like in other games. Also, they show a bit of cunning too. 
 When their health is low, they move away from the action - but watch it. They often sneak back 
 in when it's safe to finish one of your guys off! It's cowardly but realistic. The bosses you encounter 
 do pose a real threat, but their level of ability varies too much. Some are easy and some are hard. 
 You're never sure how much fire-power they have up their sleeve, and it's either suicide or a total 
 massacre.
  
  The game is decorated with beautifully painted backgrounds. These are overlaid with the nicely 
 drawn characters. All of the dialog scenes are presented in this way, and I have to say that it 
 does become tiresome. All of the character art is recycled throughout the entire story, and their 
 facial expressions are fairly under-stated. So this means that a lot of opportunity for enriching 
 the story and characterisations was passed up. All in all, you get sick of the same pictures presented 
 in this story-book fashion (and I'm not talking "Paper Mario" style either) .
  
  This game seems to draw criticisms for it's varying difficulties and the unusual leveling system. 
 While these criticisms may be true, they are only a minor point, and would only upset the most 
 traditional and serious strategy players. Those who like a little bit of story balanced with a 
 little bit of action should have no real complaints with this title. It's surely isn't the last 
 word for this genre, but in the meantime, it is a respectable and quality title that deserves a 
 play-through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatebanjo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc is another strategy RPG from ATLUS. If you liked Disgaea, you will most likely like 
 this. Disgaea is more fun, but what strategy RPG is better than Disgaea?
  
  The battle cries are lame, and the cut scenes get cheesy at times, just like every other RPG. The 
 flash drives and the synergy attacks are a great addition to what would have been a sufficient 
 game. The intermissions are a challenge. Flash drives are activated by simply taking action in 
 battle. The more you do the more your gauge fills up. Depending on how many out of 3 bars are filled 
 up, you can use a stronger attack. The synergy attacks are used between two or more team mates 
 within a set amount of squares. Intermissions happen after every battle and allow you to speak 
 with comrades. If you answer everything right, you get some goods. Look online for a guide on these. 
 There are side quests and extras, too.
  
  The game is easy to learn, and with training, easy to beat. The only real challenge is Mysteria 
 Ruins, unlocked after beating the game once. You can level up a lot of the characters pretty fast 
 if you know how. Every time you use a skill or spell that helps out a team mate, you get 30 out 
 of 100 experience to level up. Much easier than regular training.
  
  This is a good game to pick up when you're bored, or if you just want a new RPG to play. There 
 isn't too much replay value, but there is a good amount of extras to unlock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitaltiger
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  The game play is standard SRPG, you move your characters around on a grid based battle ground and 
 wipe out your enemy before they wipe out your team. The combat system is just fine but because 
 you can't rotate the battle field its very difficult to see were a character is being placed when 
 the area is crowded with characters and enemies. Also highlighted menu buttons are almost the same 
 color as non highlighted buttons, which caused me several times to either back up and select the 
 proper one or sometimes I would end up doing something in battle I didn't intend like heal a enemy 
 or hurt a friend. Part of the game lets you enhance items; this is a complete waste of time. And 
 luckily you don't need to use it to win the game. The worst part of the game had to be the text 
 of the characters, there are spaces in the words and it made the flow of reading very difficult. 
 The graphics were ok but some times white horizontal lines would appear and also some of the edges 
 to images were jagged. The sound is ok, again nothing special but only part of the dialog with 
 the characters is voice acted. Overall when you factor in the low price and about 30 hours of entertainment 
 this is a good deal and a good game, the characters are fun and interesting and the plot is not 
 bad but not original either. I recommend this game its fun and you won't regret the time and money 
 invested in the game.
  
  Game Play: 6/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  Overall: 7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Dry_Bones
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say about this game? It's decent, mostly glitch-free, and not bad at all. Luminous 
 Arc manages to get a few RPG elements implemented into the game, but they're not exactly epic.
 
  
  First of all, the gameplay feels a bit shallow and unbalanced, especially for more experienced 
 gamers. You enter some characters onto a battlefield, you commence battling, you level up a couple 
 of characters, and you beat the enemy. It doesn't seem like there's much strategy involved at all, 
 and there isn't. The characters are also overly unbalanced. Leon, the fighter, grows erratically 
 right from the start of the game, and by the 7th or 8th battle, he can 1-Hit KO every single one 
 of your enemies (except, of course, the bosses. That takes 2 hits) . Alph, the archer, on the other 
 hand, is still weak and useless after the 20th battle. The experience system causes this flaw to 
 be even more unbalanced, as instead of tiering the amount of experience you need to gain a level, 
 all characters gain the same amount of experience from the same enemies, and they only need 100 
 experience to level up. So while my Leon is at level 17 with and still growing from killing enemies, 
 young little Alph is still sitting back there at level 8 and not even hitting 1/5 of the enemies' 
 life points. And still there's other characters who, though stronger, still get their kills stolen 
 by Leon and therefore also fall behind. I'm not saying this will happen to everyone who plays this 
 game, but it's just a warning.
  
  Now, the most frustrating thing in the game: controls. During battle, you use your stylus for every 
 single option, though you can switch to D-Pad handling with the Select button. I don't mind using 
 the stylus at all myself, but when your enemies and allies get cluttered together, it's hard not 
 to get frustrated. There are no options to rotate the screen, so you'll often find yourself trying 
 to choose the right target for a while. Sometimes, it's completely impossible to do even that, 
 and I have to switch over to D-Pad controls. Another big problem - the controls are extremely awkward 
 in the isometric view, and hard to get used to. Additionally, every time you want to attack, move, 
 or simply end a character's turn, you have to confirm it. This is sometimes actually fine because 
 of the poor controls, but it becomes tiring and unnecessary after a while. Also, in between battles, 
 you go around collecting information and talking to people. Occasionally, while using a stylus 
 to choose from options, the touch screen will pick up something else entirely and do the wrong 
 action.
  
  As for the story, it's often uninteresting and usually quite predictable. Nothing much to say about 
 that, as I don't want to give any spoilers away. Generally, however, the dialogue is pretty much 
 cliche and there are few plot twists, which are not intense or that "twisty" at all. The occasional 
 voice acting also feels cheap and fake as well. If you look at it like a book, the story isn't 
 exactly what you would call a page-turner.
  
  I'm currently only halfway through the game, but I feel like I've seen almost all of it already. 
 Sure, I wouldn't say it's bad, but it's not all that great either. Atlus stays a bit on the safe 
 side for this game. This game is pretty lengthy and a good way to waste time, and that's all there 
 is to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuppitt
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc is an amazing game with a great story. You think you know what's going to happen, 
 but you really don't. It's a pleasant surprise. I bought it after seeing it in a magazine. I thought 
 "Hey, let's try it out." I got it for Christmas, and it's became one of my favorites!
  
  Graphics: The graphics weren't anything special. I enjoyed them, but they didn't stand out to me. 
 When you use a skill/spell in battle, some animations were so cool, but a majority of them were 
 repetitive. You'd use one characters skill, and the animation would come up. You use another character's 
 skills, and it had similar elements to it. The character designs are unique and fresh.
  
  Sound: The sound is shocking. The intro into the game is a Japanese song. It sounds clear, which 
 is something challenging for the DS. On important scenes, the characters had full voice acting. 
 Many think some of the voices were ridiculously funny. But hey! It caught your attention.
  
  Characters: The characters in this game were a bit cliche. You follow the hero and his quest 
 to save the world. He's tagged along by his friends, brother, and his love interest. But the thing 
 that stood out, he also tagged along with his "enemies". Overall, it's a bit cliche, but the characters 
 are interesting and likeable.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is turn-based. Turn-based gameplay always appeals to me for some reason. 
 In this game, it doesn't take long to know what's going on. It resembles Final Fantasy Tactics 
 Advanced, just to give you a bit of a reference. Another thing I liked, is how it wasn't just attacking 
 your enemies. You had different elevations and obstacles to cross before you get to the enemy.
 
  
  Story: The story is very intriguing. It keeps you guessing, and you don't know what will happen 
 next. Some parts, you're just like "Okay, I knew that was going to happen." but then it completely 
 turned the tables. Some elements in the story are current topics today, such as religion.
  
  +They have a unique feature that separates it from Final Fantasy Tactics Advanced. Intermission. 
 Intermission allows you to have conversations with your characters outside of the story and battles. 
 It allows you to get closer and find out more about the characters, making them seem more relateable.
 
  
  Cons: The stylus stuff is a bit off. Sometimes I'm trying to attack an enemy, and I can't hit their 
 square, so I can't attack them. It's a bit frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc isn't anything revolutionary, but it will provide over 30 hours of game play. The 
 voice overs are a bit off, which I have noticed with any of Atlus's games, but the voices themselves 
 are amusing. 
  Addition to the gaming world: Attacks called Flash Drives allow you to team up with another characters (albeit 
 they can't just be any character) to preform a combo that takes a giant chunk out of and enemies 
 health points.
  Wifi is a plus although the method of finding your opponent sometimes pairs you with people light-years 
 ahead of you.
  The storyline- Witches are believed to be the root of all evil-enemies of God himself. You first 
 start out wanting to eradicate them in the name of the church, but as the truth is discovered, 
 you quickly become friends with these lovely ladies.
  The characters- Memorable. There zany antics will have you laughing out loud.
  The battle system- 
 Sometimes the game does slow a bit, but only in certain stages. Otherwise, it's your typical  
 setup.
  The Graphics-Not really much to look at due to the nature of the game, but the attacks such as 
 synergy and Flash drives are cool.
  A great buy, worth every cent. I'm hoping there is indeed a follow up coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffinthraka
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Oookaaay. First a foremost this game reminds me of Riveria (which I gave a 10) so it may be I like 
 this game too much.
  Checklist:
  Anime (Yes)
  Overbreak Skill: (Yes)
  Dating Sim: (sort of)
   
 (yes)
  Horrible squeeky voice for youngest character (yes!)
  Stupid STUPID ACCENTS!!! (Priel: "LIke hi girlfriend")
  
  Aaaargh.
  
  Okay you may be wondering 
 why I like this game, the first three reasons are good things in my book. The artwork is great 
 and although the storyline is linear you can meander along it training and customizing equipment. 
 everything is neatly explained and the shop screen (which so many games mess up) clearly shows 
 if the item will increase or decrease (and when you have bought it the equip screen shows exactly 
 which stats are increased.
  Oh yeah, the one annoying thing, the voices, sometimes there sometimes not, oh I don't know it's 
 there to add depth to the characters and in some ways it works (although Priel needs a gag) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latte428
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 7.5
  
  The graphics are average. They are not awful by any means but I would not call them "Fantastic". 
 The battles are the best. The magic and special attacks are done very well.
  
  Cutscenes are done using 2D characters with text dialog boxes. The character portraits are well 
 done for the scenes to correctly display the emotions of the characters.
  
  
  
  Sound: 10
  
  The sound in this game is amazing for a DS game. The DS is by no means a great 
 sound machine but this game did an amazing job of using the DS speakers.
  
  The game opens with a fully voiced J-Pop song. The main cutscenes are either fully or mostly voiced 
 overed. The voice acting was very well done. Very few characters had an annoying voice (I can remember 
 one but the voice fit the character VERY well) .
  
  
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  
  The battle system is very easy to understand and pick up. The is a bit of strategy involved and 
 the difficultly ramps nicely. Random battles can be skipped in many areas once one battle was fought. 
 The environments for the battles are very nicely varied and link nicely from the cutscene that 
 proceeds most battles.
  
  It is turned based strategy. There are also combo moves between characters depending on their opinion 
 of the main character which you can improve between battles. There are also very humorous intermissions 
 between the main missions!
  
  
  
  Story: 10+!
  
  The story in Luminous Arc is the best part of the game. It starts fairly slow but eventually gets 
 to a point that you cannot wait to complete the next battle so that you can get to the next scene. 
 I don't want to give away any of the story but there are several twist and some very funny moments! 
 :D
  
  Overall: 9.5
  
  I would have liked to see less 2D cutscenes but the story, gameplay and sound/voice overs more 
 than make up for the 2D scenes
  
  As this is my first review, please give me some feedback! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggaloj
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since a SRPG came to the DS and it's about time. Luminous Arc will surely satisfy 
 those who have been itching for a decent SRPG. It doesn't really excel in anything but certainly 
 doesn't really fail in anything either.
  
  Story
  
  The story is pretty simple and predictable at times but it is pretty decent. It's about a band 
 of orphans led by a Knight to slay witches and monsters. There are a couple of twists here and 
 there but nothing you can't predict if you follow the story. Overall the story is ok that has a 
 little bit of humor to it.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay for Luminous Arc is pretty standard for an SRPG. You take turns walking around a map 
 and slay enemies. There isn't really anything that distinguishes Luminous Arc from any other SRPG. 
 There are a few things that Luminous Arc has that differ from other games but nothing special. 
 There is something called a Flash Drive in the game. Think of it as a special move that each character 
 has. There is also something called a synergy drive. They are specials that two characters perform 
 when their FP bar (special's bar) is full and they are near each other. Unfortunately I haven't 
 really found the need for the synergy drive because it takes a while to perform it and by then 
 you might have already beat the map. There is also something about the gameplay that I dislike. 
 There are a couple of minor instances of lag during the game. This doesn't really affect the game 
 too much because it doesn't happen that often. There is one level, however, that have major lag 
 but other than that it's not that bad.
  
  Music / Voices
  
  The music is pretty decent. It gets a little repetitive if you played as many hours as I have but 
 isn't terrible to listen to. The one piece of music I really liked was the opening song to the 
 game. This game features voice acting. Not for every single dialog of the game but a pretty decent 
 amount of it is voice acting with text boxes to show what they said. The voice acting wasn't horrible 
 but it could've been better. Some of the voices are pretty good and has the right emotion to make 
 it believable. There are, however, some bad voice acting in there, whether it sounds like a robot 
 or it is just plain annoying. I think that the voice acting wasn't really necessary but wasn't 
 too bad to listen to at times.
  
  Difficulty
  
  The difficulty of the game is pretty easy. It doesn't really offer that much of a challenge besides 
 a few levels and the optional 20 level (I think) tower/ruin you get to play in after you beat the 
 game. The game requires you to level up at some times (because of stronger enemies) but the leveling 
 system can be abused in this game. The lowest amount of EXP you can from killing a monster is 6 
 EXP. You need 100 EXP to level up. However, whenever you use a stat boosting move on another character 
 (other than yourself) or if you heal another character you get 30 EXP. Almost all the characters 
 have at least one move to do that so it can bring your characters at a high level pretty fast. 
 
  
  Others
  
  There is online capability for this game. I have yet to play it online so I can't really tell you 
 how it is. I can imagine it adds some replay value to the game when you are done with it. There 
 is something called intermissions in this game. What it does is it lets the main protagonist (Alph) 
 talk to one of his comrades after the battle. This isn't necessary to for you to understand the 
 story but it is a fun feature that sometimes lets you know more about the characters.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Overall I think this is a fairly decent game to play as long as you don't have 
 high expectations for this game thinking it is going to be like other SRPG games like the Fire 
 Emblem series or Final Fantasy Tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrayzieJay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  Luminous Arc is a strategy RPG from Atlus, who also brought you the awesome Shin Megami Tensei 
 series. The game is certainly not up to the standards of Final Fantasy Tactics or Disgaea but that 
 dosen't mean its not a good game, in fact its really entertaining and fun.
  
  Story:
  
  The story focuses on a young man named Alph and his companions, who together form "the Garden Children". 
 Alph the rifleman, Heath the noble knight and lance user, Leon the great sword wielder, Cecile 
 the priestess and Alph's younger brother Theo the archer all make up this little group of warriors. 
 All members were orphans as children and have been raised and trained by the Ever Garden Church 
 to become witch hunters. Other than the Garden Children, there are other characters that will join 
 you throughout the game, but I'm not going to spoil who they are. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Luminous Arc is your average SRPG game, however there are no character classes you can change other 
 characters into. Heath, your lance user will always be a lance user and you can't ever change that. 
 I don't see this as a bad thing though since it keeps the game basic and easy to play. The game 
 is progressed through chapters and stages. If you want you can go back to past stages to train 
 your characters. Leveling up is very, very simple in this game. You only need 100EXP every time 
 at any level to gain a new level. Additional stuff like strength increase will be done automatically. 
 Leveling up can also be used to your advantage in battle. This because every time you gain a new 
 level your HP and MP will instantly be fully restored. Lets say you've got Alph with 2HP and only 
 needs 1EXP to level up and you just got Leon, who has full health to weaken an enemy almost to 
 the point of death. Don't let Leon finish it off, instead get a dying Alph to, that way he will 
 gain a new level and be full restored to life again. Understand? 
  
  Besides basic attacking and magic there are also special attacks called Flash Drives. To preform 
 a Flash Drive you need to fill up your Falsh Meter. This can be done by having your character make 
 any basic action. Attacking, healing etc. Some Flash Drives can cause status ailments to your enemies 
 which is pretty handy in battle. Flash Drives can be learned by leveling up your characters, however 
 some require you to progress through the story. Some enemies can also use Flash Drives so watch 
 out.
  
  There are even stronger special attacks called Synergy attackes. Synergy attacks are combination 
 attacks that can be used when all characters involved have their Flash Points filled up and are 
 close to each other on the field. However, not all characters can perform Synergy attacks, as they 
 are unlocked via story arcs that revolve around certain characters bonding together. 
  
  Once you've finished a certain chapter in the story (there are 24 in total) you'll get your rewards 
 and also be able to talk to one of your fellow companions. This is where you can build a stronger 
 relationship with them. To do so you'll be given a choice of things to say. One will boost their 
 relationship a lot, and another slightly. If the character is pleased with your response you'll 
 get an item from them.
  
  However, the player is given a finite number of opportunities to talk to each character, after 
 which it will be impossible to improve the bond. If the player has made good choices throughout 
 the various conversations with a character, there may be a special scene between Alph and that 
 character featuring anime-style art and an additional voice-over, yep there is voice acting in 
 this game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics are very basic for the DS. It's all in 2D, no 3D elements at all! It's all a bit too GBAish 
 and doesn't make use of DS's true potential in graphics, what also really surprised me is that 
 if you change your weapon it will ALWAYS look the same. It's a bit of a letdown but the game is 
 still awesome nonetheless. Flash Drives and Synergy attacks are nice to look at and should give 
 you a little grin.
  
  Overall:
  
  Luminous Arc is such an entertaining game and will keep you occupied for a very long time. There 
 are 25 chapters within the game to complete which could easily be completed within 15 hours, but 
 there are also things to keep you playing like going back to past stages to level up. If you do 
 manage to beat the game there is new game+ and you also unlock a gallery mode where you can view 
 cut scenes and other stuff. New game+ is basically a restarted game with an extra dungeon (a hard 
 one may I add) to go to. Also all your characters will also retain the levels they had when you 
 completed your first game, but characters that joined you later in the game will also retain their 
 levels when you battle them again. Lets say you get to a point where a character is about to join 
 you. He or she will still be level 60 for example when you fight them. I guess this does make it 
 more of a challenge.
  
  Buy or Rent?
  
  BUY this game since it will probably be rare in future. I live in the U. K and this game is highly 
 overshadowed here since hardly any shops stock them brand new.
  
  Final score is 8.5, it would have been more if there were better graphics and challenge. Lets hope 
 Luminous Arc 2 will improve on this. Don't let the score prevent from buying the game ok? 8.5 is 
 great for a game like this, although maybe I'm being too generous. 
  
  So... what are you waiting for? Buy the damn game, you won't regret it! Run, run now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  A beautifully animated cutscene with spikey haired anime kids jumping and running around, while 
 a J-Pop song plays in the background. What can this mean?! It means an adventure of generic.... I 
 mean epic proportions!!! Generic is basically what Luminous Arc is, the battle system is basic 
 SRPG formula, the characters feel like they're from basically every other JRPG out there, and the 
 story reminded me of many other JRPGs already out... also conveniently published by Atlus. Somehow 
 out of all the blandness in this game, it was still a fun experience with a few interesting characters 
 to make the game enjoyable.
  
  The story here follows a group of anime kids who live at a place called the Ever Garden. There 
 they are trained by the Luminous Church to fight off Witches who are out to destroy the world, 
 or so they are told anyway.... The kid's names are Alph, who basically is the goody-goody hero 
 boy; Theo, the little bro to Alph and crybaby who of course has his moments; Leon, who is the easy 
 going sort of macho guy; and Cecille, who is loving and caring "big sis" of the group. Later on, 
 more interesting characters join, because I found the basic for boring and just not interesting. 
 Nikolai, who reminded me a lot of Zelos from Tales of Symphonia, is the perverted guy who is also 
 very intelligent (or so he claims anyway) . Honestly, my favorite character out of the whole game 
 was Vanessa, the Witch of Immolation, her fiery and implusive personality was charming and fit 
 her name.
  
  The battle system, well, if you look at basically every other SRPG out there, you'll see that the 
 battle system in Luminous Arc doesn't deter from the generic formula. It is still fun in the end 
 though, but... The only real additions to the system, were the Synergy attacks that certain characters 
 can pull off with another character after a certain part in the story. But I didn't really use 
 them all that much, the battles were easy enough wthout them. Using them would've been like adding 
 more insult to injury for your enemies. Most special attacks didn't really do more than regular 
 attacks anyway, so they felt unecessary... like putting more icing on a cake when it's already covered 
 with it, just to make it seem more enticing and pretty when it really doesn't need it. Of course 
 you have your Flash Drive attacks which are semi useful, but still not really necessary. It just 
 felt like these attacks were added in to make it feel like you had more options, when you could 
 basically go through this game by just using regular physical attacks and magic. I should also 
 point out you fight the same bosses over and over.... you fight Vanessa around 4 times and numerous 
 other bosses multiple times. There are only a handful of actual bosses in this game and fighting 
 the same ones over and over, is just dull.
  
  One of the aspects of the game I did like, however, were the Intermissions that occured after each 
 battle. After each fight was over, you could talk to a character who was in the fight with you. 
 By choosing to chat it up with that person after a long day of monster slaying, you could gain 
 "interest" with that character. You have 3 responses to choose from after they talk to you and 
 which one you choose affects your relationship with them. A little heart meter begins to build 
 with that character until it becomes full/blue/has Cupid's little arrow going through it. When 
 it is full, Alph and that person can use certain abilities in combat. A lot of work and it doesn't 
 really amount to much, but it was still fun to build a relationship with the characters in game. 
 
  
  There is also this, "Life of Kopin" event that happens after every story related battle..... they 
 are about as pointless as a "story" in most First Person Shooters. They can be somewhat funny, 
 but really..... I just thought over and over..."Why?" 
  
  The graphics are decent, not really all that great, but decent for a DS title. The animated cutscenes 
 and animation for the characters are well done, as are most anime related games. There are some 
 graphical flaws in this game that cannot be forgiven, however. When you buff a character, they 
 start to glow brightly, despite the buff. However, when they have a negative status put on them, 
 they turn darker. When you have both on a charracter at once, they flash..... and it is just annoying, 
 plus it causes the game to slow down more. Yes, more, there is horrendous lag in this game about 
 half of the time. Characters looks like they're turtles with a 2 ton shell on their back sometimes 
 and when you have the HP/Turn indicator up, it slows the game down even more! It also doesn't help 
 you cannot rotate the map.... this makes the maps 2D basically, there are height differences, but 
 it's hard to tell when you can't rotate the dang field!!!
  
  The sound design is on par with the graphics. The soundtrack left a lot to be desired, I found 
 myself muting the BGM because I couldn't stand to listen to it for an extended amount of time. 
 In every RPG there is at least 1 song I don't mind.... in this one, I pretty much despised them 
 all. The voice actors were okay, not great, but okay. I liked Vanessa's VA and Nikolai's the best, 
 they seemed to be the most convincing of them all. One thing about the sound that was as annoying 
 sometimes as the lag, was how the words would keep moving in the dialogue box, but the voices wouldn't 
 match up.
  You can turn off the voices, so this problem can be elimated, but to get the full experience I 
 guess you'll just have to put up with it.
  
  There are only a few extras in this game to make you want to play it again. There is a New Game 
 +, where you keep all your items, experience, and you can use every charcter for random battles, 
 just not story battles. There is also a single bonus dungeon you can exlpore. Besides those two 
 things..... there is the Extras menu where you can listen to all the BGM, voices, look at Gallery 
 pics, and scenes from the game. But..... I don't see why anybody would want to listen to the BGM 
 of this game.
  
  Overall, Lumious Arc is pretty much a generic and linear SRPG, but it can still be enjoyable due 
 to a few interesting characters and a pretty fun battle system. If you need a short (I finished 
 it in 16 hours) , yet fun SRPG then Luminous Arc is it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paully3433
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Picture this, your a young fellow named Alph who is a student under a respected Knight who is training 
 you to save the world from witches. Alright that being said you take on your adventure, your mission 
 from the church you serve to irradicate any witches you find. That basically the story line of 
 Luminous Arc, sound interesting? I didn\\\'t think so either, until I got passed the very cheesy 
 dialogue for the most part and dug a little deeper. 25 chapters take you on through the adventure 
 and around that many hours, I think i got around 30 in it with a few extras that I did. After collecting 
 a few friends for your journey, your little bro and a chick named Cecille, who i think Alph really 
 wants deep down, you head out and take on some witches. In between the actual parts of the story 
 is random encounters marked on the map with little crossing swords. There is usually one or more 
 of them inbetween each section of story. In most cases, I went through each of them twice just 
 to gain some Exp and get some new spells.
  
  During Battle you fight on a grid based map where you and your enemies can only travel so many 
 squares. Some of the abilities let you enhance your stats, speed, tech, attack, resist. guard, 
 magic and such, while others use different types of elements of magic unique to each character. 
 In battle you gain exp for what you do, most times around 25-30 for each turn. When you reach 100 
 you automatically gain a level, stats increase and your HP and MP goes back to full, very nice 
 and makes you take chances a little more. While gaining exp, you have a a FP gauge that fills up 
 slowly that you can do a ablitliy that usually is more powerful than your normal attack.
  
  Overall the game is very linear, you can't do much but do the encounters again and do some shopping. 
 One thing you can do is later on in the game you get things called Vitae which you can get appraised 
 for a whopping 2000 bucks and then you can imbue them to your weapons. If you buy weapons and armor 
 every chance you get, you probably dont need to do this, I didn't and beat the game fairly easily.
 
  
  Graphics look fairly good in this but the story does lack some depth. Also the characters can get 
 quite annoying. Overall I wish the game would have been a bit more challenging, the last battle 
 is a set of two if i remember right, and I successfully beat the game without losing a character. 
 In some of the battles before that, I did lose 1 or 2 guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _gorgon_
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Nintendo DS has a lot of strategic rol playing games such as Advanced Wars, Hoshigami or Heroes 
 of Mana for instance. But this Luminous Arc has something different this titles don't have. I cannot 
 explain properly what is this "something" but it is really charming, and you just cannot leave 
 the game off until you beat it.
  
  The pros of the game are a very good character design and a awesome soundtrack, in addition with 
 a very enjoyable and amusing combat system.
  In the other hand, a typical plot with topical events make the game not as good as it would be 
 with a more developed script.
  
  In conclusion, a very good srpg that should be played by all srpg lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSG_Angel
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  Although the isometric battle system can get repetitive in most SRPGs, as I progressed through 
 the game and the story evolved the battles became more interesting with twists in the story and 
 the characters. By the end of the game you have access to 15 different playable characters. Luminous 
 Arc (LA) is easily compared to Final Fantasy Tactics (FFT) as with its strategy-based isometric 
 battle system however the difference between the two is that each of the playable characters in 
 battle in LA are woven heavily into the story, with side quests and extra conversations available 
 with each character depending on the time in the story where as on the other hand in FFT characters 
 are recruited to fight in battle with the main characters in the story and are not part of the 
 story itself. All in all once I was gripped into the story I couldnt put the game down. As for 
 re-playability, once the game is completed a new-game + is unlocked. This is where you can play 
 through the game again with your characters at their end-game levels and access a secret dungeon. 
 This gives people the opportunity to go back and finish any side quests there missed, max out any 
 characters they missed (to view the final Intermission sequences, like Alph and Lucias end intermission, 
 steamy!) . It would only be after completing the game that I would now attempt the wi-fi random 
 battles with other plays around the world as from reading forums people are using extremely high 
 level characters to beat people who have unlocked the wi-fi function but are still low levels. 
 There is meant to be a level matching system to match players of similar levels together to battle, 
 however this depends who is playing at the time and if no one of your level is available then you 
 battle who ever is available. Story
  
  In LA is the story and relationships between all the characters that can make or break a battle. 
 As the story progresses and relationships in the story strengthen, synergy attacks become available 
 between certain characters, weaving the story into the battle. An example of this is the Rainbow 
 Synergy attack that is acquired near the end of the game (once all the elemental witches are together 
 they can use this power) that needs all of the witches present on the battlefield to use- this 
 heavy attack greatly helped me with the harder end game battles. The narrative is strong however 
 there are a few plot holes which are easily forgotten. The story scenes are a little too heavy 
 at times. Over all I enjoyed Luminous Arc and would recommend it to other RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patorishia
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Even if you've never played a game like this before, I highly recommend Luminous Arc. At first, 
 I felt the story lacked a little depth. But of course, the further into the game you get, the more 
 you find yourself talking to friends about it. There is also some great voice-acting in the game 
 that helps you get to know the characters attitudes a bit more, so it introduces you into their 
 overall persona's that are easily distinguished even when there is no voice-acting to be heard. 
 Soon enough, you'll find out who's the most annoying characters, the caring ones, the naive, the 
 leaders, followers, etc. They are all interesting, and they perpetuate the story gracefully, with 
 quirky innuendo's and all. There is a little bit of adult humor in the game. And the so-called 
 'eye-candy' some parents like to gripe about, of which is typical from Japanese anime. There is 
 a ton of dialog!! Lot's to read. The characters aren't so much animated, but nicely drawn. 'Course, 
 they blink. That's about it. The art is quite nice, though. The graphics in battle are much different 
 that the story-time graphics. The battle graphics are set on isometric platform, and the characters 
 turn into what I think are cute pixelated chibi's, or sprites. There are some cut scenes with specific 
 attacks that bounce between the pixel sprites (animated) and hand-drawn characters (not animated) . 
 Voice-acting is included in battle. The game play is truly a lot of fun. I thought it might be 
 repetitive, and it is, but it's the fun kind of repetition. I guess there really is such a thing 
 as fun kind of repetition. Buying new armor, weapons, accessories and potions every other round 
 of tactical fighting can be tiresome, but not to the point of aggravation. You still have to think 
 about how to spend your coins, so it adds to the game play like any other traditional RPG.
  
  
  
  For me, it's not a very hard game to get used to. It's not hard to play, but it has 
 moments where you can't seem to kill off a certain group of baddies. That's when you know to change 
 up your usual tactics. Figuring that out can be a lot of fun. Overall, the game is a total blast. 
 Expensive, but enjoyable. I got it for free, otherwise I probably wouldn't have ever played it. 
 If you have the cash to toss around on a DS game, and you've run out of others you want to buy, 
 definitely pick this up, used, if you have to. Apparently, its going to be one of those games that 
 are hard to find in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  What's funny about Luminous Arc is that I had heard absolutaly nothing about it before I came accross 
 it one day while browsing a Game Crazy store. It had totally flown beneath my RPG radar. I'm not 
 even sure why I bought it ether... except for maybe that it was on sale or simply because it was 
 a DS RPG... Ior I just felt like spending money... I don't know. Reguardless, I was honestly not 
 expecting much. And in truth, there was not to much to it, it seemed pretty standered as far as 
 Tactic games went. Yet, I was still charmed by the nestalgic presentation of it all. As an old-school 
 gamer, it brought me back to the cheery days of older Anime styled JRPG's that used to so much 
 more simpler then they are now.
  
  STORYLINE:
  This game has a ton of characters in it that you'll accumulate as the story continues. This isn't 
 exactly rare in a tactics game, but part of what makes Luminous Arc interesting is the fact that 
 each one as a unique fully developed personality that when clashed together during cut scenes coupled 
 with some voice acting can really make the presentation of it all stand out. In truth, there is 
 not real main character as the story revolves around the party as a group rather than the guy, 
 Alph, who you represent during any actual role playing. The story begins with a cutscene of some 
 higher ups in the church, who seem to be the main rulers of the land, discussing plans to eliminate 
 rumored witches that have been plaguing the land. The scene the cuts to Alph and the rest of the 
 knights being asigned to do just that, but the group of trained witch slayers are still very green, 
 so the begining of the game is mostly about them trying, somewhat succesfully, to do their jobs. 
 Eventually however, the story takes a couple of turns to where the witches slayers find out that 
 they may be getting in WAY over there heads as more facts about the witches origins are revealed.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay isn't new by any means if you've ever played a tactics game before. Combat is styled 
 very similarly to the Tactics Ogre, Final Fantasy Tactics, and Disgaea titles only a lot less involving 
 as far as any character customization goes. Most of the characters level up automatically gaining 
 stats and skills in a railroad type fashion once they gain enough experience. The only modifications 
 that can be made to them involve equiping armor and weapons. Battles are all on grids and traveling 
 between the is pretty linear, and displayed on the world map . Basic old-school JRPG/Tactics style.
 
  
  For those who are unfamiliar with any of this, think of it this way. Every time you move from one 
 selected location to another you are given a clip of story of challenged to play a Tactics battle 
 what I tend to think of a version of extremely complicated chess. It's fun, if your into stategy 
 gaming, but it takes some getting used to.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound was good enough to keep things interesting, but the voice acting was very hot or cold 
 depending on the voice. For instance, whoever played they lazy witch Vivi was perfect, but whoever 
 played Venessa was terrible and shrill. GRAPHICS:
  Old 2D Anime stuff similar to what they've been doing in Playstation JRPGs years before, but the 
 characters and cutscenes are drawn with obvious talent and display themselves nicely enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Review: Luminous Arc (DS)
  
  When I first saw the video for luminous arc I thought to my self that this could be an interesting 
 game, and then I heard that this was to be a strategy RPG, and as a fan of games like Tactics Orge, 
 Final Fantasy Tactics and the Disgaea games I could not wait!
  
  Story:
  You are a young boy orphaned alongside your brother and other orphans raised by the church to fight 
 witches, and defend the local villages from not only the witches but the monsters they command. 
 But is all it seems? To be honest with you all this story is nothing more than the same dull, hum 
 drum anime story that we have all come to know and love, and I found my self comparing it to a 
 million and one such stories I have played before.
  
  Graphics:
  This game looks good by typical GBA sort of way, you know. Slightly better than 16 bit and not 
 really trying to push the envelope graphically, in that it looks like a copy of either Final Fantasy 
 Tactics Advance, or Tactics Ogre: Knights of Lodis. Although the opening cut scene is pretty to 
 watch at least once I have seen opening cut scenes look a lot better on this system. Those negatives 
 stated I would like to say that the graphics aren't all that bad and suit the game and game style 
 well enough to make this game
  
  Music &amp; Sound:
  The music and sound effects from the game aren't bad either and the music its self is rather enjoyable. 
 And the voice acting if for the most part well done, but a couple of characters are not only miscast 
 voice talent wise but rather annoyingly portrayed, to the point that you would almost rather listen 
 to fingernails across a chalkboard.
  
  Control &amp; Game play:
  Well the control is actually pretty good when it comes right down to it which is something that 
 we have come to expect in games of this genre. If there is a gripe it is that you can only control 
 the fights with a stylus (which has lead to more than one accidental beat down to one of your allies) , 
 and the rest of the game is run fully on the control pad and buttons. Personally I find this annoying 
 only because I don't get the option to use either control option like in other games of the genre, 
 released on the DS. Also you can not change your perspective on the battle fields like you could 
 in other games in the genre, even on the GBA.
  
  Design &amp; Fun Factor:
  To be honest this game feels like they tossed a new storyline into the Tactics Ogre graphics engine 
 slapped an ok story on to it, a pretty anime cut scene to lure in the Anime fiends, and limited 
 the freedoms to play on it does this make Luminous Arc a bad game, by no means, fans of the genre 
 will be right at home, everyone else may want to wait till they bring Final Fantasy Tactics Advance 
 2, or wait till they possibly bring Disgaea to the DS
  
  This is a definant rent before buying, fans of either the anime or the strategy categories will 
 be well welcomed, but others may not be so accepting. Like I said earlier that this isn't a bad 
 game it just isn't great.
  
  Graphics
  7/10
  
  Game play
  7/10
  
  Sound
  7/10
  
  Fun factor
  8/10
  
  Tilt
  7/10
  
  Average score
  7.2
  
  Luminous 
 Arc:
  
  Pros:
  Anime Fans will Feel at home
  Strategy RPG fans will also feel at home
  Ok graphics
  Good music
  
  Cons:
  No choice 
 of control options
  Graphics could have been better
  Storyline could have been more complex
  Some of the voices are down right annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc is a tactical RPG published by Atlas. It doesnt add much to the genre, in fact in 
 more ways then one it is more of the same. It has some good gameplay mechanics and good presentation 
 but it could use some spit and polish here and there.
  
  Luminous Arc is a very anime inspired game. This will become apparent when you see the very anime 
 styled opening of the game or the character cut-outs. As with most RPGs the story is told through 
 cut-out story boards and text. Thankfully there is actually quite a bit of spoken dialogue as well. 
 The only thing bad about the presentation is that fact the story itself is very bland. It is the 
 typical thousand year the world is going to end type thing. It tries to add some twists here and 
 there but it isnt anything you couldnt predict or havent seen before. So if the gameplay isnt 
 your thing then the story isnt going to entice you to finish the game.
  
  Luckily the gameplay mechanics are done well so you dont have to worry about the bland story. 
 Its your typical isometric turn based tactical RPG mechanics. Each character takes turns, order 
 depended on speed of character; during your turn you can move the unit and attack or use an item. 
 For attacks you have your regular melee attack and you have magic abilities or skills for some, 
 with many of them long range attacks which are helpful. You have your typical Health and Magic 
 Points and the various statistics such as attack, speed, defense, movement, etc. Whenever you use 
 an attack or magic ability you gain experience points; getting more if you attack a higher level 
 enemy (ies) . Once you get 100 experience points you will level up and gain more powers. The level 
 up system works great because it isnt a constant strain to level up like other RPGs. Thanks to 
 this system you never get to a point where you are forced to level up to stand a chance, which 
 for me and many others is a great sign of relief.
  
  Environmental factors also play a role in the game. Elevation is a big factor. If you are above 
 the enemy then you will have a great effect. And vise-versa if you are lower then the enemy. And 
 if the elevation difference is too great, even if the enemy is in range of an attack, you might 
 not be able to hit them. And the angle you attack has a great affect as well. Attacking from the 
 back or sides is much more effective and has a higher hit percentage then an attack from the front. 
 Besides normal attacks you also have Flash Drives which are very powerful attacks you can only 
 use after gaining enough FP (Flash Points) . You gain FP slowly during battle, so Flash Drives cant 
 be abused. If you have two characters that have enough FP you can do a Synergy. This is a super 
 powerful attack that is well worth using if you can do it, but it takes forever to get enough FP 
 to do it so you wont be using it often.
  
  I do have a few grippes with the controls though. You can use the stylus or d-pad to control the 
 game which is fine. I would like to use the stylus because it is faster to go through menus. But 
 sometimes choosing characters on the battlefield, especially in a crowded area, can be quite troublesome. 
 The menus for shopping and outfitting your characters are a bit awkward to use as well. And besides 
 not being able to skip the story sections the game plays very well.
  
  The graphics in Luminous Arc are what you would expect from an isometric tactical RPG. While nothing 
 is truly spectacular the playing fields have a very nice look to them and are well designed for 
 the most part. The character models and cut-outs are done well and look great. Some of the attack 
 affects are a bit weak though. Many of the attacks look very similar, if not the same, so it loses 
 some variety. But there is one problem, when a larger amount of characters are on-screen the frame 
 rate drops dramatically. It only happens when a lot of characters are on-screen, which happens 
 a lot in later chapters. While not a deal breaking thing it does bring you out of the experience 
 of the game when it happens so it is annoying.
  
  The musically selection of Luminous Arc is also good. It has some good tunes that make for great 
 background noise. And the sound affects a generally pleasant. The voice acting of the game is also 
 done well and adds to the depth of the characters. But some of the voice work for some characters 
 gets a bit annoying, but then again thats the characters style so it has to be that way.
  
  The game also features a multiplayer part. I never got to try the multi-card play since I dont 
 know anyone else who owns the game. But I did get to try out the online experience. When you go 
 online it uses your current party as your team. But the thing about this is it just becomes a game 
 of highest level. Even a difference of two or three levels is enough to turn the flow of the battle, 
 so it ruins the experience since you wont likely find a person on equal grounds as you. There 
 can also be a bit of lag which is a little disheartening since there isnt a lot going on during 
 battle to warrant the lag.
  
  Overall Luminous Arc is a fun tactical RPG for the DS. It doesnt add much, or anything really, 
 to the genre and has some flaws. But it is nonetheless a good game and is worth the time to check 
 out if you are a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc is an RPG/Strategy game in the same vein as FFTA, and while the mechanics are similar, 
 the story is lacking in some respects and the game play could have used some more polish.
  
  There is voice acting in this game (and it is actually quite good) , but it only happens around 
 advancing the story and maybe only a third of the time. I'll cover more on this in my complaints 
 part.
  
  The story line does not bring a lot of originality in the story telling and follows a pretty typical 
 set of events of a young boy coming of age with no memories of where he came from, raised by the 
 people that he will do battle with and discovering who he truly is. Along the way the story touches 
 on problems with blind faith, bigotry, exploiting natural resources and trusting the ones you love 
 or care about. This would have been a complete wash for me if not for the characters that you are 
 introduced to in the game and the dialogue which is actually quite witty a lot of the time.
  
  The combat in the game was ok but not spectacular simply because of the added steps to complete 
 some actions. If you cast a spell you were asked to confirm, if you attacked you were asked to 
 confirm, if you waited you were asked to confirm, etc. etc. This was not a bad thing all of the 
 time. It saved me from frying a few of my characters sometimes, but it didn't really balance out 
 for the amount of times I had to confirm everything.
  
  The graphics are definitely a high point, but not over the top. The character art is really good 
 and has slight changes to reflect emotions. The combat and background art are equally creative 
 and done with some great attention to detail. There was a bit of a problem though if I had too 
 many active spells on the characters and enemies at one time or if there was too much happening 
 on the screen. During these problem times the game would slow down to about a third of its actual 
 speed and considering that the combat sequences were already a bit tedious due to the amount of 
 commands you had to do to complete for each turn, this made it painful at times to experience.
 
  
  The game was more about the story and strategy then it was an RPG. It's a game that requires you 
 to do level building to obtain better spells and skills. You also build relationships with your 
 characters and the hero at intermissions after the battles you have. These intermissions are built 
 to help you understand the characters better and also reward you for answering correctly to the 
 characters questions. There are side quests but your only rewards are to the story and no shiny 
 baubles or new weapons. At some point during the story you gain the ability to upgrade your weapons 
 by imbuing them with essence. Fortunately its not necessary to advance the game and while it gives 
 a bit of an edge, I was not patient enough to try and go through and find some worthy combinations. 
 Perhaps someone will post an FAQ later that gives some great essence combo's.
  
  Now my major problem with the game was the dialogue trees. As I mentioned before there is some 
 voice acting and the rest of the game is just text. While this was fine I would have liked it if 
 the game had an option to skip the dialogue forward to the end. If you're asking why then I will 
 give you some examples. If you push the wrong button and enter a conversation tree you already 
 entered you have to go through the whole conversation again. This can be time consuming because 
 most conversations can take a minute or so to complete. Or if you happened to have died in the 
 last battle and didn't save before the conversation tree was completed to advance the story. Also, 
 if you beat the game you can start a new game from the completed game to get a dungeon level and 
 also go back and complete any side quests you didn't complete the first time. My feeling on this 
 is since you already completed the story once, why not add the ability to skip through the dialogue 
 the 2nd time?
  
  Having completed the game I found myself pondering what I really appreciated about it. The extras 
 are nice and the dialogue was actually funny most of the time. The characters were fun but some 
 a bit too stereotypical for me. This game is definitely for those that love Anime as it definitely 
 plays like it is an anime movie. But I think anyone not into anime or strategy games might be turned 
 off by how the game plays. I'm glad I bought it but I'm really just filling a void until the next 
 FFT and/or Fire Emblem comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djammal86
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Thoughts on the story: I felt that the story for the game was good from the beginning to the end. 
 When you first start playing the game, you immediately get a feel for your favorite character that 
 relates to someone your know or just gets you drawn into the story. I felt it was a little slow 
 at first, but once I started playing, the story kept me captivated:
  
  Gameplay: The game play for Luminous Arc hasn't broken any barriers, but is very well balance and 
 fun. The battle system on how they select turns by speed gives you a chance to get the upper hand 
 on your enemy. Although, I wish the ranks weren't preset for each character, its not enough to 
 sour the great gameplay for luminous arc. Also, the side quest and online play makes for awesome 
 replay value
  
  Presentation: The presentation for this game was very detailed, vivid and eye-catching. The moment 
 you start playing the game, The character voice-acting, scenery and dialogue through the game will 
 keep you wanting more.
  
  Overall, Luminous Arc is a solid game for the Nintendo DS. It's great replay value, presentation 
 and overall mechanics makes this an great game to recommend for the nintendo ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  First of all; I want to clarify, YES there is voice acting in this game, and YES, I actually find 
 it very interesting and quite good. However, so far (about 3 hours of game play) , only about 20% 
 of the story is voice acted. So, please don't be led to believe that the game is nearly all voice 
 acted. There will be scenes where there is voice acting in maybe half the scene and then you are 
 reading the other half. I'm sure this is all based on limitations of the storage format; but this 
 ought to be pointed out.
  
  -------------------
  
  The storyline is the MAIN POSITIVE in Luminous Arc. It flows just like any Anime; and so if you 
 like Anime, you'll love the story, artwork, and characters. Similarly, the voice acting that is 
 present is very nice; I really enjoy it, wish there was more of it, and hope that this becomes 
 standard in future DS games.
  
  Otherwise, Luminous Arc gets most of the things right that are standard in this genre (the RPG 
 Turned Based Strategy game) : there is a decent set of stats and items to check out, there are special 
 items that you will certainly wish to collect, and there is the standard fare of character arch-types 
 whom you will get to know and form a connection with.
  
  Another positive is the Wi-Fi; I really hope this becomes a standard in this genre!
  
  The 
 DOWNSIDE is that the game play IS PLAIN ANNOYING....
  
  The use of the stylus is helpful in some aspects but then a HUGE hindrance in others. Most notably 
 in the battle sequences. I have 'More Than Once' attacked my own guys simply because the stylus 
 selection of spaces is absolutely horrible. If you don't pay attention to the top screen, you think 
 you are attacking a mob, but wind up attacking your buddy in the square next to it. On a few occasions, 
 I've killed my comrade and had to restart the entire game (characters do not persist beyond death, 
 similar to FFT or FE) .
  
  I would love the ability to just use the D pad to choose squares, but the game makers decided not 
 to put this simple backwards-compatibility into the game. how lamez.... In fact you are basically 
 limited to Only the stylus for battle sequences; I for one would like the option to choose which 
 input method I could use.
  
  Another game-play downside is that there are too many steps to do anything in the battle mode. 
 All commands go up and down a tree of commands, and so you move your character (takes a couple 
 steps) and then decide, Nahhh.... I want to see where the mobs are on the map... you then have 
 to cancel out of all the commands you just made and backtrack to a spot higher on the command tree 
 until you can finally open up your D pad to scroll around the screen. Then you decide you want 
 to check the status of mobs or characters; this is a slow process because for every thing you click 
 on, you have to do the same back tracking a few steps to be able to check another character.
  
  Similarly, there are just too many steps to do simple tasks; one example is that the UI asks 
 for confirmation of waiting after you went through two steps of choosing 'wait' and then choosing 
 the 'direction' to wait. I mean, if I choose two commands in succession like that, then I probably 
 meant it!
  
  One other complaint of mine is a little lack of depth in examining stats, characters, items, etc. 
 I like the ability to check out a lot of this information 'in game', and I'm just not finding the 
 ability to do this so far (and am thinking it is not possible) .
  
  ----------
  
  So, in summary; not too bad of a game if you are a fan of this genre AND you like Anime. Although 
 I've put it down a couple of times out of frustration for the buggy game play. I really have nothing 
 else to do for right now, so I'll probably play most, if not all the way to the end.
  
  Otherwise, I will be anxiously awaiting the release of Final Fantasy Tactics A2: The Sealed Grimoire, 
 and (hopefully) an announcement for a Fire Emblem 3 for the DS (/really crosses his fingers for 
 that one!) , or maybe a much improved sequel in a Luminous Arc 2?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  When I heard that Final Fantasy Tactics was coming to the DS, I was really excited. So excited 
 that I just couldn't wait any longer. I did a bit of research and found other games similar to 
 Tactics and out of all of them, Luminous Arc was the one that intrigued me the most. I bought it 
 when it came out and now that I've finished it, I can say that it's not all that bad but it will 
 never replace Tactics. Continue reading for more:
  
  Gameplay: While the gameplay in Luminous Arc is somewhat the same as Tactics, it's just not the 
 same. First of all, I feel like the characters can only move two or three steps. In other similar 
 games, the characters feel like they can move much farther than the ones in this game. Another 
 thing that I found disappointing was Witches/Archers. Their spells/arrows can only attack a few 
 spaces and these are supposed to be characters that can attack from afar. I don't know if it's 
 just the same but I feel like this game is a bit slow . Also the lack of job changing is disappointing. 
 The best thing about this game is the multiplayer. Playing on Wi-Fi is a blast and even playing 
 locally with friends is fun. Story's not too bad but it could've been way better.
  
  Graphics: Though the graphics in this game are already decent, I can't help but feel that it could've 
 been better and cleaner. Spells/Skills look a bit dull as well. The different character sprites 
 look alright though.
  
  Sound: Sound's not too bad though the voices of the characters can get annoying after a while. 
 The music is a bit dull as well but it's alright, it grows on you after a few battles. The music 
 in the intro movie is awesome though.
  
  To sum it up, Luminous Arc is a good game but I think you should rent it before buying it. It's 
 not that it's bad, it just feels lacking. Multiplayer is really fun though but you need Wi-Fi to 
 get the most out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defunct32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  I was extremely thrilled when xenolifez informed me, that there will be an SRPG title coming our 
 way for the DS in August this year (that would be a month ago) called Luminous Arc, he showed me 
 a couple of vids, and I was impressed, I guess too impressed for my own good I'm a die-hard SRPG 
 fan you know!
  
  The story took place around a bunch of youths who were raised by the Luminous Church, having only 
 one goal in their life and that is to condemn all the Witches they come across, taught by the Church 
 into believing that the Witches are the cause of the Planet's suffering of course as with all organized 
 religion there's isn't a lot of truth to that this is where the twist comes in. Aha! Sounds interesting? 
 Not really, the story is actually very predictable the little things they try to hide from you 
 almost always give it all away, I was disappointed with the way they try to bring this story about 
 it's poorly executed.
  
  The battle system on the other hand though is very stripped-down, very basic: you attack, cast 
 magic, use items and move around the map, you get to deploy up to 8 characters max on the battlefield 
 (very generous number in my opinion) , my only gripe is that the game doesn't allow you to position 
 your characters where you want them to be, this really destroy any potential strategies you may 
 have in mind when starting out your map (you can't preview the map you're gonna tackle) , but nothing 
 dramatic Luminous Arc is rather forgiving as long as you level up and outfitted your party with 
 the best available equipments, you're good to go wherever you are on the map also, all the enemies 
 in the random encounters are fixed in a sense, you won't see the enemies being positioned randomly 
 or see a new set of monsters. You will get the same thing over and over again.
  
  L. A. also sport a nice  characters gain full HP/MP at every 
 level up, so if you're low on health and magic points and you're about to hit the next level, just 
 perform an action (provided it accumulated enough EXP) and voila! Fully healed, but alas this also 
 what made the game a tad easier, in my opinion. Money is also very, very generously earned I love 
 that I could earn a couple of grand by just defeating only a couple of random encounters, and equipments 
 in the game are not all that expensive either.
  
  Of course as the saying goes nothing is perfect, the animations in this game are really lacking, 
 I think they blew quite a budget on the Voice-Acting department (which I think are mostly corny 
 and unnecessary and very ugh at times, pay attention to Nikolai and Theo) , some animations are 
 even reused and only slightly updated, case in point: Aqua and Hail magic spells, the Flash Drive 
 (some sort of a Limit Break type skill ala Final Fantasy) are not as flashy as it sounds or look. 
 I'm pretty disappointed, cause a little eye-candy wouldn't hurt right? Luminous Arc is also rather... 
 buggy/glitchy? I've noticed a couple of graphical issues, just to name a few: like random line 
 flashing across the screen, in one part of the game there's even an awakward moment when the witches 
 uses their teleportation skill, spots or black patches could be found scatter around the screen. 
 All these minor flaws really brings down the quality of the game, it feels rushed like the developers 
 just wanted to release this game quickly and shove it down the masses' throat. Bottomline if you're 
 expecting another Final Fantasy Tactics for the PS1 then you're looking at the wrong title.
  
  BUT If you're new to SRPG and would like to give this genre a try, Luminous Arc for the DS 
 is a very accessible (in other word: easy ) title. It's also a good filler until the release of 
 Final Fantasy Tactics Advance 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingsofAdamant
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  The story in Luminous Arc is very reminiscent of Tales of Symphonia. A group of youngsters are 
 charged with a holy decree by their church to smite all evildoers and witches to secure the safe 
 coming of a golden age. Yet, as seen in the second half of ToS , you eventually find out in Luminous 
 Arc that the Church is corrupt, and that the witches indeed are the real good guys. Not exactly 
 a groundbreaking story, but compelling nonetheless. For any thought-provoking person this can always 
 raise the thoughts of questioning your world, instead of blindly following, for you may very well 
 be doing more harm than good with your ideology. The stories of most Atlus games are formulaic, 
 but that doesn't necessarily mean they're bad. They all pull off the paradigm in cool and interesting 
 ways making for fun experiences. The character design is impressive, and each sprite appears in 
 relatively high detail, in turn making it very easy on the eyes, and fun to play. The characters 
 run from element-oriented witches, young soldiers, and... a manatee. All of the characters are 
 likable, and you may find yourself basing your strategy based on your favorites than actual effectiveness. 
 And after skirmishes you have the chance to improve your relationship from the perspective, Alph. 
 This is done in a series of conversations, and the affection gained is based on the answer you 
 choose from 3 given to you. You can gain items from these conversations, but besides that, the 
 overall motive of these interludes seem lost in execution. The difficulty merely depends on the 
 decisions you make in the placement of your characters, and balancing the strength of offense and 
 support on any number of fronts. If you can predetermine the experience you gain from an action 
 you may gain a level, thus in turn refilling your HP and MP to full. This ingenious mechanic allows 
 for you to turn what was a hopeless struggle into a valiant comeback, for you can also gain new 
 spells or skills that can prove to be your trump card against a pesky foe. With this being the 
 case, it is very easy to end up in marathon plays just to get new abilities, and witness the cool 
 animations for each one. Each character also has special attacks that range from 1 to 3, the higher 
 the more crippling, usually accompanied with status affecting traits. You gain these depending 
 on the character's performance and effectiveness in a fight that is determined by the computer. 
 So, this keeps you on your toes by making you think out every move, to fulfill each potential advantage 
 where the enemies are as cunning, if not more cunning than you. There is also the mechanic of item 
 synthesis that is always a fun inclusion into any RPG. You collect stones for synthesis in battle 
 and use them to create stronger, more magically endowed weapons or items. The only problem with 
 this system is that you are not told what items are needed to synthesize, so it's kind of a shot 
 in the dark, but thankfully all of this is not necessary to complete the game, merely an advantage. 
 From the start I had a feeling that this game would provide a good quality experience, as seen 
 from past releases like Tactics Ogre, Rhapsody. The best selling point of this game is the ability 
 to quickly switch a battle around with some well-made decisions, making it a rewarding and enjoyable 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Fire41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  well to be honest this game is very difficult, but if you get past that, you should be ok.
  there is a nice cast of characters, including the crazy red haired, glasses wearing, witch obsessed 
 Nikolai to the quiet, timid, archer Theo.
  the combat can be irritating at times, especially if the enemy has a healer, and enemies tend to 
 be overpowered, as you can only use 8 guys in combat of your max party of like 14 or more, what 
 a gip!
  there is humor, romance, talking manatees with knives (no joke) , something for everyone.
  Pollon 
 Pollon: he right ya, koo!
  shut up Pollon Pollon, let the people find out about your annoyance in game.
  just thought i'd 
 add that last comedy bit for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a new DS strategy game, then doI have the game for you! Luminous Arc, like 
 many games had many strong points as well as well as some problems. The graphics for the game looked 
 quite fine and all the spells and flashdrives were also nice to look at, and the scenery and characters, 
 too. The gameplay was enjoyable and there were missions that were, as I expected, pretty easy, 
 pretty hard, and then just right. The story was good, nowhere near the best I've heard, and certainly 
 no where the worst. There were plenty of interesting characters and some that were... well... unique 
 . The voice overs in the game were actually pretty good and better than I thought they would, or 
 at least, most of them were. When they weren't well done, the voices could be a little annoying, 
 but I never found any unbearable.
  After you do get through the game, there s plenty of stuff you can do. You can do sidequests, look 
 at some extras such as character profiles, chapters, and art. You can even have Wi-fi battles, 
 which can be quite entertaining, if you find opponents around your level that is. All in all, I 
 think Luminous Arc is worth picking up for the strategy fans and can keep you occupied for a bit, 
 during and after the main story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: togo2828
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Well This game is good, Battleing is a little slow sometimes, but that okay. The main character 
 of the game is a boy named Alph (Kinda got on my nerves that you couldnt change the name, but let 
 go on.) You control alph and his group of friends, all in all really good balanced characters. 
 The thing that will probably get on your nerves like it did mine is that the stylus use is always 
 always off. Some of the time you mean to hit an enemy but you end up hitting your own party. I 
 know in my game you have to go a little up and to the left for it to hit the exact enemy you wanted 
 to hit. The Voice acting is a good, although alot of the voices sound the same. There are some 
 really cool things about the game, like how you can attach certain elemental attibutes to your 
 items, or how you can totally customize your character ( (Like in FFTA) ) All in all i have to give 
 this game an 8.5 overall, i really liked the story line, kept me guessing..... not really but still 
 good
  the stylus is the only thing that ruins this game for me, and i got past it so yeah its still a 
 must pick up for all DS RPG lovers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalithril
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has a simple and sweet gameplay, mainly as some might call it Final Fantasy Tactic Style. 
 It basically involves you controlling a group of people on a turn to turn basis game. The audio 
 of the game is simply awesome, i'd say one of the best. The anime-like storyline is also very interesting, 
 and quite funny, a tad conent of guys being a bit dirty-minded *but seriously, which anime doesnt 
 have that* Despite the rating of 7.5 from Gamespot (no idea why it's this low, deserves a 8.2 at 
 least imo) it has enough fun to last you for hours (just make sure you dont miss a stop while taking 
 a bus)
  The bad-news to this game is that, while this game is being very pack'd (mainly w/ the audios) 
 it tends to be a bit laggy. For example, the way your stylus work, you can set it to a right-handed 
 style but the commends could move to the left-handed side once in awhile.
  Generally, its a game worth your time and effort to play~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Good: Character design is wonderful | The touch screen is a nice addition to the RPG tactic genre 
 | The leveling in-game makes the battles more interesting | The main adventure is lengthy
  
  Bad: On-line play is alright | The story-line can be cheesy at times | the touch screen can 
 be hard to control when selecting certain areas | Voice overs aren't really necessary but there
 
  
  When thinking about good tactical games, most will think Final Fantasy Tactics (PS) because of 
 its characters and its innovation to customize characters with different classes. This game touches 
 a lot of that but without the customization part. Characters are set with their names and sometimes 
 with their classes. Some characters' classes will change as the story progresses but the gameplay 
 and character design is what catches my eye with this game. The game starts off a bit lengthy as 
 it tries to give you some background before you meet the characters you follow. The group of kids 
 that you will mainly control live in an area called Ever Garden (which is how they are referred 
 to in the game as well from time to time) . The characters that you will meet in the beginning are: 
 Alph, Cecille, Theo, Leon and Heath. Other characters will join along the way or you will meet 
 more supporting characters connected to the story. The story seems simple at first where these 
 Ever Garden children have been raised by the church to help destroy witches who are considered 
 to be hurting others and causing chaos in this world. The story does change and twists and turns 
 happen along the way. This game seems more like a book then a typical RPG because there is a lot 
 of explaining and a lot of dialog before you start your fights. Also, there are times when you 
 can talk with characters to get to know them or the story line better or take a look at the 'library' 
 of that city to hear more background about past events. The option to get to know the story more 
 in depth is your choice but it isn't nessecary.
  
  Gameplay: The game is a tactical game so you have a max of 8 characters on the field fighting against 
 each other. The top part of the DS shows stats of that character and below has the map and characters 
 around it. I love the touch screen aspect and you can do everything you almost need with just the 
 touch screen which makes for quick and buttonless gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Love the graphics because I'm an anime fan and the characters are great looking when 
 fighting or when they are talking. The map when you move around from area to area could have been 
 better but shouldn't take away from the beauty of the in-game play and character development. I 
 do feel the battles could have been done better.
  
  Sound: The music is a take from Shining Force (GEN) and if you haven't played that game, you won't 
 get the reference. That is alright but kind of lame at times. This also goes for the voice overs 
 when they do speak. Some voice overs are good with the character and others should have been casted 
 better. Ususally, I keep the volume down when playing this game.
  
  Overall: Its a good game and it deserves a look if not a buy for a DS RPG fan. The story line can 
 kind of get on your nerves but I do enjoy the characters and I keep playing to see what happens 
 with them. The in-game features when battling are well done and are different then some of the 
 other traditional tactic games out there.
  
  Enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBlueZentaro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Atlus game I've ever played and the first review I've ever written. If you didn't 
 notice this is a turn based game. The story line is pretty good and the game requires strategy 
 and training to beat it. It is a really good game and a great addition to your collection. You 
 can customize almost everything and there are a lot of jokes through out the game. The characters 
 are lively the graphics are good the story is still really awesome. There is major replay value 
 in this game. I haven't tested out the online play but I here that is good as well. Over all this 
 is one of the few games I don't regret buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lapyx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I've seen many people give this game bad ratings.. I completely disagree, and think that they've 
 been too hard on this game. What you have here is an excellent contribution from Atlus for the 
 portable strategy gaming industry.
  
  The gameplay in itself is excellent, nothing you wouldn't expect from Atlus. Nice Wi-Fi multi-player, 
 good single-player gameplay, length-wise and gameplay. The stylus controls during battle can be 
 a little on the touchy side, but it's nothing bad.
  
  The graphics in Luminous Arc are excellent. Brilliantly made backgrounds and landscapes. My one 
 and only concern with the graphics is that some of the characters during battle look just a tad 
 less worked on, while some of the others look like their sprites were made over a long period of 
 time. Of course, that is nothing serious, because it's not like the tad less worked on sprites 
 are anything but nice.
  
  The story in this game is nothing dramatic, but it's a pleasant story for a pleasant game. Good 
 plot twists enjoyable intermissions and cut-scenes, excellent voice acting, which is surprising 
 in a DS game.
  
  All in all, this is a great game. If you're a fan of the Turn-Based RPG series, i definitely recommend 
 this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silk_Wood
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to waste your time by going through this gameplay, graphic, and sound, so forth thing, 
 I'm going to get right the the point. Luminous Arc is a GREAT game. It's actually splendid to play! 
 I haven't had this much fun with a game since I played FFTA or Super Mario Bros.!!! I love this 
 game for the fact that, it's well put together, the story is very intriguing, and it's just plain 
 fun! And not only is the game well balanced, there is a TON of voice acting, something very important 
 if the DS ever wants to kick the PSP's butt into the shadows for good :P Now I know some of you 
 are probably saying to yourself, Oh great, another one who gets hyped up about one game then for 
 gets it in a month! If that's what you're thinking, man are you wrong! This game is in my top ten 
 favorites. The characters are very well constructed, their look also fits there personalities. 
 This game would seem flawless! With it's FFTA style of play (which doesn't include the waste of 
 time mastering skills and weapons, you just get them when you level up!) , and sort of LOTR style 
 of air, you can't help but love this RPG/ strategy gameplay! BUT, and this is a big BUT (yes you 
 can laugh :P) I don't like the way the D-pad and the Right - Hand and Left - Hand styless controls 
 were made. I find it frustrating sometimes to be switching my controls to click an enemy, and sometimes 
 you can't even do that! But, besides that, I have no other problems with LA. Its, great and so 
 is the Wi - FI. So if you liked FFTA (which this game beats by a LONG shot!) , and you like fun 
 games, well get $35 dollars and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Luminous Arc fo the DS
  
  The Good- The gameplay is quiet solid and can be challanging at time, has a nice opening animation 
 with decent sprites, the voice overs are quiet good once you get used to them.
  
  The Bad- The controls will take a few rounds to get use to, the map does not move so its hard to 
 see whats going on at times when tons of characters are grouped together, bad storyline.
  
  Welcome to my new style of reviews since gamespot made it like theres with the stupid only total 
 score I made my own style with there old style included.
  
  Luminous Arc is a stratagy game for the DS and some RPG elements.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  The 
 gameplay in this game is preety solid, with back attacks doing the most damage to side attacks 
 doing a bit less to the front attack doing the least so its got that down right at least. Characters 
 will be able to equip armor and weapons and a hat to there selves boosting there states. At the 
 beginning of the game theres new stuff at every town you visit, but halfway through the game you 
 get like no shops, giving levels more meaning since you can never change equipment. They should 
 have spread out the shops instead of giving you them all at the beginning. The game takes place 
 on a huge map which you press the buttons to travel to each location. On the map is towns and the 
 annoying random battles which be annoying at times when your backtracking but are wonders when 
 you may need to level up a bit. The game system is on a 3D screen with little sprites. Each attacks, has 
 skills you use which usualy boost there states or do some special like attack three enemies with 
 a sword. Some have magic, namely the witches in this game, which use up mp. Each character has 
 there own weapons and attack types, along with there own special attacks which power up at you 
 kill enemies or time passes along. As you progress you learn new skills and magic spells giving 
 the game a bit more meaning then some games. All this is added up by leveling up as you gain levels 
 like most games of this style. Controls I will just stick in here and tell you at first there annoying 
 as it seems the screen is tilted sideways so the buttons seem a bit off. Like up goes right and 
 such, but you will get use to it after a couple rounds like I did.
  
  Graphics -7/10 The opening is preety bland to look at but its nice for the DS, sadly its the only 
 cut scene in the whole game except for a short picture animation at the end of the game. Through 
 the main game you get several pictures of characters in different emotions but in still form. On 
 game you get small little sprites which look good enough, but the graphics could of been sharper 
 and some enemies in there pictures look nothing like there sprites do.
  
  Sound- 8/10 Great voice overs, except for the odd exception like theo which his voice makes you 
 wanna cry. One problem is the voices go on and then turn off but in the same cut scene which makes 
 no sense. Either use complete voice acting for the section or none at all pick one please! The 
 music is just ok but nothing to thrilling to get you pumped. The sound effects are ok with grunts 
 from getting hit to attacking with your sword at enemies. Overall its well balanced.
  
  Storyline- 5/10 yah finally I get to make my own section! Storyline for all games means something, 
 but doesn't always have to be the main source of the game. This sort of game, a storyline should 
 be second to it. A game is nothing without a good storyline, sadly this one is one of them. The 
 game is preety bland and boring with the story as you go to hunt witches, they become your friends, 
 you attack the church, god comes to life, he's evil you kill him, no one dies you live happily 
 ever after. Wow preety boring right? Indeed, enough said.
  
  Extra material and Replay Value- 6/10 Another one of my new features to my reviews. This game allows 
 you connect with your characters through intermissions in which you get to know the characters 
 better and they get a bonus in battle when with Alph. Theres some extra missions in the game but 
 most are preety bland and boring but can be done through the main story. When you beat the game 
 it allows you to do one of those challange dungeons with many many floors. Its dull, basic extra 
 but its nothing we havn't seen but at least they added it right? Overall this game gives you little 
 extra material but enough to say there is some and the replay value is preety dull since the storyline 
 was so basic. How my scores system goes
  Gameplay Score x 3
  Graphics x2
  Sound x2
  Storyline x2
  Extra's and Reply x1
  For a grand total of 100 marks.
  Luminous Arc Total Score 
 70 makes for a total of 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I anticipated the arrival of this game ever since I heard about it last year. I knew this game 
 wouldn't disappoint me. I was right. Finally, a good Strategy RPG arrives on the DS! Hoshigami 
 Remix was such a disappointment. Avoid that game at all costs. The DS library of Strategy RPG's 
 was lacking something. Something to make it stand out. Well folks, Luminous Arc has delivered.
 
  
  Value:
  
  I purchased this game on the first day of it's release, and have been playing it at least 3+ hours 
 a day. This game is jam-packed. The single player adventure lasts about 20+ hours. Then there is 
 Wi-Fi to expand the value even more. I was quite surprised this game had it actually. It indeed 
 does at even more replay value. But even if those aren't enough, there is New Game+ with an extra 
 dungeon. Like I said, this game delivers a lot of value. Your definitely getting your money's worth 
 here. 9/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are nice to say the least. They won't blow your mind away, but they indeed suit the 
 game itself. In battle, it looks like Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, but slightly better. The scenes 
 out of battle though, is where the game really shines. The artwork is very clean and polished, 
 as are the back rounds. Another nice feature, is the opening movie. It is very Anime like, but 
 it is beautiful. 8/10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Before you read this, NO, I will not compare this to Final Fantasy Tactics. When reading some of 
 the reviews of this game*cough1Upcough*, I was quite annoyed that they were calling this game a 
 Final Fantasy Tactics clone. Since WHEN did Final Fantasy Tactics create the SRPG genre? Well it 
 didn't! Thats like comparing the Final Fantasy series to the Dragon Quest series, and saying the 
 Final Fantasy series is a clone of the Dragon Quest series. Well duh! There in the same genre of 
 video games RPG'S! AND even if Luminous Arc is a clone of Final Fantasy Tactics, it doesn't necessarily 
 mean the game is bad. Is that not a good thing? Okay to explain the gameplay now. The gameplay 
 is like a typical SRPG gameplay (Doesn't mean its tactics clone) except with a few minor things 
 that separate it from the rest. Sure you got Magic, Attack, Items and the Wait commands, so what 
 exactly is different? Flash drives. These are character specific specials that inflict major damage, 
 and also have an added effect. The FP bar (Flash Point bar) goes up to 3. for every 100 FP you 
 get, you can use the FD (Flash Drive) of the specific number (1 = first Flash Drive, 2 = second 
 Flash drive...) . Every character has their own unique flash drives, and some bosses may even have 
 it too. With Flash Drives in mind, there is also other things like Synergy attacks that I won't 
 bother explaining. The game is fun, and that is good enough for anybody that is a fan of SRPG's 
 or for anyone that wants to try something new. Of course though, you get some occasional slow down 
 when a lot of enemy units and your own units are close together. This won't happen until about 
 Chapter 15 though, so don't worry too much.8/10
  
  Sound:
  
  This area of the game is unique. First of all, you got some great music that sets the tone of what 
 is happening and sets the tone of the game itself. Then, you have some nice Voice Overs for every 
 major character. I'd say about 1/4 of the games dialogue uses Voice Overs. They are pretty good 
 for the most part, and suit the specified character well. It sounds good and gives more vibe to 
 the game. 9/10
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall, this game is Great. It used both old and new SRPG elements into a new aspect, and it all 
 fits together. I give this game a 8.5/10 (Not an average) .
  
  Pros:
  +Nice graphics and Artwork.
  +Jam-packed, meaning this game has a lot of value
  +Uses both 
 new and old SRPG elements fairly well
  +Great story and great character development
  +Nice Flash Drive animations
  +Great Voice Overs and Music
  
  Cons:
  -Slowdown when a lot 
 of units/enemy's are together
  -Few bugs (little rectangular flashes appear once in a while)
  -Some music repeated too often
 
  -Dialogue tries to be a little too humorous sometimes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterg500
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  I would have to disagree with the Gamespot reviewer on this game about the story. But first I will 
 concede that I too am a little dissappointed that they made it a linear storyline. But it was done 
 so in order for us to follow the story they came up with. But unlike Gamespot I found the story 
 to be quite charming and humorous in parts. I did not find the voice acting to be annoying. In 
 fact I felt it added depth to the characters and made me want to push on with the story to see 
 what they would say next. Combat and magic was done exceptionally well. The touch controls made 
 the game incredibly easy to play with just the stylus. Flashdrives and synergy attacks really added 
 flavor to the game and another new strategy to an old battle style. The sound and graphics aren't 
 exactly cutting edge stuff. But the art work used in the cut scenese is done quite well. And the 
 characters in battle are big enough that you can see and know what's going on with ease. Sound 
 is pretty basic stuff in the game, but the music is subtle enough that it won't annoy the heck 
 out of you while you beat the game. Overall it is a very good rpg strategy formula that Atlas uses. 
 When you add a fun storyline, great powered up attacks, and lots of extras after you beat the game, 
 you end up with a pretty solid addition to your DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilknight913
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  I wasn't really into tactic games, but after playing this i got hooked on it.
  Leveling melee characters seems hard because they don't have any spells that give a lot of exp. 
 Theres an easy way to level all other characters who have healing abilities, or increase status 
 abilities too. I manage to have my Alph only level 37, while all the other character is around 
 50+.
  Anyways... the graphic is nice, music is nice and the intermission part added some funny scenes.
 
  I only played about 4 days on it, and i think i am probably half way through the game. (Chapter 
 16) . Other then that, i am quite entertained playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentlessH52
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Having been on the market for nearly three years now, the Nintendo DS has given us innovation, 
 new types of games, and revitalizing old genres (like the point and click adventure game) , all 
 the while providing loads of fun. Surprisingly, though, one genre has been all but ignored on this 
 little handheld: turn based strategy RPGs. Hoshigami Remix tried to fill that void, but its essentially 
 a port of an old Playstation title thats too complex and unrewarding for it to be enjoyable. So, 
 is there anything that can really fill that itch? Fortunately, Atlus has answered the call and 
 delivered Luminous Arc, an original game that is quite the satisfying strategy RPG.
  
  Story:
  
  The story of Luminous Arc can be summed up like this. Kids that are raised from 
 the Church, known as the Garden Children, are called up to raise arms against the evil Witches, 
 who plan to kill all the people and disobey the will of God. Alph, a young, courageous youth, becomes 
 the leader of the group, and leads off the fight to condemn the Witches. Although the story initially 
 sounds very clich&eacute;, the plots really starts to twist early on, and you eventually learn 
 that things are not as black and white as they appear to be. You also start to question who is 
 really the villains in this game: the Witches or something else?!
  Overall: 9.0
  
  Design:
  
  The main story mode is what youll be spending the most time on in Luminous Arc. 
 All areas are marked on a map, and locations are marked with icons, and you move the cursor to 
 where you want to go. The locations you visit vary up to battlefields, towns, forests, and the 
 like. Sometimes, you may end up being forced into a battle while trying to get to your next destination. 
 When you arrive at your destination, you either talk to some of your party, sometimes shop, or 
 just advance to the next story battle. This simplicity with providing menus to help you along ensures 
 that its very difficult to get lost in this game.
  During battle, you can choose up to eight party members at a time. To gain experience, you can 
 either land an attack on an enemy, or do a status enhancer or heal on your party. Movement is on 
 a grid based board, and the movement is determined by squares. The attack range is also determined 
 by this same setup. The battle system is very similar to that of most strategy RPGs, but it does 
 work well here. Leveling up, though, is more determined by getting up to 100 experience points 
 rather than a random number. This system makes it easier to determine how many points you need 
 to earn to level up. All status of individual characters is displayed on the top, while the bottom 
 is for actions. This makes things easier to follow, and it leaves the bottom screen uncluttered.
 
  The problem is that the touch screen controls are sometimes unresponsive, leaving you with some 
 frustration if you use that method. You eventually decide to just use the no touch screen option 
 in the options menu and just use the old d-pad. Although its not much of a gripe, it would be 
 good if the game had good touch screen controls. Either way, its hardly even a problem for me.
 
  After battles, you have an opportunity to talk with one of your party members. You choose a response. 
 If it favors them, their trust increases. If you talk with them enough, depending on how full their 
 heart is, you get a special cutscene. These special scenes can be rather amusing, to be honest, 
 and adds some depth to the whole game. All the pieces together make for a great blend.
  Overall: 9.0
  
  Graphics:
  Graphically, Luminous Arc is a decent looking game. The game is 
 2D completely, but the sprites animate quite well, and their movement helps convey some realism 
 to the anime style characters. Cutscenes are told using still portraits that look quite good, with 
 painted backgrounds. Their expressions change depending on the dialogue, witch helps a bit as well. 
 Some attacks also have a bit of flash, as well. While not much here that could not have been done 
 on lesser hardware, like the GBA, its still quite impressive. There is also a full motion anime 
 intro at the beginning, as well.
  Overall: 8.0
  
  Sound:
  Audio wise, the game is a real treat. You get fully orchastraic music, a catchy Japanese pop intro, 
 and voice acting. While the voice acting only really happens for about 20% of the whole game, when 
 it does happen, its performed well, for the most part. One character I dont like, though, is 
 Nickolai. What is his deal?! Come on!! The sound effects are appropriate and do the job. So, overall, 
 the audio part is great.
  Overall: 9.0
  
  Overall:
  The game is quite an enjoyable experience. If youre looking for a great strategy RPG for your 
 DS, dont hesitate to pick this one up. Its quite good.
  Overall: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellooo_Nurse
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  I like that the ds now has a good anime fantasy turned-based styled strategy game. The story line 
 is awesome!! The chacters are funny too! My favorite is Theo just beause he's so cute. It's not 
 much different from other turn-based stragety games, but I still say it is fun. I'm extrememly 
 impressed with the anime styled opening and Japanese song. I just wanna get out of 2-d and go into 
 3-d with these kinds of games. I used to like strategy but this game made me love it! I hope they 
 make a Luminous Arc 2, even though I'm not too far in the game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishkid99
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  luminous arc a turn based game for the DS its pretty good kinda like final fantasy tactics advance 
 and tactics ogre 2 of my favorite games for the GBA.
  
  ok... the game is about like these people there called the garden children and they like protect 
 the world from witches and monsters... its a pretty intresting game you can get new weapons items 
 and make your team the best ever.. oh ya theres online too im pretty sure you can verse other people 
 with your team but im not sure never playd online with it before. over all its a good turn based 
 game that fun and the story is pretty good too... and the voice acting is good... the whole story 
 is kinda alot churchy its about the church trying to get rid of all the witches in the world...
 
  
  i never even heard of this game until the 13th when i couldent wait to get it... and never knowing 
 about a launch of a game i ussually dont buy those kinda games but this time i made an exeption 
 becouse it sounded and looked very intrsesting and i dont regret buying it at all, thanks for reading 
 and if you got and extra 35 you should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc ------------------------ 7.5
  
  Gameplay --- 8
  Graphics ---- 7
  Sound ------- 8
  Value ------- 7
  Tilt ---------- 7
  
  The Good: Great replay value, surprisingly 
 large voice dialogues, fun multiplayer
  The Bad: Graphical glitches, very annoying voices of characters, lag and slowdown during battles.
 
  
  Luminous Arc is one of the newest title released by the developer Atlus which has a record of localizing 
 great games from Japan over into the United States and Luminous Arc is no exception. This game 
 is a turn-based strategy game for the Nintendo DS handheld that doesnt reinvent the genre but 
 makes players go back to it and remind them of how great of a genre it is. If players didnt like 
 the turn-based strategy genre before, this might not be the best way to get into it, however, with 
 a good storyline, great sounds, and great gameplay this game will motivate players to keep moving 
 through the end of the game.
  
  The game starts out with youths from the Ever Garden that are raised by the Luminous Church, a 
 holy religion intent on protecting the world and worshipping their God. These youths are raised 
 for combating the evil witches that will come into the world wreaking havoc and destruction upon 
 humans and the lands. Alph, the main character, and his trusty buddies Theo, Leon, and Cecille 
 are the Garden Children that will be the wrath of the church upon the witches and will Protect 
 the Light, Condemn the Dark. The story develops as these kids go on a journey to condemn the witches 
 and bring peace back to the planet that they so love.
  
  The story has always been a driving force with all Atlus games and this game does so just like 
 other previous Atlus games. The story is told remarkably through anime characters popping on the 
 top screen and the text dialogue shown right below them. The player can basically tell who is talking 
 because the character that is talking will be a bit brighter than the one not talking. There is 
 usually two characters shown on the screen at each time and the characters swap as they talk to 
 get a conversation going. This method seems very old and not something admired very much nowadays, 
 however, the game does it partially well so that it doesnt annoy the fans of this old style character 
 conversations. The one thing, however, in the game that does get very tiring is that there is too 
 much dialogue in between battles from the story. As a game driven with much story it is understandable 
 however, there should be an extent to how much the characters talk in each set after battles. The 
 characters show during dialogue are drawn in an anime style that fits greatly with the game itself 
 because of the fantastical and mythical world that this game place in, plus this being a Japanese 
 RPG game its very understandable. A great addition to the game is that Luminous Arc actually has 
 a great amount of voice overs in the game that adds more value of the game. While some voices of 
 the characters are well done, others are a bit annoying and just all out wrong. Even though the 
 voices are well and is actually featured into the game at certain parts of the game, the game puts 
 dialogue sometimes into the most bizarre parts of the story or conversation therefore sort of ruining 
 the mood of the game and at other times the VO just suddenly cuts off therefore it feels that game 
 has a bit of lack. Also the flow of the VO sometimes does not fit because at times you will want 
 to proceed with the story and you click the A button to proceed, the voice of the characters will 
 go onto the next character or the dialogue will not allow you to proceed because the imaginary, 
 or used to be Japanese dialogue, footprints of the previous VO is left behind. This is very noticeable 
 in the game but does not hinder the story at all, rather it partially hinders the game itself.
 
  
  Even though the bulk of the game is through dialogue and story telling, the part that makes this 
 a game is of course, the fights. The battles in the game represent great alikeness to that of the 
 critically acclaimed Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, as they are of the same genre. Luminous Arc 
 is an isometric turn-based RPG that allows the characters to move certain spaces and take action. 
 The characters are placed on to the map and the player moves the characters against the enemy characters 
 that are on the battlefield. The battlefield differs as you go on throughout the story and the 
 scenery is quite beautiful but its not something to be admired on the DS as the graphics can be 
 a bit better. The reason for this is that the graphics are very similar to the FFTA and veterans 
 of the game that play this game might realize the great similarity in graphics of the battlefield 
 and the characters that are on it. Regardless, the graphics are well drawn enough that it weaves 
 in with everything else that is in the game. The characters movement order is dependent on speed 
 and previous action in this game. In example, the person that moves the least amount of spaces 
 and does the least amount of action will have their turn come faster next turn. The player and 
 the enemy does not move their whole entire army each turn rather, a bulk of the enemys characters 
 can move depending on how fast they are and what they did last turn. Because of this players can 
 strategize how they will move their characters in order to finish the mission with the least amount 
 of casualty and greatest amount of skill. Even though the action affects when the characters turn 
 will come around, the speed is the big part of when the character will have his or her next turn. 
 A general use of this style is called turn order which can be quickly accessed by clicking start 
 in the battle and going to the turn order section.
  
  Each character will have his own class and will tell the player, usually, what his or her specialty 
 is. This is sort of a turn off to most players due to the lack of customization in a character. 
 In other turn-based games, players would have the liberty of choosing a class for each character 
 whereas in this game the class is set for each character and you will have to make due with this 
 system. However, the game offers a variety of characters for the players to choose and place their 
 own set of characters that they like on to the battlefield with a maximum of 8 of your own characters 
 on the field. At times the character will say a battle phrase when their turn starts or say something 
 when they are hurt or when they even cause hurt. This is one of the neat additions into the game 
 that proves this is actually a next-generation portable game but this feature might hurt players 
 as some of the voice of the characters annoying or the restlessness of the player hearing the same 
 phrase over and over and over again. The battle field is represented on the bottom screen while 
 the top screen represents the characters stats that you are currently controlling. While this 
 makes a good use of the DS dual screen feature, its not very intuitive. The bottom screens battlefield 
 can be controlled by either the D-Pad control scheme or the touch screen control scheme, left of 
 right handed, by using the stylus and moving the characters, touching the menus bars, and etc. 
 While the touch screen controlling is pretty cool, the battlefield tends to sometimes get very 
 bunched up that the player can no longer see where she is moving, what spaces are available, and 
 even who shes attacking or controlling. It also gets especially difficult in battle when you cannot 
 scroll to an enemy and see how much HP it has without removing the players menu by repeatedly 
 pressing B. A quick way to see how much HP a character has is to click the X button which shows 
 the characters HP bar, showing remaining HP out of the whole, and a number which represents when 
 her turn will come, smallest being the soonest. Though this feature is a great add-on, it somewhat 
 does not balance out the overall crowdedness in the battlefield. A great addition to make up for 
 this would be the Hoshigamis rotating map feature with a click of a button but, oh well. Players 
 will make battle against the enemy and for every action that the character does, movement and wait 
 do not count, the character will gain experience. Once a character reaches 100 exp that character 
 will level up and replenish his or her Hit Points and Magic Points. This adds a great amount of 
 strategy into the game as players will consider this as a factor to automatic healing and such. 
 A character can take action by attacking or using MP to use their special ability, however, another 
 battle feature added onto this game is the Flash Drive and the Synergy Feature. Each character 
 possesses a FP meter, or Flash Points Meter, which increases with every hit you take of every hit 
 you cause on a character. As this meter increases a character is allowed to unleash their special 
 ability attack that will cause great damage and might create a status condition on a foe. Synergy 
 is a synchronized attacks between character that do an even greater deal of damage when certain 
 requirements are met. Major requirements will be that they must be within a 3x3 range of the character 
 and also that their FP meter must be full. The Flash Drive and the Synergy are somewhat hard to 
 pull of in battle, they are great battle features that help aid the player later on in harder mission 
 in the game. Death of a character does not permanently erase she or her from the game rather, the 
 person does not gain anymore experience in the battle. He or she can be revived but is put at the 
 end of the line for the turn order. During the battle there is also the suspend battle feature 
 but its real cheap because its not as punishing as the Fire Emblem, which made very good use 
 of the suspend battle feature. The battles are somewhat easy in the beginning of the game, but 
 the difficulty will spike real high once they progress in the story that may discourage the players 
 but those that get past these difficulties will realize the true importance of strategy and conservation 
 in this game.
  
  Atlus has been well known for having a game that has tiny but very funny additional features in 
 their game and in this game it is the Intermission phase. Intermissions are triggered after each 
 battle where the main character Alph may talk to one character to build up their relationship. 
 The persons relationship will grow and eventually will pay off by special added effects in battle 
 and gifts from the character for Alph which can virtually be used by anyone. The person chosen 
 after the battle goes into a fun dialogue section with Alph and the player decides what to say 
 after the character is done talking. This can raise the persons affection, keep it neutral, or 
 lower the affection with Alph. Most likely, you would want to go for the positive choice. There 
 are 3 choices and they affect the relationship with the above consequences. The persons relationship 
 with Alph is represented by a heart which is filled halfway, full, and full with an arrow from 
 good to best respectively. This is a fun feature, really it is, but at a certain point the characters 
 heart, will turn into a blue color which will mean that the relationship will develop no further 
 until you play a new game, or play the new game+ which can be accessed by completing the game first.
 
  
  No battles, intermission, or anything else, Luminous puts an Alph avatar in the overworld of the 
 continent that he lives in. The main flow of the game is that you go through the story, do etcetera 
 stuff, proceed with the story further, battle, intermission, then more story. In the etcetera the 
 character will go buy armor, weapons, and other equipments that will aid the player in battle buy 
 properly equipping items onto a character. These items can be bought through the games currency 
 which can be earned by finishing battles or doing random battles. However, because items costs 
 are a bit hefty in the beginning, the game requires a bit of money grinding from time to time. 
 Another etcetera would be imbuing of items which improve the stats of the items or add random stats 
 that will aid the character. Imbuing can be done later on in the game by merging items with vitae, 
 magical stones, which players collect throughout game. Recipes can be found by randomly imbuing 
 items, or looking on the internet. The overworld has icons placed on the map and dots that connect 
 the icons from place to place. The icons on the world are as following: towns, random places, encounters. 
 The towns are just locations that contain a shop which offers items for you to buy at anytime. 
 You can also sell random items that you use, which most likely be useless armor that you no longer 
 use. Random places are just icons that are on the map because it has something to do with the story, 
 but sometimes itll contain shops. Encounters are icons that are symbolized by 2 swords and going 
 across these icons on the map will trigger a battle. These encounters help by raising your characters 
 level, money grinding, or item hording.
  
  The sound of the game is surprisingly well and fits with every single mood of the game as well 
 as the battles. Its become very standard that most Japanese RPG games will contain a good story 
 with outstanding characters and a great music score, and Luminous Arc fits the sound category very 
 well. The only fit that a player will most likely make when playing Luminous on the sound section 
 will be some of the annoying VO on the characters or annoying battle cries.
  
  The Network fights and the Wi-Fi part of the game pits you against another player to fight it out 
 on a battlefield. The multiplayer portion of the game works much like the fights in the single 
 player except the player will fight against an actual human. Each player will bring out their own 
 team of 8 characters and the gameplay works the same as the single player portion. The multiplayer 
 offers the players to think outside the box by strategizing greatly. Of course, the player is bringing 
 his or her own team of characters so the levels and items and other things will stay. There is 
 a level range that the player will fight against which is a good thing but sometimes people can 
 be overwhelmed by the opposing team because the lack of skill, and sometimes cheats (action replay) . 
 However, for the victor the winner will receive rare items and other good junkies.
  
  Though the game is great, Luminous Arc does have its flaws and some of the flaws bring down its 
 gameplay and value quite a bit. The slow button reactions due to the VO in the conversations or 
 the imaginary Japanese footprints are an obvious problem as the story progresses and its a problem 
 that shows that Atlus didnt quite touch up on the porting process of the game completely. There 
 noticeable graphical glitches in the game where a white line will stream across during character 
 dialogues or in battle which can be noticed if youre even casually playing but they disappear 
 instantly. One part of the story shows a major graphic problem most likely due to the layering 
 process of the game. The last but the biggest problem of the game is the games speed of the game. 
 The game runs surprisingly smooth and fast in the game but from time to time or the later parts 
 of the game, Luminous Arc will lag very much. It seems like theres a frame rate issue in the game 
 or a lack of memory in the game but it doesnt hinder the game too much. The lag is present but 
 its something that shouldve been cleaned up if possible before released to the public.
  
  The game offers a great amount of fun and replay value due to a good story, great music compilation, 
 fun characters, and challenging multiplayer. However, the tiny and tedious details and problems 
 of the game makes it come a bit short of its greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egei
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  So I just picked this game up a few days ago, and I've been able to play it for a few hours and 
 I have to say, This game, while not being anything extremely ground breaking, is a REALLY good 
 game.
  
  The animation style is really cool and enjoyable to look at as the story progresses. The characters 
 actually talk at some times in the game, which is really cool. The battle system is pretty sweet, 
 not much different from any other strategy RPG, but still really fun. The story, although I'm not 
 too far into it, is pretty interesting, and the characters personalities and the way that they 
 interact with one another (in and outside of battle) is very interesting.
  
  I don't want to give away too much about the game, but they have something called the intermission 
 where you can talk to characters and answer questions, and based on your responses, you get a rating 
 from each individual person, and if you get their rating high, you can do combo moves with those 
 people in battle! Little added bonuses in the game like this really add that much more to the gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  For those desperatly awaiting Square Enix's Final Fantasy Tactics Advanced 2, Atlus has provided 
 a nice RPG in the same vein as the popular turn based strategy RPG franchise that Square started 
 on the PS1 and would see light on the GBA a few years ago. However do not expect all of the same 
 things as Tactics Advanced as this game has a few different features. First off a good chunk of 
 the game has voice acting and there are plenty of characters in the game, you start off with 5 
 by the 3rd chapter which is roughly 1 hour into the game.
  
  Luminous Arc tells the tale of a land which has spent the last 1000 years in complete peace since 
 the Witches were last sealed away. The recent death of the Grand Cardinal who is the leader of 
 the Church (basically the game revolves around a lot of religious aspects) has left people questioning 
 the leadership as the appointed Grand Cardinal is nothing more then a child. In comes you and your 
 party of characters, the Garden Children as they are called whom are trained warriors destined 
 to fight evil and protect the people from monsters and the Witches who have recently started to 
 appear and have been attacking villages using monsters.
  
  The gameplay is heavily reliant on the touch screen which would be good were it designed to be 
 a little more accurate. When you touch the screen to move a character, unlike in FFTA where you 
 could move the cursor with the D-pad, this becomes much more tedious in Luminous Arc with the touch 
 screen. Essentially all commands and actions are done using the stylus pen for menu navigation. 
 If you like Tactics, this game will be fairly enjoyable however do not expect the level of depth 
 or the same kind of story evolution, plus you have less job classes and you cannot switch between 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster149
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc doesn't exactly redefine what is the isometric RPG playing field, but it certainly 
 takes the genre and stick to it, giving you somewhat of an original video game. The story itself 
 isn't too deep but does keep you wanting to play, and the gameplay content itself is as simple 
 to comprehend as the storyline itself (though those starting storyline questions are always present) . 
 If there is any difficulty with understanding them, tutorials are immediately provided in one of 
 the file's main menus. They are simple to go straight to when you are unsure of a specific element 
 of the game.
  
  Fighting sometimes feels repetitive, and you will want to continue the story rather than having 
 to step back and fight random encounters, though they're sometimes necessary to have the stronger 
 party you may need. There is still plenty of challenge as a result, however, since the enemies 
 you fight are usually a few levels higher and thus a bit stronger.
  
  In the end, I find myself enjoying the game. Wi-Fi isn't too impressive (but the rewards of winning 
 in battle are nice) , but sticking to the storyline is the most enjoyable part of the game. Because 
 the sometimes choppy graphics and only mediocre music doesn't come off as a hook to play, the story 
 and methods of combat are the most enjoyable part. It's definitely worth picking up, especially 
 if you're looking for something with a pretty good story, and yet still simple, yet difficult, 
 game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: especensor
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  Luminous Arc is a fantasy turn based strategy game from Image Epoch. Like many other of its kind, 
 it is heavily text driven and follows a linear level progression. Luminous Arc plays in an isometric 
 view not unlike final fantasy tactics advance. Like other games of its kind, you select a unit 
 to move, attack, use items and to wait in a series of turns.
  
  The game offers stylus control where you move and select units using the stylus. However, this 
 isn't implemented very well. It is easy to hit the wrong square and you'll often be unable to tap 
 the correct one. Luckily, the game still retains the traditional d-pad and buttons control which 
 is easily accessible by pressing the select button during a fight.
  
  Luminous Arc features some superb music. Especially if you play the game while using headphones. 
 You can here each individual sound and it really blends nicely together with the game. The game 
 also features quite extensive voice overs. Voice Actors will voice what the characters are saying 
 for certain texts. The characters on the map screen will also yelp and say comments such as Alright, 
 its my turn when it comes to their turn.
  
  Like other similar games, you level up your characters when you attack or defeat enemies. Healing 
 characters also gain exp for leveling up when they heal themselves or their comrades. You buy equipment 
 and items from stores.
  
  While the game borrows heavily from such titles as Final Fantasy Tactics and Disgaea, it does have 
 a few unique features. One of the special traits in this game is the Flash Drive Gauge, which, 
 when filled, allows the player to use a special attack. You also have an intermission after a battle 
 which allows you to talk to the characters and brighten their spirits. Another feature unique to 
 this game is Vitae imbuing. It allows you to craft new custom weapons and armor.
  
  Bottom Line: Luminous Arc is a decent game. It fills the void of a decent fantasy turn based strategy 
 game and while it heavily borrows upon other similar franchises, it does hold its own and is worth 
 playing until Final Fantasy Tactics Advance 2 hits the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  When it comes down to it, Luminous Arc is your standard Tactics RPG game, and if you've played 
 games like Tactics Ogre, or Final Fantasy Tactics, you pretty much know what to expect here. Theres 
 sword wielders, archers, fighters, magic casters, and pretty much every character class you would 
 expect to find here. The real thing that stands out about Luminous Arc is the story. You play as 
 Alph, a young sword wielding rifleman who fights for the Church of Luminous. In recent time, witches 
 have been coming back to the earth summoning monsters along with them, or so you're told. So the 
 Luminous Church's one objective is to condemn all witches with out a thought. If you paid attention 
 in world history, eventually you'll make the connection that the Luminous Church acts suspiciously 
 a lot like the Catholic church, back in the days of the inquisition... you know the whole, kill 
 everyone else but us thing. The main conflict here is when Alph befriends a young witch, which 
 causes you to start doubting something that the church has told you and whether or not the justification 
 of the Church is right. And thats the story in a nutshell with out giving too much away.
  
  On a technical side, the graphics don't leave you with a big wow factor. It's pretty much looks 
 like other tactics games. The character models are your typical anime style, over the top costumes, 
 spiky hair, and women with big... you know. Some of the voice acting is a little sketchy too, while 
 some VOs are good and others... well not so much. One positive thing about the audio is the soundtrack 
 which sets moods and tones very well.
  
  So overall, where Luminous Arc is pretty much your standard run of the mill tactics game, it's 
 worth a play for anyone who is looking for an RPG, or fans of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Takisuteni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  ok here i go. First let's discuss the game play it's almost like Disgaea with no things to lift 
 and throw so far. The sad thing is that u can't play if your touch screen is not functioning cause 
 all the game play depends on your magical touch to move the charcters. It's not that much amazing 
 but still worth it for every TBS fan. Secondly, the pictures. They are for me the best thing in this 
 game. The charcters are well designed and attractive in case of animated game. Thirdly, the surrounding 
 sounds and music. They are really BAD specially the charcters voices as expected from Atlus. Lastly, 
 the story line. There are i think 8 different stories according to your word choice at the beginning 
 which means every story might take less than what u may think.
  My opinion about this game is simple. If you LOVE not like TBS you will difinately enjoy it despite 
 the fact that many common bad jokes said by certain charcters will make you feel i dunno which 
 word to pick childishly bored 
  Anyway, you should appreciate this game due to TBS deficiency in the DS
  and DO NOT think it's 
 as amusing as Advance Wars Dual Strike
  That's all have fun 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
