-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Luminous Arc 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/luminousarc2will/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Difficulty encourages smart, strategic play.
 Side quest objectives keep gameplay from getting mired down.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Consecutive battles can make restarts a real pain.
 Scripted monster spawns are rude.
 Characters and storytelling can come off a little flat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 97 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Image Epoch
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Luminous Arc 2 is formulaic but charming, a solid strategy RPG that hooks you in with warriors of 
 might and magic. 

  Luminous Arc 2 doesn't innovate much on the standard strategy role-playing game formula, but much 
 like mom's home cooking, it fills a comfort niche in this turn-based genre. There's a decent level 
 of difficulty to engage your brain, a smattering of comedy to engage your humor, and a heaping 
 helping of content to engage your free time. While the narrative and characters can be a bit shallow, 
 there's enough gameplay and drive to keep the momentum going throughout your adventures in this 
 world of magic.  

  The protagonist Roland is a mild-mannered lad training as a knight under the tutelage of his father, 
 the legendary warrior Steven. He hones his skills alongside his brother Rasche and their friend 
 Rina, at a time where the world is subject to increasing turmoil. Fiendish monsters are roaming 
 the countryside and a member of the sorcerous order of witches has gone rogue and is stirring up 
 trouble. In the midst of all this excitement, Roland unwittingly becomes the master of the Runic 
 Engine, a device that grafts itself to his hand and enables great power. Now known as a Rune Knight, 
 Roland must work with the witches to protect his friends and his home kingdom of Carnava against 
 the encroaching dangers that threaten them all.  

           Witches and their magic come in very handy, especially when they try on wedding gowns. 

  The story follows a very familiar structure of world salvation, complete with an evil artifact 
 sealed away by powerful sages that just so happens to be freed by a collusion of misguided folk. 
 There's a lot of exposition in between battles and many characters to meet along your journey, 
 each with their own motivations and personality quirks. Many of these people are genuinely amusing, 
 though a lot of them also tend to act like caricatures rather than actual individuals. Because 
 of that, it's a little difficult to get much emotional investment out of the storytelling, especially 
 when coupled with voice acting of uneven quality. The framework of the tale is enough to move matters 
 along, though, and there are numerous little touches, such as chatting with party members after 
 battle, or reading the short stories for the cute creature Kopin, that add interest.  

  Strategy is the real name of the game, with you pitting your party members against enemies of all 
 sorts on a variety of terrain. Movement is grid-based, and characters gain advantages for attacking 
 foes from the side or behind as opposed to head-on. Order of action is determined based on individual 
 speed, and you'll be able to see the action queue on the top of the screen to figure out who is 
 able to do what and when. Characters each bear unique abilities, from up-close melee attacks and 
 powerful spear techniques from the knights, to long-ranged bow and gun users, to witches with their 
 array of magical spells, and more. As you fight, you'll store up energy that can eventually be 
 unleashed in a flash drive, which is a particularly devastating attack that will save your bacon 
 more than once when used at appropriate times.  

  Roland as a Rune Knight has a special ability called engage that he can use when there are witches 
 in his party. This bizarre power is the result of a witch lending Roland a ring and some of their 
 own magic. When you use it in battle, you are treated to an image of the witch in a flowing white 
 wedding gown as the young knight completes his transformation. When finished, Roland gains additional 
 abilities, additional magic, and a flash drive that corresponds to the young lady he is currently 
 engaged to. A fire witch will grant him fire spells and flash drives, a water witch will do the 
 same with water magic, and so on. It's pretty crazy, and is an ability you'll want to plan carefully 
 around using to eke out its full advantage.  

  Fights often require careful consideration, as story-driven battles in particular tend to feature 
 one or more absurdly powerful enemies that need to be approached cautiously and with strong attacks 
 in your arsenal ready to be unleashed. That's because much of the time these mighty foes can kill 
 you or your friends in a single strike with a flash drive or magic, so you'll need to bait them 
 into position and then gang up on them quickly. This mostly works out great for those who like 
 to plan out their moves, but there are a few issues. One is the fact that many maps have scripted 
 monster spawns, so your first time in a given battle can be cut short if you're anticipating the 
 end only to have another three enemies scuttle onto the field. This means that a lot of times you'll 
 have to replay a map for no other reason than you need to see all the possible monster spawns so 
 that you can plan around them.  

  Another issue is that frequently story battles will chain with each other, so you'll have to fight 
 through two battles or more without a break. You can equip only two items at a time per character 
 and can't re-equip between battles, so your resources can easily get depleted. While you can retry 
 a battle if you fail, you cannot equip items at the start, nor can you actually change the characters 
 you selected to bring with you to that particular fight. If you unfortunately have a badly balanced 
 team to begin with, you can be stuck having to work through your initial poor choices in the hopes 
 that you can pull out a victory rather than start all over. That dovetails into the final downside, 
 which is that the careful, cautious planning can come with a price of time. If you have to spend 
 some minutes poring over your strategy, hoarding your most powerful spells and advancing slowly 
 across the map only to get reamed at the end, having to repeat that can really wear away at your 
 will to live.  

  While a number of the story battles are indeed difficult, you can intersperse them with somewhat 
 less demanding side quest missions that you pick up at a guildhall. Many side quests are available, 
 and this gives you a chance to level up some of your weaker characters while gathering up other 
 vital materials like equipment, items, and money. Leveling is important because the game difficulty 
 often advances quickly, and characters really only get appreciable experience gains from landing 
 killing blows. These additional battles let you plan around who you need to level without having 
 to worry about failing the main game in an epic manner. These quests and some extras like online 
 multiplayer handily fill out the already solid narrative portion of the game and will give you 
 lots of content to chew on.  

           Many of the minions are monstrously mean, so creep up cautiously before you clobber them. 

  Character art in Luminous Arc 2 has a good aesthetic, with a nice range of expression in multiple 
 fixed character portraits and an attractive animated opening sequence. Battle maps and sprites 
 aren't amazingly detailed but fill the eye with bright color, and the music serves a nice accompaniment. 
 The voice work in the game features a couple nicely nuanced performances, several average ones, 
 and a few that will have you mashing the skip button.  

  Luminous Arc 2 doesn't break the mold of the traditional strategy RPG, but fills it nicely and 
 offers up a good experience. If turn-based combat combined with swords, sorcery, and demonic stuffed 
 cats is your cup of tea, definitely consider giving this game a home in your Nintendo DS.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: digitaltiger
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The combat is very simple and strait forward; you move your characters around on a grid style battle 
 field and defeat your opponents before they defeat your team. All thought you can only use a max 
 of 6 characters during any one fight over all you get a large amount of characters to pick from, 
 which I liked a lot. Also equipment and skills are balanced well so the game has a nice flow to 
 it. If you can't get past your current battle, no problem. There are spots you can go to fight 
 easier battles to help with any level problems you have. The story is standard for srpg's but what 
 makes up for that is the rich and fun depth of the characters. The characters keep the game interesting 
 and light hearted; I found it hard to put the game down some times.
  
  The graphics are great and are in the anime style which is fairly standard for most srpg's. The 
 color is rich and crisp, which helped reduce eye stain. There are also lots of good pictures of 
 the characters as they talk to each other. The music and voices were terrific, every little tune 
 is well placed and for the most part none of the voices for the characters were annoying. The sheer 
 amount of hidden extras will keep you playing for many extra hours. This is the end of my first 
 play thru of the game and after 50 hours I only uncovered around 50% of the extras. 
  
  I really had fun playing this game and it is a good improvement over the first one. If you're looking 
 for some straight forward fun, buy this game.
  
  Game Play: 7/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  Over All: 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knight_killer7
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  The story was with huge gaps and after a while it gets repetitive. The game play is good but was 
 too easy, there are only a few missions were worth playing and you get to miss the challenge of 
 the tower after you finish the game.
  The AI gets to be boring after a while and it is really but really predictable; the play time is 
 fair and the fact that u can keep the characters is a good thing.
  The engage system is interesting shame they didn't developed its full potential in game and story.
 
  The character limitation is too short so you cant really get to use to many characters and some 
 of them are completely use less not even worth using. Also the character combined attack was missing 
 and the Flash Drive animations were too plain to feel it was an special attack a skill or a plain 
 attack.
  The intermission was to weak in comparison to the old game and although it gave part of the story 
 there were even here huge gaps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc 2 is a great game that is developed by the great developers Atlus. The game is a typical 
 strategy rpg that doesn't really do much to stray from the winning formula of s-rpgs or further 
 the genre but the game also manages to win with the traditional formula as well. The game starts 
 off with you taking on the role of a knight in training wanting to aspire to great heights. In 
 the kingdom there has been peace for over 4000 years but in other parts of the world the witches 
 are having problems within ranks and now u are assigned to help them settle their problems. This 
 all leads to a deeper plot full of betrayal, love, adventure, and sadness. The story is that of 
 a traditional rpg but its still a great deep plot that makes you want to keep playing the game 
 in order to find out how it will end. Throughout the game there are multiple side quests as well 
 as guild quests that keep the gaming lasting but able to change it up as well. The story is very 
 long though and in order to fully get the experience a minimum of 2 playthroughs is needed due 
 to its multiple endings and a maximum of 6 for 100% completion. The gameplay is solid and you play 
 with a team of six characters form a total of approximately twenty playable characters. Since you 
 play as a rune knight you have the useful ability of engaging wit the elemental witches in your 
 party and thus gaining each elements stat attributes/power ups and their spells. This is a very 
 useful ability that adds new depth to strategy planning. The battles are great not too long but 
 not too short and the maps are well designed along with the character animations. There is a multiplayer 
 function but its more of a bonus since very few people actually play online but when you do play 
 online its very smooth and well created. all in all the game is a great solid game that any ds owner 
 will be glad they purchased. Be sure to pick it up as soon as you can because Atlus games are always 
 rare after the first few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paully3433
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc 2 - Nintendo DS
  Other Platforms: None
  Sequel to: Luminous Arc 
  
  Publisher: Atlus
  Developer: Image Epoch
  Release Date: November 18th 2008
  Genre: Turn- 
 Base Strategy RPG
  Number of Players: 1; 2 Online
  ERSB Rating: Teen
  
  Review
  
  Luminous Arc 2 is a game I was stoked for when I found out they were bringing the fun loving Witches 
 back. One thing that is great about LA2 is that it is a stand alone game, and playing through the 
 first wouldn't be entirely necessary if you chose not to. As mentioned it brings back Witches to 
 fight with a hero of course, that is a Knight in training. Together they travel through a world 
 of 30 Chapters and many side quests to ultimately take down an evil force that may not be who you 
 think mid way through the game. If you are a fan of Turn-Based games you can easily pick this up 
 and go to town, others may also be able to pick it up with little trouble once you learn things. 
 Anyways, onto the backbone, the story of this brute of a SRPG. 
  
  Story:
  
  The story to LA2 is one you probably have heard before if you are a fan of RPGs or Strategy games 
 alike. You take control of a Knight in training who is learning with his friends how to some day 
 be this power, in this case, Rune Knight. Your training starts by making sure the Kingdom of Carnava 
 is safe from some beast fiends. You meet many characters throughout your journey and some enemies 
 in the end may be friends, or they may be foes, you must see! The story is spilled throughout the 
 game in very long text heavy sequences between battles. Most times these seem to take longer then 
 the actual battles, more on that later. The game feels like your playing a novel more then anything, 
 which can also be a downturn. Let me explain a few of the game play basics.
  
  
  Game Play:
  
  First off, LA2 has an insane amount of details and battle specific things I won't 
 be able to touch on. The review may be as long as the game! Anyhow, the game map is where you spend 
 a fair amount of time, simply because it can be a pain. Areas are hard to recall where to go and 
 sometimes you may enter three or four areas before you can find which spot you need to be at. Once 
 you do find where you need to go, you enter the area, listen/read the text and enter battle. Most 
 battles you can choose up to 6 players to control during the fight. Some you may have only 3 or 
 4 where other characters are AI controlled, this is rare and may only happen 3-4 times the entire 
 game. During battle you have a few options to what to do with each character. First option is move, 
 easy enough to know what that is! Followed by a simple Attack command, depending on what kind of 
 weapon you character has, you may need to be right next to your enemy, others may need to be 2-3 
 away. When you click a simple attack you are given a % of what the chance is it will actually hit, 
 it then gives you what damage it will do. It is nice how it does this and it also does it for the 
 Arts option which is simply different actions that allow you to cast an spell or attack with some 
 force. As you interact in battle your Flash Drive gauge will go up. When you reach a point, you 
 can unleash a massive attack on the enemy. You can also use an Item command and End Turn, simple 
 and explanation not needed. So now you have had a run down about battle. Now you can wait another 
 25 minutes until your ready for the next. Some battles do have another battle right after and do 
 not give you a chance to heal or save. Another thing I really disliked about the battles is that 
 it seems like you are fighting the same battles over and over. For spoilers sake I won't say to 
 much, but how many times does it take to kill that enemy?! I was also really disappointed with 
 the amount of Text heavy actions in the game, it really was hard to keep my attention during most 
 of the interactions. Your best friend will become the R button as it lets the text keep flowing 
 without having to hit any buttons. 
  
  Sound and Graphics:
  
  The music in LA2 is pretty good for the most part. Atlus was nice enough to include a soundtrack 
 with the game if you pre-ordered it. As far as I know, this is a first with a DS game. The voices, 
 for the most part are not terrible, however, the Witches voices can get very irritating and are 
 hard to listen to after a little while. Not every conversation is in voice overs as it would be 
 more like a movie then a game. Only certain high priority sections are voiced and you never know 
 when this is going to happen. I didn't think the graphics were anything to give an award to by 
 any means, maybe if it was a GBA game. Ok they are not that bad but it does have that old school 
 kind of feel to. The spells are pretty tame and basically are a chunk of ice falling down, spout 
 of water shooting up, or some thorny roots coming out of the ground at you. For it being later 
 in the DS generation, it seems the graphics could have been better. One thought I had on the graphics 
 being simple is that LA2 is a basic and simple idea game, hence the simple and basic graphics. 
 Just a thought!
  
  Overall
  
  Overall I would in fact recommend LA2, specially if you did like the first, as you will like the 
 second. Luminous Arc 2 has some good points with the music being fantastic as well as the game 
 play being fairly easy to understand. Most users should be able to pick up and play after a little 
 tinkering around. The story is good and keeps you wondering whats going to happen. Just be prepared 
 for some non flashy graphics and a huge amount of Text and Reading. My reading skills gained 10 
 points after playing through the game. Luminous Arc 2 is nothing fancy compared to the other Turn-Based 
 Strategy games out there, but it has its moments and is a fun way to get in touch with the side 
 of you that truly likes scantily clad witches. Final score of 7.5 as it is worth the time you put 
 into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somgu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Luminous Arc 2 is a sequel to the first that takes place 4000 years later.
  
  The Kingdom of Carnava and the Rev Magic Association are that peace for 4000 years. But the Shadow 
 Frost Witch Fatima has caused trouble for the 2, sending monsters to attack the knights and leaving 
 the Rev Magic Association the blame. The main character Roland is a knight in training that becomes 
 a rune knight by the runic engine infused to his hand. You meet a witch in training Althea that 
 has a letter to the queen asking for the knights assistants. You are join by your older brother 
 Rasche and your friend Rina. You are sent to stop the evil Fatima and keep the peace of Kingdom 
 of Carnava and the Rev Magic Association.
  
  First off if you pre order the game it'll come with and art book of the first and second game. 
 It shows some sketches of characters and comments from the person that draw them. And it also tells 
 the females breast size for some reason? If you didn't pre order you can't get the art book and 
 it's not on sale. Each female character are very attracting to look and they all look very young. 
 Just goes to show that anime makes every character look young, especially girls.
  
  The game made alot of improvements from first. Touch screen is more accurate and you can use the 
 d-pad anytime. 
  
  Monsters are more easier to defeat then the first game and EXP is more fair. You can under level 
 in this game making battles hard if you don't use your characters. Luckily you can do guild quest 
 to level and go some items. 
  
  In the first you can use 8 characters in battle but now they made it 6. Their are a total of 18 
 characters to use. Instead of going to items and choose what you want to use, you now have to equip 
 items on characters. You may be alittle pissed about this but it gives alot of more strategy to 
 the game then the first. 
  
  Also each time you have a witch join your party Roland gets engaged to them giving him powers of 
 their element. Each time you use 1 of their powers they show an image of them in a wedding dress. 
 I don't know why that's their but at least it gives something to look at. 
  
  After a certain part in the game you can vs others online with Wifi. When you beat the game you 
 can view bonuses. They are collect while playing. Their are also 2 endings depending on your choices 
 you choose while playing.
  
  Good thoughts:
  - lots of likable characters
  - attracting girls
  - comes with art book if you pre order
  
  Bad thoughts:
  - voices are 
 alittle weird at first
  - won't get an art book if you didn't pre order
  
  Chances are if you like anime your gonna like this game. Try it, it's really good. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
