-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lunar: Dragon Song
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/lunar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Bright, colorful sprites and backgrounds.
 Great music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dull, lengthy battles.
 Weak magic system.
 Impossible to target specific enemies in battle.
 Running lowers your hit points.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 5.8, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 615 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Game Arts
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Sep 27, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even the most devout Lunar loyalists will have a hard time enjoying this game. 

  Lunar: Dragon Song is not only the first fantasy role-playing game for the Nintendo DS; it's the 
 first brand-new game in the Lunar series since Eternal Blue, which came out on the Sega CD way 
 back in 1995. The name alone is enough to catch the attention of old-school RPG fans, but unfortunately 
 Dragon Song fails to live up to its pedigree.  

          Lunar: Dragon Song is the first original Lunar game in more than 10 years.     

  The 
 story in Dragon Song takes place 1,000 years before the events in the first Lunar game, Silver 
 Star. If you've played previous games in the series, you know that the goddess Althena is responsible 
 for creating the world of Lunar and keeping it at peace. Keeping the peace is a tough task because 
 the world is inhabited by two races, the beastmen and the humans. The beastmen are distinguished 
 by their pointy ears and gruff nature, while the humans are slightly more intelligent but are relatively 
 weak in battle. The main character in Dragon Song is Jian, a teenage boy who makes it his mission 
 to prove that humans are every bit as strong as beastmen. After a bit of conflict between the two 
 races, they realize they have more in common than they thought, and without spoiling the story 
 we'll just say that the humans and beastmen eventually figure out that they have to join forces 
 to defeat a new force that's threatening the world of Lunar. That new force is known as the Vile 
 Tribe, which consists of a group of evil beings from the badlands known as the Frontier. These 
 people are lead by a corrupt and powerful dragonmaster named Ignatius, who wants to enslave Althena 
 and take over the world.  

  There are five playable characters in the game, but you don't get to choose which one to use at 
 any given time. Your party is dictated entirely by the story, and you can have only three characters 
 under your command at a time. The cast of playable characters consists of two human healers, two 
 beastmen fighters, and Jian, the main character. The healers can cast a few magic spells to support 
 the other characters in battle, and the beastmen each have one special attack that hits all the 
 enemies onscreen. Jian has no special abilities except that he's an exceptional acrobat and loves 
 to stand on his head, which somehow lets him attack three times each turn instead of one. Once you 
 get about 15 hours into the game you'll get a few magic rings, which Jian can equip to cast basic 
 elemental spells. He can only equip one ring at a time though, so he never has more than one spell 
 to cast in any given battle.  

  The missions are fairly linear in this adventure. You can take a variety of side missions to earn 
 money by defeating enemies and collecting and delivering items to people throughout the world. 
 Otherwise, the story missions are pretty basic. You'll have to visit temples to gain powers, pass 
 various trials to prove your worth as savior of the world, and, of course, save the damsel in distress. 
 The story takes several hours to really get moving, but you can talk to the members of your party 
 at any time if you need more info about what to do or where to go next. Most of the world is inaccessible 
 until you complete certain tasks, and some missions require you to backtrack through several areas 
 you've already visited.  

  Dragon Song has a basic turn-based battle system where you can fight with up to three characters 
 against as many as seven enemies. On the map, you'll see enemies running around, and if you touch 
 one of them you'll be drawn into battle. You can try to run away from the enemies on the map by 
 holding the B button as you move. Unfortunately, you are limited to sprinting only short distances, 
 since prolonged running will drain your hit points. Supposedly this is to add realism to the game, 
 but nobody plays role-playing games for realism, and in practice the limited running is just frustrating. 
 Once in battle, you have an over-the-shoulder view of the action, and the enemies show up on both 
 the bottom and the top screen.  

          There are two battle modes in Lunar, one to earn experience and one to earn loot.     

 
  There are two different battle modes in the game. In combat mode, as you defeat enemies you won't 
 earn experience, but you'll get all kinds of random items that are required for certain quests. 
 In virtue mode, you earn experience as you battle enemies. When you're in virtue mode, a clock 
 counts down after each battle. If you defeat another enemy before the clock resets, you can move 
 on and keep fighting until you've cleared the entire area of enemies. If the clock does reset, 
 enemies will start to reappear. Once you've cleared the area, you gain a few hit points and magic 
 points, and you can open special blue treasure chests that usually contain useful items such as 
 armor or weapons. For the most part, you can stay in virtue mode and level up your party, but for 
 some quests you'll need to switch over to combat mode. Having split battle modes seems unnecessary, 
 since just about every other role-playing game manages to dish out both experience and items with 
 a single battle system.     

  The battles play out the same whether you're in virtue mode or combat mode. You can choose an action 
 for each character, or if you want to take a hands-off approach you can set the battle to automatic, 
 and your characters will keep attacking until they or the enemies are dead. You can even speed 
 up the battles by holding the right shoulder button. Somehow the inclusion of automatic battles 
 and a speed-up feature seems like an admission of the fact that the battles in Dragon Song are 
 too long and boring. Since there isn't much magic to speak of in the game, you'll mostly just attack 
 over and over until the enemies die. You'll probably be using that speed-up button often, since 
 the battles seem to take forever. In fact, it would have been nice if there were an option to toggle 
 the high-speed battles so you wouldn't have to hold the R button all the time.  

          The fact that you can't target a specific enemy in battle completely ruins any strategy 
 this game might have had.     

  It doesn't matter how powerful your characters are, when you're fighting a group of seven enemies 
 it's going to take a while to finish them all off, especially since you have only three characters 
 on your team, and at least one of those always seems to be too weak to inflict much damage. The 
 most egregious oversight of the battle system is the lack of a targeting system. When you choose 
 to attack you have no control over which enemy your character will attack, which is extremely frustrating 
 because you can't focus damage on a specific enemy. Since there are so many enemies in battle, 
 there are times when you'll want to take out a healer or a particularly powerful fighter. Instead, 
 you have to whittle away at the little guys while the bigger enemies eat you for lunch.  

  In another new, if not original, twist on the Lunar series, this game introduces a collectible 
 card system. As you fight, you'll get cards representing the enemies you defeat. When used in battle, 
 the cards have effects like poisoning enemies, temporarily increasing your stats, or allowing you 
 to escape from battle. Some cards can be used when you aren't in battle to regenerate hit points 
 or magic points or to avoid enemy encounters, while some cards can't be used at all and are just 
 in the game for you to collect and show off to your friends.  

  Using the wi-fi connection of the DS, you can connect with a friend for a scratch battle. In these 
 battles you choose one of your cards to go up against one of your friend's cards. The cards stay 
 in the top screen, and on the bottom screen there's a grid with several squares on it. Using the 
 touch screen you can "scratch" off squares to reveal an action icon. Once both players have revealed 
 an icon, the two cards battle based on what icons were scratched off. So, if you scratch off a 
 lighting bolt your card will fry your friend's card for big damage. Each card has a certain amount 
 of hit points, and if your card reaches zero points you lose that card to your opponent. Once you 
 lose a card in multiplayer, you can't use it in your single-player game, so you have to be careful 
 when you're choosing cards to use in battle. These scratch battles are usually pretty brief and 
 they aren't all that entertaining because there are only a handful of different actions your card 
 can perform.  

  The world of Lunar looks as good as ever in Dragon Song. The out-of-battle character sprites are 
 detailed, and they animate well when interacting with one another. Most of the non-playable characters 
 are cookie-cutter sprites with different-colored hair, but they do a fine job of making the world 
 seem lived in. The in-battle character sprites look blurry and pixilated, but the enemies look 
 colorful and fairly sharp. The character and enemy designs are about standard for a role-playing 
 game. You'll fight all the requisite creatures, including dragons, oversized insects, and blobs 
 in every color of the rainbow. As mentioned earlier, some of the enemies take up both screens. 
 It doesn't look bad when the enemy is large enough to prevent the gap between the screens from 
 detracting from your view of the monster, but when a small enemy is split between screens, it looks 
 awkward.  

  The environments are nicely drawn and show off a decent amount of variety. You'll explore lava 
 caves, barren deserts, overgrown rain forests, and ornate temples. It would be nice if you could 
 explore more, but you can access only certain key points on the world map. When moving between 
 those points or from building to building in one of the few towns in the game, you'll simply see 
 a few highlighted squares representing areas that you can visit. There's still a lot of room to 
 move around in the world of Lunar though, and overall the game looks quite a bit more vibrant and 
 detailed than an average Game Boy Advance game, but you won't see any flashy visual effects or 
 eye-popping cutscenes here.  

  The sound is pretty good throughout Dragon Song. You'll hear appropriate -- though somewhat weak -- battle 
 sounds to accompany the onscreen action. There are also plenty of ambient noises, like birds chirping 
 in the forests and icicles falling in frozen caves. The music is great at times, and it changes 
 to fit each of the different environments in the game. The only tune you'll tire of is the battle 
 theme, and that's just because you'll hear it loop endlessly in the long battles.  

          At least the game looks and sounds pretty good.     

  Dragon Song doesn't do a good 
 job of taking full advantage of the unique features of the DS, and while that doesn't detract from 
 the game at all, don't expect to be issuing voice commands or slashing at enemies using the touch 
 screen. You can use the touch screen for everything from navigating menus to moving around the 
 map if you really want to, but it's much easier to just use the D pad and buttons. The only voice 
 command available is escape, so if you want to run from battle you can just blow into the microphone. 

  Lunar: Dragon Song takes the now-classic role-playing formula and tosses in a few new ideas for 
 the sake of trying something new. Unfortunately, the end result is a game that's convoluted where 
 you want it to be simple, and shallow where you wish it had some depth. Even the most devout Lunar 
 loyalists will have a hard time enjoying this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nanophlame
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Dragon Song - A Review by Nanophlame
  
  Well I got Lunar Dragon Song awhile ago. I was standing in my local Gamecrazy, debating on Lunar 
 or Mario & Luigi Partners in Time. Well I sure picked the wrong one. Despite what the clerk said 
 I just wouldn't have it. How could it be bad if it's a Lunar game? I loved Lunar : Silver Star 
 Story so naturally I was really excited. But what I got was an RPG so unable to live up to my own 
 hype and impossibly easy, I can't even begin to describe it. Of course, I'll try my best.
  So I get home pull out my DS, put the card in and start it up. Right away I could tell something 
 was amiss. The main menu looked like something straight out of a grade school child's favorite 
 anime series. The little child heads next to the "Yes A" and "No B" choices was not really what 
 I was expected. So anyways I start a new game. Apparently I'm playing as this Jian Campbell guy 
 who's a Courier ( A delivery guy) who slept in too late and his partner Lucia has left with out 
 me. This is the Lunar I signed up for... Until I get out my "house". When you leave a building, 
 you're greeted with this simplistic "choose-where-you-want-to-go" town style. While it allows for 
 easy access to every part of town, I find it annoying that I can't explore and find this out for 
 myself. No right off the bat I know this is "Simon's House". But whatever. 
  Well I get moving and run around town and discover after talking to some guy, Lucia's at the Fountain. 
 Long story short, I get moving and have to go through some woods to get to some town so I can deliver 
 something. So I get to the woods, and I start heading through. I'm attacked by this gray creature. 
 So I go into battle and I start fighting, and I get hit once. So does Lucia. We are like Hit Points 
 from death. I later discovered the culprit of my HP loss: Running. Yes Ladies and Gents, running 
 loses you HP. Now do you see my point? This is so simplistic they decided running should lose you 
 HP. From there I die. I haven't Saved. Straight back to "New Game"
  
  Now people, don't get me wrong. This game is enjoyable, especially if you're looking for a layed 
 back sort of RPG, or you're a fan of the series. It is a longer game even though it is relatively 
 easy. So if you would like a good RPG, that's not too hard, this game would be good for you. Or 
 if you have a younger Brother or Sister, or son or daughter who needs to be occupied, this game 
 is good at just that. I still reccomend playing it, just don't be dissapointed if you lose at this 
 insanely easy game.
  
  Bottom Line:
  Try this game, play to the end. Just don't expect anything too epic.
  
  -Nanophlame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  Well, here we go. A review of the 2nd worst game I have ever played in the history of my life. 
 My brother picked this piece of garbage up for 20 bucks at EB Games, and to be honest, it looked 
 good at first. I heard good things about Lunar Games. We drive home and anxiously wait to play 
 it.
  
  We get home. I pop it in. Good God, it sucks. Oh, I guess you would like some more detail? Here, 
 take a spoonful.
  
  You play as a young acrobat working at a postal delivery office. Your pink haired friend also works 
 there. You start off running around in the town, looking for this chick. The graphics are 2-D sprites, 
 they look pretty nice actually... You can ask your character (s) for advice if you're lost, as well. 
 Once you find the girl, you can begin the actual game. You'll start off with a simple delivery, 
 then move on. This is the part where it all crashed.
  
  My hugest, biggest, complaint would have to be this: YOU LOSE HP WHEN YOU RUN!!!!!! What in the 
 name of gaming were they thinking?!?!?! Do they not realize that everyone wants to run? Do we want 
 to walk and smell the 2-D flowers? No! You lose one Hitpoint about every 5 seconds! It is enough 
 to make any gamer pissed off, because nobody likes to walk. As you explore the world, on the bottom 
 of your touch screen you have the menu, and a few other tools. You can put your character in a 
 mode where he and his partners will not gain exp., but get items, and then another where you get 
 exp but not items. Nice idea, huh? No. It isn't. It's confusing and will annoy a lot of people. 
 There is also some other stuff that doesn't make much sense, but moving on.
  
  The fights are turn-based, and unless you get better gear, you both suck and die easily. You enter 
 a fight by walking into the enemey on the world map, then you can choose to let the game do the 
 fight for you, or actually put some effort into it and do the fight. The fights are simple enough, 
 but I believe the only way you can escape is by screaming "RUN!!!" into the mic. I'm not sure because 
 I have yet to run, but that's what I saw my brother doing, and it seems like it doesn't work half 
 the time.
  
  There is no tutorial. You'll have to read the manual (s) if you want to understand this.... this... thing. 
 Quite frankly, the gameplay is boring, confusing, the game is too easy (Yet a little hard what with 
 LOSING HP WHENEVER YOU RUN!!!) , and the writing is mediocre. Stay the hell away from this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catkid906
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I normally enjoy RPG games such as Kingdom Hearts, Legend of Zelda and things like that, but this 
 was just a really bad game.
  
  You start off as a boy called Jian Campbell, a boy who works alongside a girl called Lucia. They 
 both work as couriers and they get a delivery request to Perit Village. But the package gets stolen 
 and an adventure starts.
  
  The good points in the game are the strategy of the battle sequences. Thats it.
  
  The bad 
 points are that the grapics are awful, especially the battle sequence graphics. Another bad thing 
 is that when you run you lose health, and as I didn't know that when i first started, I was versing 
 Bosses on really low health. There is also no tutorial for new players, and it wasn't until I read 
 the manual that i found out about Althena Statues. Another thing, is that the storyline of the 
 game is just silly.
  
  All in all, i only give this 4/10, and believe me, that is being generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 29, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Lunar: Dragon Song was the only reason I picked up my DS in the first place. I didn't read anything 
 about the game prior to purchasing it, I wanted a free view and a new RPG. This was the first RPG 
 for the DS, so I went to Wal-Mart and throw down $40 + tax for this game and went home to play 
 it. I eventually found out that when you run you lose HP, you can't gain items or experience at 
 the same time, and the map is just like the map on the Lunar remake for the GBA except inside the 
 towns are dot-to-dot maps aswell, so no free-roaming in towns until you enter a building. The battle 
 system was also a bad idea because you can't choose which enemy you want to attack, it was completely 
 random. Another thing that annoyed me about the game was Jian was the only strong character in 
 the game strong enough to kill the small random encounter monsters. He could attack multipal times 
 within a round, but about a third within the game his 'powers' are sucked away from him and he 
 can then only attack once, so he is then just as weak as everyone else. So yeah, I would of bought 
 this game no matter what anyways, but I wasn't cushioned for this blow. Other than all of that, 
 I eventually forced myself to finish the game and started to enjoy it towards the end.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Lunar: Dragon Song is a turn-based RPG that uses a round system. 
 You can only use 3 characters per-battle and have you set their moves the round is over and you 
 then watch it unfold. You can choose between Fight or Auto. Auto will pick all your moves, which 
 is ideal for quick random battles. In Fight you get to use Attack, Items, Cards and Special. Your 
 main character can't use special attacks, but he can attack multipal times making him the only 
 useful character in the game with any physical strength. The biggest problem with the battle system 
 in this game is the fact that you can't pick or choose which enemy you want to attack. The computer 
 takes over from there removing that small element of tactical battling, but giving you another 
 burden also. It's mostly annoying because you want the person with the bow to attack the flying 
 mosts and you want Jian to attack the big monsters, or you just want to eliminate the small monsters 
 first and leave the big ones for last. Either way, it makes it a little bit more challenging but 
 also annoying.
  
  The monsters in the game are always visible before you fight them, but they usually generic representations 
 of what you may fight when you run into them, similar to a Grandia II. Once you get into a field 
 or dungeon you can choose between Virtue mode or Combat mode. If you fight a monster in Virtue 
 mode, you then gain experience after the battle, and if you fight a monster in Combat mode you 
 then gain items after battle which are required to do jobs, and to gain any money. So gaining experience 
 and items is boring. I have no idea what they're thinking when they decided to separate the items 
 from the experience after defeating a monster. It just doesn't make sense.
  
  One of the better things about the game is the Battle Cards. You gain cards by defeating enemies 
 in Combat mode, you can use these within battle similar to Items or Magic. These cards summon monsters 
 that you defeated into battle (although not sure on screen) and either attack or heal your party. 
 Each card has a point system though, and each time you use them points will be subtracted. ----------Characters 
 / Story ----------
  You basically play as Jian, a delivery boy, that takes a delivery job to another town and gets 
 sucked into a quest to save the world. The story isn't terrible but I don't remember a significant 
 bad guy in the game until towards the end and that's about the only time the story got interesting. 
 As I mentioned in the graphics part, the dialog box is terrible and ruins a bit of the game.
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  The battle system is slightly better looking than the Golden 
 Sun games. The bosses and character models usually look great, but the random enemies don't but 
 everything can get pretty pixelated. The dungeons and fields look pretty good though. I like the 
 anime drawings of the characters, but HATE the dialog box, it looks like a chat room and ruins 
 most of the stories experience just reading each line after line without seeing the characters 
 show any emotion or thought. ----------Sound ----------
  I don't remember anything bad about the music or sound effects, but there's nothing about the music 
 that I remember. So take that for what you will. ----------World Map ----------
  The map is a standard dot-to-dot map that I hate, but for a dot-to-dot map they still make it interesting 
 and still give you a sense of adventure out of the game. You can't just warp to any dot on the 
 map, you can only go to the nearest dot that's connected to your line, and once you picked which 
 location you want to go to, you then have to walk through a field to that town or dungeon you picked. 
 Each town and dungeon is separated by some sort of field you have to walk through, so I'm not even 
 sure why they needed the dots in the first place. Oh wait, now I remember. You can't walk into 
 the towns like a normal RPG, the town maps are another dot-to-dot map where you use the stylus 
 to pick which house in the town you want to go in. Once you're in a house you can walk freely, 
 but inside a town you're trapped inside a map which sucks!
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  37:33
  
  This was a pretty long RPG for the DS, 
 but most of that time was wasting by traveling back and forth and trying to get money and experience. 
 Anyways, after you beat it nothing really unlocks or anything and you are warped back to your last 
 save spot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirvee
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Lunar: Dragon Song is a good game, has a nice story and is a pretty standard RPG. However, Dragon 
 Song has some problems such as slow battles and depleting health when you need to run from that 
 enemy mass you don't want to fight. The spoils of battle aren't very redeeming or useful except 
 when doing deliveries and levels can only be gained seperately from getting sundry spoils.
  
  Graphics: Dragon Song's graphics are actually pretty good. The out-of-battle sprites are well 
 made. Sadly the same can not be said for the in-battle sprites which appear too large and thus 
 pixelated to the point where details can't be seen. Background graphics, though, are very well 
 made.
  
  Gameplay: DS's gameplay is standard. It's not that great but at the same time isn't horrible. Battles 
 are all turn based no matter what but you can't choose the enemy you want to attack nor can you 
 assign an enemy to any one of your team mates. This is a serious disadvantage when you want to 
 get rid of the magic user but keep attacking the lesser non-magic enemies instead. Battle sprites 
 move VERY slowly which makes battles long and boring, unless you hold the R and L buttons while 
 the sprites are moving, but who wants to stand there and do that? The only way to earn money is 
 to accept deliveries from any Gads Express in the game and deliver the appropiate number of sundries 
 (misc items that serve no purpose in the actual game) to a person in any town of the world. However, 
 doing this takes a long time if a specific sundry is an item you don't have and can only be found 
 as drops off of monsters, you will find yourself spending hours or more fighting randomly monsters 
 everywhere there is just to find the item. Whatever happened to the easy road of getting money 
 from the monsters? As I had mentioned before, running in this game depletes your health points 
 for your whole team, which means to avoid losing HP you have to sprint for at least one second 
 to make distance between you and an enemy. This means that if you aren't quick enough you will 
 have to fight whatever enemy blob is chasing you (and believe me, all of them will chase you) which 
 is NOT good if you're low on HP already. Running will not fully drain your HP though, you will 
 lose the running ability when you reach a quarter of your max health.
  
  Sound: Let me begin this part by saying simply, LDS's music is awesome! The sound effects when 
 you are in a town area or a calm area are simply beautiful and crystal clear. There's about four 
 different battle songs for specific battles and all of them are geared towards the idea of tunes 
 and beats that make you want to battle.
  
  Value: I personally was expecting a little more from this game as an RPG but ultimately I should 
 say that Lunar: Dragon Song is a game that had potential. Had the designers taken a little longer 
 to think about how it would be seen as an RPG and added more standard RPG elements, this game would've 
 been great. If you're a die hard fan of the Lunar Series you could buy this game and have a lot 
 of fun with it, but if you're an average gamer or RPG player, you may want to ask yourself how 
 much you REALLY want the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhawk360
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is not worth the plastic it is stored on its slow you get a health penalty if you run. 
 the menu system is appaling and you have to confirm everything you the music is the most annoying 
 and worst made yet. on the description on the back it says that the game allows microphe commands 
 (translation you blow into the mic to run awy from the battle thats hardly a command) it also says 
 on the back that it has 70 hours of gameplay (translation you have to walk slow) and quite possibly 
 the worst thing about the game is the turn based battling.
  sumary is this game is $%/&pound; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benitez555
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  this games grephics really do suck, the gameplay is the slowest piece of crap i have evere witness 
 on an rpg..... for that matter on any lunar game.
  id say the game is really worth 20$. it would be good to all the rpg collectors out there. Id say 
 this is one of the worst firsts step for nintendo history.
  
  if sombody were to give u this game for or as a birthday present.... make sure they give u a reciet 
 with the game .
  
  like i said before this was a bad start for the ds for the rpg games. what i did like about this 
 game is that it took advantege of the ds double screen and its touch screen features really well. Thats 
 about the only good thing i could say about this game.
  
  as for ubisoft..... what can i say to u people..... well lets see, u guy made anishtaha stories for 
 the psp and what a dissapointin game that was...... u guys should just quit and leave the games 
 to the pros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shimazuxi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  So i was bored and saw this and got it. I looked like a pretty stable rpg. I was a bit disapointed, 
 but let me list the good first Good qualities
  Card system rocks
  Level system is unique
  Spells are intatct
  Good stable storyline Bad qualities.
  lose hp while running
  cant choose 
 what your fighting
  extremly easy
  Those are some qualities, now for the review ~.^
  
  Gameplay: unique, hate the fact you can't choose your target, but still intresting. Weird wepons 
 these people have...
  Graphics : Nice for a first ds game, LOVE the anime type scenes =Q
  Sound: Hmm i liked it, it was nice and pretty
  Value: okay i guesss
  Reviwers tilt: &gt;,&gt; 
 yeah
  MY total: 7.2, good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS has yet to have any real decent RPGs on the system. Lunar Dragon Song is just another 
 example of something almost being there but failing in the end. To begin, I purchased this game 
 for under twenty dollars brand new. If I had purchased it for 39.99 USD, I would have given the 
 value a much lower score but at 19.87 CAD, it's not that bad of a pickup but that doesn't mean 
 I would recommend it to anyone as only hardcore RPG gamers may find enough redeeming quality in 
 this game to even bother looking at it.
  The story sets up like most other RPGs with two characters. The problem is that there is little 
 to no back story and just as little character development. Other than a few words here and there, 
 it is quite difficult to ascertain who the characters are. I played the game and didn't really 
 know who they were and as a result, it was difficult to find any connection to them.
  The battle system is unique in that you must choose either to gain experience or items, never both. 
 This may have worked well if the game gave you some reason to go through areas twice with bonus 
 areas or prizes, but the only carrot is in experience mode. If you defeat all the enemies in a 
 certain zone, you are able to open up the one blue chest in the area usually holding a very useful 
 item. Unfortunately, there is no way to tell which zones have these treasure chests so you end 
 up in virtue mode most of the time.
  Personally, I had used virtue (experience) mode through the entire game and had very few items 
 as a consequence. Now, my characters were extremely high for most of the areas but this was barely 
 an advantage because the monsters get stronger as you do. Another issue with the game is the fact 
 that running causes you to lose life. This is fine for realism but if they wanted to make it really 
 real, they could have added a stamina bar or stamina attribute in addition to strength, dexterity 
 and luck. For whatever reason, they chose not to so much of the time, you have sweat animations 
 coming out of your characters heads to signify that they are getting low on life.
  In the battles, the game runs at quite a slow pace but you can use either shoulder button to increase 
 the speed by two or three times but there should have been an option just to lock it on at all 
 times. While all of this is going on, you will notice that there is auto attack mode and manual 
 attack mode. Unfortunately, they are more alike than dissimilar because when you choose to attack, 
 you can not choose who to attack. This can be extremely frustrating because of the loss of control. 
 There is little strategy and even less reason to not enable auto attack mode for most battles. 
 It doesn't help that there is no A. I. or preferences for how you want to attack, as everything 
 is random and usually tactically unsound.
  If you're a fan of the 16-bit era of music, you should get a hoot out of this as the tracks are 
 quite smooth and pleasant to listen to. the graphics are of a similar nature and the game is definitely 
 easy to look at. Also, there are various points in the game with pictures on the top screen that 
 are drawn quite well but are never animated while the battle animations are smooth but repetitious 
 because you have so few choices of what to do.
  In the end, I enjoyed this game much more than the score I'm giving it but I can see a poor design 
 when I see it and this is just one example of the plethora of poor games waiting in the bargain 
 bin for the DS. It is really unfortunate because the game had such potential coming from the prestigious 
 Lunar series. If the game play was better and a few more animations were added, this game would 
 easily be one of the better games on the DS. Instead, you can see the rushes and patch jobs where 
 the potential was just gleaming but never materialized into anything memorable. If you're a hardcore 
 RPG fan or Lunar junkie, then this game might be for you, but by odds alone, I would stay away 
 from this game, even at 19.87 CAD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Genesis (Dragon Song in the US) is the first traditinal RPG on the DS
  
  GOOD- Over 70hours of gameplay; great animations; huge map; simple gameplay; great stroy
  
 
  BAD- Battle system is'nt too good, cos you pick what foe to attack; picking from Level or Item 
 gaining is a stupid idea
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  This is the first traditional rpg on the nintendo ds, this game has turn-based attacks but the 
 only probblem is that you cant pick what foe to attack, they pick for ya, which is'nt realy good, 
 You can also pick weather to gain levels or obtain items after you win a battle, which also sucks 
 cos why cant you have both?, the duel screen and touch screen both work well in the game
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The graphics run smooth on the game, with great animation, but during battles the 
 characters look blocky, the graphics are very colourful
  
  SOUND-
  One of the best features in the game, the background music and specile effects and sound effects 
 are supurb!
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  The game is super long spamming across over 70 hours of gameplay, with an excerlent story. its 
 worth to buy it despite the stupid battle system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I got this game very cheap. I've read the bad reviews so I wasn't expecting much, but I was pleasantly 
 suprised. Though this game is not anything special, I thought it was better then the consensus 
 out there which make the game seem bad. It is rather simplistic, but I think reviewers are forgetting, 
 that this is on a portable system, and being simple is a good thing. This game lets you save whenever 
 you want, and has a lot of cool little tasks to do, and no matter how long you put the game down, 
 you can always pick it up and play because you can conversate with the characters in your party 
 and know exactly what you have to do. If the game had the depth in story that some reviewers wish 
 it had it would have been inappropriate for a portable platform, because as you know if you're 
 playing a game with a complicated, and convulated storyline and you put it down for a week or so 
 (which happens often with portable games) you can very easily get lost or confused. Anyways, the 
 graphics are nice and clean, the music is good, the towns, backgrounds, and characters have good 
 detail. It has a very old-school throwback feel. Feels almost like an early SNES RPG. The battle 
 system is the biggest drawback, if they would have just let the player select the enemy to target 
 instead of letting the game decide it would have fixed the battle system big-time. Oh well, regardless, 
 I can't totally knock the battle system because at least the battles aren't random, you can actually 
 see the enemies and you can outrun them if you don't want to fight. Random Battles are so friggin' 
 annoying!!
  
  Anyways, solid, throw-back RPG, if you can grab it cheap and are a Role-playing fan, I say you 
 should consider it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mahobudo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Mixed thoughts cross my mind as I think of the newest lunar game. When I think of the classic ness 
 of the old lunar games I always get a warm feeling deep down inside...... and ultimately this new 
 one falls flat of that. Yes its short, yes the story is extremely simple. But I will say what this 
 new lunar does do right..... battle. I thoroughly enjoyed the battle mode on this game. First like 
 all the other lunars I loved the fact that I could see the enemy before I engaged them. Also I 
 loved the simple menus which are great for a DS game on the go. But what I found the most intriguing 
 was the dungeons they also doubled as a mini game and an item quest. This game is made so that 
 you can ignore the main story for as long as possible and enjoy mini missions, or the battle mode. 
 I found this the most fun. Yes the game has some bad things about it but that is why I am reviewing 
 it to give everyone a view of its positive side. And the best side of it is Style and graphics. 
 These graphics that it has for its sprites, battle modes and worlds are superb. They look as good 
 as old Xenogears... and the game has a much welcomed Chrono trigger style and feel. Not its' not 
 the best in the lunar series but for a quick hand held you might want to check it out.... if you 
 dont have other rpgs to play this year.... unless you dont want to wait for FFIII then this lunar 
 should tide you over for a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraTheExtreme
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The LUNAR series (and in particular Silver Star Story) was what brought RPG to my world, and I 
 have allways been very thankfull. 
  
  Now, to the game in focus, this last installment in the great series is very underrated, sure, 
 it's very different and has some ingredients that can feel wierd or just stupid... if you're ignorant 
 to the whole picture:
  
  the courierthing is awsome and it feels like GameArts has sneaked on FFTA.... the missions is not 
 to difficult to either understand or perform... 
  the thing about loosing HP while running, hey, rpg's has become to soft in the latest years, time 
 for something annoying and "difficult"... 
  Gamespot said leangthy battles? did'nt they find the speedbutton? just push R if you want the characters 
 to attack in ultraspeed... otherwise the battlesystem is great in my opinion, classic. 
  
  Graphically it's all simple and nice 2Ddesign ala oldschool (YES!!! after so long at last a good 
 ol 2D rpg) and I have'nt been this happy about graphics in an rpg since I played Suikoden on my 
 PSX *getting all dreamyeyed*
  The Music is topnotch and you are totally reminded by the other LUNARgames and GRANDIAgames... 
 
  
  so, in short... don't listen to any of the reviews... get a hold on the game in any way you can 
 (like, rent or borrow by a friend) try it out and get your own opinion... and maybe you will love 
 it, like me...
  
  CruZ
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  It's been thirteen years since Lunar: The Silver Star was released for the Sega CD, one of the 
 best RPGs ever released and one of the most challgenging too. So there we stood at one of the EB 
 stores looking at DS games, when we find Lunar: Dragon Song sitting quietly on the bottom shelf. 
 For $19.99, my husband didn't think twice and grabbed it.
  
  The last time I played Lunar it was a rental copy of Lunar 2 for the Playstation. I never even 
 got to finish it before I had to take it back, and I never found it again. I have fond memories 
 of the Lunar games, even if I didn't go far in the Sega CD one (but completed Silver Star Story 
 Complete on the PS) , so I was happy I could dive in once again into the magic land created by Goddess 
 Althena.
  
  The adventure in Lunar: Dragon Song takes place 1000 years before the events of Silver Star. The 
 world is much different, with humans and beasts living separately without getting along. Once at 
 peace and under the Goddess' protection, the balance of the world is now threatened by demons. 
 An invasion is underway, Althena is missing and the magic is fading.
  
  Our hero is a human boy, Jian, who believes humans and beasts are equal. It will be up to him and 
 his friends to save Althena and the world from certain destruction.
  
  Lunar DS shows many similarities with previous games. The music will strike you right away as familiar 
 although it is new, some of the monsters are already old acquaintances and you can still see them 
 on the world map, and statues of Althena are placed all over the world for your healing convenience. 
 
  
  The new features (especially those concerning the combat system) are what might either attract 
 or completely turn off fans of the older Lunar titles.
  
  The first change is the number of party members, you are limited to only three. You can't arrange 
 their positions in the battlefield either and you can't pick a specific target to attack. Battles 
 begin by walking into a monster at any given time, as they used to. You can run to avoid enemies 
 by pressing the B button, but unfortunately it uses HP as you run, and you get to a point where 
 you can't run anymore when your party members' HP reaches a certain low (I'm not sure, but it might 
 be about 1/4 of their total HP) .
  
  The battle system is a little odd: you either fight for items or experience, but you can't have 
 both happening at the same time. To fight for items, you use the Combat Mode (on the bottom screen, 
 Jian's picture will have a blue background) . To fight for experience (which is called Althena Conduct) 
 you need to go into Virtue Mode. Tap Jian's portrait and it will change to an orange background, 
 the stopwatch will start ticking and below it there will be a number of checkboxes. The checkboxes 
 represent the number of fights in the area. Every time you attack a monster, the stopwatch will 
 reset, and you will need to engage in another fight before it completes a full rotation, or another 
 monster will appear. Once you have killed everything in the area, your party's HP and MP get restored 
 (but not fully) and you are able to open any blue chests in that area. 
  
  While in combat, you have three options: Attack, Special and Item. Attack is your regular hit and 
 it doesn't use up MP (although it did for Lucia) . Special are your spells and skills, they all 
 use MP. Item is where you can use your Tools (recovery items) and Cards. Cards are obtained from 
 monsters and they have their own HP. For example, if the number on a card is 800, you get 8 uses 
 of the card's effect before it's gone. Cards have many uses (defense, attack, recovery) ; some can 
 be used in and out of battle and others can be used only while on the world map (make monsters 
 slower or being them towards you) . 
  
  Furthermore, once you find your first card, you unlock the Coliseum. The Coliseum lets you use 
 the DS wireless connectivity to play a Scratch Battle against someone else, but first you have 
 to acquire cards if you want a good chance at winning. In a Scratch Battle, both players pick a 
 card. There is a 6x4 grid that you scratch to find out which type of attack you will inflict on 
 your opponent's card. When the HP on your opponent's card (it's a P on the card) reaches zero, 
 you win and take his/her card.
  
  But back to the fighting system in Lunar: Dragon Song.
  
  The battle spans across both screens; the top one shows your party's HP, MP and effects as 
 well as any airborne enemies, while the bottom one shows enemies on the ground and your pary members. 
 Airborne enemies will descend once you kill the ones below them. The dual screen view works fine 
 for large monsters, but with small monsters it tends to split some in half, which makes it look 
 a little awkward.
  
  With the animations for each party member and enemy (especially when it comes to special attacks) , 
 the way the screen changes perspective from one side to another when there's really no reason to 
 and not being able to pick a target to attack, battles can become long and boring. Fortuantely 
 you can press the trigger buttons to speed up animations.
  
  You can also escape from battles by blowing on the microphone, although that doesn't guarantee 
 that you will get away. When you do escape from a fight, the monster will flash for a while on 
 the world map, which means you can run away safely for a little while, then it will go back to 
 normal.
  
  I'm not very fond of this "items or experience" concept, as it's something that forces you to backtrack 
 a lot. Items are needed to complete quests, which are the main way of making money, and equipment 
 is pretty expensive (not to mention it also breaks without any durability warning) . The whole thing 
 just seems unecessary. 
  
  Quests are found at the Gad's Express outposts, which host the game's job system. As you will notice, 
 the first task Jian has is to deliver a package to another town. Deliveries can be Gad's Express 
 packages going from town to town, but there are other jobs needing delivery, which will require 
 you to find the items first and then find the person who asked for them. If you can't complete 
 a job, you have to pay a fee to abandon it. Once you deliver the items to someone, you get a receipt 
 that you must take back to Gad's Express to receive your payment. Payment is awarded according 
 to the job difficulty (measured by a four star scale) , and the rewards sometimes aren't worth the 
 time spent hunting for the right items. 
  
  The storyline is good, with your regular guy stepping up to save the world. It's mostly linear 
 and you can always check in with your party members to know what to do next (you press the Y button 
 to hear what they have to say) . The characters are interesting and each has their own personality, 
 you can bond with them right away, especially with Jian and Gabi and their feelings of unity between 
 beasts and humans.
  
  Graphically, the game is bright and colorful. Key characters and important story sequences have 
 been rendered in colorful anime-style artwork. The world is shown in an isometric view and there 
 are many little details in people's houses that are worth looking at (for example, some leave their 
 shoes at the door) and lots of people to talk to, represented by cute little sprites. The continent 
 is fairly big and there are many different places to travel to and from: forests, caves, temples, 
 ports, villages, large cities, even the Cathedral of Althena. The palettes differ from area to 
 area, as do the monsters.
  
  The music is a strong point in the entire game, I quite liked it. It sets the mood for the different 
 situations, with themes fitting for a stroll on a town or a boss fight. The sound effects get a 
 bit repetitive and I wish there was some voice acting. 
  
  I have to mention it though, because you know I nitpick it, but the dialogs had some spelling errors 
 and the words weren't even hyphenated, just broken in half, a piece in one line, a piece in the 
 next line. The "Engrish" comes through in the form of badly-translated NPC names. I can't tell 
 you how long I searched for a Paolo from one of my delivery quests, and all I found was a Paoro. 
 It was the same guy after all...
  
  As far as the controls go, and although you can use the stylus to navigate menus and move around 
 the world map, everything is just so much easier if you use the D-pad and the buttons.
  
  Overall, Lunar Dragon Song is not that bad of a game but the new features aren't all that appealing. 
 It seems like some of them were put together "just because", as they really don't do much for the 
 game. There's no point in using the stylus just as there's no point in having two separate battle 
 systems.
  
  As you can see, I have some seriously mixed feelings about Dragon Song, but it was really the story 
 that keept me going. Knowing that I would be be fighting the four dragons and eventually become 
 the Dragonmaster and save Althena and her world from the evil intentions of the Vile Tribe is the 
 ultimate reward I would expect from any Lunar title. But even then, being the Dragonmaster wasn't 
 what I expected. The magic power that comes with it is limited, and Jian will only be able to use 
 one type of magic at any given time if  and only if  he equips one of the dragon rings for that 
 type of magic.
  
  My adventures through this prequel to the world of Lunar weren't at all what I had in mind, and 
 that is why I will still hold any of the previous titles in higher regard. 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/dh_phpmyadmin/db. grrlgamer. com/ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoPirate
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  All right, this game was just awful, utterly awful in all aspects. Following the example of the 
 previous attempts at a gameboy advance Lunar, didn't even get close to being almost decent. Graphics:: 
 All right, nobody can argue with sprite graphics, but these are the worst I've ever seen. The in-battle 
 sprites were ridiculously badly done, the makers must have been seriously lazy. If I had to compare 
 them to something, I would make them akin to a right-handed kindergartener with cerebral palsy 
 drawing with the side of a broken piece of plastic covered with paint remover. He is also using 
 his left foot, which only has a pinky toe and a big toe. Gameplay:: It would be almost forgivable 
 for the awful graphics if the actual gameplay was any good, but it really wasn't. The fighting 
 system was absolutely terrible as well. You can't choose which enemy you want to attack, even when 
 its very important, and there's even an option that lets the computer choose for you. I mean, how 
 lazy can you get that you don't even want to play your own awful game?
  Plot/Plot Progression:: There also seems to be an almost complete lack of plot, so there's nothing 
 that drives you on and makes you want to bear the awful gameplay and graphics. Also, the game doesn't 
 inform you of what you're supposed to do, or even how to get the next incomprehensible story event. 
 In order to advance, you do'nt just have to talk to certain people, but you have to talk to them 
 in the correct order, without talking to anyone else inbetween. Generally you just have to get 
 really, really lucky in order to do anything.
  All in all, I feel like I was completely cheated out of my money. I wouldn't pay two bucks for 
 this game, and it certainly isn't worth any more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpnewbold
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to make this short; don't bother with this game, unless you've never played an RPG and 
 are looking for a short, short game.
  
  One of the biggest frustrations with this game is the fact that you can't target certain enemies, 
 as most reviews mention.
  
  This game is pretty short also - I finished it in around 20 hours.
  
  You also have to choose 
 between fighting battles for experience or items; you deliver items to make money. Besides finding 
 some money, that's your only way to make money, so you end up giving up experience to make money.
 
  
  The world is very small; there are maybe 5 towns total.
  
  There are only 5 playable characters; you'll have 3 in your party at a time. The other two characters 
 you won't have for very long, and you'll lose all their items when you lose them, which you won't 
 know about.
  
  Bosses are incredibly easy also.
  
  Take a pass on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fevra
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Lunar: Dragon Song is the latest Lunar game that has come out in years. For many of us who enjoyed 
 Lunar: Silver Star Story and Lunar: Eternal Blue, you will NOT find much to love. In fact, you 
 may be the only ones who keep playing it. Even for die-hard fans such as myself this was incredibly 
 disappointing. 
  
  The game takes place 1,000 years before the first game, with your main character Jian. There are 
 the humans and the beast men that you will encounter. All looking strangely... alike... 
  
  Game play: For some credit, it IS playable, just not that fun. You could play this game to end 
 if you REALLY wanted to. Not many people do. Because it's on the DS some things are a little bit 
 different. The menu is on bottom, always seeing the action on the top/bottom. Game mechanics to 
 be found are similar to all RPGs. Except for a few things. An example would be: Who thought it 
 was a good idea that if you run for far too long (past 5 seconds) you lose HP? That's not innovative. 
 It's just stupid. 
  
  Graphics: As you can see by the rating bar I deemed the graphics the best thing about this game. 
 They are. They share a cute, colorful, bright image. Although not the most detailed, the small 
 character illustrations ("cut-scenes") are nicely drawn. You could call this a younger approach 
 for drawing. Nothing too serious. Gentle on the eyes.
  
  Sound: There are a few good pieces of music to be found within Lunar: Dragon Song. The battle music 
 doesn't seem too repetitious, character themes suit them well, and it seems enjoyable to listen 
 too. Don't expect anything high class though.
  
  Value: It is obvious to tell they strayed from the original Lunar formula and tried to be "creative". 
 Allowing themselves to say the game was reformatted. Perhaps for the better. It didn't happen. 
 As a game, mediocre/poor is me being nice. There were a multitude of things that caused it's value 
 to go down.
  
  Example: Battle System: You are only allowed three members in your party and only Jian can cause 
 sufficient damage. If the other characters were up to par with him maybe the battles would not 
 have been so shaky. There are two modes for you to fight in. One you get experience and the other 
 items. Meaning you have to waste even more time fighting instead of the game giving you BOTH like 
 everyone else.
  
  There are many harsh comments in here due to the fact this game can only be called playable. It's 
 story was treated as rushed and shallow. Barely creating interesting characters and overall very 
 frustrating. Unless you are the most devout of Lunar fans AVOID this game like the plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theartist111
Rating: 2.1
Date: May 26, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  this is a small review just to show my opinion on this RPG for the DS but before we go to that 
 just a little info on me
  
  i bought the DS because or RE1 was coming out now being a complete
  Survival Horror and RPG and 
 possibly maybe a little FPS player looking for good RPG's on the DS is harder than finding an asian 
 kid failing math
  (no racist insults intended) 
  
  Review:
  now that we got that out of the way this part of the review is short
  DON'T BUY THIS GAME
  
 DON'T BE FOOLED BY ANIME COVERS
  THIS GAME IS TERRIBLE
  
  And Now For The List
  
  1. The Fact that you have to choose if you want items (not gold) or Exp
  
  2. The Worst Use Of 
 2 screens i have ever seen on the DS
  
  3. No Cinematics like WTF its a DS you can put that stuff on it now
  
  4. The main characters 
 main weapon is his Fists and later learns BlkMagic?
  
  5. The Story Line Is Terrible
  
  6. Tries to do something new and FAILS horribly
  
  7. (Spoiler Alert) at one point of the game 
 uyou can't do combos
  
  8. If you play this game you will hate PRG's for a while
  
  9. Battle Sytem TERIBLE just pushin attack through the whole game
  
  10. The Characters no crazy 
 background or dark past or anything like that
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaarstein
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to my first review, sorry because it is not for a good game.
  I was realy happy to finally get a real RPG for my DS, one of the reasons I wanted my DS was it 
 would be perfeckt for RPG`s, imagine my disapointment when I satrted playing this game.
  
  Even though I dont pay much attention to graphicks, the game didnt seem muckh of an improvment 
 from a good GBA game visualy, but that is not the big problem with the game. The sprites look nice 
 and the citys and maps are good, not brilliant but OK. The top screen shows carackters and the 
 world, while the bottom is for menues and tekst. The bottom is very dissorganised and hard to figure 
 out what is an option and what it does at the beginning.
  
  The main problem with the game is the fighting sequences, and that is very bad as this is an RPG. 
 First off all you can not choose who your carackter is fighting, so if you want your strong carackter 
 hitting a strong enemy and weak carackter hitting a enemy who is already damaged you better pray.
 
  This is to me an obvious fault in a RPG, but it isnt all. If you want to flee a battle you use 
 the micophone, but I have been playing the game on busses and the noise around me, or if the buss 
 hit a bump, has often resaultet in the game to leave the battle, which is to say mildly annoying. 
 And the when you first go in the battle you have the option to use automatic battle, which let 
 the computer steer your carackter and you can just watch. That is just idiotic, nobody buys a game 
 just to watch the computer play for you, and the worst part I tried that once and my carackters 
 died so it realy is no help there.
  
  Unusualy for an RPG is that it dosent help to upgrade your carackters, if you do the enemy will 
 just upgrade with you, so it is better to get good weapons and try not to get much experiencepoint 
 later in the game. 
  
  I tried to enjoy the good parts of the game whick is a OK story, not OK visuals, nice to have alot 
 off sidemissions with package deliveries and such, but it is hard to not get annoyd with the many 
 obvious faults in the gameplay.
  
  I will only recommend it for the ones who is desperate to get a new RPG for the DS, and will not 
 use the gameboy slot underneat for a much better RPG-game and only use one screen.
  
  P. S. sorry for my bad spelling, english is not my native language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnTheGamer
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:5
  
  The worst part of the game. Let's start out with the battles. Before you start the battles you 
 are given an option if you want to have a virtue battle or get items from the enemies in the combat 
 mode. Virtue is the experience points in Lunar: DS. There are a certain number of enemies in each 
 area and if you kill them all a treasure chest appears with a rare item in it, the only problem 
 is the only way to kill enemies is to fight in virtue mode.
  
  When you fight in combat mode and get items they aren't the kinds you'd expect to win instead they 
 are items you use in the deliveries you do for money. Another problem is the only way to earn money 
 (besides treasure chests) is to do boring and tedious deliveries. After a couple you get bored 
 and will stop doing them because they essentially all the same.
  
  When you have decided on what battle you want to do you get to the fun part the fighting. Right? 
 No, the battles in Lunar can fight by itself if you want it to or you can fight and not choose 
 what enemy you want to attack. You want to attack the enemy that you think is almost dead but you 
 just have to hope that the dumb AI will pick that enemy which they usually don't.
  
  Outside of battles the levels are large but that leads to another problem. If you run you lose 
 HP and you walk super slow so the levels either take forever or by the end of them you need to 
 heal you and your partners badly.
  
  STORY:5
  
  The story is that you (Jian) are a delivery boy and you slept late and need to find your partner 
 (Lucia) . In the middle of the game the story isn't compelling enough to make you want to play it 
 so you get burned out on the game. But in the beginning and end is where the story shines. This 
 is like the old Lunar's, there's a dragon master and there's the goddess Althena. 
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND:9
  
  The graphics for Lunar: DS are good but they're not really pushing the DS's 
 hardware. It looks better than a GBA game. The character and enemy sprites are big and colorful, 
 some of the bosses take up the entirety of the two screens. The Music what I think is the best 
 aspect of the game. The songs for each level and area is different. They are all have a sense of 
 an epic especially when you're in the Dragon's caves. Although there are some weird and annoying 
 sound effects in certain areas.
  
  PLAY TIME/REPLAYIBILITY:7
  
  The length o f Lunar is what I consider par for portable RPG's. It's almost thirty hours long. 
 A little longer if you go back and get every treasure chest. However there is no reason to go back 
 and play through it again.
  
  FINAL SCORE:6
  
  Lunar is good for about twenty hours before you start getting bored with it. The story just isn't 
 good enough to make you want to keep on playing. It's much better if you play a little a time so 
 you don't overload it like I did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Ok this game got me through RPG style and the nice front cover. Thats why I bought it and I give 
 every RPG a chance, but this once I might of thought twice over if I new what I was getting into.
 
  
  I will just give pro's and con's of this game
  
  Con's
  
  - It takes life energy to run! Yes you heard me! Thats really annoying in the beginning of the 
 game when hp is a big factor. Later on you just sacrifice the hp as you can't stand walking all 
 the time and having monsters catch you 24/7.
  
  - Battles getting REALLY boring after a few hours. The battles take forever to beat around 6-8 
 minutes per battle which is horrible. Theres basically no magic attacks except for a few healing 
 spells which you learn around lvl 8 all of them which is pathetic. Black magic is learned later 
 on in the game, but they ALL do the same thing and you have to put on a ring to use it and only 
 1 guy can use them. 
  
  - The main character can attack 3 times in 1 turn meaning the rest of your characters are just 
 hitting targets and a bit of support as there not really needed if he does x3 the damage they do.
 
  
  - 1 of the main characters on the box dies in less then a hour of gameplay. Like poof no more gone. 
 Which is totally lam. Also 1 of the main characters you get in the game she is kidnapped and you 
 don't get her for the rest of the game. 
  
  - lvls mean nothing in this game as whatever your states are the monsters will mimic in a way. 
 So you get stronger so do they, you are weak so are they. So its preety lam lvling up.
  
  - You can't lvl up and get items at the same time in battle, you can only pick one through different 
 modes. 
  
  - You can only earn money through doing these dumb jobs which make you run from town to town kind 
 of stuff. Theres no other way unless you find money which is barly, or you sell some rings which 
 are 1 of a kind which is the only expensive things you can sell for real money wise. 
  
  - The ending sucks in terms of battle as you just fight this end guys monster 3 times in a row 
 in different forms. The whole revenge logic never happens at all and the ending is really corny 
 in a way no hints for you though.
  
  - No reply value at all! Unless you have 2 friends and you can battle with the cards you got through 
 the game as you only got them through random chance, even still its preety basic multiplayer stuff 
 and really isn't that amusing.
  
  Pro's
  
  - Nice graphic art. Very nice looking and the chat between characters is nice as well. The art 
 is preety kick ass in that way.
  
  - Graphics were ok for a GB DS game so the style was ok. Only 1 problem was in battle the characters 
 looked pixled and the two screens were dumb for this game as some monsters were like half and half 
 of both screens which looked dumb. The monsters side looked amazing though oddly enough.
  
  - Music was probly the best part of this game. Well done music. Only one you may just get pissed 
 off with is the battle music as its the same 1 over and over again through the whole game.
  
  Overall
  
  I would love to say get this game it was freakin great! However its not worth 
 your time sadly, unless you have the patience like I did to enjoy it. The ending doesn't feel like 
 an ending and theres barly ANY character depth whats so ever. So I probly wouldn't recommand this 
 game sadly which hurts me as its an RPG. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireemblems
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  where do i start at first when i got it i realized it stunk this isnt the game like lunar legend, 
 or golden sun that will let you chose magic or psynergy attacks (even thogh i never would use them 
 in golden sun, i would like to have the option) man you dont have any of that just attack and use 
 cards which is not a cool thing, story line is not captivating and or charming graphics are bad 
 wepons breaking sucks short lived sadly not even entertaining stress level rises while playing 
 i dea of when monsters touch you the fight begings is irritaiting (in this game) low health bar 
 bad characters and if the anime drawings get you in dont do it just stop drop and roll! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natethedrummer
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  as far as it comes to games im usually up for anything but not this to be honest this is one of 
 THE WORST games i have ever played in my life!
  Sure i starts off quite gd with nice looking rpg anime graphics but even the first part is annoying, 
 intead of running round ur village like ur normal final fantasy you have to move to each house 
 via the map much like flyng on pokemon games but in the city !!! Dumb or what! After going in and 
 out of every house about 20 times u finally go to the same place and find your friend waiting where 
 u find out you must deliver a package.
  Soon you will find yourself walking the woods being attacked by monsters in the most crap batles 
 i have ever played, if you thought POkemon or FF got annoying wait till u get these the suck! you 
 may as well tape down your r button so you triple the battle speed because u will wann kill yourself 
 oh and if you think u can skip em by doing auto battle erm DONT DO IT! The com chooses the worst 
 moves and u usually end up dying instantly. Seriosuly this games sucks Oh wait you could run from 
 the battles, no wait then you lose health. What?! yep i kno sucks dont it? maybe its to make this 
 awful game last longer?
  So heres some advice DO NOT BUY IT! when i got this i was looking for v joe but the store didnt 
 have it so i got this intead and i hated it, took it back to another store the next da and got 
 v joe oh yeah!
  You may think im real wrong but i cant stand this game, and if real crappy rpgs r ur thing with 
 awful gameplay and battles then go for it
  you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: askewed
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure there are worse RPG's out there, I just haven't played them. This game is absolutely awful. 
 I never liked the lunar series and this is no exception. Every element of this game is poorly thought 
 out. The fight system is simple and turn based, with few options to make it interesting. You can 
 even switch to the auto mode and the battle is fought for you. Im not sure why you want to play 
 a game that plays itself. The game is so boring that youll need the auto mode if you ever hope 
 to finish the game. Movement in the world is ridiculously slow. They did include a way to run, 
 but, incomprehensibly it drains your HP. This leaves in the position of choosing whether to use 
 all of your characters HP running or to have your DS die from a dead battery while you walk from 
 one place to another in the game. This is just the tip of the iceberg of the flaws in this game. 
 Skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  Hey, it's me again, Lunar, reviewing one of the games from one of my favorite RPG series. Even 
 though i love the Lunar series, this one is just missing a few things, here's what Mr. Lunar thought 
 of this game...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is pretty fun however they're are some aspect of it that are kind of annoying. For 
 example, if you choose to run by holding the be button, every 5 seconds or so you'll lose 1 HP, 
 sure it's more realistic but if you don't have much HP then it's really annoying. Once you start 
 to get into the higher HP range then it's not as hard. You can't exactly die from this though because 
 once you have 1/3 of your HP then you just can't run overall until your refill it. Another bad 
 thing is that in the battles, you can choose the do the basic attack option, just you can't choose 
 which enemy to attack. Jian, the main character, also cannot have more than one magic attack equipped 
 at a time, but each of them are pretty much equal in strength so it doesn't really matter. Theyr'e 
 aren't many good things in the gameplay, but the story is pretty good, just kinda short.
  
  Graphics:
  
  They're are some pretty good visuals, the bottom screen is uses for different 
 options, while the top is used to the actions. In battle, the top and bottom screen are use for 
 a really big battlefield. Flying enemies are on the top screen, while land enemies are on the ground, 
 some are really big so often take up some of both screens.
  
  Music and Sound:
  
  Here's where some good stuff comes it. Like most Lunar games, this one has some really nice music 
 and sound effects, and like most, it also has a sound test so you can listen to them whenever you 
 want.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  There's not much replay value in this game, once you've beaten it once, you really don't feel like 
 going through it again.
  
  Overall, if you like Lunar games, i would still recommend this, the story is still pretty decent, 
 and the gameplay isn't all too bad, but it does have it's flaws. At least rent it if you want to 
 play through and beat it but don't want it for replay value. Lunar out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok I found my first review to be bad I know that now heres a real one. Lunar is a poor RPG. You 
 fell like your only watching the battles not playing them The AI is so bad that you watch your 
 guys get beat wile all you can do is heal them. The storey is no better ubi soft did not spend 
 much time on it and it shows. Talking is just poorly wrote text. That you seen in other games. The 
 puzzles are bad and have the hardness of a grade school storey problem. In fact I the first puzzle 
 was a problem i did in the 2nd grade. They don't get any better. You can't go around the world 
 freely your stuck to squares in places. If you run you lose HP. The places you go seem beaten down 
 like you been there before. This RPG is not well done and we have done all this before. Only it's 
 poorly done. If your a lunar fan skip this. Wast of $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 6, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Lunar: Dragon Song uses a turn-based battle system. This battle system is a little basic, 
 with an attack option, a magic option, and an item option. You won't get too many spells throughout 
 the game, and since you won't find too many mana potions throughout the game (and you can't buy 
 them) , you'll mostly be sticking to the attack option. Furthermore, you cannot choose which enemy 
 you attack. This takes away alot of strategy, but it's still a pretty decent battle system and 
 it leads to some pretty memorable battles.
  
  Where this game really shines in the gameplay section is in it's storytelling. The story in Lunar: 
 Dragon Song is, simply put, amazing! It's definatly the best story that I've experienced on the 
 DS out of the games I've played so far. Basically, the story throws alot of plot twists at you, 
 and fairly early on also. This game doesn't wait until the end of the game to give you lots of 
 twists, and instead it sets up the main story with a bunch of them, which I found to be really 
 unique. You'll do alot of reading in the game, sometimes for 30 minutes at a time, so it's good 
 that you'll be enjoying what you're reading. The game also sports a very unorthodox ending, one 
 which will surprise and shock even the biggest of RPG fans. Overall, the game's got some pretty 
 good gameplay, though there are some flaws that keep it from being as good as it could have been.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Lunar: Dragon Song look very nice. The game uses 2D sprites, and though 
 these types of visuals could probibly be produced by a GBA or an SNES, they are still very good 
 for a 2D game. There was a bit of room for impovement though, because some of the sprites look 
 like smaller ones which have been blown up (so you get that blurry effect) , but for the most part 
 you'll enjoy what you're seeing.
  
  Sound: Wow! What a great soundtrack! Lunar: Dragon Song is the type of game where you're going 
 to be using the music room alot to listen to your favourite tracks. Pretty much all of the music 
 in the game is great, many of them even astounding! Definatly within the top 3 greatest soundtracks 
 for the DS out of the games I've played (rivalling both Meteos and Castlevania: Dawn Of Sorrow 
 for the number 1 spot) .
  
  Value: Lunar: Dragon Song is definatly a pretty lengthy game. Sure it's a bit on the short side 
 by RPG standards, clocking in for me at about 27 hours, but that's still alot longer than most 
 other games found on the DS. I suppose you could get upwards of 30 hours on the game if you get 
 addicted to levelling your characters and finding lots of items, but if you just play the game 
 through normally, it's about a 25-30 hour journey. The disappointing thing is that there aren't 
 really any side quests... at all. But still, despite it's shortcomings, the main quest is lengthy 
 enough so that when you finish it you'll feel like you got more than your money's worth for this 
 title.
  
  Tilt: Overall, I just really enjoyed Lunar: Dragon Song alot. I've never played the original Lunar 
 games, but after playing Dragon Song I'm confident that it's an excellent series, and one that 
 I should look into. The highlights of the game are it's superb story and excellent music. If those 
 2 things are important to you, go out and get this game immediately. While it's not the most complex 
 thing you'll ever play in your life, the battle system gets the job done. With a story that will 
 fill you with emotions and bring tears to your eyes, the DS's first RPG is a huge success, and 
 should be enjoyed by anyone looking for a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegeta232
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is kinda cool and it has its ups and downs..... first of all it is really dumb how you 
 have to be a mailman and the real PROBLEM IS THAT IT IS A VERY SHORT GAME. look i wasn't even trying 
 and i beat the game in 12 hours. the good sides are the rpg essences so i give it a 6.2 . And like 
 i said it goes good sometimes then it goes down.... what i was really tired of was the fighting 
 style because you couldn't choose who you wanted to attack and why the other characters beside 
 Jian didn't have combo attack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 815mdavis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I still dont realize why this game had bad reviews. yeah thier small problems with the game, one 
 i can only think of and that is losing health when ur running. thought over this was a fair tactic 
 to put in the game because if u were running for eturnity u might lose health to. These miscelanius 
 rumers did not stop me from buying lunar dragon song. i spent 30 hours of fun filled exitement, 
 in the end it was worth playing. The fighting system is emense because of the 3D. Dont listen to 
 those people who dont like this game. they did not give it a chance so why dont u if your an rpg 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:39 am PT
Review:  Ergh! Not very good first of all!
  
  I kind of hyped myself up for this game and was shot down pretty much within 2 minutes into the 
 game.
  
  First of all there is some unecessary features here like the running system... everytime you run 
 you lose health... thing is, if you wanted to be like real life you would add a STAMINA gauge... since 
 running always effects stamina, not your health per se (anyhow, we're talking about a game here, 
 so who cares!?)
  
  Then you have the extremely slow battle system... im surprised my R button my DS is still alive 
 after holding down that button during the battle sequences to speed them up. 
  
  Then you have two modes of fighting, one to collect items and one to level up. Its just stupidly 
 tedious the system and actually makes NO SENSE.
  
  Graphics wise it isn't THAT brilliant... its kind of like carboard 3D battles, a tottal contradictioin 
 in itselve.
  
  So in summary its kind of like paper mario without the paperness, battles without the actual battles, 
 leveling up and item gaining without the logic and gaining fun when there isn't any there to be 
 gained.
  
  Waste of time, very very slow, dull, repetitive, unecessary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenken1983
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Dragon song is in fact not as bad as some let you to believe. I preordered my version as 
 I have with all the Lunar games in the last 10 years. I was a bit disappointed compared to the 
 console versions however. 
  
  The graphics were amazing for a handheld device. Although its not up to par with the PSP, you cant 
 have everything. The characters were pretty solid. Theres a major story arc that I wasnt expecting 
 and It bothered me a little. I didnt like the fact that certain enemies could break your armor, 
 and you have no way to fix it. And money is hard enough to come by as it is.
  
  The game revolves around package delivery. Its a delivery that started everyone on there adventure. 
 And Its package delivery that earns you money. No longer do you get silver for killing an enemy. 
 You can either earn items or xp, but not both at the same time. Really annoying.
  
  The only cool thing from earning items is the chance to get the rare action cards. With which you 
 can activate an ability, like loweribng enemy accuracy or always escape from battles. 
  
  The story was slow going at times. The battles were repetitive and too easy. I would recommend 
 playing this but wait until it gets a price drop, or find a used copy.
  
  Its still worth a play through, if anything just for the fact that its a Lunar game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kira1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Second Review!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  The Game is good in the story part but read on!!
  
  Gameplay 8-10
  Okay the battle system isent that great in this one cause first off all you can 
 pick who to attack it picks an random monster for you and theres not much in magic to about maybe 
 9-15 spells together so not that much there, when you walk you lose HP which is realy bad on the 
 start since you dont have much HP so that kind of suck's but later on it doesnt matter since youl 
 have plently HP but still is annoying in long forest's tho, the Story is awsome tho that's for the 
 high score for Gameplay tho not lot's of Anime cutscenes the series is known for, oh yah the only 
 way to earn money is by completing courior missions which are sometimes annoying, the other twist 
 to this game is the virta or something and combat mode i forgot the order tho so sorry but in one 
 you gwt exp and in one you get items so you gote chose which exp or items this is an bad part of 
 the game to.
  
  Graphics 10-10
  OKay the Graphics are awsome well for me the background is well drawn and the character sprites 
 look realy good to the battle animations are realy good exept theres not realy that much of choice 
 in battles with spells and etc but like i said the background is well drawn, and theres not as much 
 Anime cutscenes that the Lunar series are known for.
  
  Sound 10-10
  The sound is awsome just plain awsome lot's of songs in the game battle theme's are awsome to but 
 the 4 Dragons battle theme songs are realy similar to Lunar Legend as the one for GBA cause i never 
 played the original one, oh yah the characters theme songs are awsome to fav one for me is i think 
 it was flora just plain good.
  
  Value 5-10 
  The Value SUCKS there's nothing to do after you beat the game and are not tempted to play it again 
 unlike in some games with unlocables [bad spelling] this one hasent goten any not even an hard mode 
 to play it again just harder not even that tho unless you wane finish all the gad missions or courior 
 missions that's whats the 5 for cause of these missions, but other than that ther's no replay value 
 in the game.
  
  Final Result an new thing il do in my review!!!!!!!!!
  i guess if your an RPG or Lunar fan youl kind of like this game but il keep you busy from couple 
 of days say 3-5 days but other than to play an new RPG i dont recomend it to everbody not even 
 to all RPG fans only hardcore RPG fans like me!
  Hope you liked this review and exept more in the Future!!!!
  COMING SOON=AWDS FAQ
  COMING SOON=ACWW 
 REVIEW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  All of you hardcore Lunar fans out there, dont expect all that much from this game. it does not 
 even remotely compare to the first Lunar game. Although it does follow a decent storyline using 
 the typical theme of the goddess althena, i didnt quite get the same level of interest as in the 
 past. The storyline was very in depth, but at times hardly made any sense at all.
  As for the gameply, the battle system is a bit odd. For some strange reason, you can not determine 
 which monster you would like to attack. This definitely takes away from the strategy point of view 
 in this game. But even though it is frustrating, the battle system isn't overly bad. The microphone 
 option to run is a nice touch, and the option to speed up combat is nice as well. Although it could 
 be better, it is withstandable.
  The graphics in this game are probably one of the better pounts. this time they have made the characters 
 look more like people rather blobs with big heads. There are some beautiful backgrounds and colorful 
 environments. My only complaint is the fact that when in battle the monsters heads end up on the 
 border of the two screens. Otherwise, i really have no problems with the graphics.
  The sound of the game can also be a little dissapointing to fans of the other games. The song on 
 the main screen is fairly repetitve and some of the other tunes are OK, but not great. Lets just 
 put it this way, it was no Ocarina of Time music, or Final Fantasy music. Its that simple.
  Overall, it is a decent game, but not the best choice for fans of the first games. Trust me, keep 
 you opinion of this series the same by not playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSageCola
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game in all truth was terrible. I bought the game thinking it looked interesting and might 
 be fun. Fist off it does not make use of the DS capabilities at all. You can blow into the microphone 
 to run and use the stylus to select options, but it is just as easy to use the d pad and the A 
 button. The two screens can be used to show your inventory, and the map. In this game there were 
 two big annoying points. First you loose health as you run, which in my opinion is completely stupid. 
 It might of been a neat idea when they were planning it but otherwise it is pointless. Walking 
 is too slow and running is a nice speed. If i walked trough the game i might of spent more than 
 ten hours before i set it down. The next was the story line. I got to some story before i set it 
 down, but it was all about making stupid pointless devileries for the gad express, and that is 
 all i got. Any customability was pointless, and the characters seemed to lack personality. Maybe 
 the game would have been better if I got farther in, but for me it was terrible. Don't buy it, 
 there are better games for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:17 pm PT
Review:  
  The Venerable Lunar series has finally come up with a new game after a 9 year lapse. But can this 
 new prequel hold up to the quality that fans of the series are accustomed to?
  
  Story:
  You are a young delivery boy in a world ruled by Beast men. Needless to say the beast men do not 
 like the humans because they feel that they are weak and inferior. But could this delivery boy 
 be the worlds only hope against a yet unseen menace?
  
  Graphics:
  The look is like you would have expected if the Suikoden series on the PS1 had a bastard child 
 with the Grandia series you would have a general grasp of what the battle screens look like, the 
 major differences are that the bosses are so big they can use both screens, and more enemies can 
 inhabit the top screen as well as the bottom. All and all the graphics look excellent and are a 
 nice transition from the 2D RPG's GBA users are used to by now.
  
  Music:
  The Music is not bad, and in fact is quite good. But after a while it starts to grind it's self 
 into your frontal lobe and you will find your self turning the sound off completely just to keep 
 yourself from going insane.
  
  Game Play:
  Control is simple like one would want in their RPG, and is made even simpler by the DS's touch 
 screen. Banging out your commands through the touch screen takes a lot of tedium out of navigation 
 through all of the menus and charts of your characters. All of the maneuvers you would expect from 
 power packed Lunar game are here intact and this is a good thing because you will need a distraction 
 from the design flaws inherent in this game.
  
  Design:
  Design is what single handedly ruins this game. And what really kills the game is the fact that 
 you are forced to fight in any fights you encounter in the wild. There are no random battles which 
 annoys many RPG Regulars, so you can see and avoid fights, but you loose life if you want to run 
 around the fights, and the fact that you can only get items OR experience forces you to sit back 
 and eat fights to get important items that you have to gather to make a delivery, or fight to level 
 up so your party does not die while trying to get items, meaning you will be crawling dungeons 
 over and over, just to get items or experience, so you can move on so you will not get killed by 
 the next boss.
  
  DS owners, there are many great RPG's on their way, unless you are a RPG Geek that must have your 
 RPG fix, then I have to say rent it first. If there is anything I can take from this game is that 
 looking at the graphics and the capabilities that Lunar Dragon Song does achieve, it helps me hold 
 out hope that they could port the Grandia games to the DS easily.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Game play 5/10
  
  Sound 5/10
  
  Fun factor 5/10
  
  Tilt 7/10
  
  Average score 6.8
 
  
  Lunar: Dragon Song:
  Pros:
  Really Good Graphics
  Good story
  Good uses of both screens
  Easy to use menus
  
  Cons:
  Music really needed to be more varied
 
  Battle system gets tedious after a while
  For Pete's sake why can we only get EXP or Items? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3NCORE
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  i think that if they had made it more realistic by making it so that u can actually move the player 
 ur self and attack in ur own ways... i dont really like the batlles.. i was disapointed when i 
 saw the battles.. i liked the begining of the game and thought it would be good... also i think 
 the graphics could have been better. i liked the story line. and the begining was good. the sound 
 was ok. and i think if some one would have played it they would get hoked on it for a minute then 
 realise how stupid it is. although i cant be saying much... seeing as i only played about 55 minutes 
 of it then shut it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantstopplaying
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I plain out loved this game the first time i played. I was totally immersed in the story and quickly 
 spent my time leveling up. The whole delivery system is a great and innovative idea that helps 
 out with the cash problem. What I didn't like is the fact that it sadly gets repetitive and boring 
 after a while. Also the fact that you cant chose who you attack is a little lame. It also bites 
 that you have to wait untill your main character gets to a high enough level to get his special 
 ability. Overall it was a fun game and I would enjoy playing the sequal if it is ever made. For 
 next time they should place better battle controll and you shouldn't have to chose between items 
 or experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuddytudman
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  this is one of the lunar series of games that made it's debut on sega CD in the 1990's. this is 
 a prequal to the others and sees you as some kind of errand boy who can kick mega ass.
  
  the story is suprisingly original for an rpg featuring dragons and gods (I am getting a bit of 
 Dejavu here...) with the main characters being young teenagers rather than the usual rpg charcters 
 (odd) .
  
  the gameplay on the field sometimes gets annoying with your charcters getting exhausted if you 
 run for too long and enemies always chasing you in the dungeons. the combat isn't so good with 
 you having to not be able to choose which enemy your team targets. however, when you get the charcters 
 with the kick ass spells which destroy the entire enemy team, it doesn't matter that much.
  
  overall, this RPG on DS is good and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lifes_not_real
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Like many Lunar fans, I had been awaiting the upcoming release of Lunar DS... As soon as rumor 
 was spread my pulse stopped and I almost drove myself into a coma... (not a true story)
  As the first RPG for the DS, Lunar successfully does little. It's a terrible mess. Is it playable?, 
 yes. Will Lunar fans still play through the whole game?, most likely.
  There are many additions to the game that have been experimented with. They may have sounded good 
 on paper... but they make for frustrating gameplay, which I where I will start
  
  Gameplay (4/10)
  The additions that have been added hurt the gameplay overall. The most annoying 
 aspect (in my opinion) is that you CANNOT select which target you are attacking while in battle. 
 This wouldn't be SO bad if the game would work with this strategically... but it doesn't. Quite 
 often (say... 98.2%) the game will avoid any type of strategy. (Not everything will make you mad 
 though, that other 1.8% of the time is VERY enjoyable :P)
  My second "rant" about the game is its separate battle modes. Yet again, when I first heard of 
 I thought "hey, that sounds kind of cool"... but its not. Throughout the game you must switch between 
 Experience Mode AND Item Mode... in order to gain levels and earn items (not $, you have complete 
 missions for that)
  Others include: Your characters lose health when they run (WTF??) , You have to complete many tedious 
 "fetch" missions to earn $. Ubisoft did not spend a whole lot of time with the english translations 
 either. Throughout the game are many typos and grammatical errors.
  
  Not all is bad I suppose... There seems to be a Athena Statue quite often (to heal you from all 
 that painful running, ya know) ... The battle menu is simple... and effective. Cards (that are acquired 
 through Item Mode) are really helpful, they vary but include things like "Heal all party members" 
 and "Run away successfully" The game can also be played using only the stylus.
  
  I'll say it again... This game IS playable :P
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  The graphics (unlike gameplay) 
 are actually very good. The game's characters are very detailed and occasional, yet classic, anime 
 portraits are a nice treat when meeting new members of the party.
  
  Sound (8/10)
  The sound is probably the most enjoyable aspect of the game. Coming for the DS's speakers are vibrant 
 tunes. Included in the submenu is a option to listen to several of the tracks within the game, 
 a pleasant surprise
  
  Value (6/10)
  Being a lengthy game is not always a good thing... because the gameplay faults... the game can 
 get kind of boring... I honestly wouldn't recommend it to anyone other than a hardcore Lunar fan, 
 like myself. This game doesn't seem to have the exact "Lunar" feel to it and the story is not very 
 interesting at first.
  
  Overall, the game is disappointing... hopefully the series with be continued on the DS but with 
 some "a couple changes" to the new formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbares544
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I have read a lot of reviews on this game and most of them are pretty bad. Now just because a game 
 gets a 6.1/10 does not mean that it is bad. I have played some games that I really enjoy that have 
 gotten this low of a review. So I decided to go out and get a copy of the game. It was a bad idea 
 and a complete waist of money/time. The game doesn't look bad, however right from the intro you 
 can tell that they didn't try really hard. The DS is powerful enough to have animated intros that 
 look good. Just take a look at Castlevania. This game just screams generic all over it. Unfortuately 
 the worst part of this game is the battle system. This is where the graphics fall short. I think 
 they look worse then the old games. Plus you can't even choose which creature to attack! From the 
 time I started to play this game I kept choosing auto battle and just watched the battle slowly 
 go by. If this is your cup of tea that by all means go ahead and pick this one up. If you really 
 want a good DS RPG then wait for Mario & Luigi. It may not be serious but it will at least be fun. 
 Game Arts and UBI Soft, very disappointed in you for this poor effort. The fans deserve a better 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  Lunar is Great, underrated as a "Great" RPG but yet it is indeed a "Great" RPG... the only frustrating 
 part 2 me is touch screen makes no real new style and the Dual Screen is 50/50 on of how its bad 
 and good. over all lunar is a great RPG if u like basic RPG's with magic, knights and a story line 
 that will eventaully pick up after a short while... lunar is good, many people, one of who is my 
 friend and is a PSP junkie constantly ,mocks the game when honestly the only problem i see is that 
 the characters you play as through out the game randomly pick who they want 2 attack... i hate 
 this idea i'd rathe pick my own enemy to attack but oh well its a good game and 2 many people look 
 on past its good parts and point on one challenge that it doesnt adress and crushes it... probaly 
 why the company wont make a seqaul now. dont alwats believe what your told theres different veiws 
 on alot of different issues PSP Junkies constanlty Ridicule the DS but yet the DS's sucess crushes 
 the PSP in competion. i own both and side with my "GAMING" handheld instead of my "LIMEWIRE 2GO" 
 PDA 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
