-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lunar Knights
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/lunarknights/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Story is engaging and well told.
 amazingly catchy music.
 a ton of unique mechanics keep the well-worn dungeon-crawling formula fresh.
 adventure is lengthy without overstaying its welcome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Space sequences feel a little clumsy.
 combat can be unforgiving.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.2, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,014 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Kojima Productions
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Feb 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With a lengthy, engaging story, great production values, and loads of interesting gameplay touches, 
 this is an action adventure game that's worth the challenge. 

  While the name Kojima may be most freely and popularly associated with Metal Gear Solid, the acclaimed 
 Japanese game designer has proven that he's got some range, specifically with the Boktai games 
 for the Game Boy Advance. Apparently, the Boktai name doesn't carry much weight in the US. Lunar 
 Knights, the latest from Kojima Productions, is essentially Boktai 4, but character name changes 
 in the English translation weaken the connection. There's no solar sensor in the DS cart, but the 
 sunlight theme is still central to the gameplay. In Lunar Knights, you'll also be trading in moonlight, 
 manipulating the weather to alter the world around you, harnessing the powers of the elements to 
 defeat your enemies, and even dabbling in a little space combat. It can be a challenge to keep 
 tabs on the complexities of the gameplay, and resilient, damage-dealing enemies may be thrown at 
 you at a constant clip. But it all pays off because the game looks and sounds great, the action 
 is diverse and constantly evolving, and there's even some pretty engaging storytelling in there 
 too.  

          You can't fight the moonlight, but you can use it to slaughter horrible demons.     

 
  Lunar Knights is set in the kind of anime future where mysticism and technology intermingle freely. 
 Earth has been the domain of vampires for as long as anyone can remember, and the human population 
 has been largely regarded as livestock. Further strengthening their grip over the planet, the ruling 
 vampires have deployed a device known as the paraSOL, which blocks out all sunlight, and have armed 
 themselves with powerful suits called casket armor. The combination has made the vampires all but 
 unstoppable to the Guild, a small pocket of human resistance fighters. You're initially introduced 
 to the character of Lucien, a brooding young vampire slayer with a complicated history and a personal 
 vendetta against the Duke, the leader of the vampires. Eventually, you're also introduced to Aaron, 
 a young Guild member who has hidden potential and must step up when the Guild's secret base gets 
 overrun by vampires. Although Lucien seems indifferent toward Aaron, the Guild, and basically everyone 
 else who is not a vampire he's trying to brutally murder, the paths of Lucien and Aaron run parallel 
 enough that they become accidental companions, each with his own personal reasons for ridding the 
 planet of the vampire scourge.  

  Some of the foreshadowing in Lunar Knights is a little heavy-handed and makes certain late-game 
 story twists not so twisty, but the writing is solid, and the characters come across with distinct 
 personalities. Although most of the dialogue is relayed through text, the game makes austere but 
 effective use of voice acting, having characters vocalize significant pieces of dialogue. The game 
 is also absolutely jam-packed with catchy, evocative music that covers some pretty impressive stylistic 
 ground. There's the jazzy main theme, the moody gothic pieces inside the game's dungeons, some 
 squealing rock guitars during deep-space sequences, and more. There are also some short-but-sweet 
 animated cutscenes between dungeons and leading up to boss fights. Although there are at times 
 noticeable compression artifacts on the video, they're animated beautifully, heightening the drama 
 and immediacy of the story. The game has a good look to it as well, with vibrant color and plenty 
 of unique locations. However, a lot of the enemies you'll face appear to be the same enemies in 
 prior Boktai games, but they're just slightly enhanced. Still, you can tell a lot of care went 
 into how this game looks and sounds, and the quality of the presentation has a quantifiably positive 
 effect on the whole experience.  

  At its core, Lunar Knights is an isometric dungeon crawler with some light role-playing game elements. 
 There's an overworld where you can rest, buy and sell supplies, upgrade your weapons, and interact 
 with other characters. But most of your time will be spent in the world's various dungeons, which 
 is where the vampires and their freaky gallery of accomplices dwell. You're initially introduced 
 to Lucien and Aaron in their own individual solo missions, but soon enough, you'll be able to swap 
 out the two characters on the fly. Lucien is armed with a special dark sword, making him best suited 
 for close combat; Aaron has a solar gun, which he can use to blast baddies from a distance.  

 
  The light/dark dynamic is significant because each attack dealt drains Lucien and Aaron's available 
 attack energy. Although they can use potions and other inventory items to restore that energy, 
 the most effective way for Lucien and Aaron to recharge is to gather their energy from the moon 
 and the sun, respectively. The game runs on an accelerated day/night cycle, so more than half the 
 time you won't be able to recharge one of your characters' energy. Their energy is made even scarcer 
 by the fact that, most of the time, the dungeons have you cut off from any kind of light. This 
 means that your only exposure to light comes in the form of an occasional skylight. While all of 
 this certainly encourages you to alternate between the two characters, there's a tendency to lean 
 on Lucien a bit more. Because he's the first character you play as, he'll probably have several 
 experience levels over Aaron, which makes him inherently more powerful. Lucien also doesn't  need 
  dark energy to use his sword, though it's not nearly as effective without it. Aaron, on the other 
 hand, can't use his solar gun at all when he runs out of juice.  

  As you hack and blast your way through dungeons, you'll run into enemies that are more susceptible 
 to light or dark attacks, though there are also enemies that are weak to other elements, which 
 is where Pokmon-like companions known as terrenials come into play. Lucien and Aaron each start 
 off with unique dark and light terrenials. As you defeat the boss vampires waiting for you at the 
 end of each dungeon, you'll earn additional terrenials with strengths in earth, frost, flame, and 
 cloud that both characters can use. Although there's some color-coding going on, it's not always 
 obvious what element might make an enemy weak. It requires a little trial and error on occasion, 
 which wouldn't be a big deal if many of the low-level enemies you faced weren't so tough. You often 
 won't be able to attack an enemy outright. Instead, you'll have to stun your enemy indirectly first, 
 something that often requires crackerjack timing. Lucien and Aaron also have a trance meter that 
 fills up as you fight, which you can activate once it's full to access incredibly powerful attacks 
 for a short period of time. The terrenial you have equipped will also impact what you can do during 
 that time.  

          The numerous layers to Lunar Knight's gameplay keep it fresh throughout.     

  As challenging 
 as some of the grunts can be, the dungeon bosses in Lunar Knights can be real softies. And just 
 because you've emptied their health bars, it doesn't mean the game is over. After each fight, you'll 
 have to drag their bodies up into space in Lucien's ship, outside of the effects of the paraSOL, 
 and finish them off with concentrated solar radiation. At this point, the game turns into a space 
 shooter, and it's one of the few times when you'll be using the stylus in the game. Mechanically, 
 it's a little clumsy because you have to use the stylus to both move your ship and target enemies. 
 Still, the concept is solid, and it's such an out-of-the-blue addition to a game already brimming 
 with unique touches that it's hard not to like. With each dungeon boss you defeat, you also gain 
 control of a piece of the paraSOL, which allows you to manipulate the weather. You can choose from 
 different climate types before you head into a dungeon, and the climate you choose can affect what 
 parts of the dungeon you'll be able to access. The weather will also affect how you choose accessories 
 because you'll find headgear, body armor, and boots that are only effective under specific weather 
 conditions.  

  With so much going on in Lunar Knights, you never get tired of the experience, despite the game's 
 healthy, 10-hour-plus running time. Even when you finish the single-player game, there's a multiplayer 
 duel mode for you to mess around with as well. Lunar Knights is a really well-crafted action adventure 
 game in nearly all regards. Although it may be daunting for those who shy away from a challenge, 
 it's worth the fight and one of the best games of its kind to appear on the DS.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (61 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: yuyufan0701
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  So when I first saw the Kojima stamp on the cover, it almost felt as if Psychomantis had taken 
 control of my body and forced me to buy this game. I'm not saying it's a bad thing at all, this 
 game has really tight controls that work really well, the gameplay isn't repetitive because it 
 definitely has that Kojima flair, meaning, something as insignificant as wind-speed can entirely 
 change how you play the game. The leveling system works really well, when you level up you get 
 stat points to allocate to any stat you want, those being Health, Energy, or Weapon Damage. Both 
 of the main characters grow on you very quickly, whether you like the quick-tempered Aaron who 
 uses guns and will do anything to bring Justice to ne'er-do-wells, or Lucian, the loner goth swordsman 
 who will stop at nothing to kill any and all vampire scum, you're bound to like one or both of 
 them. As far as the story goes, well Hideo Kojima wrote/produced it, enough said. Also on top of 
 leveling up your characters you can gather materials, or buy them if you have extra cash, and power 
 up your weapons to help with the tougher enemies. The game also offers beautifully rendered anime 
 and cg cut-scenes to help progress the story, and they aren't very rare, they occur quite often, 
 more commonly whenever you beat a major boss in a dungeon you'll see a space ship fly towards your 
 location, pick up the vampire's corpse and you board the ship and fly it into outer-space to blast 
 it with direct sunlight. The space missions are fun too, they're fully 3D shooting missions, meaning 
 the ship flies on it's own and you're job is to scoot it out of the way of obstacles or enemy fire 
 while blasting enemies with the stylus on the touch-screen, switching terrenials (little friends 
 that each have there own element and can be used to power up gun/sword attacks and are obtained 
 from downed bosses) will change the type of round you fire out of your ship, such as huge explosive 
 missiles, homing missiles, or even rapid-fire. The gameplay is really addictive and if you do plan 
 to pick this game up, also plan on staying inside for at least a week because you cannot put this 
 game down for more than about an hour at a time. Oh yeah, did I mention Hideo Kojima made this 
 game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeglove
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:24 am PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is a continuation of the Boktai series of games that appeared on the GameBoy Advance, 
 but were likely never heard of outside Japan. At the core the story surrounding the Boktai universe 
 sort of involves an ongoing war between vampires and humanity, and in Lunar Knights the world is 
 totally controlled and permanently shrouded in darkness by the fanged ones. Thus enters the solitary 
 Lucian, a dark and mysterious figure, who wouldn't seem out of place with the vampires, but instead 
 he is on a mission of revenge, intent on destroying every single one of them. Meanwhile Aaron, 
 a novice member of the Gunslingers - a rebel faction hoping to turn the tide against the tyrannical 
 vampires - is still learning how to use his Solar Gun.
  This action RPG is one of those types of games that pop up every now and again in the gaming world 
 that don't seem to fit in anywhere in particular. Either because of their quirky style or lack 
 of marketing, games like these fail to get much recognition from the masses. In this respect Lunar 
 Knights seems more of a labour of love for the creators, Kojima Productions - the same blokes behind 
 the ludicrously successful Metal Gear Solid games - than a commercially motivated venture.
  
  After you get introduced to both of the main characters, they team up to take on the vampires 
 together due to the fact that the game has a rather interesting day/night mechanic at work. Lucian 
 is aligned with the dark, and thus uses the rays of the moon for his special attacks, though he 
 can get by with just his sword. Aaron on the other hand must have sunlight available in order to 
 use his solar guns. Obviously, as you play, day will become night, handily compelling you to switch 
 characters. 
  In addition to the lunar/solar changeover, attention should also be drawn to the climate, permanently 
 displayed on the upper screen of the DS. If it is cloudy, it will be difficult for Aaron to charge 
 up his guns. Tropical heat and intense cold affect other environmental aspects of the areas you 
 explore, such as lakes freezing over, allowing you to cross, or drying them up, letting you see 
 what lies beneath. This may seem overly complicated to begin with, and it is too tiresome to explain 
 here, yet the game slowly introduces you to the four elements as you play.
  
  The artistic style of the whole thing seems to hover somewhere around the traditional anime, yet 
 it still doesn't totally fall in line graphically with other games of its type. Don't be mistaken; 
 the whole thing looks fine, though it takes a little getting used to. Aaron and Lucian have the 
 typical big eyes, small mouths and choppy flamboyant bouffant hairstyles, but other periphery details 
 like the non-player characters look slightly departed from the usual. Nothing bad about any of 
 them, and once you get past it you quickly accustom.
  
  The main problem with Lunar Knights is that the moment you begin playing, you're not exactly sure 
 what the hell is going on. From the off, every character you encounter seems like they have some 
 intricate back-story. Some of them certainly do, especially Lucian and one of the primary antagonists, 
 which can confuse matters slightly. As such you have to sort of persevere for a while, like eavesdropping 
 on a group conversation at an office party, biding your time until you can contribute without making 
 an arse of yourself. 
  
  A strange gameplay dichotomy also crops up occasionally. For most of the game, it's an isometric 
 Zelda-esque cartoon romp around dungeons, hacking and slashing stuff until you meet one of the 
 chief vampires and shred them apart. Once you end up defeating one of the big bad guys, a bizarre 
 gameplay element suddenly crops out of nowhere. It turns out Lucian has a space ship that he uses 
 to totally purify the corpses of the vampires by dragging them into the atmosphere in order to 
 expose them completely to the sun's rays. At this point, you abandon using the d-pad and buttons 
 and get the DS stylus out to control your ship, utilising a kind of point and click system. It 
 is fun, but there still remains this nagging notion that it's been hastily stuck on for no apparent 
 reason. Shifting the action suddenly from dungeon crawling to warp-speed does make you wonder in 
 terms of plot why Lucian doesn't simply fly about and blast his nemeses apart from the safety of 
 the skies.
  Anyway, despite its peculiar form, Lunar Knights is a thoroughly satisfying action RPG. The controls 
 are responsive, and it introduces neat little touches the DS can do. Blowing into the microphone 
 will make Lucian and Aaron whistle, distracting patrolling enemies. The stylus can be used during 
 the special elemental attacks as well as menu navigation. Once you complete it, which isn't that 
 hard, but not easy either, and will take a few hours, various other elements open up when you replay, 
 like a kind of survival mode that reaps useful bonuses, as well as a boss mode that lets you replay 
 the various boss fights at various difficulties. It all adds up to creating a worthy gaming experience.
 
  
  It seems Lunar Knights will be one of those sleeper hits that end up with a cult audience. Like 
 Shadowrun on the SNES, Nights on the Sega Dreamcast, or Zone Of the Enders on the PS2, Lunar Knights 
 is a splendid title, but it will go largely unnoticed in favour of the more marketable titles. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatanxix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  when i first saw lunar knights, i was really excited to play since im a big fan of boktai games.. its 
 one of the reasons why i bought a DS lite!^_^;.. you will be very familiar with this game if youve 
 played boktai games before.. but this time you will have the chance to control 2 character simultaniously 
 by just pressing select button on your DS, its either milee or projectile mode depending on the 
 character youre using! bout the exploration, the dungeons here are bigger than on those boktai games, but 
 less puzzle.. for me, boktai is still better in terms of dungeon exploration and puzzle solving stages, plus 
 the map system is not that good compared to boktai, but still good, since this time you will be able 
 to buy item/equipments on a store. all in all, the game is good and while playing this game, you will 
 wish that they will make a part 2 with new added features and familiar boktai element specially 
 the dungeons and puzzles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is created by the team that made the Metal Gear Solid (a series that I despise) , and 
 it is very boring. ZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ. What, oh yeah, sorry, i 
 fell asleep just thinking of this game.
  
  Gameplay: Very repetetive combat and dungeon crawling, this game is not good. You play as 2 characters, 
 a emo sword wielder, and an obnoxious gunslinger. You collect these elemental farie things that 
 give you a type attribute. Combat gets old after the first dungeon, and bosses are either too easy 
 or too hard. Very unclear instructions on what you have to do as well. The game is pretty long, 
 but its not worth your time and money. There are some space shooting missions, but, you guessed 
 it, there repetetive as well. Graphics: Decent, hand drawn graphics. But there are some great 3-D 
 cutscenes.
  
  Sound: Annoying SE's, but fairly good music.
  
  Multiplayer: Actually pretty fun. The only aspect of the game that i enjoy.
  
  Replay Value: 
 Low, i didnt even finish it.
  
  Final Comments: ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZ 
 ZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ 
 ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ 
 ZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ 
 ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZ 
 ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ 
 ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TRAPT14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights doesn't specifically bring anything new, but its balance is just right for me. the 
 game's flow is basically at your own pace and the cut scenes are great to watch. The whole game 
 is so well made! As for the problems, though -- the game is a little short for what it is, even 
 though it has open replay. Also, I was hoping for some unlockables like the terrifically well-made 
 cut scenes or even character bios. Only some new weapons, which, to be honest, aren't all so well 
 balanced. The ship battle can be frustrating when gameplay suddenly changes and space rocks are 
 coming at you, I think some checkpoints would've been nice there. Nonetheless, I think anyone, 
 especially people with special tastes in the story elements, can find the game to be likable, at 
 least. Its sad when a game goes underappreciated, especially when it is one of my favorite tiles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futtii
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is made from Hideo Kojima and it is about 2 chracters defending themselves from Vampires 
 and destroying them. A great story and marvellous graphics to go with the story, just remarkable!
 
  
  I like this game a lot it is definently in the top 3 best DS games out till date
  
  1. JUS ( Jump! Ultimate Stars)
  2. ZPHG (Zelda: Phantom Hourglass)
  3. LK ( Lunar Knights)
 
  
  There the top 3 and they are great Lunar Knights being just about one of the best DS games to hit 
 the 
 
  
  It is also from Hideo Kojima the maker of MGS and the soundtrack is somewhat simular.
  One of the best DS games to ever be made!
  It is made by famous Hideo Kojima the maker of the 
 MGS series!
  Thanks for reading
  [9.0]
  futti ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wywern271
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Lunar knights, as you must know, is from the gba series boktai or shin bokura no taiyou (JP) it 
 is the best in series or at least i think that cause i have never played boktai 3 bu tit has its 
 errors like every game, i will tell this in 2 parts
  The good
  Lunar knights is deffinetly one of the best games that konami but is still not great has MGS it 
 has a very good story and its very original, if you start playing the game you cant stop until 
 you have finished it, there are a sort of weapons and items, so you can try a lot of things and 
 if like that werent enought, the weather can be changed butnot has you want, this changes depending 
 on the hour.
  The bad
  Every game has its errors, aand this is no out of this, lunar knights, has very difficult quests 
 (not like boktai 1 or 2 but there are still some difficult quests) so its nearly impossible for 
 little kids to finish the game and the little game is thhe sip, to purify the vampires, its a lot 
 more difficult has you are beating the game and to end this and i think thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajchicago
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  Lunar Knights plot is a little difficult to understand but in a way its very simple since the game 
 is bout vampires taking over the earth and it up to you and choosing 2 diffrent charecters with 
 diffrent objectives in life for the game... kinda boring but in way in this RPG and the way the 
 presented it.. its kinda intresting enough to play threw it to see the inresting cut scens and seeing 
 plot progress after each chapter and facing more enimies and intresting enough the bad guys keep 
 changing their mind on taking over the earth or the city ur cahrecters come from or jus kill you 
 and forget bout evrything else...?... lol
  
  Gameplay:
  In this game the controls could not be simpler! personanly i love the controls since bascily all 
 u use is 2 buttons and they are the dash button and hit button.... lol very basic even a f***ing 
 caveman can do it which a good experince to live with for a very long RPG since the game is estimated 
 to be 10 hours long.. (thats how it took me anyway if i played it continously) but really it took 
 me 7 months cuz its so long i jus get worn out. that and i work alot but in this case long games 
 could be bad but this time its worth it since the game play is good enough to make up for it!... lol 
 N E WAYZ the two charecters u play can be anyone u want since u give them names in the beginning 
 like in pokemon... and each one is very diffrent... my, and every one else's probably, is the dark 
 looking one with the sword since he doesnt die that easly and hes actualy USEFUL! becuase the other 
 guy with the guns sucks balls! hes dies easly and the enrgy bar u get for using diffrent elmental 
 powers gets draind so easly since u shoot with him constitly since each of his weapons sux and 
 pretty useless, hes only good for solving puzzles which envolves the guns... oh the battles... their 
 alright but basic like i said b4 but its only good when ur fighting 2 enimies at a timw but if 
 ur like 5 to one ur screwed becuase u can only attack when ur standing still but u can dash out 
 the way using the energy u have to save urself but its very incinfinuint but not enough to get 
 tired of since the gameplay story line and charecters make up for that... overall lunar kinghts 
 is has a reAlly good story line, very nasic controls and lengthy time usage,.. lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinky17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is very frustrating, puzzles that take hours or near-impossible to solve... ive been stuck 
 in this same room for over 5 hours and its impossible to figure out how to get to the other side... the 
 only fun parts are boss fights, and space ship those r ok.. but doing the rest of the level is 
 so boring same thing over and over again, very frustrating dieing and losing and crappy saving... 
 not the best... space ship only fun part but ya u have to beat these impossible puzzles to unlock 
 im its hard puzzles are frustrating, boring and take forever do not buy this waste of a game only 
 if its like $5 it not very good otherwise the only thing i like to do in this game is to use the 
 spaceship ccauyse stylus but ergulaur gameplay is what your doing most of the time and all u do 
 is square sqaure swqauare over and over its boring! space ship thing only fun party this is my 
 review D-... for repativie and frustration and ok graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_weapon05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  The original Boktai series on the GameBoy Advance held one of the most unique gaming concepts ever 
 - a solar sensor within the cartridge that affected how the game was played. It was a fascinating 
 experience and was criminally overlooked by the gaming population. Now, under a new guise, Konami 
 has blessed the DS with another Boktai experience - Lunar Knights.
  
  Spiritually, as the 4th Boktai game, Lunar Knights features many similar features and themes found 
 in the original GameBoy Advance titles. This time, however, the solar sensor idea has been ditched 
 and replaced with an automatic weather feature. While not allowing the gameplay to become as deep 
 as before, this and many other features add a new flavour to
  the gameplay.
  
  Unlike the previous titles, Lunar Knights features an entirely new cast of characters. The heroes 
 this time are Lucian, a mysterious vampire hunter with the power of darkness and Aaron - an apprentice 
 sharpshooter and member of a sunlight lovin' guild. As the game progresses, you being to realise 
 what a great pair these two are together and this really makes for some decent storytelling.
  
  The main high-point in the game is it's gameplay and this is where Lunar Knights really excels. 
 This is a free roaming, hack 'n' slash adventure, so you'll be running around, guarding and using 
 a great deal of weapons to stab, slice and shoot at foes. The battle system here works rather well, 
 even if a lot of the time you'll be getting your ass handed to you by even the least threatening 
 of enemies. Yes, from start to finish Lunar Knights is quite a difficult game, and it wouldn't 
 surprise me if this put some people off it entirely. Perserverance is key, however and once you 
 get the hang of the
  game's control scheme, you'll feel right at home. The best part is that the game allows you to 
 choose between two characters who are in no way alike. Lucian uses close combat weapons such as 
 a sword, lance etc, while Aaron will be using long range weapons like pistols, flamethrowers and 
 missles. The way the game allows you to pick and choose a fighting style is great, plus it opens 
 up so many different ways to fight the various boss monsters in the game.
  
  One thing that can be improved upon is the casket rocket stages. For this, the game goes 3D and 
 completely relies on the functionality of the DS stylus. This is one of the biggest flaws the game 
 has. While not being too bad, these rocket stages feel quite clunky and, well... bare. For this 
 stage, you move the rocket AND shoot with the stylus, meaning dodging and shooting is a real pain. 
 This is pretty much all you can do during these stages too - dodge and shoot. Considering the main 
 battle system boasts so many options, it's quite dissapointing to be downgraded to just one little 
 cannon. However, these stages are sparse and hardly outstay their welcome.
  
  As far as graphics go, Lunar Knights isn't exactly the game that steals the spotlight. That being 
 said, the game has brilliantly animated sprites, a great art style and even anime cutscenes to 
 help tell it's story even better. The main part of the game is shown through an istometric view, 
 much like the previous Boktai games. This, on the whole, still works out really well.
  
  Overall the main story of the game should last from 10 - 15 hours, depending on how well you can 
 cope with being constantly barraged by difficult enemies. After that, there's a hard mode to take 
 on as well as some optional stuff for the completists to go crazy with. So, overall, this is quite 
 a lengthy game depending on how much you grow to like it.
  
  Even though it's got an entirely new name, this is definitely still the Boktai people have come 
 to love. If you played and enjoyed the GameBoy Advance games, get yourself a copy of this. If not, 
 I recommend it only if you really want a good challenge to sink your teeth into. Either way, Boktai 
 is back and it's shown itself to be one of the best titles on the DS to date.
  
  Pros
  - Brilliant gameplay
  - Well presented
  - Anime cutscenes area nice touch
  
  Cons
  - 
 Some parts of the game are too difficult
  - Casket Rocket stages feel like a chore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyco2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Lunar knights is one of the best games I have played on the ds. Lunar Knights is from the same 
 creators of the famos Boktai series. Lunar Knights has a great ( and kind of dark) story that will 
 make you want to play more. It fitures the sword swinging dark knight Lucian who has a grudge against 
 the duke of vampires, and theres the apprentece gunslinger Aaron who helps Lucian. Theres awsome 
 boss fights in this game as well as anime cutsceans. Levels that you piolit your spaceship are 
 also really fun and gives a arcade like feel to the game. If your a fan of the Boktai series you 
 will like this game. There's also this new thing called trace mode which is your super mode where 
 you can eather take your opponent's life or energy, you can also do special attacks that requires 
 you using the stylis or mic depending on what Teneral you use,
  The bad thing is that it doesnt have the solar sensor like the boktai games. And it's multiplayer 
 mode is not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/lunar_knights. html? var1=sc3
  
  Is it really possible for the joy of taking down vampires and their pitiful pawns with extreme 
 prejudice to ever wane? We've done it in so many gaming franchises like Resident Evil and House 
 of the Dead, and seen it in who knows how many movies. Well, even though it's taken forever to 
 make its way to COE review land, it could never be too late to learn why Lunar Knights, a Nintendo 
 DS-exclusive, deserves some time out of your gaming day. Now I realize that this Kojima Productions' 
 game is in direct correlation to the GBA Boktai series, but since I've never seen it first-hand, 
 this critique won't be referencing it. Sorry if that upsets you, but oh well, nothing that can 
 be done, so take this as-is.
  
  Lunar Knights follows a somewhat heartfelt journey between two unsung heroes, Lucian and Aaron. 
 The former is a dark knight, wielding the all-powerful dark sword Vanargand, wishing to exact revenge 
 on all vampire for reasons that aren't quite clear until the very end. Aaron, on the other hand, 
 is an apprentice solar gunslinger of the Acuna Guild. While each have their motives, they along 
 with the humans want nothing more than to break the vampires' stronghold on the world due to their 
 Casket Armor and paraSOL. The blood suckers want eternal night for this planet and they're forcing 
 the terrennials, the world's elemental guardians, to lend their powers in order to craft impenetrable 
 armor.
  
  While LK's play time lasts along similar lines of most current-gen action titles with eight to 
 ten hours, the game is a fairly solid testament to how action RPGs should be done. The adventure 
 contains six chapters, one dedicated to each character, while the others are executed in co-op 
 fashion. The main idea is to make your way through a series of sizeable dungeons (small to large 
 progression) , eventually encounter a major role vampire, best him/her in battle, and take them 
 into space to be purified. If that last part sounds especially strange, don't worry, it did for 
 me too at first. It's because sunlight is needed for the process, and because of the paraSOL, the 
 Sunflower station is your only means of accessing the sun's rays. 
  
  Making your way from point A to point B in any particular dungeon feels well-paced. There's a whole 
 lot of sword swinging/gun slinging and some puzzle sprinkled on the side. My biggest gripe would 
 be the repetition, because Lucian's combo attack animation never changes after the first time you 
 use it, and well, Aaron's is the very definition of one-dimensional: point and shoot, repeat about 
 a thousand times, and hoo-ha. Thankfully what could've made for exceptionally boring gameplay due 
 to such is wonderfully offset by the rescuing of those very terrennials mentioned before, along 
 with a minor but familiar RPG structure. Any vampire minion that Lucian or Aaron defeats earns 
 him experience points, which at some point levels either up, imagine that. Upon such an event, 
 skill points are available to be distributed among three attributes: Vitality (health) , Spirit 
 (energy) and Skill (offensive ability) . This upgrading along with wielding a terrennial-influenced 
 weapon, such as Lucian's sword being flame-induced by Ursula (fire) , helps keep battle in Lunar 
 Knights fresh and attractive enough to keep you playing. That's coming from someone who restarted 
 the game four times, yes, four, and still managed to enjoy himself.
  
  The purification process seems out of place given the core ideals of LK's gameplay, but even it 
 is still pretty fun as a space shooter. Essentially, you pilot Lucian's ship, the Laplace, with 
 the casketed vampire boss you defeated in cargo, blasting your way through a series of odd-looking 
 enemies trying to prevent your trip to the Sunflower. The thing is, while I didn't necessarily 
 have any problems with controlling these sequences, I could easily see others being the exact opposite. 
 Reason being, you move the Laplace with the stylus and only the stylus, while also having to use 
 the plastic stick to shoot down enemies by tapping on them as they engage. In other words, any 
 time you shoot, Lucian's ship is sitting totally still, which leaves you open to devastating attacks 
 if you can't be quick enough to continue skimming it around in the touch screen. It's pretty cool 
 though that once you start saving the terrennials, you can also change the Laplace's weapon system 
 with the elemental property of any that may be with you. 
  
  It's also worth discussing that releasing the vampires' grip on the terrennials unlocks various 
 climates. During Lucian's first mission, you are referred to Dr. Sheridan, an old scientist who 
 not only specializes in weapon upgrades, but also hacking into the vampires' paraSOL to change 
 the planet's climate. This is very useful in boosting your battle prowess (stronger equipment = 
 good) , but a good deal of the dungeon puzzles requires a particular climate to be brought about. 
 On one side, it feels a little forced because you often have to leave your current dungeon to return 
 to his mansion for the change since there's no other way to, but at the same time, it helps to 
 make these minor brain benders a bit more unique that what you've probably seen in the past. Each 
 dungeon also has certain paths blocked by elemental pillars that can only be removed by having 
 a certain terrennial aiding you, which serves as decent incentive for those that love pursuing 
 100% completion in their games. Lunar Knights is a mostly fun game that has nasty repetition issues, 
 but offers enough variety to keep every step of the adventure feeling dynamic.
  
  How LK looks also isn't bad at all either. If you've played the PS2/PSP Disgaea games, you'd be 
 instantly familiar with this game's presentation dealing with both the character sprites and dungeon 
 layouts. Now of course there's a bit more detail, which definitely does well for bringing more 
 liveliness to the player, so if you're into isometric, sprite-based games, Lunar Knights won't 
 disappoint you in the least. Animations are decent, even if unfortunately more repetitive than 
 fighting altogether, and the anime-style FMVs are excellently produced to the point that you wish 
 there were a whole lot more. The color, the way each scene draws you in and makes you feel like 
 you're really there, and the smoothness in general is especially attractive to those who appreciate 
 the kind of art style they promote. The special effects are great too, mainly due to the terrennials' 
 abilities, but even the more common battle tokens could make you nod in approval.
  
  Easily the biggest mixed bag in Lunar Knights, at least for me, is the sound quality. It's both 
 disappointing and not, which ultimately confuses me when it comes to considering its ability to 
 appeal. It's mostly in part because of the voice acting. When it comes to games that have voice 
 in this day and age, I tend to prefer 90% utilization for the entire duration, with some text dialogue 
 stuck here and there if deemed necessary. Well, LK isn't remotely close to that, as it's easily 
 90% text with some voice, which bugs me, because the actors sound talented, but you're never treated 
 to it to a level of satisfaction that could be obtained otherwise. But the music is awesome, so 
 by all means plug in a set of headphones, just bear in mind that you may not be whistling anything 
 unless you had to do what I did to beat it the first time. Really, it's great-sounding material, 
 but it doesn't have the delivery you'd expect to have it stick with you. What you hear in battle 
 is top-notch though, as Kojima Productions certainly made no mistake. You may hear a lot of the 
 same from start to finish, but it's nothing at all to complain about because it fits too well.
 
  
  It's comforting to know that at least one more online source (obviously that being COE) now has 
 positive things to say about Lunar Knights, but it could be too little, too late. If you didn't 
 know about this game and enjoy action-driven RPGs, I encourage you to see what LK is about. The 
 story may not be the most riveting you ever encounter, and the space shooter scenarios may [and 
 not surprisingly] raise an eyebrow or two in concept alone, but Lucian and Aaron's adventure is 
 something to behold, and that should warrant some additional attention. The very apparent shorter 
 play time and lack of value afterwards (the wireless multiplayer was just thrown together, the 
 unlocked difficulty doesn't change much, and the sidequests are derivative at best) definitely 
 rears its ugly head, but Lunar Knights is a Hideo Kojima product that makes you think about life 
 sometimes, and it does so in a surprisingly provocative way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game showed key elements in creating a great Action Adventure game. The world that you are 
 in is covered by darkness and are being run by vampires You are a vampire hunter that uses the 
 power of darkness. At one point you meet a boy who possesses the power of light. Then together 
 you are off to save the the 4 elements and to open the door of a castle that is control by the 
 vampire who is causing all these problems. The one who uses darkness use melee weapons like the 
 sword in which requires no usage of the energy bar. However, the one who uses light needs energy 
 in order to use his long range attacks (his guns) . So you use the one with darkness majority of 
 the time but it isn't an issues since he is strong and is the preferred one of the pair because 
 he is the coolest. Talking about coolest, one of the coolest part of the game is when you defeat 
 an boss you have to play mandatory 3-D mini-game dealing with your ship. You have to travel trough 
 space avoid asteroids, blasting the enemies and then fight an other boss battle then you reach 
 the space station in which will purify the bosses body and give the elements. Personal I wish there 
 were more this space flying levels within the game or have more levels to go through as an option. 
 This game barely reaches the over 10 hour mark, however if you look for all the secret items this 
 game takes about 15 hours to finish. I hope Konami makes a part two of this game because it rightfully 
 deserves one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinx6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is the same game as the Boktai games. It is the new DS vampire games from Kojima 
 the producer of Metal Gear Solid series. Lunar Knights is a action adventure game with some arcade 
 space shooter modes. The space shooter part of the game is hard, it comes into play when you kill 
 a boss vampire. I hate the arcade space shooter part of the game i think the game could have done 
 pretty well with out it. The reason is you have to move the spaceship and fire with the stylus 
 at the same time. This game have a lot of animation cut scenes which is very good on the DS. The 
 story follow the journey of two young young vampire hunters. Lucian the vampire hunter who get 
 his power from the moon, he uses a legendary sword an a shield and have a spirit that is half cat 
 half bat that follows him and give Lucian advices. Aran the second vampire hunter who get his power 
 from the sun, he uses a gun that fire plasma like bullets, but when upgrade can fire plasma in 
 all different direction, you also need to charge the gun to get a more powerful shot from the gun. 
 Aran also have a spirit that is half sun and half sunflower. It gives him advices and follows him 
 around. The cool thing about these spirit is when you absorb enough of there elements, for example 
 Lucian element is moon an when his meter fills you can touch the screen to turn any of the two 
 character in to beast like form of there element; that make them unleashed devastating damages 
 onto there opponents. It isn't too hard or too easy to fill up the meter it's just right. Also 
 there is five other element spirit to find that give the heroes to summon all kind of devastating 
 attack such as earthquakes, tornadoes, meteoroid shower and etc. In the beginning of the game you 
 use each hero separately, but after a couple of mission they finally team up and you can play as 
 both of them in missions, you can switch between them during battles. They both got their advantage 
 and disadvantage during battles. All in all this game is one of the best games on the Nintendo 
 DS and I think everyone owe it to themselves to try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaaranime13
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The beginning of lunar knights is not very special and is kinda hard but as you progress the game 
 gets better and better. The farther you get in the game the more weapons you get (only for gun 
 slinger) . Also if you get enough spare parts you can up grade your weapon and they become stronger, and 
 your weapons can actually gain levels witch makes your weapons get new powers (what you first get) such 
 as for the gun slinger he can charge up his gun and for the dark sords man he gets a four hit combo. I 
 recomend this game all the way!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldjango
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is a sort of sci-fi gothic action-RPG. Fans of Boktai will easily get into this game 
 as this is a spiritual successor to Boktai, but newcomers won't have much trouble getting into 
 this game. To make things better, Hideo Kojima, the creator of Metal Gear Solid created this game!
 
  
  Controls 10/10
  
  Lunar Knights is a beautifully controlled game, period. Once you play the game once, you instantly 
 know the controls. Attacking, charging your energy, looking around, and blocking are all mapped 
 to the face buttons, while weapon changing, and the lock on function are mapped to L or R respectively. 
 It is never hard to perform all these different actions in the fast-paced action of the battles. 
 There is nothing else I can say about the controls, other than the controls set the standard for 
 handheld games.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  This is one of the many DS games that use sprites, but 3d models are also used in the many space 
 battles that occur. Not surprisingly, the animation is fluid, there is some nice anime cutscenes 
 that look absolutely beautiful and break up the action, and some nice special effects are present. 
 This game does a nice job at keeping the environments pretty without making it overly so if that 
 makes any sense to any of you.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Here it is. The meat of the review as it were. As said at the start of this review, Lunar Knights 
 is an action-RPG. Lunar Knights does a good job at having a nice balance between fighting, exploring, 
 and some puzzles. First, lets talk about the combat. Combat is done on the plain that you run around 
 on, with no random battles. You have an attack button that launches a different kind of attack 
 depending on what weapon you're using, a block button that has the character using 1 of 4 shields 
 each with a different ability to block attacks, but you can have your guard broken to keep you 
 from blocking everything constantly. You can dash, but that will drain your energy, which is what 
 you use to infuse your weapons with different elemental abilities, allow the guns to fire, and 
 a couple of other things.
  Unlike Boktai, Lunar Knights has a simulated weather system, instead of a solar sensor on the cart. 
 This is a good thing for a lot of people, but some people wish the game used the solar sensor. 
 To those solar sensor fans (like myself) you can slot in a Boktai, Boktai 2 or Boktai 3 game into 
 the GBA slot and use that as a solar sensor in addition to the simulated system. Unlike Boktai, 
 the stealth aspects of the game is all but missing. The closest to getting a stealth segment in 
 this game is the second level, in which you have to blow into the microphone to make the character 
 whistle, which in turn will cause the monsters to be distracted, so you can sneak behind them because 
 you dont have a weapon at the moment.
  There is also a multiplayer mode with support for download play and multi-card play. The general 
 game is a deathmatch, with the differences between the two being that you are stuck to using the 
 first melee weapon Vanargand with one of the main characters Lucian, and one of the guns Knight 
 with the other character, Aaron.
  
  Overall 9/10
  
  Lunar Knights is a fantastic action-RPG with some good puzzle, and exploration pieces. The sound 
 could be a bit better, but Lunar Knights is a game I could easily recommend to any DS owner. Well, 
 Im done, so I hope you find this review helpful, Ja ne! (it means see ya) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Vampires take over the world, eh? Konami has yet another bloodsucking game out, and they're starting 
 to send a message. Lunar Knights, Boktai, Castlevania... and it's no coincidence that these games 
 are all pretty good, and they portray worlds where those buggers have the world in their grasp. 
 There's a conspiracy here, perhaps.
  
  In 2003, a game entitled, "Boktai," was released on the Game Boy Advance, and while it included 
 some amazing stealth concepts and gameplay mechanics, the experience was hampered by a solar sensor 
 that deeply affected the quality of any given play time. The sequel, as well, was widely received 
 as a novel idea, but again Konami added the extra sensor that let the game be played only in certain 
 conditions and made the once-portable game not so portable. The Japanese, in fact, made and shipped 
 a third game that America never got. Well, finally Hideo Kojima had the balls to make a DS game 
 with most of the Boktai elements without the reliance on the solar pack.
  
  Lunar Knights is a hack and slash action game with elements of role playing, stealth, and adventure, 
 and while it has some simplistic combat and gameplay, the polish is eons beyond any of the brilliant 
 diamonds on the DS at this point. From the jazzy music to the brilliant, Kojima-flavored cutscenes, 
 Lunar Knights is a fun reworking of an old and played-out genre made into a portable romp. Several 
 of the gears are missing or rusty, but the rest has so much oil on it that it's a slick and fresh 
 game for the ages.
  
  The game's premise is simple: hit the Y button until you kill your enemy. Most of the play time 
 is this Diablo mentality, and when the game has some strategy it seems to be giving you a glass 
 of fresh water. The boss battles are similar to a Castlevania game where the immense enemy begins 
 rotating attacks, and the player is forced to react to each situation, while the sneaking levels 
 are just plain fun. The game never forces a certain gameplay paradigm, and even when there is a 
 huge enemy around the corner, bolting away is always an option. There's also some leveling up and 
 number management to think about, which adds a shiny coat of RPG to the mix.
  
  This mixing makes the game a little less linear than it might compliment. With dungeons that can't 
 exactly be called "sprawling" but branch into many different passages, the first few hours of play 
 can be very disconcerting, where there's always an image of doubt in the air. "What if I am doing 
 the wrong thing?" runs through each passageway and gun shot, which makes the experience a little 
 muffled in terms of enjoyment. The game is far from hard, and although there are a few game-over 
 screens, the trap that tripped up the player is easily solvable and only costs time. So with such 
 an odd balance of non-strategy and non-linear gameplay, it's hardly the absolute shining beacon, 
 but I'll be darned if it doesn't give up hours of enjoyment.
  
  Boktai's emphasis on stealth is greatly reduced in this edition, and the game is hurt by that. 
 The peek-a-boo relationship with enemies is all but evaporated now, and it's all too easy to just 
 lay the hurt on instead of hiding. This makes the game less like Metal Gear Solid, which Kojima 
 handles as his brain child, and more like another action hack; that's a shame, because the Metal 
 Gear Solid masterpiece on the Game Boy Color doesn't work in a DS. So Lunar Knights isn't quite 
 the same game as Boktai, which is a saddening process and yet gives the game some flavor and a 
 nice platform to reach its own. At least they dropped the sequence where the player drags the coffin 
 through the entire dungeon again, thank god.
  
  Also spread out in the game are shooting levels that follow boss battles, in which the player moves 
 and shoots solely with the touch screen. While not bad, these segments are an annoying diversion 
 at best, and the simplicity of it makes it all the more frustrating when they usually take a playthrough 
 or two of each level to fully understand. You simply touch enemies to kill them, and that's all 
 there is to the combat. But you can't move your ship at the same time because it's moved by dragging 
 the stylus around, so then you're either dodging or attacking, but not both. Then it really becomes 
 artificial, a minor scratch in the rest of the fun, well crafted game.
  
  The story adds a little to the game, because although it is a pretty good and has several twists 
 and turns, the writing isn't very good. Most of the talking is rudimentary in they way it introduces 
 characters and parts of this world that Konami has created, and while it is a well crafted plot, 
 it isn't told in the best wording and sometimes it's just a bit cheesy. Some of it's enough, though, 
 and these parts are the best.
  
  A real treat that pops up about every half-hour are the brilliant cutscenes. Much like Metal Gear 
 Solid's cinematic direction, Kojima knows how to direct the heck out of a movie: he chose the very 
 best moments to cut to an intense, well done anime scene where this takes place. The most trivial 
 story segments are then turned into a fast moving -- abet dramatic -- key in the fabric of the game. 
 It's done with full voice acting, where applicable, and subtitles. The gamer then starts looking 
 forward to the next one at that point, and it's probably one of the many defining moments in the 
 game compared to any portable game out now. Each movie is about two or three minutes long, and 
 only the unimportant section of the any frame are a little fuzzy (like backgrounds or blocks of 
 one color) . Major kudos for including these.
  
  The rest of the visuals, sadly, lose this appeal. Konami barely improved upon Boktai's original 
 face graphics from the Game Boy Advance, and it gives the game a feeling of something missing. 
 Boktai had some really cool effects, and the whole thing looked like a watercolor painting, while 
 Lunar Knights looks more like an isometric game with very little taste (which is saved from becoming 
 by the cutscenes) . Then it starts bringing images to mind of the Megaman Battle Network series, 
 and we don't even want to go there.
  
  But the game is smooth enough, though this is defeated by the choppy animations each monster has. 
 In interacting with the player, visual cues are given to show what it is doing, and these are usually 
 very jerky. A sword swing from the player is swift but sparsely animated, and does actually have 
 a quick movement of an anime movie, which everything seems to evoke a theme of. It's a bugger that 
 the game doesn't have an artistic vibe to really flesh out what was trying to be done here. The 
 shooter levels have a moderately pleasing 3D effect to add to this, but those levels are so bland 
 and repetitive that there's nothing to justify this.
  
  On a totally different train of thought, the sound is amazing, and is the best music on the DS 
 yet. From the jazz symphony on the front theme to the deep, well crafted dungeon themes, the speakers 
 are almost a necessity. Several distinct instruments are used in making these beats an almost intensive 
 quality, without being oppressive or moody. The music makes the game that much better, and with 
 such a borderline gameplay blend and a few graphical hiccups it shines; the music almost makes 
 it worth listening to the atrocious voice-overs.
  
  Honestly, the stuff that comes out as voice work sounds like the development team of Lunar Knights 
 grabbed some microphones and made the tracks themselves. From nerdy and overly earnest to overly 
 dramatic, it's not as bad as Resident Evil, but it's laughably bad. At least the cutscene chattering 
 is well done, with the visual, animated reactions coupled with the talking. That's all there really 
 is to say about the cast, though, and it would have been nice to get some quality people saying 
 "Ugh!" every ten seconds.
  
  Lunar Knights is long to the point where you enjoyed the experience and it's done for now, but 
 you don't plan on playing it again for a few months. A typical playthrough averages around nine 
 or ten hours, with plenty of side quests to keep a player occupied. There's also a multiplayer 
 mode, which isn't quite suited to a deathmatch showdown due to the Diablo style dressings. A co-op 
 mode would have been rocking, but Konami skipped on this one.
  
  So in the end, Lunar Knights is a fun, abet odd game for the DS. It doesn't quite have the gameplay 
 to back it up one hundred percent of the time, but when everything does click it's a great game 
 that any action fan would be very pleased with. If it was sure what it was, it would be a masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marsha2112
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  OK. I really don't see why this game is seen to be so good. The good things about this game don't 
 have much to do with playing the game. The graphics are quite good, and I like the anime videos 
 which explain the storyline. However the game itself is kind of a disaster.
  To put it simply, in every level you run around isometric dungeons fighting identical monsters. 
 And collect some items. That really is all you do. Just clicking the A button. You carry on playing, 
 thinking there will be more to it, but that really is all the game is about. I don't even bother 
 killing anything, because as soon as you exit a room, all of the monsters come back anyway. You 
 through level, uh, doing epic fighting (note the s) and when you've finished, guess what, more 
 dungeons, and more, harder monsters! Yay! Or you might go to a spaceship level, where you get to 
 tap the spaceships. Fun.
  No, really, there is nothing special about this game. If you enjoyed it, you really need to try 
 some decent DS games, and this is not one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManaBlade22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Well, I own this game so I have some experiance reviewing this game. First of all, it is quite 
 challenging well, not like extremly difficult, but it gets the job done. THe 3D ship levels are 
 clumsy, probably one of the major problems in the game. You only use the stylus to shoot and move 
 which is very lazy. It feels like something they put on at the last minute. The gameplay is excellent 
 with more than just button mashing, it actually requires great stradedgy. Though I have to say, 
 the dramatic scenes are a bit cheesy. The music is superb with different music matching each place 
 or scene. The multiplay er great and simple and gets the job done well. Overall, this is a great 
 grame for the DS and for all anime stlye RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is a wonderful game for the DS. It is a great example of portable gaming done right. 
 The gameplay is frequently broken into 15-30 minute chunks and you are able to save your game whenever 
 you so choose. Good: The leveling up/powering up weapons/dungeon crawling type of game is fairly 
 hard to get right in my opinion -- I have played more than enough terrible games in this vein. However, 
 Lunar Knights does just about everything right. The characters are well done, the story is engaging, 
 and the anime cut scenes are a real treat.
  
  Bad: The music gets repetitive even though it is catchy. Some people may not enjoy the camera, 
 as it is 2.5D and has a rather odd angle. It's similar to an isometric view in a game like StarCraft 
 or WarCraft, but it's tilted further upwards. I myself did not find this terribly enjoyable. I 
 also found the graphics to be only okay- they really did not live up to the quality of the rest 
 of the game.
  
  Verdict: Buy. You can definitely overlook the flaws in this game and enjoy its fine merits. It 
 is quite long, and I am all set to pop it in and give it a second playthrough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  if ur not known to the boktai games on the gba then this game is still good it has talking about 
 what happaned in the past games.
  this game is made by kojima and u could say this is the metal gear solid on the ds it has teh same 
 mechanics sneaking u can wistle by blowing into ur mic and that will lure enemys to ur spot.
  
  this time u play as 2 heroes that just kik butt well u can name ur characters so i named mine 
 titan and rain. titan uses a variety of solar guns and rain uses a humongous dark blade and u both 
 use terrenials or elements that increase ur atks.
  
  there is a super move in this game when ur white gauge is up u press the bottom left button on 
 the touch screen and u eighter go into a super form like sol titan who is completly in flames if 
 u have the sun terrenial on and the dark rain which just looks wicked the other terenials just 
 go to another stage with enemys on it and u use ur stylus to destroy them the ground u make fissures, i 
 havent done the wind or the snow yet but i have done fire and u draw a quick circle and it shoots 
 meteros or something like that at the enemys. the boss fights are easy in the begining but they 
 get harder.
  u have life which u use potions and food to increase then u have energy and to charge up the energy 
 u need to store either lunar or sol energy depending on the whats going on the top screen. the 
 top screen shows the climate .
  theres just too much to write about this game ill make this a quick reveiw of the pros and cons 
 of the game.
  
  PROS:
  Its the mgs on the ds also check out the other 2 past instalments if u have the other games that 
 used the sun sensor u can use it in compliance with this game to get light or dark energy.
  there is multiplayer battle so u can train ur 2 guys up and battle i currently have level 60's 
 in my game.
  the controls are perfect if u put them n the second setting and u just slash or shoot ur way through 
 the leves its a good 20 hour game.
  
  CONS:
  theres only 3 cons 1 they need more characters to play as and level them up.
  2 online would 
 be cool
  3 the ship flying is nothing near starfox ds but its a work in progress.
  
  kojima keep doing what u doin mgs might be dead after mgs 4 but boktai is still here.
  
  difficulty 
 at times its difficult but i say just right
  time spent about 30 hours
  learning curve id say about 10 mins
  classification = rocks
  
  gameplay it felt like the 
 last 2 boktai games well they did say if it aint broken it doesnt need to be fixed.
  graphics its exactly but a little improved but it feels like ur playing a gba game but thats ok, 
 but the nice fmvs are cool.
  sound is great .
  value i would buy it or rent it but in my opinion but buy it its wort it i think its 20$ now also 
 go pick up boktai 1 and 2 for the gba there like 5$-10$ play those there worth it.
  i give it a 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gra_ham_man5
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Lunar Knights for the Nintendo DS is an overall great game. It has a fairly good running time of 
 over 10 hours plus an all right multiplayer to boot. However, the graphics seem out-of-date and 
 somewhat GBA-like compared to the typical quality of DS games today. The cut-scenes are well done, 
 however, and do seem to relinquish the fact of the lesser quality and mediocre in-game graphics. 
 The 3-D flying sequences are not bad but the game play is dull and uncoordinated. The story is 
 quite well thought and seems to be related to the other Boktai games, but is still reinvented in 
 many ways. The sound quality in the game is actually well done and consists of many different kinds 
 of sound effects, songs, and even little voice clips for some of the moves or video sequences. 
 All in all, Lunar Knights is a great game, and anyone with the itch for a good hack n' slash RPG 
 on the DS will be pleased with what the games has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Wolfy
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 31, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is a pretty unique RPG to the DS since it is an Action RPG. The fun of leveling up 
 with the hack and slash type of controls that make it fun. The addition of elements to your attack 
 can be nice to other than some times it gets annoying to keep an eye on your energy and health 
 all the while being swarmed at times. I would say it's good in terms that you can do the whole 
 hack and slash and upgrade type of fun but it comes down to a lot of just random collecting of 
 materials and going back into older maps with 3 different weather climates to get all the secrets 
 in them. It puts a lot to do and beating the game let's you have a new game+ so you can start off 
 the game on a harder difficulty but with all your work still in tact. A nice add on.
  
  The game contains multi player but nothing outlandish, just a battle royal that is usually not 
 very skill based. Just more of a run up to your friend and keep hitting until one of you falls 
 unconscious. Not exactly super fun but it is there and it's nice they give you the option.
  
  The game is pretty long yet not too long. Which isn't bad considering you can continue a beaten 
 game starting over. But some of the game play seems to be a bit dull and annoying more than fun. 
 The sneaking missions aren't exactly why I would pick this game up. It looks like an Action game 
 and having to sneak around enemies with out getting caught or it's game over put a bit of a damper 
 on the the whole game for me. I could easily kill these foes but it is a forced mission that is 
 needed to complete a task to move the story. Not what I was looking for. but these missions are 
 few and far between so I might just be griping on my own on that one. I just found them as unnecessary 
 and annoying touch ins.
  
  The touch screen game play isn't worth much either. The whole point to the top screen is just dialog 
 and weather. The bottom screen takes care of the action but the only time you can really use the 
 touch screen for some fun fighting is if you get a trance or special mode after fighting for a 
 while and that only lasts 10 seconds where you used your touch screen to attack enemies. 10 seconds 
 from the half an hour of running through a dungeon. it is never a necessity. I am the type to save 
 up these specials and use them in emergency and there never was a time when I felt I needed it. 
 I just used it to fight off 1 or 2 enemies most of the time. and then wait the 10 seconds...
  
  Over all the game is pretty good for what it is made for but it really fell through on some 
 of the game play for me. I would say try it first and see what you think from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  The first thing that jumps at at you are the graphics, which in Lunar Knights, are great. They 
 don`t have the same in your face over the top (if not cutsy) overly but in a good way colorful 
 and vibrant quality as the mana village in Children of Mana, but the colors are sharp and clean 
 and appropriate, the animations are nicely rendered, and the art direction is interesting, aka 
 the character and monster models look awsome. Through it all also shines the anime cutscenes that 
 pop up to push the story forward and serve to inject a rather old and rusted theme with a fresh 
 and new pop vigour.
  
  When i first heard what this game was going to be about, fighting vampires to free a vampire-ruled 
 appocalyptic earth from vampire tyranny, frankly, i was sourly disappointed and prepared for the 
 worst, thinking the story would boil down to something corny. Turns out i sourly underestimated 
 Kojima Productions because the story and general atmosphere rock. The vampires in the game (and 
 the story around them) don`t give off a kiddish, or cliched, or flat out stupid vibe but are instead 
 rendered through the kickass hardcore over the top and stylish lens of popculture anime and lend 
 the game a stylish quality and are generally fun to whoop.
  
  The gameplay is both simple and complex enough to make this little hand held action rpg more than 
 just a little brainless handheld game. at the core there`s a simple and solid battle system involving 
 a hack n slash button that can combo up to 3 hits and a simple block button. On top of that however 
 you can also power up your hits with elemental damage depending on what pets you have unlocked 
 and overdrive yourself into a super-powered trance mode at which point you can really unleash a 
 big can of melee whoopass. Also you can upgrade your weapons using spare parts you come accross 
 in the game world. In all, the game offers a few different play styles depending on your preferences 
 right from the start. You can take your time with hit block hit set ups using the block button, 
 bust out visceral combo after combo in a care-free hyper active button mashing manner, or use the 
 double tap dash function to parry and dodge and swoop in for quick strikes or simply mix n match 
 them all together. Additionally the game offers a slightly different experience depending on which 
 character you`re playing, either the up close and personal sword weilding melee vampire hunter 
 or solar gun sharp shooting ranger like ranged fighter.
  
  Altogether, if you like action adventure rpgs this is a game you should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expert-yeti
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights seemed like an super cool game when I first saw it. But soon after playing through 
 the first couple hours, I became upset at the punishing combat system and the screwed-up control 
 schemes- like the spaceship battles which are worthless and broken. On top of the gameplay difficulties 
 that arise because of these problems, the story reflects the same old bad dude and good dude team 
 up, all the while bad dude has bad attitude and hates the good dude who is trying to help others 
 genre of gameplay. *yawn* But, surprisingly, I started to love this game because of the good stuff 
 it brings to the table. The graphics are AMAZING and super colorful (not the tacky colorful either; 
 its a good blend of hues and light colors etc...) . While I sat in awe of the DS's graphical punch, 
 the wonderfully composed music drove me into keep playing the game to hear more and more. Soon 
 I was beginning to actually LIKE this game. And the occasional anime sequences that are very delightful 
 and marvelously designed help releave some of the tension that spoiled health items can give a 
 man! Overall, this game seemed much bigger than it was, but I will say it is one of the best platformers/action 
 games for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesH
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is a great game it superb game play, Music, graphics ( ok not as good as 3d games 
 but superb for a DS game) and story line. The game play is not very hard but it is fun and the 
 game it's self is well........ superb! The bosses are challenging unlike other games like this 
 such as Sword of Mana and Children of Mana (they are almost like this game because the combat is 
 real time....... or is it free style or something like that......) The music is great and adds 
 to the overall theme. The graphics are great as I have said more than once in this review there 
 also in par with Sword of Mana and Children of Mana (what I mean is that the sprites are very detailed 
 even though the sprites or the characters seem too look more like 3D models than sprites....... 
 like Sonic Rush) . Now what else should I say........ oh ya I almost forgot This game is a must! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ian_Recker
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is a great game for both fans of Boktai, and newcomers alike. This game is one of 
 the better games on the DS for many reasons, great storyline, engaging game play, and good replay 
 value among other things. Although this is a veritable arsenal of pluses for the game in my opinion, 
 the reason why it has done so well is because of it's use of the DS functions. The Microphone is 
 used for a few things in the game, but it still holds some use, and can sometimes be necessary 
 for sneaking away from enemies to survive and complete missions. The Touch screen is used for many 
 things, such as initiating your trance. For those of you who have not played this game, going into 
 a trance is the equivalent of your Final Fantasy type limit break, or any other super move from 
 other games. Other things the touch screen are used for are attacks in your trance mode, drawing 
 circles to summon fireballs down on enemies (Bigger circles are better and make wider ranged attacks) , 
 drawing a circle to summon a tornado (the faster you draw, the faster it moves) , and sliding it 
 in a zig-zag pattern to summon an earthquake down on your foes (Faster is better again, causing 
 more rocks to fall down on them faster) . The final use of the touch screen is more of a mini-game 
 than it is an extension of actual game play, but after playing the game for a while, even this 
 odd use will seem to be a regular part of the game. The touch screen is used for controlling a 
 spaceship that you will use for purifying vampires. You hold down on the ship to move it, and tap 
 on enemies to fire at them, no buttons are used except to change your ship's weapon element. This 
 aspect can be tedious, but it is very engaging at the same time, making you want to finish off 
 all of the scene before you bother to put your DS down. Along with these great uses of the DS, 
 the game does have it's moments that prove it is much more than your average RPG. The game revolves 
 around needing energy to power your attacks with elements, and by doing so causing more damage 
 to your enemies. The game makes a great use of the elements by having an in-game day/night time 
 system that flows on it's own, separate from our own time, so that you can play it any time, even 
 at night. Along with the day/night time system, there is also a thermometer, humidity measure, 
 and even a wind speed measure, all of which are used to power up elements, but also alter the in-game 
 environment. During freezing temperatures toxic sludge freezes and can be safely traversed, during 
 high temperatures certain areas that were flooded can now be crossed because the water evaporated. 
 These are just a few of the several environmental aspects of the game. Aside from the environment 
 aspect, the game has nine regular dungeons that you acquire through completing the story the first 
 time through, and after you complete the game once, you unlock the tenth and final dungeon. This 
 final dungeon is very intimidating, it is 100 floors of adventuring and traps, and you cannot save 
 until you complete 10 floors and a mini-boss. Even with this limits this dungeon is worth completing, 
 if not for the challenge, then for the storyline event that happens when you complete it, along 
 with the many powerful and unique items you get for completing 10 floors. To be just short of spoiling 
 what happens, I will simply state that the final story event hints that there will most-likely 
 be a second Lunar Knights game.
  
  Overall, this is a great game for any role-playing fan (I have convinced 4 people into buying this 
 game based off of what I have said to them in person) , but the experience this game provides is 
 much more rewarding if you have played any Boktai game. There was only one problem this game had 
 if any, and that was an occasional slowdown when tons of enemies were on screen. I give this game 
 a perfect 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axelviiii
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I love RPGs. Adore 'em. except, usually, the 2D games are just turn-based, which gets boring after 
 a while. But Lunar Knights has finally provides the amazing gameplay i've searched for. In Lunar 
 Knights you play two vampire hunters hellbent on destroying The Duke , who's minions terrorize 
 humans on a daily basis. Lucian is a sword-weilder with an eyepatch and dark past. Aaron is a slightly 
 naive Solar Gunslinger, who's mission is to protect his family, friends and all others (pretty 
 much your basic protagonist) . Lunar Knight's storyline seems gothy, but it's dialouge proves a 
 different story, being upbeat, actiony, and occasionally funny. The graphics for the game itself 
 don't scream BEAUTIFUL!!! , but the cutscenes takes the DS graphics capabilities and provides something 
 thats seen only in an anime series. To mix in with the amazing cutscenes comes the sound. The game 
 has an amazing soundtrack, along with killer voice-overs. The music is also manipulated to enhance 
 the mood, such as the music of the Dark Castle Augustes, it takes the initial background music 
 and as you get higher up in the castle, the music speeds up. Finally, the gameplay. The gameplay 
 of this game is stunning, like a 2D Kingdom Hearts (Not CoM) without heavily needed targeting. 
 I could ramble on and on about this game, but, then I'd die of staration. In short, GET THIS GAME 
 NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I've had my DS for awhile i've been waiting and waiting for some deep games that i can't beat on 
 a weekend. Finally someone answered my prayers. This game is really fun and looks really good.
 
  
  It's a great adddition to the DS libary and adds some variety to the other Wise Nintendo Dominated 
 games. In Lunar knights you are this vampire hunter and alil bit into the game your left with this 
 Student Soldier. after that you can use both guys and switch it up. The Movies in LK are all animated 
 and look very good for being on the DS.
  
  If your looking for an Action/RPG then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3llZY3AH
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is'nt half bad at all. The graphics could have been a little better. Upgrading weapons 
 and the weather control is a nice touch to the gameplay. Combat can be pretty repetitive, and consists 
 of one button mashing but it is still pretty entertaining. The sound is not bad, voice acting of 
 the characters are well done and fit them. There is a good amount of replay value as well so it 
 is worth the buy considering how the game is pretty long too. Terrinals are also a nice touch in 
 the gameplay and grant you different powers such as  and dark. This 
 game is worth to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trey555555
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a rpg hack n slash game, like diablo... the graphics are great and colorful... but 
 its not about graphics that makes a game its gameplay!.... the game is long and will require some 
 leveling up expecially in the end once u get into fighting tougher enemys... theres isnt much voice 
 into the game, but in some cinematics there is.... most of it you have to read.. whats awsome about 
 the game is that you can level both your character and your weapon.. wich is really great since 
 it requires a balance between the both, and the spare characters that tags along... The game is 
 straight forward unlike final fantasy III... so you wont get lost as much in the game... there 
 are boss fights in every level, sometimes even more than one... the only thing that bugged me about 
 the game was that the d-pad wasnt as sensitive as i wanted it to be and it caused my thumbs to 
 hurt cause i had to press diagnoly all the time... but im a new ds owner, so it must be a thing 
 with noobies... so i dunno.... there are different weapons, shields and accossories to the character, 
 some are hidden and require your to redo a level to get them.. the replay value is verry high... the 
 characters level cap at 99... and their are side quests and treasure hunting to do in the game.... this 
 is a great buy and worth more than the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr0w0lf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  A hard to learn game but easy to get hooked to.
  
  The graphics are just great, the story is awesome and the characters are just amazing.
  One of 
 the best games I've ever played on the DS.
  
  I've played a lot of hours and I just can't get bored with it. At the beginning it can be a little 
 hard to understand the mechanic of the game, but when you master it it will be plain fun. Since 
 you have two characters to play it will be twice the hard to control them, but it will also be 
 twice the fun :)
  
  A great purchase to anyone who likes good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geotio
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The day I bought my nintendo ds, i read on the back and it said there would be a boktai ds! Boy 
 i never thought it would take so long but Lunar Knights was awesome. I just wish they didn't re-do 
 it all. The boktai games are classics. The thing i miss from the first boktai game is the in depth 
 customation of your gun. I just wish it would've made a return.... its also nice to see those awesome 
 cut-scenes during the game. that really made it special. they should have made a section where 
 you can view the ones you've seen... that would have been good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I don't know and I really don't care, what I do care about is how awesome Lunar Knights is... I 
 mean we all know that Hideo Kojima is totally amazing but come on this game is way better than 
 those stupid boktai games. Now i say stupid Boktai games because of how they made you play. I didn't 
 have a problem with the story or the gameplay itself. It was the fact that I actually had to go 
 outside to play that game. Screw that!! If i'm going outside i might as well go out and do something?? 
 I mean the whole purpose of video games is to take you away from this **** life for a couple of 
 hours so you can become something you aren't. Like a badass spartan or a navy seal or even a professional 
 athlete. So as much as I love Hideo Kojima and Konami they just got to stop bossing me around... 
 OK!!
  
  Seriously this game is totally amazing, I mean in a way it's similar to Castlevania but I think 
 that it doesn't enough in the RPG departments and weapon development departments and even story 
 and gameplay to separate itself from that annoying conjointed twin Castlevania.
  
  Gameplay: This game is set in a Final Fantasy Tactics kinda way where it is Geometrical in its 
 playing and moving style. Overall, this works fine; there are moments when collision detection 
 can become frustrating but overall the experience is great and these problems don't pop their ugly 
 heads up more than a handful of times. The interresting part, which wont be found in castlevania 
 games is that the user can upgrade specific aspects in the leveling system. If i want to upgrade 
 lucian to have a crap load of life I can.. no more passive leveling system were you can't even 
 choose which aspect to level; not in this game.
  
  Graphics and Sound: Graphics in LK is great, the sprites are nicely done and animation is simple 
 but smooth. The sound is amazing; especially when in traps or in mission because you get a small 
 hint of MGS music that will blow your pants off.
  
  In the end, this game is truly fun and I would easily recommend it to anyone that likes Action-Adventure 
 games. Unfortunately, though the RPG elements are better than Castlevania's the game is not a RPG. 
 In my mind its a Action- adventure game with good rpg elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTDansoh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is the first Boktai I've played, and as far as I know, the first I've even heard 
 of. It involves two unlikely partners in a battle to vanquish all the vampires in the world who 
 have been possessing lives. But it doesn't end with the vampires... I won't spoil it.
  
  The game is presented great, with good 2-D anime graphics and nice anime cutscenes. There are multiple 
 weapons to becaptured (throughout the story, and optionally) plus a whole bunch of sdequests. There 
 is also the ability to change climate with the help of a man living in a mansion, with a robot 
 (and I don't think the way he changes weather is even legal) . And there is no more of that Solar 
 Energy thing that came with the GBA Boktai games. In addition to all that there is also battles 
 in space in which you purify the bosses that you have defeated.
  
  And if you are looking for a game with a challenge, this has it as well. It's not too hard and 
 not too easy, and spans over 20 hours of gameplay. And beating the game once won't be enough. There 
 are also Hard and Nightmare difficulties to experience as wellas extra items to aquire there as 
 well, with the option of taking your attributes (Skill, Spirit, and Vitality) to the next playthrough.
 
  
  On the downside, the multiplayer function isn't that great. It would be better to use the characters 
 and weapons you've built up, instead of a character from scratch and a single weapon. Also, I, 
 personally, have no idea how the score works in multiplayer.
  
  Overall, Lunar Kinghts is game worth getting for the DS. Long story, lots of side missions, upgradeable 
 weapons, attribute system, space battles, and a so-so multiplayer system. This is the right game 
 for any fan of the Action/Adventure/RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisisMurderous
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is the thrid game in the Boktai series (the third wasn't released outside Japan) to 
 be released in the US. The thing that set people off and didn't make the game easy to get into 
 sometimes was the light sensor. Now the light sensor is gone which I think is a plus for the game. 
 Although if you wish to use the it as in the other Boktai games you can you have a Boktai cartridge 
 inserted. The visuals in Lunar Knights are pretty good, for being a game about vampires it is pretty 
 colorful and the few anime scenes that you get to see look great. It doesn't look much better than 
 the other Boktai games though. The music is also pretty good, it didn't amaze me but it suited 
 the game well. The story is decent but I never did get around to caring about the characters very 
 much so overall the story was just okay for me. The gameplay is where the game is good. The gameplay 
 feels similar to the 2D Zelda games except there is more depth to the combat and less focus on 
 puzzles which don't require much thought. There are two playable characters Lucian and Aaron. Lucian 
 uses the dark sword and Aaron uses the solar gun which does make them quite different. Lucian can 
 gather energy from the moon and Aaron can gather energy from the sun which is the purpose for the 
 day/night cycle. The only downside to this is that you have less opportunity to use Aaron because 
 he can shoot his gun at all without energy. There are also different elements to use and when your 
 trance gauge is filled you can transform into a much more powerful form. The combat is fun but 
 to me it didn't usually seem very challenging except for some enemies here and there. I did spend 
 quite a bit of time leveling up my characters though. You get to choose how to improve them by 
 choosing which stats to give points too. The types of baddies that you run into can get a little 
 repetitive sometimes. The bosses at the end of the each are fun to fight but don't transform (if 
 you do you can kill some within seconds) if you want any kind of challenge from them. After you 
 defeat a boss it isn't over yet. You must go through a shooting level to destroy it with the sun. 
 These levels are pretty fun and do break things up a bit but the controls could have been a bit 
 better. Having to use the stylus to move your ship and shoot enemies can be a hassle. Some of them 
 were a little difficult but I didn't have much trouble with them aside from with the control sometimes. 
 Lunar Knights is a great game with few downfalls but it won't last you very long. I finished the 
 game in about 15 hours and that was with a lot of time spent fighting. The only thing that would 
 make me not recommend Lunar Knights is you want something that will last you a long time because 
 it's great while it lasts but there isn't much replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwestsdeaznx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  In a period far from the other Boktai games, vampires reign the land causing chaos and destruction. 
 But this is not medieval times - it is the future. A future in which eternal darkness chokes the 
 life of the citizens of this very land. With a small guild fighting the vampires - Lunar Knights 
 thrusts you into the the very heart of the fight.
  
  First of all, it is not the same old Boktai games, there is no solar sensor but there is an option 
 to use it if you had bought any of the previous games with added bonuses. The game revolves in 
 a game time where the sun and moon shine to provide sunlight/moonlight. The controls are simple, 
 only the added X , Y , and the MIC are added in. Nevertheless, the controls are easy to remember.
 
  
  When regarding sound, it is same as the past Boktai games but a bit more clearer. The voice actors 
 do a pretty good job too in the cinematic scenes and introduction phrases. Speaking of cut scenes, 
 they are all in Anime and well done with added subtitles just in case your volume shut.
  
  Finally, game play, let me say, it has changed almost drastically. Leveling weapons is completely 
 different; you first obtain a base weapon then you must find materials to upgrade that weapon to 
 the highest level - 16. Nope it is not 99 as it used to be in Boktai 2. Leveling your character 
 can be nerve racking considering that the points differ when putting in your attributes. Also the 
 touch screen isn't as used as much - only navigating the world map, entering areas via the world 
 map, talking to people in a town via world map, navigating your menu, and purification of the boss. 
 All of these actions can be used without the touch screen except the purification process.
  
  Because of this amazing game, I give it a score of 9.4. Let's hope because of Lunar Knights 
 huge success that they continue the Boktai franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviru
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  I really recommend this game to everyone... I have never played the Boktai before and I went straight 
 to this game. First impression... its fun... second impression... its awesomely fun... Theres always 
 something to keep me not wanting to stop playing and I have to force myself to stop playing... 
 otherwise i will fail my courses.... Anyway, here's my review...
  
  Gameplay, usual action RPG... hack and slash, and shoot til all the enemies are dead... the thing 
 is... because of those elements and weapons' upgrades, it makes the gameplay unique compared to 
 other action RPGs... I give 9 for the gameplay...
  
  Graphics... I hav to admit... the graphics is so so... nothing special... but its above my expectation 
 for DS games... What I like about the graphics is the short movie scenes... theyr beautiful.... 
 So for graphics, its 8 for me...
  
  Sound... I hav to admit.. I didnt listen to the music very much. I only listened few times.. but 
 so far.. the sound is decent... I give 8 for the sound....
  
  Value... BUY IT... i dont see why this game not worths the money...
  
  Conclusion... luv it.... 
 cant stop playing til I got every secret it got.... ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RubedoXT
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. It would be my first Boktai game to experience so I can't have 
 any expectations crushed and I won't have to be complaining about name changes and comparisons 
 between japanese and english differences.
  
  The graphics are great, combat is quite smooth, and knowing how to manipulate weather and elements 
 can surely be at your advantage. The fun doesn't end after you beat it once, it will bleed sidequests, 
 hard mode and a nightmare mode. (I think thats what the harder ones were called) .
  
  Multiplayer is great, single card play is alright, but obviously it's much better to face other 
 Lunar Knights owners so you can battle with the levels youve gained in your single player file 
 AND use the weapons you've collected and upgrades. Though I wish they did make single player bonuses 
 like weapons, levels and battle arenas in single card multiplayer because I think this game will 
 become rare to find and so would other owners. Too bad there isn't a WiFi option. Oh well.
  
  Great game, don't think twice, if you take the slightest interest in it, just buy it already! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekiguchi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome! It has to be by far the best DS game I have (besides all those great multiplayer 
 games like Mario Kart) . The beginning stage isn't that good but after you finished the first stage 
 its highly addictive. You can use elements for your weapon like fire, darkness, ice, wind, earth, 
 etc. You use it as your enemies weakness. The gameplay is somewhat challenging, it is not easy 
 because you can die very easily if not healed. You can upgrade your swords/spears/guns/weapons 
 to make it more powerful, if you upgrade your sword enough you can do 5 combos in a row.
  The game is about 10+ BUT you have to replay stages (and there is always a hidden room for new 
 challenges) in each stage and they have a really rare item, OR NEW WEAPON, to find. So if you think 
 of it this way it is almost basically 20+ hours.
  
  They have a lot of sweet anime video clips (that don't last long but still sweet) in the game. 
 The music is very good and catchy, and it does not bother me at all, if it had some lyrics or something 
 I would probably add it to my ipod because the song is so catchy (not as catchy as zelda) but you 
 get the point.
  
  The bosses, I am disapointed in them, because you can easily kill them if you use IRC transformation 
 by sucking their blood over and over, BUT some bosses are hard and cannot get hit by IRC effectively, 
 which means no easy kill for you and you will have a challenge. If you don't use IRC on bosses 
 then it is a good challenge for you, because they are very hard.
  At the end of every boss you will go off to space and play a 3D Shooter game (like starfox) and 
 you use the stylus to drag/move your ship. you can use elements like fire for backup missles. the 
 space shooter mini games gets harder and harder.
  
  You can buy items, buy equips/armor, upgrade swords, sell items, level up, basically every thing 
 an RPG has.
  
  the graphics are 2D but who cares, SNES games OWN XBOX (no offense) .
  
  the multiplayer I have not tried yet but you can battle other people.
  
  THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikastar
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This game pulls you in as soon as the beginning cut scene starts. You start out as Lucian, the 
 sword wielder with a hidden past. The conversations can be long but are worth reading, especially 
 when you have Lucian and Aaron, the gunslinger, together. After some introduction you are immediately 
 thrown into action against all kinds on nasty critters. Lucian can have his energy replenished 
 with the moon and Aaron's can be replenished with the sun. This is definitely important to remember 
 because your energy goes down each time you swing your weapon or sprint. Depending on the time 
 of day you need different strategies. An example would be using Lucian most of the time at night 
 while saving all of Aaron's energy for the times when it is absolutely necessary to use him. That 
 way you can replenish Lucian's energy for free. There are also different climates that can affect 
 your character. These climates range from arid desert to arctic tundra. The weather you choose 
 can open up areas in dungeons that were not available to you previously. An example would be picking 
 the climate with high winds to allow your hang glider to reach the ledge across the river. The 
 climates become unlocked when you defeat the bosses and release the terrenials. Getting the bosses 
 health bar to zero doesn't mean your job is done. You have to take them up into space to truly 
 defeat them. Of course the vampires are not going to let you fly there without a fight. The space 
 fights are just as fun as the ground battles and after each boss it is a nice change of pace. The 
 weapons can be upgraded and offer a wide variety of choices to defeat your enemies. Upgrades can 
 be done with specific junk parts. Each character has many different types of weapons to choose 
 from and the terrenials can offer different types of ammo. The different ammo can allow you to 
 deal even greater damage to a creature who is weak against the type of element. Your characters 
 also level up and points can be put into health, vitality, and spirit. Since Aaron seems to run 
 out of energy a lot faster than Lucian, it is best to put more into vitality then the others. This 
 review doesn't even scratch the surface of the game. There are plenty of surprises and fun that 
 will take you many, many hours to complete. This game is a must have for any collection and the 
 price of this game is cheap for the amount of content packed into it. I highly recommend this game 
 to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skull1000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Lunar knights. great game! i recomend it highly! it last longer than other games , why not read 
 this? in the game you switch between two characters. Arron the gunslinger, and Lucian the dark 
 swordsmen. get new weapons, level up, fight monsters, fly a ship in the 3d shooting game, and much 
 more! once you beat the game you have the option to redo it but in a harder level. in the 2nd game 
 if you wish to do the epilogue tower you must be very good. you go through 100 floors out of what 
 i know so far. i am currently at floor 91. you take a break each 10 floors. if you die, you go 
 back to the last rest stop.
  
  in the game you here of the master vampire just about to rule the earth. he is the duke. but in 
 the end theres a neat little twist with the duke. but im not here to ruin the fun. find out your 
 self!.
  
  i give this game a 9 or ssomething like that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masaru_Kato
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  To start this one off, I apologize for any and all typos, grammatical mistakes and movies BloodRayne 
 and DOA: the Movie .... I have nothing to do with the last two, but I figured it was time SOMEONE 
 apologized...... here we go!
  
  Having just bought and played Lunar Knights, I am pleased to say that it was much better than I 
 had expected after having seen it here on GameSpot during their coverage of the The Last E3. The 
 Game has a lot of unique little touches that really add to the over-all feel of the game, for example 
 if you've managed to catch fire, alternating between on the D-Pad quickly will put you out, or 
 if your poisened, any movement will pixilate the screen. Despite the 11 year old anime style of 
 the game, the game play can be surprisingly difficult. You're constantly having to organize your 
 inventory (cos it wouldnt be a Kojima game if food didn't spoil!) while using what little you have 
 to revitalize your characters from the ass kicking they'll take in battle. to help you with the 
 hordes of enimes jumping at you is a weapon uprgade system, leveling up, and the Trance Mode will 
 also assist you in your efforts to kill everything. But as only one whose ever watched a Steven 
 Segal movie on mute would tell you, no matter how many asses your kicking, without the sounds to 
 back it up, its just kinda... well.... lame. BUT DONT YOU WORRY, this games sound department it 
 one of the best things going for it. I was really surprised by the level of depth, the amount of 
 voice overs, and the soundtrack for this game. hitting different materials, makes different noises, 
 there is more than one character who speaks, and the music is isnt 1980 synth shit so why the 8.3 
 and not a 9 or 9.5? well its simple, although I am the kind of gamer who cares less about graphics 
 and more about gameplay my personal preferrence doesnt mean that graphics dont account for something 
 in the rating of a game. needless to say, much of what's seen here feels very out-dated. the top 
 screen which shows off the mini-magic weather system (ohh Shenmue, you were good for something 
 weren't you?) the bottom screeen (where all the action happens) is set at the old school diagonal 
 ALMOST birds-eye view angle (just look at the screen shots and spare me from any more embarrassment 
 derived from my inability to discribe the shot) in a 2D environment. what bothers me the most about 
 2-D games on the DS, is that there is no real need to have them anymore (I mean, yeah there IS such 
 a thing as that GOOD OLD SCHOOL feel but, you wont find it here) ! look at games like Final Fantasy 
 III or Metroid Hunters, those are games that really look incredible and prove that the DS can handle 
 itself with a 3D environment. also the space missons (which are actually 3D) well, strange..... 
 You Shoot the enemy space ships by clicking on them with the stylus BUT to move your ship you have 
 to Touch it and drag it to where you want. its almost like Resident Evil 4, where leon couldnt 
 move and shoot at the same time. not this wouldnt be so bad if there wasnt an onslaught of Enemies 
 just dying to **** you over, and your ship takes up a considerable amount of the screen. its not 
 the difficulty that bothers me, but instead, the clumsy feel of it. also another point against 
 this game is the cliche / predictable plot, now dont get me wrong the stories presentation is rather 
 nice, but it really lacks a where is this going next? feel that it tries to accomplish. overall 
 the climate control features, the combat's polish, and the music really make for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_lim81x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  If you like Ragnarok or diablo, Then this is the one FOR YOU! It's cute, fun &amp; hack slashing. 
 Very creative to had a dynamic weather system install in this game, not to forget about the mic 
 as well. You gotta love the shooting parts which keep you going for 'S' rank. Good animate which 
 keep both screen active, Good sound track and storyline. A few thing you might consider was the 
 storage, (they should had divided into 2 instead of sharing one storage for both hero you know?) . 
 I must say this game is a MUST for those who are not sure what to get for their first console. 
 Consider this and you should not regret!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerocrossings
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is a game that is actually a sequel to Boktai. But unlike previous Boktai games, Kojima 
 had added/removed some good/bad stuff. Well for one, the biggest change is that the game can now 
 be played without the acursed solar sensor. I see this as a good thing as you now dont have to go 
 around scouting for daylight and play under the rays of the sun. The last time i played Boktai, playing 
 under the sun was very unpleasant, i can hardly see the screen as the sunrays makes it go all dark, but 
 now with lunar knights, with the removal of the solar sensor, has become much more pleasant to play. Though 
 i would wish we would still have Boktai feel games in the future, i would rate this game on it alone. Much 
 like my FFXII review, i would not rate it while comparing it to its previous titles.
  
  The game takes place in a world where it is much like a sci-fi final fantasy world. Meaning there 
 are high tech stuff like rockets and satelites, but also contains mystical monsters and weapons.
 
  
  There are two characters in the game, one is the standard mellee weapons dude, and the other is something 
 like a mage type, where you need energy (mana) to do stuff. You can collect energylike other Boktai 
 games, but the day/night is now in-game. When you are outdoors, press the A button to collect energy, the 
 melee fighter requires moonlight while the other requires sunlight. Both character have great personalities, and 
 keeps you entertained throughout the story.
  
  The first character is Lucian, the melee type. He is seeking revenge and hunts vampires with the 
 dark powers he posseses. Since he uses Dark powers, he obviously needs moonlight. He uses melee weapons 
 and they do not require energy to attack. You can choose to apply elements into weapons, and they 
 would require energy. So most of the time, you wouldnt be using elements as they only make the weapon 
 a little more efficient. He has some weapons to collect along the way, they are all in optional dungeons 
 and you have to get them on your on accord. He can wield some pretty cool weapons, from a Dark Sword 
 to a Scythe. You would most likely use him most of the time as energy is scarce in this game, and 
 you would want to save the energy of the mage type for essential situations. He usually ends up 
 several levels above the 2nd character.
  
  The 2nd character is a solar gunslinger called Aaron. He uses an array different guns, from a dual 
 wield rapidfire guns to a grenade launcher. He is pretty helpful in certain situations but you wont 
 use him as much as his attacks requires energy. He needs sunlight unlike Lucian, and it is essential 
 to apply elments in his attacks. You start out with the sol element, and you can get fire/air types 
 later.
  
  On the process of the game, you colect mystical creatures called the terrenials (elements, from my 
 previous paragraphs) , they provide you with elemental powers like fire and air and you come equipped 
 with two of this at first. Using the terrenials require energy, where you have to collect it through 
 the in game weather cycle. The game would travel through day and night sequences, and occsionally 
 snow and rain. Some weather must be unlocked as you proceed through the game. (eg, desert climate, tropical 
 climate) . There is a gauge called the trance bar and if they are full, you can use the terrenials 
 powerful attacks, like shooting fire balls by drawing circles on the touch screen or turning into 
 a killing machine and trampling your opponents.
  
  Like the terrenials, you also collect weapons throughout the game. You can get them through optional 
 dungeons or through the main story. YOu must upgrade the weapons using the materials you collect 
 to make them stronger. The weapons gain abilities as you upgrade them. For example, if you upgraded 
 the dark sword a certain amount of times, instead of a 3 hit combo, it increases to 4, and then 5 
 and so on. Evrytime you upgrade a weapon, its attack increases and becomes more powerful. However, to 
 make it gain an ability, you must upgrade it a certain amount of times. The variety of weapons throughout 
 the game make it more interesting, and is definately an aspect you would enjoy. You can get the materials 
 from raw materials dropped by monsters, or you can buy them. Accesories can also be bought but the 
 best ones are usually found in dungeons.
  
  The lvlin system is the points type. You lvl, gain status points, and add it to a certain attribute 
 depending on your style. I find this sort of a hassle and i rather have it automatically added.
 
  
  The combat in this game is great. You crawl through dungeons and fight various monsters. You lock 
 on to your target to have better aiming and attack them with your weapons and abilities. Certain 
 enemies requires a certain style to defeat them and others, you can just hack them away. The monsters 
 however, i find them a bit lacking as they are simply quite the same only with different elements 
 imbued in them. But they will continue to get stronger through dungeons as they appear at different 
 lvls. Sometimes when you are overpowered by a paticular dungeon, you have to train and upgrade your 
 weapons. Unlike other games, training and finding materials in this game is pretty fun due to variety 
 of weapons you can use. Just like other Boktai games, the monsters would not immediately notice you. You 
 can choose to sneak pass them and they would not notice you. You can use the DS mic to whistle and 
 draw their attention while you run the other way. However, this feature is quite pointless as you 
 are gonna have to kill them to lvl. You would probaly only use the sneaking feature on those compulsory 
 challenges, or backstab a particular type of enemy. If you die, dont worry, the game wont send you 
 30 minutes back where you come from. You simply pay 100-200 money to come back to the start of the 
 room orstart from a save point, which can be anywhere you want it to be.
  
  Now one of the reasons i like Boktai is due to its great challenging puzzles. i was pretty disappointed 
 at the puzzles in this game as they only require MAX about 2 mins to figuire them out. SO the puzzle 
 is actually pretty nonexistant.
  
  The bossfights in the game is pretty good. The bosses look great and sometime provides a bit of 
 a challenge if you got a dry trance gauge. However, it can soemtimes be a little easy as there is 
 a certain ability you can use when your trance gauge is full. You get that ability from a terrenial 
 at the start of the game. You transform into this demon and become really really powerful. You can 
 actually suck a boss's hp dry without much effort at all. So mostly the bosses are really pushovers 
 if you use that move and this includes the final boss.
  
  After killing a boss, you have to guess what, purify it! Nope, no more piledriver this time. Now, you 
 have to drag its dead body into space, and blast it with a good dose of sunlight. You do so with 
 a giant rocket ship at your command. You use the touch screen to move your ship and shoot enemies. You 
 get different abilities from different terrenials and they provide you with a variety of weapons. You 
 fight a boss at the end and if you succeed in beating it, you get to purify the boss and congrats.
 
  
  The most unique aspect of the game is probaly the weather. The ascesories becomes more powerful 
 in certain weather, and stuff like that.
  
  The music in this game is really good. Its suits the dungeons perfectly and you sometimes may find 
 yourself humming it as you train. The voice acting sometimes sounds a bit weird but its fine enough. The 
 graphics could be better, they are just about the same as the previous Boktais. Ok, but not really 
 fantastic. The story is good and engaing. It starts out as your typical revenge plot but gets more 
 and more interesting later on.
  
  Overall, this game is very enjoyable. It is pretty long, about 10 hours without the optional dungeons. There 
 is also a online mode for you to play with. Since the sneaking and puzzle elments of the gameplay 
 is not very good, this game focuses more on combat. So if you are looking for a good Boktai game 
 feel, you would be dissapointed, but if you like a good hack and slash, this game is a must have on 
 the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game stares to main character one with a bad a$$ attitude for revenge and the other one who 
 is your joyful kid who always has corny lines it seems. This game your 2 warriors on a mission 
 to stop the vampires from taking over the world. Together with a group of shooters you take out 
 these evil vampires 1 by 1 and as the story unfolds more info is given out. The the story is preety 
 bland to say the least and the characters really arn't that exciting. The game is also short having 
 beat the main quest at around 10 hours. The graphics are preety good with nice animated cutscenes. 
 The music is ok but its nothing great and the gameplay isn't that exciting. Its more of a hack 
 and slash game with a bit of a twist to it. Your 2 characters each use a different weapon with 
 a few different ones to choose from. You can also upgrade your weapons with materials and such. 
 You can get these materials at stores which are just located on a plain boring screen with no real 
 town at all. The dungeons are ok with puzzles and slashing enemies away, but theres nothing amazing 
 about it either and its majorly overrated. The bosses are very easy and if you use your special 
 transformation can be taken out in a few attacks before your transformation even ends. The space 
 battles are cool with use of the styles and different elements to boost your ships power. you use 
 the styles to dodge enemies, and blast away at them. Making a nice break from all the hack and 
 slashing. The japanense version of this game had lots of extra material and wi-fi I have heard 
 so if your interested in this game maybe the japanense one would be best, as the english one I 
 would say is overrated for all the talk is going about, over an average game. If you get this game 
 don't expected a masterpiece, but do expected a decent enjoyable game that will amuse you for a 
 couple of hours or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The Boktai games for the GBA have always been a success worldwide. Featuring a real solar sensor, 
 this game allowed you to play the role of Django, a young boy of which solar gun needed to be recharged 
 with real solar rays to defeat the vampire world.
  
  Lunar Knights brings back this fun on the DS, but with a totally different cast and way to refill 
 your weapons. ~GRAPHICS:~
  Absolutely amazing, the game's initial presentation is wonderful, getting you into the game even 
 before you press the Start button. It seemed that I was watching an anime show - and a great one 
 at that. In perspective, it represents the cast you will be playing in-game. The dungeons are a 
 bit GBA styled, however, but the game's cut scenes make up for them. ~SOUND:~
  Lunar Knights really presents catchy and adequate music for the situation you are in. Certainly 
 a nominee for best sound on the DS at the 2007 Gamespot awards! Captivating.
  
  ~GAMEPLAY:~
  The adventure is not that long and the game is not very hard, but has a solid storyline 
 and really makes up for it too - it also presents mini games afterwards. Could present a little 
 bit more, but for a first, it's excellent.
  
  However, when exploring the vast dungeons, the bag is has little storage for all the items we collect, 
 and it makes it tiresome to leave possibly handy items - especially if you're going to face a boss 
 - behind.
  
  Overall, Lunar Knights presents itself as a solid RPG, pleasing most likely anyone looking for 
 a good game on this platform. It's features are nearly unmatched. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: its_liljesse
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  lunar kinghts offers a varity of features that leaves the player wanting more! this game is fresh 
 and new from the start to the end. the game serious makes you wanting more and more out of the 
 game.
  
  at time the game is easy with the boss fights, but once inside a dungon is where it gets hard with 
 the puzzles makes this game fresh.
  
  like about the game
  *fresh and new from start to finish
  *the music sounds great
  *gameplay shows what the ds is 
 about
  *good story line leaving you wondering more
  
  whats bad
  *the item system sucks
  *item packs are to small leaving very little items to have
  
  all 
 in all this game is an all around great game i recomend this game to anyone looking for a very 
 good rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is a spinoff of the series called Boktai for the Gameboy Advance. This game starts 
 out on a planet covered by night and darkness through the paraSOL. Eventually you gain control 
 of a character named Lucian who is a Dark Swordsman after a twin horned vampire. The world is ruled 
 by vampires and it's Lucian's job to find a certain vampire for his own reasons. The game progresses 
 and Lucian will not become the only main character that you will control throughout the game. Eventually 
 you control a gunslinger noobie called Aaron and his path crosses with Lucian and together they 
 are on the journey to kill vampires and gain complete control of the paraSOL. The story is very 
 linear but it still remains to have a solid story. The gameplay is standard to just move around 
 kill then move around more. The items rotting, which is very tedious, has returned to the game 
 from Boktai 2. This becomes extremely annoying as you find items you don't need to use now becomes 
 useful later, but it's rotted! As you journey through areas there are many fight sequences. Every 
 battle is real time combat so you don't engage in a battle mode like a standard rpg would. Unlike 
 Boktai, however, this game doesn't require much sneaking around and has more of the action than 
 it ever did in Boktai. This becomes both a downside and a good thing due to the fact that the sneaking 
 part of the game which was quite innovative is now removed but more fighthing is occured throughout 
 the game. The fighting becomes more intense as you begin to journey more through the game and gets 
 really difficult. It should also be noted that the fighting can get very annoying as enemies revive 
 after you rezone. An interesting feature that was implemented into this game that Boktai didn't 
 have was a fusion with terrenial, which are these magical sprites that control an elemental power. 
 When you fuse with these terrenials or use their power you have the power to cause major damage 
 to a boss or just anihilate the enemy in the area. After each boss is defeated a mini game type 
 of the game starts. It's called the Casket Rocket and it's similar to Galaga rather it's more in 
 3-D. The Casket Rocket is very cool and keeps you away from the main game's troubles but the feeling 
 is weird as you have to move the ship with the stylus and shoot with this stylus. The sound contains 
 the same musical feeling as Boktai did so it still retains a good solid mix of the game. There 
 is much replay value into the game because there's so much extra stuff to be gained after the game 
 is finished and is started all over again. There are 2 more difficulty levels and they are indeed 
 very tough. The replay value is well worth the game at full price as well as the multiplayer portion 
 of this game. The multiplayer is like the fighting portion of lunar knights rather with the main 
 characters. The multiplayer is actually quite structured well as 4 players compete to beat the 
 crap out of each other. The fight becomes obselete because there isn't a variety of characters 
 to play with but it still remains enjoyable.
  Overall this game is very good and shows a good representation of what action packed DS games might 
 come in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penaneitor
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I just bouth Lunar Knights thinking about playing an rpg adventure, but I soon realized it wasn't 
 what I expected, it was quite more...
  
  I'm still playing it, so I won't have the full review, but up to the third boss I can tell you 
 it's pretty good, with a nice story, sweet clips, and great playing experience with a lot of new 
 and original additions, like using sunlight/moonlight energy to charge your energy and a simple 
 and fun space shooter after every boss fight...
  
  Through the adventure, you use the two characters Lucian and Aaron, who use moonlight and sunlight, 
 respectively, to power up their attacks.
  Lucian is the melee fighter, using his high-punch sword to strike enemys up close, his abilities 
 are quite easy to master, giving consecutive hits to do short combos and using your equipped shield 
 to defend against frontal attacks doesn't pose a great challenge...
  Aaron, on the other hand, has some tricky attack controls. Since he uses guns to fire at range 
 and the D-pad on the DS doesn't give great precision, you must use the R button to lock precisely 
 on enemies, this is a little problematic when you have a bunch of enemies coming at you, even just 
 one big and fast baddie will have you shooting and moving to avoid damage; adding to that, Aaron 
 can't fire his guns if his energy meter is empty, so if you run out of energy and it's night, you 
 have no choice but to use Lucian until you recharge Aaron's energy. All this means that you will 
 be using Lucian most of the game, so he has an experience advantage over Aaron, unless you pack 
 a lot of energy recovery Items, only then will Aaron have a chance of lasting along the whole dungeon.
 
  
  Another added extra is the TRC (trance) bar, that gives you the ability to do a powerful burst 
 attack with the terrenials, elemental buddies that help you with their powers, or fuse either Lucian 
 or Aaron with their respective terrenial companion (Aaron with Toasty, Lucian with Nero) and enter 
 a Trance that gives you very powerful attacks... So powerful that you can kill the two first bosses 
 in the shortest time... =s
  
  Also, after each boss battle, you climb into Lucian's ship and fly into space to bring the enemy 
 into the purificator , wich shoots his body a huge ray of sunlight in order to completely eliminate 
 him. On the way you pilot the ship using the touch screen, this can be a little hard because you 
 shoot and move the ship by touching the screen.
  
  Overall, Lunar Knights is a great game, with a lot of original new stuff... But it takes a little 
 while to get used to all the new additions... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djammal86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Lunar Knights is another great game by Konami and by the makers of Metal Gear Solid. This games 
 comes out as a solid game play experience, for anyone interested in action games. You get the chance 
 to fight as one of two character, Aaron (a gunslinging apprentice turned master) and Lucian (the 
 vampire hunter who'll take you on by is lonesome) . You have an array of enemies to destroy, with 
 challenging levels and exciting game play. In the game, you get a chance to help purify the world 
 of the vampires that threaten what's left of the living, on planet earth. The storyline is also 
 great to follow along with, pulling you in with the dynamic dialogue from each unique character.
 
  
  Lunar Knights also allows for you to use the stylus in many different function in the games, such 
 as creating devastating attacks, scroll through maps and fight crafts in outer space.
  
  In short, Lunar Knights is just simply worth your while. If you want a game that will last you 
 a while and give you a good storyline with endless replay value, than Lunar Knights is the games 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this one brief, because I want to get back to playing Lunar Knights ASAP.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to what's found in games like Dark Alliance on the PS2. It's an 
 arcade RPG where you basically hammer the attack button to chain attacks on enemies, you smash 
 crates open, you collect loot, you visit shops, you know the story!! Oh, and here it all is in 
 handheld form.
  
  The music is fantastic, this game is probably already a nominee for best soundtrack in Gamespots 
 2007 Game Of The Year awards. There's a really awesome rocking track when you fight the first boss, 
 it's so good that I would buy it on Itunes.
  
  The one gameplay feature I did not appreciate was the spaceship sequence, where the object is to 
 shoot your way through a few screens, dodge obstacles and missiles to eject a vampires coffin into 
 space (apparently he has some kind of immunity to regular sunlight that comes through our atmosphere) . 
 It's VERY Gummi-ship sequence like, so if you didn't like those you will get an awful sense of 
 deja vu.
  
  Graphics are not very great at all, there's some really plain looking art in the parts of the game 
 I got to play. On the other hand, there are awesome FMV anime cutscenes to make up for it.
  
  But really, the graphics dont hurt what I think is a great game and certainly a must own DS 
 title especially for fans of hack &amp; slash or action RPG's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is better than I thought it would be. The best feature is the solar pannel. When you 
 put in a Botakai game you can nlock new features that werent aviliable and it makes a great use 
 of a great old game and some new features on the DS that we really havent seen yet. If you keep 
 the DS out of the light then the mood of the game is night time, but if you put it in the light 
 it sunny out. I higly recomend this game to any big Zelda gamer, (espeacialy if you are a big fan 
 of Wind Waker for GC and Minish Cap for GBA. Go buy this now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyFungus116
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  out of the 10 games i have and im bored with, they're so cheap you can get a lot, i just wanted 
 to get a cheap game that i dont know anything about and just enjoy it. lunar knights is like 5 
 bucks cheaper then new games and it doesnt dissapoint. i a big about getting your moneys worth, 
 i have like 500 bucks, but i want to spend it the best i can and lunar knights is worth the 30 
 bucks. its interesting and new with some voice acting and cool cutscenes, and ive heard that it 
 has a long story, im just like 2 hours into it. i don regret getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-stuart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  If you need the best presentation the DS has to offer, look no further. The beautiful anime cutscenes 
 &amp; voice acting (even if the quality is uneven) set the bar for all future DS games. This game 
 is fun. It has a solid action/RPG formula that will keep you addicted. Just don't expect anything 
 new here. Action/RPG portions: Solid 2D that we've come to expect --- Space shooting: Very average 
 3D, nothing that blows you away --- Anime cutscenes: Prepare for massive jaw dropping This game 
 has a good length. I don't know if I'll replay it though... Oh there's also the extremely pointless 
 inclusion of multiplayer. Yeah, it's as interesting as it sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeatgutsEXE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  Lunar Knights (known as Bokura no Taiyoh: Django &amp; Sabata in Japan) is the evolution of the 
 previous Boktai series. The Boktai series feature a boy known as Django who hold a solar gun and 
 with his sidekick Master Otenko, they slay vampires and immortals using the power of sun which 
 in real life, require the player to use a solar sensor to detect the sunlight strength which will 
 result in changes in the game.
  
  For the English version release of this game, the game title, storyline and characters names were 
 changed due to the fact that the third Boktai game was never released in English and thus cause 
 problem in story linkage.
  
  In Lunar Knights, the system of using the solar sensor is discarded (unless you attach a Boktai 
 series game pak in the GBA slot) . In the game, you get to play as the Lunar Knight Lucian (known 
 as Sabata in Japan) and the Solar Knight Aaron (known as Django in Japan) . Similar to the Boktai 
 series, both characters require charging energy, moonlight for Lucian and sunlight for Aaron. However, 
 instead of using a solar sensor, the game has a built in weather and time system which changes 
 but not in real time. As you play, the time can change to morning for night. At night, the energy 
 gauge will become moonlight gauge and in the morning the gauge will become sunlight gauge, allowing 
 each character to charge and have better advantage in battle.
  
  Lucian, holding to the legendary dark sword, can attack without energy, but the attack will be 
 weaker. However, this allows Lucian to even have the ability to fight even in the morning. In the 
 story, Lucian is a cool warrior who seeks nothing but revenge by fighting the twin-horn vampire, 
 and is only willing to work alone; his side kick is Nero which grants him the power of Darkness.
 
  
  Aaron is a solar gun apprentice, who can make use of different type of solar guns. However, due 
 to the fact that his attacks require energy, he will be useless when he is out of energy and is 
 unable to charge. However, his solar guns are powerful against enemies that are a threat at facing 
 using melee weapons. Example of his gun include Knight -- which allow regular shots and also allow 
 charging at higher level
  Ninja -- a rapid firing machine gun
  Witch -- a homing missile weapon that fire and track enemies for a short moment.
  In the story, 
 Aaron was training to use the solar gun and when he needs to save a young girl from monsters attack, 
 he was granted the power of Sol from Toasty (known as Okento in Japan) . In the world of Lunar Knights, 
 you do not have to travel from area to area in town by walking. Instead, you get a upgraded system 
 from the third Boktai game, which allow you to select where you want to go and what you want to 
 do. You control your characters in combat only when you choose to enter a dungeon.
  
  As you complete each part of the game, you will need to use a Purifex system to purifiy the boss 
 you just defeated. When you are at it, you will realise its actually a spaceship shooting game 
 operated by nothing but your stylus. You can switch guardian using the L and R key. Different terrennials 
 (explained in detail later) give you different ship ability.
  
  Nero -- Your basic one shot guardian.
  Toasty -- Shoot two shots instead of one like Nero.
 
  Ursula -- Fire one explosive shot
  Alexandar -- Fire four shot at once without focus at first. If you point at the enemy longer, more 
 shot will be homing towards it.
  Tove -- Touch your ship to create an energy barrier.
  Ezra -- Fire an ice piercing shot.
  
  When you obtain a terrennial, you will be able to apply 
 his elemental energy to your weapons which all but the two basic terrennials can be equiped by 
 both characters. That's not all.
  
  At the top of the screen, there will be a TRC gauge allowing using a special ability known as trances. 
 By using the basic terrennials to activate trances, you character will merge with his basic terrennial 
 to become very powerful for a short moment.
  
  Using the other terrennials however, will let you use their special power know as burst attack 
 which requires you to interact with the DS.
  
  Ursula -- Draw circle on touch screen to shoot meteorites.
  Alexandar -- Draw circles on touch 
 screen to create tornados.
  Tove -- Scribble on the touch screen to create earthquakes.
  Ezra -- Blow on the DS microphone to create a blizzard.
  
  In the Japanese version, this game 
 also contains a special crossover side quest and features which involve Ryusei no Rockman ( Megaman 
 Star Force in the upcoming release) . However, this feature is removed from the English release 
 on Lunar Knights.
  
  Now on the opinion of the scores,
  
  Some of the music is more on the comedic side and it suits the games when its in a funny scene. 
 However, the creepiness for the suitable areas is just right. Some voice are well acted, however, 
 for some cases, the voice seems strange, for example, Carmilla sounds like she have no energy or 
 sounds just like a robot.
  
  Sound 8/10 (based on English version)
  
  This game contains animations which are fast and catchy, perfect when you want to see something 
 better instead of a long dialogue. When in a dialogue, instead of making the user see the game 
 sprites talking to each other, you see official arts that change with the emotion of the conversation 
 talking to each other at the top screen. Not bad at all. Only the game graphic still remains as 
 the old GBA sprites style except for the shooting battles.
  
  Video 9/10
  
  The story about a world with vampires and two vampire hunters hunting them down makes the story 
 a bit horror like. However, this game still manages to add humour and exciting sense in it. This 
 makes the story interesting. The story also advance by telling the play its going to another chapter. 
 This will not make the player feel that he have been playing and doing things based on the same 
 story again. This game have its characters suit their roles by having Lucian a cool character and 
 Aaron a young apprentice. Story 9/10 (based on the English version)
  
  I personally love the system of the shooting battles and the dungeon exploring and levelling system 
 is classic.
  
  Game play 10/10
  
  This game makes a great amount of use of the Nintendo DS hardware. The touch screen had been used 
 for navigation, special attacks and even shooting battles. The DS microphone was even made use 
 to lure monsters and blow blizzard in one of the burst attack.
  
  Use of the Game System 10/10
  
  Overall, this game is a great title and I recommend it to all 
 who enjoy studying the weather and playing games that are humorous and action-packed. Overall 9.2/10
 
  
  Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredr2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Space Vampries have blocked the sun and you have to let the light in. Cool Story and Cool Game 
 play. I like the weapon upgrade stuff and the items are interesting. The characters in th game 
 really are cool. Its easy to play and get through too. The main characters use a gun and a sword 
 and are powered up by the sun and the moon. The two end up in outer space when vampires need to 
 be finished off. The space missions are totally different from land missions so its great varity 
 there. The graphics in space are good. There is a lot of voice overs in this game more than any 
 other DS game I have played. The game a good one to buy. I think all ages can enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mopiee
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  My score has been based on the comparison with the older boktai games
  
  Nothing like the original boktai games. The great series of boktai have become crap in this new 
 lunar knights version for DS. Every puzzle element has been deleted (the funnest part of the previous 
 games) . Sneaking has become completely useless in the new game. Jeasus whistle in the mic. to achieve 
 nothing. Yea so what's left of the orriginal. Indeed almost nothing. And it's horrible towns have 
 become text based where you can't even move around by yourself.
  
  In short words:
  -You don't need brains to finish this game
  -Every level is killing **** and moving on (boring)
 
  -The music is good, but compared to the other boktai games it's crap
  -The towns have become text based (so you can't move around yourself) HORRIBLE
  -Too much talking 
 for nothing
  
  My advise play boktai 1 or 2 or even the japanese one (3) Those boktai games are a million times 
 better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMC7992
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply frickin amazing, I've never played Boktai but you don't need to have. I'll 
 go through each section of this fantastic new game for the DS.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun isometric hack n slash game. Nice weapon upgrading system, simple rpg-like character 
 build ups, and each character is really cool to use. The main game is pretty sweet and not too 
 difficult, the only time I found myself having trouble with the game is in a couple of stealth 
 missions. Oh yes, did I mention, the king of stealth games Kojima worked on this so there is some 
 fun stealth parts sprinkled throughout the game. Also the space shooting levels are pretty good 
 and have more depth than I thought they would.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful hand drawn characters, sweet anime cutscenes that are played throughout the 
 game which look amazing. The casket rocket 3-d scenes look awesome too.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is sick. The quality is just great. Also, there is a lot of voice 
 acting which is really cool.
  
  Value: This game is easily worth the $30 cost, easily. There's so much things packed into this 
 game I couldn't believe it. Great anime cutscenes, big dungeons, nice 3-d space shooting levels, 
 and great music make this a game you need to buy if you are interested in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otakuJAE
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I've never played a game in the Boktai series before, but after 
 spending a few hours with Lunar Knights I want to rush right out and pick them up. This well crafted 
 game comes from our friends over at Kojima Productions and I would not expect any less from such 
 a great company. As soon as you pop Lunar Knights into your DS you are greeted with a very nice 
 anime FMV. There are several of these throughout the game adding to the story and offering a nice 
 treat to the eyes. The in-game graphics are 2D but very well done. Sprites are bright and colorful, 
 while the environments are dark and foreboding all the while remaining very smooth. The soundtrack 
 is a rock/pop mix that seems to fit in quite well. I was surprised at the amount of voice acting 
 that was added in and while it isn't perfect, it's still nice to hear coming from your DS giving 
 the characters some extra life. Game play is innovative, blending Zelda-like melee combat with 
 ranged weapons and some interesting special attacks including the ability to call down fireballs, 
 cause earthquakes, freeze enemies, and summon up tornadoes. After defeating a boss you leave the 
 top down monster hacking behind for a bit to try your hand a flying through space in a 3D shooter 
 style level as you attempt to purify the soul of the creature you just defeated. The stylus controls 
 both the ship and your guns so it takes a while to get used to but after a bit it feels quite comfortable. 
 All this is wrapped around a deep storyline, RPG elements, and weapon upgrades. With only minor 
 complaints such as slightly repetitive game play and some clunky controls now and then this is 
 truly a great game. Kojima has given us a very well polished and enjoyable experience here. I can 
 easily recommend Lunar Knights to anyone who owns a DS and is looking for a deep yet simple to 
 get into action RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Remember Boktai on the GBA? That was one fine title, but the solar sensor weighed it down, meaning 
 in order to get the most out of it you needed to get sunlight. Well, Lunar Knights, the latest 
 game in the series, has thrown out the crappy sensor, and CRAMMED 100% quality in this tiny little 
 DS cart. This is further proof that Konami &amp; Nintendo go together like peanut butter and chocolate. 
 So tasty... yet so satisfying.
  
  The first thing you'll notice when you boot up the game is that you are treated to a NICE fmv sequence. 
 If you were impressed by the use of fmv in Castlevania: PoR, you're in for a treat. There's several 
 anime cutscenes sprinkled throughout the game, each one pleasing to the eyes. The in-game graphics 
 are also nice. Although it's a 2D game, Lunar Knights has some very smooth and attractive sprites, 
 with a great art style on top of it. There's even levels in space featuring 3D shooting segments. 
 The graphics overall are GREAT.
  
  The music is also quite nice. I don't think I've ever played a Konami game without good sound, 
 and Lunar Knights continues this trend.
  
  I'm not going to give away the story... but there are two heroes this time around. There's Lucian 
 (a brawler character, wielding melee weapons) , and Aaron (a shooter character, wielding ranged 
 weapons) . Each character has a transformation that makes quick work of your foes. The game is an 
 exciting blend of RPG and action, using an isometric view.
  
  In this game you can use Terrenials, which are these little guys that can make you attack with 
 the power of the elements. The system is mapped to the L shoulder button and comes very handy in 
 combat. There's plenty of bosses and enemies to vanquish, so you'll have to effectively use your 
 abilities and weapons together to succeed.
  
  There's an interesting story, full of different characters and situations. I wouldn't expect any 
 less from a Kojima title. There's even a surprising amount of voice acting to enhance the experience. 
 The game has a decent length, and even a 4-player battle mode (with download play) .
  
  I only have a few problems with the game. They've stripped the Wi-Fi features of the Japanese version, 
 so local connection is your only choice. The game can be too easy at times. Also, since the game 
 has an isometric view, movement can be kinda slippery. With these minor blemishes aside, Lunar 
 Knights like its GBA predecessor, is a suprise hit that's worth every penny. This is an ABSOLUTE 
 must-buy if you enjoyed the Boktai games, but fans of the action/RPG genre should definitely check 
 this out too. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
