-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lux-Pain
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/luxpain/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting premise.
 Pleasing artwork.
 Decent voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Uninspired gameplay mechanics.
 Bewildering translation destroys the novel-style experience.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 14, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 28 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ignition Entertainment
Developer: Killaware
Genre: Adventure
Date: Mar 27, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With nonsensical dialogue muddling the complex plot, Lux-Pain shows how an entire experience can 
 be ruined by poor localization. 

  Video games have come a long way since simply urging you to save the princess, and these days they 
 increasingly present stories with complex, mature themes and social commentary. Lux-Pain, from 
 publisher Ignition Entertainment, is a novel-style adventure game in the vein of the Phoenix Wright 
 series, and it attempts to deliver a poignant experience to Nintendo DS owners. Instead, it is 
 quickly tripped up by a plethora of embarrassing localization miscues, and what little exciting 
 gameplay there is cannot break its fall.  

  The general concept is easy enough to grasp. An infection known as "Silent" has been spreading 
 around the city of Kisaragi, causing citizens to organize group suicides, commit delinquent and 
 criminal acts, and basically just go nuts in one way or another. As Atsuki Saijo, a member of an 
 anti-Silent group called "FORT," you're charged with going undercover as a high-school student 
 to ultimately uncover patient zero: the original Silent victim. Bestowed with telepathic powers, 
 you'll spend the next few weeks reading the thoughts of your classmates, teachers, and neighbors 
 to deduce who Silent has infected and, hopefully, remove the infection.  

           Scrape at the screen to uncover her emotional worms.      

  Powerful emotions within 
 people as well as residual emotions lingering in the environment -- both referred to as "shinen" 
 and represented as parasitic worms in the game -- are the keys to uncovering the thoughts throughout 
 the game. Atsuki automatically senses these, and when he does, a probing minigame is activated. 
 In it, you simply tap at the touch screen to determine where a hidden shinen lies, scratch away 
 at that area to reveal the shinen, and then hold your stylus on the worm to remove it.  

  The results of a successful probe are nothing short of baffling: The worm manifests itself into 
 a "term," which is just a short phrase consisting of no more than a few words (such as "dumb kids," 
 "kill them," or "nice guy") , which you must then "imprint" back into the characters' minds to discover 
 what they're thinking. These thoughts range wildly from homicidal, self-loathing, and even flirtatious. 
 Armed with the knowledge that you're supposed to gain from reading these thoughts, as well as information 
 that you pick up through normal dialogue in school and on the street, you can track down Silent 
 victims, have FORT examine the extracted infections, and find the original infection.  

  Sadly, this interesting idea never really pans out. A large portion of the dialogue is poorly and 
 inconsistently localized, giving off the impression that multiple translators used different criteria 
 in determining how to express given lines in English. It also seems as if the source material was 
 scattershot. What you're left with are lines of dialogue that seem slightly out of sequence in 
 relation to each other. You're also exposed to long chats that simply drag out the time between 
 important plot points, such as the 30-plus lines about hunger and homemade cookies before finding 
 out that a friend just landed herself in the hospital. This all makes the story harder to follow 
 than it should be, and detracts from your ability to think about where to go and who to contact 
 to achieve your goal.  

  Even worse, at the most basic level, you're showered with grammatically incorrect and confusing 
 sentences such as, "Seeing such joy is what is to some people," or those that were simply translated 
 too literally such as, "I ate his mind." Colloquialisms such as "wanna" and "gotta" are followed 
 inexplicably by single apostrophes. Finally, it's almost guaranteed that you'll encounter an egregious 
 spelling mistake nearly every hour. Taking the most basic plot points into account, it's pretty 
 clear that Lux-Pain's story was inspired by serious social issues (parental negligence, serious 
 depression, and suicide) . It's a shame that the botched localization results in too much unintentional 
 humor to take any of Lux-Pain's commentary seriously.  

           I wanna erase your MIND.      

  Despite the localization's best efforts to thwart 
 your progress, proceeding through the game is never really a problem because Lux-Pain is a very 
 guided experience -- so much so that it ends up a bore. You simply tap on active points on the map 
 to visit an area and talk to anyone standing there, but half of the time, the game dictates specifically 
 where you can go. In addition, you rarely get to choose what to ask of whoever you encounter. More 
 often than not, the person will show up, spit out reams of irrelevant dialogue, and leave. Thus 
 there's little need to try to sift through the (largely useless) information that you've accumulated, 
 given that progress is reduced mostly to visiting every possible place until you find a Silent 
 victim.  

  When you do encounter someone who is infected by Silent, Atsuki detects this (without any effort 
 from you, naturally) and the game launches into Silent-Removal mode. This is the most mechanically 
 involving portion of Lux-Pain's gameplay; one of several minigames make you poke, slash, and chisel 
 away at white blobs on the touch screen to successfully remove the Silent. These sections are only 
 occasionally challenging and don't make up at all for the game's other deficiencies. To add insult 
 to injury, one Silent encounter resulted in a Game Over screen without any explanation -- even after 
 the Silent was defeated.  

  With neither thrilling gameplay nor an immersive story, the presentation in Lux-Pain simply goes 
 to waste. The anime-inspired character art is colorful, if not all that well animated. The English 
 voice actors recognize how awkward the translation is and paraphrase much of their dialogue such 
 that you're actually able to understand and appreciate small pockets of the story. Your in-game 
 cell phone can receive optional news broadcasts, e-mail, and ringtones, and the local Internet 
 cafe has a message board that's updated with information every day (though you can't post on it 
 yourself) . There are even multiple endings based on whose Silent infections you've removed. Sadly, 
 the game fails to deliver on the most basic element of a novel-style adventure so any added features 
 are wasted, much like any time you'd spend with Lux-Pain.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Z3RO4NGEL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I've first seen this game and I thought ''It's going to awsome, a Time Hollow and Phoenix Wright 
 stile'' but some tecnical flaws can ruin some parts of the experience.
  
  Grafics: 9
  Great characters animations, subberb ambient design, but the town map isn't beautifull as the ambient 
 design, and the enemys you need to silent aren't good as needed to be.
  
  Sound:7
  A great voice acting ruined by a 5/10 translation, and the voice sound isn't loud as needed to 
 be
  
  Gameplay:6
  Just like Phoenix Wright and Time Hollow as I've said before, but the inovation is that you use 
 Sigma (some tipe of Magatama from PW) to uncover the shinen to find the secrets from the people
 
  
  Story:8
  It woldn't be good if didn't had a good story, I don't want to spoiler things up
  
  The result:7.5/10
 
  Good but the tecnical flaws ruins some parts of the game, play it if want some Phoenix Wright 
 Gameplay
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterywriter
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok, As I said it is different. I like the storyline, and the fact that if you aren't fast enough 
 then It's Game Over. I know your probably wondering, What? So, there you are a special agent in 
 a time travel-esque game that has you playing detective with your memory wiped except for what 
 your objective is and that is to stop what they call worms and The SILENT!! Yes all caps... 
  
  The story reminds me of Persona, in that you have to cultivate relationships with all manner 
 of strange and different people, in some weird ways too! It's funny and sometimes frustrating when 
 you have to "kill" the silent. My hand still hurts from all the tapping you must do with your stylus 
 gripped tight and you have to be fast. I enlisted help with one particularly stubborn Silent. As 
 I said, I like it... and even after 9 episodes I'm still nowhere near the end, at least I don't 
 think so. There are supposed to be easier ways to get rid of your enemies but I haven't found them, 
 and at this point I don't want an easy out. This game grows on you, you want to finish the tasks 
 you MUST finish in order to move ahead in the story. I LOVE that type of game. It's worth at least 
 a rent to try before buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: counterfest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:05 am PT
Review:  I am still in the process of playing this game and what I have completed so far has got me hooked.
 
  
  From what I can understand you have a power to read another's inner thoughts, to reveal emotions 
 and secrets that they wouldn't usually openly divulge. You may think this invasive but with murders 
 and mass suicides all around you hey it gets the job done. Your part of a team that is investigated 
 crimes within the town.
  
  You must enroll into a school to locate the big bad of the game, reading the students and teachers 
 minds about the dark past of the town. Most students seem nice enough but with a lot of schools 
 today they all seem to have issues (don't we all) . The teachers are helpful and friendly and make 
 you feel welcome apart from one creepy guy (there's always one) .
  
  After school you can explore the town learning about the locals and the sadness that still lurks 
 around. The more you delve into there minds the more sinister it become. 
  
  There are some fanatic characters some are colorful, some have powers, some know of your powers 
 (not always a good thing) and some are damn right spooky.
  
  I would suggest going to the Pumpkin Witch and you can see what the characters think of you, some 
 reviews are quite funny. When you speak to some of the characters and you get the colors on the 
 right come up choose wisely you don't want to offend.
  
  My only complaint is that you need to find some characters in a time frame and if you don't Game 
 Over - wished I knew that before. I think this game would make a really great Manga film.
  
  So far I'm loving it for a Nintendo DS game I find it a breath of fresh air with a spoonful 
 of fear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorlaf
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  .::Localization::.
  All right, this has to the worst part of this game. This game possesses a great deal of typo's 
 and mistranslations. This does not, however, prevent you from being able to read the text properly, 
 but it can get very annoying considering it is mostly story based.
  
  .::Interactivity::.
  First things first: if you do not like reading, this game is most likely 
 not for you. Most of your time will be spent cycling through text or scratching away at your DS 
 screen. Battles with Silent can get difficult after a while, but you character possesses enough 
 health to get through nearly every battle less the final few. There are a few sections where you 
 will need to find certain people, but it is not that difficult. 
  
  .::Story::.
  With a dark and enveloping story, Lux-Pain starts of incredibly ambiguous, but it manages to clue 
 you in on some information later in the game. The FORT database helps provide information on people 
 and past activities that may help shed some light on the situation. In my opinion, development 
 of the story was obvious as I could determine a character's stance on issues almost immediately 
 with some surprises. Dialog can get repetitive. After getting the Chapter 18 ending, I am still 
 confused, and I hope to finish for the other endings.
  
  .::Shinen::.
  Besides the story, this was my favorite part of the game. As Atsuki, your Lux-Pain allows you to 
 read the minds of others. After scratching away the surface of the people's minds, you erase certain 
 worms, uncovering their thoughts through Shinen. Based on the mind's tempo, words appear in different 
 ways and colors. The Shinen of people infected with Silent can creep you out if you read the "poem" 
 that appears.
  
  .::Conclusion::.
  It is not, by far, the worst game I have ever played, but I feel as if there were many rooms for 
 improvement. I do not, however, regret purchasing this game. 
  
  Graphics -- 8/10
  Mostly still or slightly animated pictures, the images are still drawn very well, and the animations 
 within the game are very nice to look at. Backgrounds can get repetitive 
  Story -- 6/10
  Although I feel as if the story was good, the unsuccessful localization job made it difficult to 
 look at. 
  Concept and Atmosphere -- 8/10
  This game plays like an interactive novel, and some may like it and others may not. I, for one, 
 liked it. Its dialog accurately portrayed the creepy atmosphere that it seems to accomplish
  Gameplay -- 7/10
  Not many people enjoy a game that they do not play. The game has very little 
 interactivity. It plays much like an interactive graphic novel, and I wished it had a little more 
 gameplay to it. 
  
  Overall (Not an Average) -- 7/10
  This game is average, not because it does things quite normally, but because it has very positive 
 aspects coupled with some negative aspects. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
