-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: M&M's Kart Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/mmskartracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Less fattening than eating M&M's.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Less fun than eating M&M's.
 Awful vehicle handling.
 Poor collision detection.
 No single-cartridge multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 2.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 2.3, 155 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DSI Games
Developer: FrontLine Studios
Genre: Kart Racing
Date: Mar 24, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This truly horrible racing game could put you off M&M's for life. 

  When Mario Kart DS was released toward the end of 2005, it set the standard for racing games on 
 Nintendo's newest handheld extremely high. Now, with the arrival of M&amp; M's Kart Racing, there's 
 a new benchmark against which to compare would-be competitors, though at the other end of the scale. 
 This candy-inspired kart racer does almost nothing right as you negotiate its 11 uninspired courses, 
 and it doesn't even  try  to do a lot of the stuff that you might expect to be standard over two 
 years after Mario Kart DS. Even if you're allergic there's more fun to be found in a packet of 
 M&amp; M's than there is here, and given the game's dearth of modes the candy could conceivably 
 last longer, too.  

           If you think this looks bad, just wait until you see the game moving.      

  M&amp; M's 
 Kart Racing's eyesore of a menu screen affords you access to only three gameplay modes: Tournament, 
 Time Trial, and multiplayer. Only one circuit and two different vehicles are available from the 
 outset, but if you spend an hour or so playing through the Tournament mode you'll unlock everything 
 else that the game has to offer. Regardless of which difficulty setting you choose, Tournament 
 mode lacks any real challenge because you can retry each race as many times as you need to before 
 unlocking and progressing to the next one. Because achieving any podium position in a field of 
 five racers is good enough to progress you, you shouldn't really need to restart any of the races. 
 But don't feel bad if you do; the game's AI doesn't play by the same rules that you do, nor does 
 it appear to be hampered by the same awful vehicle handling and collision detection that you are. 

  Choosing to play as one of the five octagonal drivers on the game's roster -- Red, Yellow, Green, 
 Blue, or Orange -- has no impact on the gameplay whatsoever. Your choice of kart should be based 
 on more than aesthetics, though, not only because they're all equally ugly, but because there are 
 handling, acceleration, top speed, and braking attributes to consider. Most of the vehicles are 
 more noteworthy for their weaknesses than for anything else. For example, one of the two karts 
 available to you from the outset is very slow, while the other has terrible brakes and is tough 
 to get around bends. Cornering in the unlockable hovercraft is even worse, because if you attempt 
 to do so at speed your D pad does little more than move the camera in the opposite direction to 
 where you want to go while triggering a sound effect of tires screeching. You'll unlock a couple 
 of vehicles toward the end of the Tournament mode that perform noticeably better, but they're still 
 no fun to drive.  

  Adding insult to the injury that is vehicle handling in M&amp; M's Kart Racing are the courses that 
 you'll be racing on. Locales that include a farm, a city, the Arctic, a land of chocolate, and 
 an alien spacecraft certainly offer no shortage of variety, but the eye candy is well past its 
 best-before date and most of the tracks incorporate the same broken gameplay mechanics. For example, 
 driving over arrows that are painted on the track gives you a significant speed boost for a short 
 time, but just occasionally you'll fall through one as if it were a hole. Ironically, the holes 
 that appear as hazards on some courses can occasionally be driven over without incident. Other 
 obstacles, such as bipedal rocks and traffic cones that get up and walk around, should be avoided 
 at all costs, but you'll find that the collision detection doesn't always reflect what you're seeing 
 on the screen. You won't have any trouble hitting ramps that are necessary to jump over some of 
 the larger holes and obstacles in the game, but if you hit them too well you run the risk of hitting 
 an invisible wall in midair that sends you plummeting back to the track vertically.  

  If you're familiar with Mario Kart DS you'll know that a lot of the fun in that game comes courtesy 
 of an inventive arsenal of weapons and power-ups. M&amp; M's Kart Racing boasts a less imaginative 
 and much smaller arsenal that comprises just four items. There's a homing missile for slowing down 
 racers in front of you, a barrel of oil for slowing down racers behind you, a cup of hot chocolate 
 that boosts your speed, and a chocolate bar that refills your fuel tank so that you don't slow 
 down as it empties. Other pickups include rainbow-colored M&amp; M's that represent score-boosting 
 "golden coins," and, in time trial mode,  giant  M&amp; M's that hover just above the track surface 
 and serve as checkpoints.  

           The subtly-branded hovercraft is one of the worst vehicles in the game.      

  There's 
 really no good reason why you'd want to take advantage of M&amp; M's Kart Racing's multiplayer mode 
 and play with friends, but the option is there provided each of you has a copy of the game. That's 
 right, Mario Kart DS can support up to eight players with a single cartridge, but M&amp; M's Kart 
 Racing supports only as many players as you have copies of the game, up to a maximum of five. All 
 11 of the tracks are available in multiplayer mode, though you're limited to racing the same number 
 of laps on each of them that you're required to in Tournament mode. Four of the tracks support 
 only one-lap races, while the rest support either two or three.  

  Perfectly complementing this stubborn chocolate stain of a game is a grating, looping soundtrack 
 that you'll want to switch off at the earliest opportunity and sound effects that add nothing positive 
 to the experience. If you've ever wondered what an M&amp; M sounds like, the answer lies somewhere 
 between the voice samples used in early Worms games and Snarf from  Thundercats . In other words, 
 they're squeaky and annoying, though thankfully they're not very talkative.  

  M&amp; M's Kart Racing, as you've no doubt figured out by now, is a game that you should avoid at 
 all costs. Save for the fact that it won't break your DS or melt in your hand, it has practically 
 no redeeming features whatsoever.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fdtoonsman
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 7, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I can hardly think of ANYTHING good about this game to start it off with. Umm... it's about delicious 
 chocolate candy people in racecars on tracks that have NOTHING to do with chocolate, let alone 
 the famous M&M's?! Yeah, there's absolutely nothing good about this game, except the fact that.... 
 nah, there's nothing. You have a short selection of characters, all looking like weird, almost 
 semi-3d octagons once you get to the racetrack. But that won't even matter because they're obscured 
 by the giant, ugly racecars you choose. They all look like paper mache elephants made by blind 
 2-year olds who have had their brains extracted and shipped to New Zealand by storks that have 
 belly buttons! ARRRGGGHHH! Wow, that was bad. Anyway, if you choose the main event of the game, 
 the Grand Prix, you just have to race through every course in the game once, making for a total 
 of 15 mindless, heartless races that are too easy to lose because the CPU's are controlled by blind 
 2-year olds who have had their brains extracted and shipped to New Zealand by storks that have 
 belly buttons! Yes, I HAD to bring that up again! In conclusion, just... don't buy this game. REALLY. 
 It is possibly the worst game on the DS, if not the worst Nintendo console game. I really had a 
 hard time thinking of something positive about this load of *honk!* Really, I think I should just 
 end the review here, It's just painful to even think of this game anymore... oh well, now to turn 
 it in to Gamestop where I'll get a dollar for it! Yaaaeeeyyyy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsofwar1999
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 4, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Can you believe it an M&Ms game? And that wasn't the good way i said it. 
  This game is worse than Mario Cart and Diddy kong Racing and they know it! 
  
  Graphics: I 
 understand that the graphics would be low tone on a DS but when it comes to this you cant argue. 
 The graphics are so bland and dull and corrupted that it almost seemed like i was in a world of 
 terrible design. 1.0
  
  Sound: Oh man i cant even rate this! Its so bad pick a scale from 1 to 10 i would have to give 
 a zero! Terrible music, Terrible Yahoos every time you go off a ramp, Terrible everything again... 
 1.0
  
  Organization: I can only say it in one word: Broken. 0
  
  I cant find a rating for this game it cant go down to zero! Oh well .5 achieved because it doesn't 
 have the sugar and stuff unhealthy and you don't have to eat it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 3
Date: May 3, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  When you think of chocolates, a few big brand names probably come to mind  Hershey, Snickers, 
 Milky Way, and probably even M&M's as well. Now while I like M&M's as a colorful snack time treat 
 as much as the next girl, I have to admit I was a bit shocked when I learned they were getting 
 their own game, even more so when I learned it was a kart racer.
  
  I guess I could stretch my imagination and see these personified edible goodies in some sort of 
 a platforming title, where Red and Yellow track down Santa to see if he was real, while collecting 
 M&M minis along the way, but racing each other for supremacy at various tropical locations? Alright, 
 I'll give it a shot.
  
  Released by DSI Games, M&M's Kart Racing is a very simplistic title that allows players to interact 
 with their favorite chocolate spokesmen, and spokeswoman, in the case of Green. With five playable 
 characters in all: Red, Yellow, Orange, Blue and Green, players should have no trouble finding 
 a color that fits their current mood.
  
  Gameplay itself is focused on Tournament races where points are awarded based on your finishing 
 position, and time trials, where you can practice your moves on each track that you have unlocked. 
 Unlockables come in the form of tracks and karts, which can be obtained via various tournaments. 
 You can also choose multiplayer for those who can find someone else who owns a copy of the game, 
 but the experience is the same.
  
  Like in most kart racers, you are able to choose not only your racer, but the kart as well, with 
 six options in all that vary in speed, handling and a few other areas. At first, you will only 
 have one track to choose from, a one lap event in a forest inhabited by spiders and rock-men that 
 try to block your path. Racing itself takes place on the top screen with the track map on the touch 
 screen. The map conveniently places M&M symbols on not only your but your opponents' positions 
 as well, so that you can tell how far behind or ahead you are at all times.
  
  As you start to win races, you'll unlock more tracks until you eventually have access to all 11, 
 ranging from actual racetracks to rural countrysides. However, winning a race is easier said than 
 done. This isn't because the AI is so much better than you, but because the game itself is designed 
 to make you lose. Not only do you slow down as you lose fuel throughout each race (which is replenished 
 by picking up rare chocolate bars) , but the handling of the cars themselves is so bad that you 
 find yourself slamming on the D-Pad just to have a slight reaction. Or, depending on the car, you 
 may tap on the D-Pad for a split second only to see the car cross the entire width of the track.
 
  
  Either way, turning is almost impossible, so you must rely on the in-game walls that let you bounce 
 off of them to head in the right direction. Unfortunately, those in-game walls also have a tendency 
 of trapping you behind them, if you hit them just so.
  
  Likewise, the graphics here are nothing to be impressed by either. Clipping is a major issue, causing 
 you to run into some obstacles and not others, or to miss a ramp completely, sending you down into 
 the abyss. Speed strips are placed frequently throughout the track, but only some respond. Granted, 
 they do give you a great temporary boost of speed, but when you can barely steer yourself into 
 their path in the first place, they really dont help as much as they should.
  
  Furthermore, the actual tracks themselves look pretty bad. The graphical quality here is downright, 
 dare I say it, ugly. While the option to change the camera angle from which you race is a nice 
 one, getting a closer shot of random blocks of color isn't necessarily a good thing.
  
  On the other side of that coin however, the menus do deserve a bit of praise, as they are very 
 intuitive and offer some of the best graphics on the whole title. This is definitely due to the 
 fact that it's comprised of stationary photographs, but still, any positive is better than none.
 
  
  In keeping with the positive notes here, the music and sound effects are very cartoon-y and fit 
 well with the comical personality many of us associate with these particular icons. However, with 
 little variety in each track, the music can get a bit repetitive, and since sound really doesn't 
 play a big role in these races in the first place, you'll probably be more likely to play with 
 the sound off to save battery power.
  
  In the end, I can't hide my disappointment with this one. In fact, I would only recommend M&M's 
 Kart Racing to gamers with an extreme amount of patience, as the game's handling alone definitely 
 tried mine, not to mention the addition of clipping and annoying invisible wall issues. If you 
 must have a racing game fix, I suppose you could use M&M's Kart Racing as a challenge of your skills 
 on the DS, but I really wouldn't recommend it.
  
  Review part of GrrlGamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=mandmskartracing 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap_z
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  who in there right mind would make such a horrific game. i don't even have it THANK GOODNESS but 
 i have experinced it and it is not a game it'S a case of garbage rolled up in to a carage with 
 16 bit data that can go in to the ds. THE graphics are horrible no fun a horrible rip off or mario 
 kart ds. it's just not fun and it makes your eyes hurt the more u play it. M&M should just stuck 
 to making candy or whatever. if u are reading this review look on the rightside of the screen where 
 it shows the vital stats at the bottom of it IT says ALSO FOR THE WII. i don't even want to go 
 find out what it looks like on that. BUT SERIOUS DON'T RENT, PLAY OR LOOK AT THIS GAME. and also 
 the gear edge of the game is not good there is nothing good about this game what so ever but what 
 good can u say about a piece of trash.. PLEASE this is not a review it's a warning DON'T PLAY ur 
 eyes will burn so badly it's just sick and ugly 
  and grotest 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
