-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/maddennfl/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast pace.
 Quick load times.
 Superior sound fidelity.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sporadic lockups and running-game bug.
 Commentary is virtually nonexistent.
 No franchise mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.9, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 639 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Nov 17, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Nintendo DS version of Madden, despite some solid gameplay and innovative features, falls short 
 of the franchise's high standards. 

  The Madden NFL series has certainly made the rounds when it comes to gaming platforms. Appearing 
 on everything from the Xbox and the PS2 to the Sega Saturn and even the Mac, Madden has popped 
 up on nearly every platform to come down the line. Handheld gaming systems are no stranger to the 
 Madden phenomenon either, as versions of the game have appeared on the Game Boy, Game Boy Color, 
 and the Game Boy Advance. So it should come as no surprise to sports gamers that Madden has shown 
 up on Nintendo's newest handheld gaming device, the Nintendo DS. What may be a surprise, however, 
 is how poorly Madden NFL 2005 for the DS compares with some of its contemporaries on other platforms. 
 It still plays a solid game of football, but otherwise isn't as good as you'd probably hope.  

 
          Madden 2005 for the Nintendo DS: two screens, one stylus, lots of touchdowns.     

  Those used to seeing a huge variety of player models and animations in their football games will 
 likely be disappointed with the graphics in Madden NFL 2005 for the DS. In fact, there's very little 
 difference in appearance between a hulking brute on the offensive line and a speedy wide receiver. 
 Players have a uniformly blocky, pixelated appearance. The further away from the camera a player 
 is, the less detail you'll see in the model. You won't see any jersey numbers for your linebackers 
 and defensive backs -- in fact, other than some vaguely human-shaped blobs, you won't see much at 
 all of your secondary. There's a good deal of animation flickering, and clipping problems abound, 
 especially after a play has ended and several player models are literally piled on top of one another. 
 On the other hand, the game moves at a quick pace with virtually no slowdown, even when playing 
 with a friend via the game's wireless multiplayer capability. This speedy tempo, combined with 
 the game's lack of detail in player models, works against it in some respects, though, especially 
 when trying to pick out holes to run through in a defensive line.  

  The game's sound also falls short. On the positive side, the DS's dual-speaker sound system provides 
 a rich audio experience, especially when compared with the tinny speakers of the system's handheld 
 predecessors. The driving rock soundtrack found in the Madden menu screens sounds especially full, 
 both through the onboard speakers or when using headphones. Unfortunately, there's not really enough 
 quality sound in Madden NFL 2005 for the DS to make use of its audio capabilities. The ever-present 
 hum of crowd noise sounds OK and seems to ebb and flow depending on the on-field action. The in-game 
 commentary, however, is not only extremely sparse, but also muffled. Al Michaels' play-by-play 
 calls are mostly relegated to pointing out first downs, interceptions, touchdowns, and field-goal 
 attempts, and Madden's colorful analysis is virtually nonexistent. The observations are so sporadic, 
 in fact, that you're left wondering why the developers even bothered with what little commentary 
 there is in the game.  

  The DS's unique hardware configuration -- specifically, the dual-screen display, the lower of which 
 can be used in tandem with the accompanying stylus for touch-screen control -- gives the DS version 
 of Madden some unique capabilities. Dealing with two screens of information requires you to adjust 
 your awareness of what's happening in the game, especially as plays unfold on the field. When you're 
 on the field, the top screen displays the traditional 3D action, as well as down-and-distance information 
 and the play clock. The lower screen simultaneously provides you with a top-down X's-and-O's perspective 
 of the field and your players. Once you get used to paying attention to this secondary screen, 
 it works to your advantage. You can clearly see which of your receivers are creating space between 
 themselves and their defenders, for example. Blitzes seem easier to pick up as well, as you aren't 
 necessarily completely focused on finding an open receiver (one or more of which may be offscreen 
 in the DS's upper display) , but rather have a more comprehensive view of the field.  

          The top-down perspective gives you an X's-and-O's point of view as the play develops on 
 the field.     

  You won't be able to depend on this top-down perspective completely, however. While it allows you 
 to gauge the distance between a receiver and the defender covering him, the 2D nature of this view 
 makes it impossible to tell how much arc to put on the throw to ensure that it clears whatever 
 defenders (such as linebackers dropped into pass coverage) might be between you and your target. 
 Because of the inherent advantages and disadvantages of the lower screen, you'll be constantly 
 flitting between both screens, trying to gather the information you need to successfully move the 
 ball down the field. It takes some practice, but once you get used to it, you'll find the extra 
 information useful.  

  Madden NFL 2005 makes decent use of the DS's other main hardware innovation -- the stylus and touch 
 screen. While you can use the stylus to throw to receivers by simply tapping the receiver of your 
 choice on the lower screen, the most effective use of the feature is in the game's play-calling 
 screens. In these screens, you can choose your offensive or defensive set, specific formation subset, 
 and play by tapping the stylus on the lower display. You also have the option to go the more traditional 
 route of choosing plays using the directional pad and the A button. Where the touch screen shines, 
 however, is in calling audibles and hot routes. Instead of having to memorize button combinations 
 to pull off these play variations, you can use the DS's lower screen. For audibles, you simply 
 tap the corresponding portion of the lower screen and choose from the four preset plays that are 
 then displayed onscreen. Executing hot routes using the touch-screen is similar -- you tap the appropriate 
 section of the screen, tap the receiver whose route you wish to alter, and then choose the altered 
 route you wish that receiver to run. It should be noted that players can still call audibles and 
 hot routes before the snap using the traditional button combos.     

  That takes care of the two biggest new features in the latest version of Madden NFL 2005. But what 
 about those aspects of the game that have been carried over from the other versions? Sadly, this 
 is where Madden NFL 2005 for the DS starts to lose its luster. The game's controls will be familiar 
 to anyone who has played Madden on a console before, particularly when running with the ball. You 
 hold down the A button to trigger a speed burst, tap the B button to perform spin moves, use the 
 X button to dive with the ball, press the Y button deliver stiff-arms, and use the DS's two shoulder 
 buttons to perform left and right jukes. The defensive controls -- such as cycling through players, 
 diving, and jumping -- are also similar to what you'll find in the console versions. However, while 
 the controls feel the same in terms of configuration, their in-game performance leaves a lot to 
 be desired. For those accustomed to the analog controls found in the PS2, Xbox, and GameCube games, 
 the DS's digital control scheme takes a bit of adjustment, especially when evading defenders or 
 pursuing ballcarriers. Expect to miss more than a few tackles as you acclimate yourself to the 
 digital control scheme.  

          The kicking game is a lot easier in Madden NFL 2005 for the DS.     

  Another big control 
 change is found in Madden's kicking game, which has been simplified a great deal on the DS. Gone 
 is the console version's aiming arrow, used to determine the direction and trajectory of your kickoffs, 
 field goals, and punts. Madden DS replaces the arrow with a stripped-down meter that appears on 
 the lower screen. The DS kicking gauge features two components: a horizontal bar used to aim your 
 kick and a traditional power meter. By stopping the rapidly scrolling ball on the horizontal meter, 
 you determine the direction of your kick. This then sets the power meter in motion. The closer 
 you stop the ball to the top of the power meter, the stronger your kick will be. While the new 
 kicking meter makes it easier to nail long field goals, the lack of a trajectory arrow removes 
 the ability to use clock-devouring squib kicks late in a game, or add hang time to your punts to 
 give your coverage team more time to get downfield. It also makes onside kicks that much more difficult 
 to execute.  

  Despite these quirky controls, Madden NFL 2005 for the DS actually plays a solid brand of football, 
 with a decent variety of modes to choose from. While the exhibition, multiplayer, and season modes 
 will be where most football fans spend the majority of their time, the game also includes the popular 
 two-minute drill, practice, and situation modes. The game's season mode allows you to play only 
 a single season with your favorite team, so once the playoffs are over you'll need to start all 
 over again. The franchise options in season more are predictably thin, though you can trade, add, 
 and drop players on your roster. None of the more in-depth management elements, such as dealing 
 with financial concerns or grousing team members, are found in the DS version of Madden. With several 
 difficulty levels to choose from, the game's strong football sense is evident in each team's game 
 plan and style of play. Playing against the San Francisco 49ers or the Green Bay Packers, for example, 
 you'll see a fairly balanced mix of running and passing. In most cases, the game's AI seems to 
 favor the outside running game, so adjust your defensive schemes accordingly. In fact, it's tough 
 to run in between the tackles in the game. It's much easier to simply send your running back sprinting 
 toward the sideline, try pick up a block or two, and then turn the corner. It's not uncommon for 
 this approach to yield runs of 10 to 20 yards.  

  While the level of difficulty should keep football fans happy, the real challenge is found in the 
 game's wireless multiplayer capability. The good news is, the same quick pace found in the game's 
 single-player game is present and accounted for when playing against a friend. The bad news is, 
 some of the gameplay features found in the single-player game are conspicuously absent in multiplayer, 
 including the ability to use the stylus and touch screen for calling plays, audibles, or hot routes. 
 Also, the multiplayer component consists only of head-to-head gameplay for two players -- no tournament 
 or playoff modes are available. Finally, while the range of the Nintendo DS's wireless signal is 
 impressive, it's important to note that if your wireless Madden game is interrupted due to a dropped 
 signal, the game will not continue where it left off once the signal picks up again.  

  Extras in the game include an "NFL record book," which lets you check out some of the historic 
 achievements of NFL coaches, teams, and players, as well as a listing of all previous Super Bowl 
 winners. "Madden cards" made it into the DS version of the game, and they can be purchased using 
 tokens earned by completing specific "Madden challenges." These challenges range in difficulty 
 from breaking a 20-yard run, to returning a punt for a touchdown, to kicking a field goal of at 
 least 55 yards. Madden cards can be used to boost individual players or teams, or introduce special 
 conditions into a game. The "Ouch!" card, for example, increases the chances that someone on your 
 opponent's team will sustain an injury during the game.  

          Madden cards can affect individual players, your entire team, or the game in which you're 
 playing. Collect them all!     

  We should also note that we encountered two severe lockups that required us to restart our DS in 
 the middle of a game. While we were unable to reproduce these lockups when playing Madden on a 
 different DS, possibly suggesting that the DS itself may have been faulty, no other DS title played 
 on that unit experienced such lockups. In addition, we ran into a bug that caused our controlled 
 running back to quickly "slide" through a number of defenders and out of bounds, as if moving on 
 ice.  

  Over the years, fans of the Madden NFL games have been able to play installments in their favorite 
 football series on a number of different platforms. Unfortunately, the Nintendo DS version of Madden, 
 despite some solid gameplay and innovative features, falls short of the franchise's high standards. 
 This isn't a bad game -- the single-player mode provides a good challenge for new and experienced 
 players alike, and the wireless multiplayer mode adds to the game's replay value. But with a lackluster 
 presentation and some ugly bugs, the game fails to provide the sort of quality experience Madden 
 fans have come to expect from the series, regardless of platform.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2005 for the Nintendo DS is a fun enjoyable game but there is a few flaws.
  Graphics: These graphics are pretty horrible if you play it too long it might hurt your eyes, jerseys 
 have no "detail", sometimes you get confused if you play a team with nearly the same color, it 
 isn't the worst but it isn't good. 5.
  Sound: Crowd cheering, diffrent calls, but there's not too much they say. The crowds don't sing 
 or say D-Fence. QB mostly says hut hut hike. The sound quality itself has a few glitches but it's 
 pretty good. 6.5.
  Bonuses: Cards are what you can unlock to get boosts and power-ups the card sytem is pretty neat. 
 8.
  Multiplayer: You can't do DS-Download play for even a mini version, you can only play a game if 
 the other user has this game. 5.5
  Overall: Even though some of the main stuff isn't that good this game overall is pretty good! One 
 noticable con is there is no mini-games at all.
  A full regular season should take about 20 hours, but allot of time you play more then one season. 
 You can also pick your personal backround from every team in the NFL. 7.5 (7.4.5.6 ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquallLeonVIII
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  DS's sports games have never really been sucessful. This game was horrible. If you want a real 
 handheld football game and you own a psp I think you should try this one out- http://www. gamespot. com/psp/sports/maddennfl2006/index. html
 
  
  Gameplay- mediocre gameplay. The touchscreen doesn't add anything different except choosing your 
 play. Over all a mediocre experience 7/10
  
  Graphics- Horrible graphics. The jerseys don't even look like jerseys. The graphics in this game 
 will hurt your eyes.
  
  Sound- Not very good sound. Over all the sound gets a 6/10
  
  Value- A very bad sports game that shows that ds is not much of a handheld for sports games. 6/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2005 is easily the best football game ever made, with that said its easy to see why i still 
 play it today and i don't play newer football games (such as Madden 06) . Every single thing about 
 madden 2005 is perfect or is nearly perfect. The graphics are amazing and are still very comparable 
 to Madden 06. The game has a great soundtrack, and everything sounds good except John Madden himself 
 (will someone just shut him up please)
  This game is a freakin blast to play with friends and can consume hours and hours of time with 
 multiplayer alone. Worth a purchase even though there are newer Football games available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  So what if the graphics are not the best that you have ever seen, Nintendo beat Sony to the punch 
 in brining Madden to the DS a season before the PSP, and it is worth it.
  
  The game does not look that great but other than that this game is pretty fun. You barely use the 
 touch screen but the game does control pretty well overall. If you like Madden games you cannot 
 go wrong with this game. The voice overs are nicely done even though Madden is still quite annoying. 
 There is one Madden Track for the opening menu but still in my opinion that is better than nothing.
 
  
  So do you like football and do you own a Nintendo DS? If you answered yes to those questions than 
 you should definately pick up Madden 2005 for the Nintendo DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0wn4g3_14094
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Y, just for once, cant we get a Nintendo DS football game that can even get people who hate football 
 addicted?? I love football, great sport, the game does fall short of xpectations, but from what 
 i hear, its not much worse that madden 06, so... from what i played, and what i heard, just get 
 05, its probably cheaper than 06, and neither 1 is much better anyway... Graphics were fair, it 
 is an xcellent way to waste time, or if ur bored, to make it go by faster, but wats wierd, i acually 
 managed to make my hometeam good again, The Buffalo Bills, no offense, im a Bliis fan to, but wake 
 up, they suck, get used to it, and accept it, but still, decent game!
  
  I would buy it, only if u love the sport, not if u dont know anything about football, just wont 
 work for ya, let me tell ya about the bugs in it... na, i wont bore ya tellin u, just rent the game 
 before u buy it, ok?
  
  The speed that u learn it at depends on how good you are at football, but it sucks cause the game 
 is acually harder than a real football game, thats just plain dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a decent football game, matter of fact it is the first of two games on the Nintendo DS. 
 The graphics are no where near the quality of the PSP or even an original PS1. I guess the graphics 
 look a little less quality than the N64 version. The sound is ok, but definitely not great. I have 
 only noticed one song and I can't recall what or who is singing it in the main menu. The audio 
 commentary is not very good either, it mainly calls out "first down" and little things like that. 
 The game play is decent, and I never once used the touch screen for this game. To be honest, it 
 is very weak use of the touch screen for this game. Kicking punts and field goals is pretty easy, 
 just tap a button a couple times for the accuracy and power. You can find a cheap copy of this 
 game for about $10 used. If you are bored and don't want to spend too much on playing football 
 on your DS give this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nutrious
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  if u buy this game u have to be a person that likes to spend tim on there games. because a lot 
 of time i ended up playing for 5 mins. and turning off my DS. but if u get into the game it will 
 become highly addictive!!! :)
  If you are a big football fan u will like this game! I I I I I I II I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I II I I I I II I II I I I I I I I I I I I I II I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  After 15 years of groundbreaking virtual football, Madden NFL 2005 dominates an entirely new eld 
 -- the Nintendo DS. Take your game on the go and challenge your friends to head-to-head wireless 
 NFL action. Use the touch screen for quick playcalling and audibles, while the dual screens give 
 you unprecedented eld vision. An all-new 3D graphics engine brings the gridiron to life 
 like never before with authentic uniforms, player portraits, and more. With multiple game modes, 
 including a fully featured Season mode, and the legendary gameplay you've come to expect from the 
 franchise, Madden NFL 2005 is the most true-to-life football experience ever put in the palm of 
 your hand.
  
  * Lose the Wires - Play Madden NFL 2005 wirelessly against players across the room. 
  
  * Best-Ever 
 Graphics - Featuring the nest 3D graphics available on a handheld unit, including authentic 
 uniforms and detailed player portraits. 
  
  * Incredibly Deep Gameplay - With a full Season mode, detailed player attributes, and other game 
 modes including Situation mode and 2 Minute Drill, theres plenty to keep you busy. 
  
  * Put Some Touch on the Ball - Take control of your game faster and easier than ever before with 
 a quick touch of the screen. Use the touchpad to select plays, call audibles at the line of scrimmage, 
 and maneuver the kicking meter. 
  
  * Twice the Vision - See where all 22 players are on the eld on one screen while controlling 
 the key action on the other. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekmazter
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:52 am PT
Review:  I purchased this DS a little over a month ago and thought it would be a good pickup due to '06 
 being out now and this one coming down in price significantly. Anyhow, most reviews said the game 
 was 'ok', but I would't even go that far. The breakdown pretty much goes like this:
  
  Graphics are awful! I mean you can barely make out any of your receivers during a pass meaning 
 you can't see them. This alone puts the game on the 'do not even rent --EVER' list. Everything 
 is pretty grainy which is ok, but for a game like madden with the amount of depth involved in tackling, 
 and hot routes etc... this just doesn't cut it --AT ALL 
  
  Gameplay is decent in the realm of picking plays, and commentary, but with the graphics shortcomings 
 you can never really have a 'great' game and you're always left squinting afterwards. There really 
 isn't anything else to tell you about this game as it fails where it needs to succeed the most 
 on a small lcd. 
  
  'nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was extremely rushed.. The season absolutely shows no stats whatso ever - it's pathetic. 
 The games are boring.. After your halfway through your just watching the clock wishing for the 
 game to end sooner.
  
  Unless you're going on vacation and have nothing else better to do I don't suggest buying.
  
 
  I am a huge madden fan - I have played countless hours of madden each year and have never been 
 let down like this before.. Pathetic. 
  
  I do like waht they did with the touchscreen; and it can be lots of fun. The bottom of the part 
 will have your Plays - which saves lots of room up top. 
  
  Anyhow;
  
  Don't take my word for it - just look at all the other reviews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wezdog564
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  When people think Madden they think fun gameplay, nice graphics, and lots of extras, but not in 
 this Madden title for the DS. I really thought that this would be a good title, but man was I wrong. 
 So lets get down to the evaluation.
  
  Gameplay: Not the worst, but far from the best. They really could have done a better job with this. 
 When kicking thew ball you tap the screen to stop a power meter and an accuracy meter. Sounds OK 
 right? Wrong. It doesnt respond as quick as needed to be most of the time, but thank god you can 
 substitute this action with the A button. Snapping and throwing the ball is the same as every football 
 game out there, but it just doesnt feel right on the DS. So all I can say is that its just average. 
 5/10
  
  Graphics: Madden usually has well done graphics though never the best on the current system, but 
 for the DS it is absolutely awful. The character models are so boxy and blocky when they run the 
 arms just move like that of those on an old GI joe ( just back and forward) , the arenas all look 
 the same and if you look close enogh at the sky its actually in the shape of a box, and dont even 
 get me started on collision detection. 3/10
  
  Sound: Yet another awful thing about this title. You would think that a madden title would have 
 commentary, well think again the only commentary you get is hearing John Madden saying "This is 
 what footballs all about" over and over and over etc. Long story this games is better played with 
 the sound all the way down. 4/10
  
  Value: It has all the teams like any other madden game, it has the season mode, but with the lack 
 of many other extras like in the other Madden games theres not much to be had with this one. 6/10
 
  
  Tilt: With unresponsive gameplay, horrible graphics, bad sound, and the worst collision detection 
 I think Ive ever seen this game is not fun to play at all. Sorry Madden but ty again next year. 
 4/10
  
  Ive been playing madden for ages and never had I played one this awful. I dont recommend anyone 
 buy or rent this, or borrow from a buddy, avoid at all costs. This Madden title come very short 
 of the first down in its DS debut. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradfordbulls
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:17 am PT
Review:  Agood good game grreat in all ways i'll tell you about this game quickly.
  
  GRAPHICS.
  
  The graphics for this game are good you can tell who's who and where everything is.
  
  
 GAMEPLAY.
  
  The gameplay for this game is amazing the players do what you want them to do they follow all your 
 commands it's not to difficult it's easy to pick up and it's great for passing.
  
  SOUNDS.
  
  The sounds on this game are brill you can hear the music and commentry easly the 
 croud and players can be heard it's just like listening to a game on tv.
  
  Value.
  
  The price of this game is good and i think this game is worth the money.
  
  BAD.
  
  the 
 bad thing about this game is the tackling the players go down way to easily.
  
  GOOD.
  
  The good thing is the sound the graphics and how the players do everything you ask so fastly.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_unit489
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: ok, smooth moves and every thing goes according to plan, nothing more nothing less. different 
 plays are fun to select even though you dont know what the hell the fancy names even mean: raptor5534 
 deep tow down bananza...
  
  graphics: they suck and so does every other game for the ds. what do you expect? it has 256,000 
 colors. psp has 15.77 million!!! the graphics are choppy and blocky.
  
  sound: cool theme song: 
  
  Wait
  Earshot
  and the Announcers talk every now and then
 
  
  story: none its a sports game genious there never is...
  
  everything else sucks so dont ask and gett outta hea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 3.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  What kind of game is this!? I'm warning you that this is a horrible game. Bad graphics, bad this 
 bad that. For every good thing about this thing ( I'm not calling It a game ) There's ten bad. 
 I mean, it's broken. "You know what? Apart from the fact that I felt the handhelds d-pad didnt 
 offer fluid-enough movement, this games poor performance isnt really the DS fault. Its because 
 PSone-era football isnt fun anymore, and I doubt it ever will be. Not with the relics of that 
 bygone area still hanging around, such as outrageous dive tackles, a poor interior running game, 
 jump-ball scrums for passes, slow response to player selection/QB passes, and more. Want to play 
 football on the go? Take a piece of paper, fold it into a small triangle, and flick it into someones 
 face instead." --Game Informer 2005. And iI agree to this statement. If anyone doesn't, they're 
 crazy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 26, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2005 is the latest version of Madden NFL to be released, but this time it's on the Nintendo 
 DS. The fact that this is on the DS should mean that we are seeing better graphics and gameplay 
 then ever before on a handheld, but this is hardly the case. In fact, this could be the worst version 
 of Madden NFL 2005 you can buy.
  
  For starters, the graphics are really bad. All of the players look the same: bulky and boring. 
 The fields and the crowds also look pretty ugly.
  
  The soud is in the same boat as the graphcs. The only things that you will hear in ther game are 
 the ref's whistle, the crowds wierd static sound, and every ten plays or so Madden will say "Now 
 THATS how to play the game!"
  
  The gameplay in '05 is decent but it feels like another DS launch title that was forced to use 
 the touch screen so they did - but pointlessly. The touch screen is used to pick plays and, if 
 you wanted to, you can tap a player and pass the ball to them. It's a decent system but you just 
 dont get the same thrill as you do on it's console cousins when you gain thirty yards off a pass 
 simply because its really easy to do that. Most passes are completed in the game for some reason.
 
  
  This game feels like a launch title: rushed to be one of the first, but overall it's a pretty horrific 
 experience and people who bought this game are praying to the video game gods that Madden NFL 06 
 will fare better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCrono03
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 5, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the early 90's, a Madden game has appeared on pretty much every major console released. 
 So it is to no surprise that the DS has gotten a copy. Let's see if it can stack up to it's next-generation 
 counter-parts.
  
  Madden for the DS plays very much like the earlier PS1 versions, but don't mistake that for a good 
 thing. Once you've gotten used to the playmaker controls of the newer editions, this just seems 
 like a huge step back. Fortunately, what it does have, it does fairly well. Controls are solid, 
 even if the button layout is a bit awkward. It also makes good use of the DS' touch screen, allowing 
 you to choose plays, call audibles, as well as hike and pass the ball.
  
  Unfortunately, Madden for the DS has nothing going for it in terms of visuals. Character models 
 are jagged and blocky. Fans don't even exist (Thousands of randomly colored dots replace those) . 
 And if it weren't for the yard lines and other markers, the field would basically be one large 
 green block. It's a shame Madden doesn't take more advantage of the DS' hardware, because it's 
 certainly capable of it.
  
  Another thing Madden lacks in is game modes. Gone is the ability to control every aspect of your 
 team in a franchise mode. All we're left with is a single season mode, where when the season is 
 finished, the game is over and you start over from scratch. What's also missing is the training 
 camp. In fact, besides the exhibition and multi player mode (Which, by the way, is wireless) , there 
 are only four real play modes: Season, two-minute drill, practice, and situation.
  
  Now I won't say the audio is bad, because to be honest, there isn't much there. The "soundtrack" 
 consists of one rock song that plays in the main menu. And while playing, the only audio you'll 
 get is the sound of the fans, players, occasional commentary, and other sounds you'd expect in 
 a game of football. But to be fair, the audio comes in fairly well and makes good use of the DS' 
 speakers.
  
  In terms of lifespan, if you're a Madden fan, you'll probably play the hell out of this game. A 
 single season could easily take you 10+ hours... But after that you probably won't find much reason 
 to continue playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowboy44
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 1, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2005 disappointed my me for a few reasons. The first one actually had nothing to do with 
 the game itself but EA. Forty bucks? Why, EA, are you charging forty bucks when all the other companies 
 are charging thirty? Now the game:
  
  First off, where is the sound? While playing usually all you hear is an annoying droning sound 
 noise that is suposed to be the crowd. Then every four or five plays you here Madden say something 
 everyone has heard in previous Maddens. Recommended: turn the sound off.
  
  Next is the graphics. Overall, the graphics are average but there are some issues. One is the collision 
 detection. Play seems to completely stop when anyone touches someone. But what really drives me 
 nuts are the celebrations. Can they only jump and please let them move. You see when you "celebrate" 
 your player ceases to move foward and seems to slow down. A little annoying.
  
  The last topice is gameplay which is actually good. If you enjoy Madden, you will enjoy this one. 
 The game does seem a little slower than usually but it is still Madden. Only other thing that bothers 
 me is there is no franchise mode. Also the multiplayer is great but there is no download and play. 
 Overall only if you are a often traveling Madden fanatic get it, if you are not the forty dollar 
 price tag hurts it badly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racerx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 7, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  Never being a fan of football, I actually liked playing Madden on the DS. Its got all the features 
 you'd want from a handheld, and looks good doing it too. I traded in all my DS games except for 
 this one, because I still play it regularly. When you actually play it, it's quite fun. I remeber 
 sitting in class when I made and 93yd touchdown in the last second, and jumped up yelling. There's 
 not much to say, other than the fact that EA did a poor job with the touch screen, that's negative 
 about it. Even if you don't like football, you should at least rent this one. Have trust and give 
 it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rcsaints
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  Madden 2005 for DS is nothing short of great. The controls feel good and with the extra X and Y 
 buttons the passing game has more of a feel. Not a must buy, but if you like the series or like 
 football you might want to at least rent this game.
  
  +Gameplay+ 9/10
  Madden 2005 has it where it counts. You may complain about the graphics or the sound, but if you're 
 not a picky-graphics-person you can enjoy this game a lot. There a few game modes such as Play 
 Now where you can choose any team and play a quick game of solid football. Here are the other game 
 modes ---
  
  2 Player-Play a game of Madden 2005 wirelessly with a friend. Although each of you need a Madden 
 2005 DS gamecard.
  
  Season-Start and season with a selected team. Play through the whole season and if you're good 
 enough, the playoffs. Try and capture that Superbowl dream.
  
  2 minute drill- You have two minutes, can you score of defend your score? Remember the clock is 
 ticking.
  
  Practice-Not living up to your team's rep? Practice in this game mode.
  
  Situation-How well do you work under pressure? Find out in this fun mode.
  
  Madden 2005 will 
 keep you coming back for more. I played over 4 games of football on my first day I got this game. 
 Other features include using the touch screen to call your plays, timeouts, and audibles. (Although 
 you can still use the D-Pad to pick your plays.)
  During the play the bottom screen shows X's and O's so you can plan your defense, while the top 
 screen shows the actual game.
  
  +Graphics+ 6/10
  The graphics in Madden 2005 are just ok. All the players look the same and all of them are huge 
 xD. Still, it's graphics are very good for a handheld game. It'd be better to see different characters 
 instead of all identical. The graphics are a little pixelated, but you can pretty much see past 
 the graphics and look at the great gameplay.
  
  +Sound+ 8/10
  The sound in this game is pretty good. Apart from hearing the same crowd roar the same thing over 
 and over. The commentary is kept to a bare minimum, which isn't really such a bad thing. I'd rather 
 hear in game music though, instead of the roar of the crowd. While at the menus an assortment of 
 real songs play. The songs are a mix of different stuff, which actually sounded pretty good.
  
  +Replay Value, Difficulty, Length+
  Replay Value: The replay value is very high in Madden 2005, 
 you'll want to play again and again if you're a big football fan.
  
  Difficulty: There are a few difficulty settings. Rookie, Pro, and All Madden. The Rookie difficulty 
 level is actually kinda challenging until you get real used to all of the controls. Don't expect 
 to be 16-0 in your first season.
  
  Length: As in replay value, the length is pretty much endless. You can a good 40 hours out of this 
 game. Also very fun on long road trips.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerjt
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2005 2:12 am PT
Review:  If you are a Madden fanboy and have to have the new Madden; well then you probley aready have this 
 one. If you have Madden on the PS2 or the Xbox I would stick whith that and sove your monwy. Yet 
 if you are going on a trip and wont Madden with you then this is a good game for you. This is a 
 game for the diy hard football fans. If you are not diyhard abought football then do not git this 
 game. It hase the Madden name, but fall short of what we have came to exspect from madden. There 
 are better games out there for the ds. With this game being $40 it is not worth it. Only get it 
 if you are a diyhard football fan or a Madden fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp2k4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2005 11:53 pm PT
Review:  when I bought it at launch date it was the first game I played . the graphics were ok they were 
 way beter then the gba graphics that I was used to. then the controls were not that hard to learn 
 but for me it kinda to while to get used to with all the buttons to play with. it is worth the 
 money that they are asking for it. it is the first 3D madden game on a portable madden console 
 and it was a sucess. sound when you tackle the guy it is awesome. so all you football lovers out 
 there that play madden this the game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidneyboy
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2005 is probably the best handheld football game on the market at the current time. That 
 being said, it does not necessarily mean that the game deserves a 10/10 but it should be the closest 
 thing to it for a handheld football game. It is all right for a launch title but I could definitely 
 see Madden 2006 being better since the people at EA were probably on a tough deadline for Madden 
 2005.
  
  
  
  I have to say that the graphics are not the graphics are not the best the DS can do especially 
 after playing Super Mario 64 DS and the Metroid Prime demo. If you want a comparison I have Madden 
 2000 for the N64 and the graphics are very similar. The player models are kind of stupid because 
 the supposedly thin and quick wide receivers are just as fat as the linemen. Everything is sort 
 of blocky and the stadiums are all pretty much the same. I do not think that the graphics for the 
 DS were used to the full potential.
  
  
  
  This game, much like its console counterparts has actual songs. Oh, no wait I meant song, thats 
 right there is just one song in Madden 2005 and you can here it every time you are browsing through 
 the menus. This song is not horrible but can get on your nerves. The in game sound is not much 
 better. The crowd just basically has this big long drone that they seem to be able to keep up the 
 entire game. You are lucky if John Madden says two things during one game and Al Michaels never 
 talks except the occasional first down or touchdown. The sound effects however were done decently 
 with the players grunting when they get hit or the pads hitting each other were done nicely.
  
  
  
  The touch screen was defiantly not ignored in Madden 2005 and they found a few good 
 uses for it. One is the fact that instead of memorizing long button combination to audible you 
 can just press the audible button and choose the play and its that easy. Also, you can choose 
 your plays by touching them instead of having to scroll all the way there. You can also call hot 
 routes and draw a receivers route right on the touch screen. For some reason you cannot use the 
 touch screen during multiplayer and I do not know why.
  
  
  Madden 2005 has pretty fun gameplay but not the greatest. The game can get old quick because the 
 computer cannot stop the run for their lives. Passing is a challenge but if you run every single 
 play of the game there will be no need to pass because you will have blown the other team out and 
 won. Multiplayer is fun but both players need the Madden 2005 game card which kind of stinks and 
 you cant use the touch screen in multiplayer. There are plenty of modes in the game and in the 
 season individual player stats are kept which I think is great because to my knowledge this is 
 the first Madden handheld game to do so. The rosters are not perfect but they are pretty upgraded 
 and you can always just trade. The difficulty has many different levels because they start you 
 on the easiest one, which is way too easy so you are going to need to make it harder. The games 
 themselves last a bit of time so if you are on a long trip its good but if you have better things 
 to do you then after like one or two games you will most likely be bored. So overall pretty good 
 gameplay but some minor issues. 
  
  
  
  Not very good I have to say. The only possible reasons that you would even think about playing 
 after a season or two would be to 1. play with a friend or 2. collect all of the Madden cards. 
 These reasons are pretty lame because I know that I am not going to do that because it is too much 
 of a hassle and how much time do you have to play Madden with a friend?
  
  
  Well, I guess if you need to have Madden on your brand new DS than go ahead and buy it. But if 
 you do not like Madden games or football games as a whole stay as far away as possible because 
 this game is not changing your mind. Otherwise I would say rent and see how you like it and then 
 make your decision from there. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidfan6
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2005 2:34 am PT
Review:  Madden 2005 for the Nintendo DS system is one of the two titles EA is releasing with the launch 
 of the system. Pro Football at its finest, Madden always shines and this version is no exception. 
 Easy to learn and master controls (identical to other console versions of the Madden franchise) , 
 good computer AI (with one exception) , and the best graphics a handheld sports game has ever seen 
 make Madden 2005 a solid buy for any sports fan.
  
  There are four options to start a game. Players can choose from beginning a season, trying out 
 a two-minute drill, starting a practice scrimmage or customizing the game to their exact specifications. 
 There are four levels of difficulty, from Rookie to All-Madden. Every NFL team with its complete 
 2004 roster is represented. You can trade to make your own team by buying and selling players in 
 an attempt to make the perfect team -- within the salary cap of course, and there are plenty of free 
 agents available in the likelihood of a star player being injured. Even the stats tracking in season 
 mode is enough to fill any stats junkie's desire.
  
  The controls are intuitive and easy to learn. It's especially nice that they are very similar to 
 console controls; so, Madden fans come in already knowing how they work. The touch screen comes 
 into play during audible calls and time-outs. While the touch screen might not be overly used, 
 the dual-screen ability is very useful as it gives you a better view of the playing field. The 
 lower screen has a graphical representation of how the players are lining up, making good audible 
 calls easier to spot. One problem, however, is in play selection. The outline for choosing the 
 play is a pale black border and can be difficult to see on a small screen -- which may cause the 
 wrong play to be selected and increases the likelihood for delay of game penalties.
  
  There's nothing spectacular about the AI. It's pretty average as far as football games go. The 
 one thing that may be noticeable is that the computer AI tends to pass a lot. During the time I 
 played, the computer only ran the ball about 5% of the time. Other than that, there's nothing much 
 to mention -- it does the job its supposed to do. 
  
  The Madden Cards are an interesting variation to the game. They allow for next game boosts of a 
 specific player's statistics. They are purchased using tokens obtained from achieving certain in-game 
 goals, such as Quarterback Sacks and 100 yard gains. Some cards will boost injury likelihood, crowd 
 noise and other negative effects for the opponent as well. More than one card can be played each 
 game and can be the deciding factor between a win and a loss -- so pre-game strategy has a role.
 
  
  The graphics are well done. The player's faces are very real looking. Everyone seems a little bulky 
 in the character models, but the models aren't bad. For a handheld system, the animations are smooth 
 and beautiful. It seems like a real step ahead for portable gaming to have graphics of this quality. 
 Sound is good as well. Music that plays during the menu screen is a nice change for portable gaming 
 soundtracks. The sounds during the game are average and what you would expect. Madden's voice is 
 there, of course. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.0
  Pros: It's Madden football and the controls are intuitive and easy to learn.
  Cons: Computer 
 passes too much.
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Pros: Best graphics for a sports game on a portable gaming system to date. 
  Cons: Player models 
 are bulky.
  
  Sound: 7.0
  Pros: Good intro music.
  Cons: Nothing innovative.
  
  Value: 8.5
  Pros: Keeps a lot of stats, and its football for the football lover. And its a sports 
 game so...
  Cons: Too easy to defend (always passing) 
  
  Overall: 8.4
  
  Portable football gaming has come a long way from Electronic Football in the 80's. Madden 2005 
 provides an authentic football experience on a device the size of a woman's wallet. My only real 
 problem with this game is that it feels very rushed. But thats why im really looking forward to 
 next years Madden because EA will have lots of time to work on it. I have high expectations for 
 Madden NFL 2006 DS. Good graphics, sounds and game play all lead to a pretty fun experience when 
 all is said and done. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 22, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  With the lack of sports games available at the launch of the nintendo DS, many hungry football fans 
 have turned to Madden 2005, with mixed reviews. First off I'd just like to say that regardless 
 of how rushed this game is, it still provides gamers with a competent, fun and semi-deep football 
 game that everyone can pick up and play. Fanboys will complain that graphics could be better, and 
 I totally understand where there coming from, but to this gate, I have never seen a better looking 
 portable football game. I dare you to compare Madden 2005 for gba to the Madden 2005 on the DS graphically.
 
  
  Besides the graphics being not up to par with the games overall potential (but still very acceptable) , 
 I found a huge problem that I couldn't and still don't know how to save my modified rosters. There 
 is no save function present either. So all you stat hungry fans out there will have to make your 
 trades over and over again. This basically eliminates any option of keeping this game up to date 
 for any prolonged period of time.
  
  The worst part of this game overall is the sound. Starting the game you hear a muddy rock song and 
 in game you hear genesis quality sound, a-la the typical Madden "BooM". or "Great Play, First Down" 
 from Al Michaels. Hardcore gamers will find the repetitiveness of the sound a tad frustrating, 
 prefferring to play with no sound rather than the garbage that is being offered in this game.
 
  
  There are also a few play modes in Madden that provide the perfect amount of gameplay for a handheld. The 
 2 minute drill is perfect for gamers on a short train or bus ride, while the season mode is perfect 
 for gamers who want to get the most out of the game. The season mode also has a nice amount of stat 
 tracking, and goals that can be achieved via the madden token system.
  
  The in game action in Madden 2005 makes up for all of the games shortcomings, providing football 
 fans with the option of assigning hot routes, and applying audibles with the stylus on the touch 
 screen. This provides alot more depth and strategy than in your average football game, allowing 
 you to exploit defenses and make the most out of every play. The defensive and offensive AI is very 
 adept too at reading plays and making you pay for bad play calling. Running the ball on 3rd and 
 long is very very difficult and passing into a dime or nickel formation can be torture. When its 
 all said a done, Madden's on field gameplay does the job and then some.
  
  Overall Madden 2005 for the Nintendo Ds provides casual gamers with what they want most, a solid, 
 easy to play football game. Hardcore gamers will want more options and fanboys will complain about 
 graphics, but considering that the game was rushed considerably, Madden 2005 is a positive step 
 forward in the series and is worth playing if your a fan of football.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: role_model4
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 12, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Time is of the essence, right off the bat we knew it was rushed. Everyone agrees with me there. 
 But something some mite not agree with me, the gameplay is surprisingly very solid. There are a 
 whole lot of shortfalls, while overall the graphics look good, all the players are the same size 
 and there arn't any one the sideline!
  The sound is another shortfall. One part os Madden's greatness is the color comments from John 
 Madden himself. There are only about 3 different comments from John which is very disappointing. 
 The crowd's sound isn't something to ramble on about either.
  Other than that, Madden has a great season mode and is very fun on the road, or against your friends 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JQueasy
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 22, 2004 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Good, but not great. It is the best portable football you will find. But little else. There is 
 no franchise mode, you cant challenge bad calls by the refs. I watched the video preview for this 
 game and they said they wanted to give us a console feel on a portable machine. Then how do you 
 forget to ad franchise mode. This feels more like an updated GBA version of madden than a N64 Version 
 of madden. The Gameplay works well, but you will find the most of the time the running game works 
 a little to well, and the passing not well enough. Its hard to see when the ball is being handed 
 off, its hard to see where the ball is when its thrown, alll though you get an idea of where it 
 is by how the camera moves and the bottom screen. This game barely takes advantage of the DS hardware. 
 The graphics are not impressive in the least. Pretty much when the players line up the only numbers 
 you can see are the QB'S and the HB's. I hope EA takes a little more time with this game next years, 
 fix the graphics and add a franchise mode and where set. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
