-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/madden08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easygoing controls put you in charge of every possible play aspect.
 Plenty of play modes and customization options.
 Various gameplay tweaks make this year's installment more user-friendly.
 You can finally play against people online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You'll notice some minor graphical and gameplay glitches here and there.
 Vocal commentary is still too limited.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.2, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 14, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden NFL 08 is a solid, feature-rich football game. Furthermore, all of the various minor improvements 
 make it the best Madden to hit the DS yet. 

  Every year, EA Sports releases a new Madden NFL football game for the Nintendo DS. And every year, 
 it makes a few improvements that entice football fans into dishing out another 30 dollars for the 
 most up-to-date portable football fix. For Madden NFL 08, those improvements come in the form of 
 minor graphical and gameplay enhancements, along with the inclusion of online play. Obviously online 
 play is a huge boon, but even the smaller changes made to this year's game combine with its many 
 great features to create a substantial game of football.  

  Compared to last year's game, the graphics in Madden NFL 08 are a little cleaner and a little flashier. 
 The players shown in the 3D view on the lower screen are larger, you can actually make out their 
 uniform details and insignias now, and their movements, for the most part, are fluid and lifelike. 
 When too many players are visible, the action will occasionally slow down or the polygons that 
 make up the players' body parts will flicker, but not so often or excessively that you'll lose 
 track of what's going on. Stadium features, such as the field and uprights, are clearly visible 
 regardless of the camera angle and zoom level. Each stadium's key architectural details are evident, 
 although there's not all that much to see since the spectators don't move and the majority of scoreboards 
 don't update. That's OK, though, because the constant flourish of hard hits, camera changes, replays, 
 and player celebrations provides more than enough visual excitement.  

           The lower screen shows a 3D view, while the upper screen shows an Xs-and-Os view.     

  Once again, audio is understated. During a game, you'll hear the roar of the crowd, the sounds 
 of the players grunting and smacking into one another, and the occasional comment from Al Michaels 
 or John Madden. As was the case last year, they repeat themselves frequently, but their comments 
 are usually in line with what's happening on the screen.  

  On the field, Madden NFL 08 offers an insanely rich simulation of the gridiron. Every action can 
 be controlled using the system's buttons or the touch screen. You can select from multiple playbooks 
 and pick from dozens of plays just by flipping the page and pressing a button. Before the snap, 
 you can change or draw a hot route for your receivers, or, if you're on defense, you can put on 
 defensive line shifts and drag icons onto your defenders to set their role in the upcoming play. 
 After the snap, you can change the play on the fly by calling an audible. On offense, you can pass 
 to specific receivers by pressing the indicated buttons or by tapping the receiver's icon. Alternatively, 
 you can use the stylus to position the ball marker exactly where you want the pass to go. Once 
 the ball is in play, you'll run and pass the ball on offense, or you'll take control of the nearest 
 defender and try to tackle the carrier and deflect passes. The running game lets you sprint, spin, 
 juke, and dive simply by pressing a button or sliding the stylus.  

  You'll notice a few rough spots once you get your feet wet, but nothing too serious. Passes that 
 should be caught might bounce off a receiver's body or helmet instead, sprints don't always kick 
 in, and the CPU will occasionally forget to tackle an approaching running back. It's important 
 to stress that while these glitches happen more than they ought to, they don't impact the final 
 score much because they affect you and the CPU equally. Otherwise, when it comes to things like 
 ball movement, scoring, and player behavior, Madden NFL 08 comes close to replicating what you 
 see on TV every week. The CPU puts up a good fight, running is usually more successful than passing, 
 and sacks and interceptions happen on both sides. If you feel that some aspect isn't weighted quite 
 right, you can always go into the settings menu and adjust the sliders to fine tune speed, accuracy, 
 and skill on both sides. Madden NFL 08 includes additional options for things like throwing power 
 and defensive awareness.  

  While the core gameplay is pretty much the same as it was last year, EA implemented a few minor 
 tweaks and enhancements that make Madden NFL 08 more user-friendly than its predecessor. You can 
 tell at a glance whether it's a good idea to pass or not based on the color of the receiver's icon. 
 Green means go, yellow means maybe, and red means you should probably run it yourself. The new 
 iconic "read and react" system is a big help in setting up player matchups. Before every play, 
 icons are displayed in the Xs-and-Os view on the upper screen that tell you what key players' ratings 
 are in categories like speed, passing, hands, and blocking. Using this information, you can choose 
 to position your toughest blockers in front of speedy linemen, send your hardest hitters toward 
 sure-handed receivers, or set up mismatches to take advantage of the defense's weaknesses. Owners 
 of Madden NFL 07 will also appreciate the simplified kicking interface in this year's game. The 
 old stylus interface just didn't work. This year, they've gone back to the old power meter interface 
 where you use the directional pad to set the target and tap the buttons to fill the power meter. 

  Madden NFL 08 includes a healthy selection of play modes and customization options. You can play 
 a single game, set up a playoff ladder, work through a full season, or embark on a multiple-season 
 franchise. Trades, drafts, contracts, and the preseason are all a part of the franchise mode. Separate 
 practice, two-minute drill, situation, and minicamp modes let you isolate and work on various aspects 
 of your game. Just for fun, they've also included a hilarious paper football minigame where you 
 have to slide a triangle-shaped folded piece of paper down a table while dodging coins that are 
 meant to represent players. When it comes to teams, you can pick a preexisting NFL roster or choose 
 from a list of historic teams, or you can put your own team together by trading and creating players. 
 You can even create your own plays and playbook.  

           Players in Madden NFL 08 are larger than they were in 07, and their movements are more 
 lifelike.      

  If you're the sort of person who enjoys playing against other human beings, you'll really be pleased 
 by the Wi-Fi capabilities that Madden NFL 08 has to offer. You can invite your friends over and 
 link as many as eight systems and cartridges together in order to compete in full games, minicamp 
 drills, and paper football matches. With just a single cartridge, you can still get a full game 
 or a paper football match going with one of your friends. Madden NFL 08 also supports online play 
 through Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection service. You can get a random game going against a stranger 
 or maintain a list of your friends' codes to challenge them from afar. What's truly impressive 
 is that wireless matchups rarely experience slowdown or dropouts, even when you're playing someone 
 online.  

  The Nintendo DS rendition of Madden NFL 08 may not be as pretty or as intricate as the console 
 versions are, but it's a solid, feature-packed football game in its own right. Furthermore, regardless 
 of whether or not you've played any of the previous Madden NFL games on the DS, you'll appreciate 
 all of the miscellaneous improvements that this installment brings to the table, especially if 
 you like competing against other people.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Darkjak95
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Solid online play, great multiplayer and more. paper football using the touch screen to slide the 
 football to the end zone without sliding the football off the table. single player and multiplayer. single 
 card and multi card are available. Using both co-op mode and competetive, aswell as paper football. 
 coin football and classic. Besides the mini games and multiplayer features of this game what really 
 won me me over was the outstanding game play and graphics. top graphics for the Nintendo DS system. 
 Gameplay is just amazing. It's awesome. I have only tried button mode (I think it's the easiest) 
 but it's soo smooth, not like you press one button but its all chopped up. Easy to understand all 
 the buttons are simple and easy to remember. Like one of the original teams not a modern 08 eagles 
 but prefer 1985 Eagles? Historic teams are available for all play modes. whether you play mini games, 
 play multiplayer, online or your playing solo this is a game you will find yourself returning to 
 Madden 08 time and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atoria56
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  I think this game can be great on and off it does not do a good job on captivating you for long 
 periods but is good in short burst. The Good: I think its a big upgrade from 07 the gameplay is 
 great the graphics are average. Nice fluid motions a good array of extra features I think the online 
 gameplay was excellent. The Bad: Once again the announcing is horrible and can put you to sleep 
 in a matter of seconds constantly hearing the crowd cheering is more like a horrible serenade. 
 What I am trying to say is the sound is poor, I hate how the franchise mode works its too easy 
 to get top notch players for people who suck then to make it worse you can have a highlight season 
 with an average player. The franchise mode itself does not go deep enough for me to want to continue 
 for hours upon hours playing. Not shockingly the end result of the season is quite lame I would 
 have liked to get more acknowledgment for winning a super bowl but come next season its like it 
 never happened. Besides those little tweaks this is a good overall game if not for the online gameplay 
 and fun gameplay then it would get a lower rating otherwise go pick up your copy now! I mean go 
 get it now! even if its 12:00 in the morning.
  
  Sound: 5.0
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Lasting Appeal: 7.5
  Overall: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: northtenn
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game and after checking out a number of reviews I thought it was going 
 to be what I was looking for: football on the DS and getting to manage a team on the go. Unfortunately 
 it just seems that football doesn't translate to the DS as much as I had hoped. The graphics while 
 good considering they are on a DS are just... blocky and the colors all bleed together. You can't 
 differentiate from teams and there is no polish that we have some to love on the consoles. I wish 
 it worked, but it just doesn't. 
  PROS: Madden on the DS, Does offer some fun mini games, 
  CONS: You know you are in trouble when most of the games reviews talk more about the "paper football" 
 mini game than they do about the rest of the game!, graphics are good for the DS (which is kind 
 of like being "tennis hot" it doesn't mean that someone is hot, only hot for tennis players.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthcanucks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 for DS is pretty good with its game play, controls, extras, making players have 100 skill, 
 having madden cards again, the card playing when you put it in the DS. But the bad side is Horrible 
 horrible horrible graphics, really really bad glitches, hardly any complete passes. But the rest 
 is fair. I give this game a 7.5 only because of its game play, and the fact that this is a huge! 
 huge! improvement from last years game. Now this game is fun, for like 2 months, which is pretty 
 long, but after that, you should probably sell and get some money instead of leaving it around. Now 
 this probably one of the best DS games out there, but still I mean its a DS their games aren't 
 all that fun. Now if you got a DS and you really want a fun game to play, get Mario kart DS it 
 is the best DS game ever made. This game is so stupid because when you create a team all it gives 
 you is like two outfit designs, and you can't pick your roster! Same with Create a player, its 
 just stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XNCgamer
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Obviously games on handhelds aren't going to be as good as their counterparts on the main consoles 
 such as the xbox 360 and the ps3, but Madden 08 for the DS is a disappointment and after a week 
 you will forget you even own the game.
  
  There are a couple cool things to do at first like the mini-camp drills that were in the previos 
 madden games. These will keep you occupied for a couple days and then you will get bored and want 
 to play in an actual game. When you start up the season mode, it seems simplistic and there isn't 
 much to do but play. Once you get in the game, there isn't much of a difference.
  
  The graphics aren't that good and you can see the pixels areound the players' bodies and other 
 objects. The controls are simple, but you just won't find yourself having fun even if you are winning. 
 The game seems as if it were thrown together in a couple of months and then it was thrown out there 
 on the market.
  
  Even if you are a Madden-aholic i would suggest you don't get this game. Spend your money on something 
 other than this because it doesn't even feel like a true madden game other than the familiar mini-camp 
 drills. Stick to the major consoles if you want a really good football game and don't waste your 
 time with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acon51
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was skeptical about it since Madden on DS was always mediocre. But 
 I was surprised to find this game scores a touchdown! You have the basic game options: Play Now, 
 Wi-Fi, Franchise, Season, Mini-Games, Custom League, Practice, Tournament, and Situation. I am 
 disappointed still that there is no Superstar mode. All the game modes are good. Wi-Fi is great 
 play against anyone or your friends using friend codes. You can create a team and use them for 
 franchise, but you cannot design there logo in anyway. The gameplay is pretty good a few bugs here 
 and there. For instance when using turbo it just pauses and you end up getting scored on or getting 
 drilled. Another thing is in the instructional booklet you can notice that they never listed any 
 buttons as the tackle button. Eventually I found that if you use Y, your defender will dive at 
 them and hit them knocking them down. The good things are the passing. On the top screen is the 
 whole field in a birds eye view. And when passing there are color coded lights. Green: No Coverage, 
 Yellow: Some coverage, Red: Lots of coverage. And when passing you can tap the button of the receiver 
 on the touch screen. This game is a great buy. A solid Madden game that is definitely worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Madden 08, I was a little skeptical from the screenshots. I also wasn't sure if it 
 had WiFi, which was a big factor for me. But the first time I played it, I was glad I had bought 
 it. Even though the graphics aren't state-of-the-art, and there are a few glitches, the gameplay 
 is fantastic. Also, the Nintendo WiFi play is awesome, although it may take a while to find people 
 online. All in all, if you're looking for portable football, or if you're looking for a good DS 
 game to add to your collection, Madden 08 for the Nintendo DS is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solar-Nix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 isnt a bad game, but it isnt good either. On other systems being a great, fun and addictive 
 game, it isnt quite the same in the DS.
  
  Now keeping in mind this is a DS game, its actually pretty good. The controls are responsive, and 
 its really fun.
  
  I cant say much about the touch controls although, because I didnt use them. It felt very awkward 
 to me. The addition of paper/fiki football to the DS verison only was cool. I enjoyed it almost 
 as much as the actual game. The grafics arnt something to write home about, but a really nice improvement 
 from last time. Overall am okay game. Music: 1/10
  Controls:8/10
  Grafics:7/10
  Fun Factor: 9/10
  Replay Value: 10/10
  Amount of Content: 6/10
  Extra Content: 5/10
  OVERALL: 
 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobafett12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great good graphics good football gameplay easy controls and online plays pretty 
 deceant besides some random lagging.
  
  the bad is the cointoss when u pick takes 20 mins for the ref to show both sides and throw it so 
 it sometimes makes u sit there wondering wtf?
  
  and the refs when your about to kick off have to run down to your side of the feild and place the 
 ball can take awhile...
  
  and touchdown celebrations can be quite dragged there not even good a guy just pumps his hands 
 in the air for 30 seconds isnt fun or cool..
  
  other then those small problems great gameplay a must for sports fans football fans or anyone who 
 just want to pass time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llabtoof9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 on the DS does a good job as a DS game, with such small screens! It's got the best graphics 
 of a Madden game yet, but there still is room for improvement. Gameplay is pretty good and fun. 
 This will be a good game for anyone who likes football. One of the coolest features of this game 
 is that it shows if a receiver is open down field (on the top screen) . They added a little mini 
 game, Paper Football, which is fun; there are two modes to play in Paper Football. The first is 
 classic, which is what you are used to, flick the ball to score a touchdown. The second is ultimate; 
 here there are both defense (coins around the field) and offense (flicking the ball.) . As far as 
 playing actual football, they did add in what type of player you are. Such as Accurate QB, Cannon 
 arm QB, Good Hands receiver, speedster, etc. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
