-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 06
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/maddennfl2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Franchise mode is here.
 Fast-paced gameplay.
 Dual-screen setup gives you two different views of the field.
 Running game is fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Commentary is repetitive and dull.
 You only really need the touch screen for kicking.
 Completing passes sometimes feels more like luck than skill.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 6.3, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 234 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: Exient
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 8, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden NFL 06 for the DS is a game that has eliminated most of the ugly bugs from last year's entry, 
 but it still doesn't manage to rise much above the quality of its predecessor. 

  Last year's debut of the Madden series on Nintendo DS resulted in a solid, but unremarkable effort -- it 
 offered a fine game of football but wasn't without its problems. One year later, EA Sports is the 
 sole purveyor of all things NFL and the second football game for Nintendo's dual-screened handheld 
 is here. The result is a game that has eliminated most of the ugly bugs from last year's entry, 
 but it still doesn't manage to rise much above the quality of its predecessor.  

          Kicking gets a touch-screen makeover with Madden NFL 06.     

  In an attempt to keep 
 the DS's touch screen relevant for sports, the developers at EA Tiburon have added more functionality 
 to the lower screen than that found in last year's game. This is most apparent in the new kicking 
 controls, which make full use of your ability to quickly draw a straight line on the lower screen 
 (the quicker and straighter you trace the line, the more powerful and true your kick will be) . 
 Draw too slowly or manage to skew your line left or right, and your kick will suffer accordingly. 
 There's also an important gauge that you can adjust before the kick to set the vertical angle of 
 it. If you set it too low then your field goal attempt will be ripe for the blocking, as happened 
 to us on one occasion. The touch-screen kick meter is an interesting take on kicking (it's akin 
 to the swing mechanic in the first DS Tiger Woods PGA Tour game) , and it brings an extra bit of 
 challenge to long-field goal attempts; however, it also feels a bit forced. Anyone who has played 
 a Madden game understands how the kicking game works, and altering it only for DS users seems like 
 it would be a change just for the sake of saying that the touch screen has been utilized.  

  You're able to access a lot of different information with a single tap of the DS's screen this 
 time around. The lower screen has a number of different icons that line each side -- one icon lets 
 you see game stats, another lets you review a breakdown of yardage per down. On the right-hand 
 side of the screen, you touch the H button to call a hot route, the A button to execute an audible, 
 and the T icon to call a time-out. Of course, these are all functions you can accomplish with the 
 simple press of a button (without a touch screen and stylus) as well. Finally there's the touch-screen 
 passing, which you can enable in the gameplay-settings menu. You can tell your quarterback where 
 to throw the ball simply by tapping the screen in the appropriate area. In the end, the touch-screen 
 features of Madden have their ups and downs. Some players may like having all of the game-specific 
 information just a tap away, while some will prefer the touch-screen passing mechanic, and some 
 will get aahem kick out of the new kicking controls. These controls, which seemed novel in last 
 year's game, seem a bit superfluous this time around, especially considering you can perform nearly 
 every one of them without the stylus and touch screen.  

          The dual screens give you two different views of the action on the field.     

  The 
 two-screen setup in Madden NFL 06 looks a lot like last year's game. The upper screen is for on-the-field 
 action and the lower screen provides a top-down X's and O's look at the field. We like the two 
 different perspectives, especially for the passing game. The upper-screen camera angle is just 
 a bit too low to the virtual ground for finding eligible receivers downfield. With a quick peek 
 to the lower screen, however, you can easily spot receivers who've put some distance between themselves 
 and their coverage. The odd camera angle of the upper-screen view of the field, which shifts downward 
 once the ball is snapped, can make for some strange pursuit angles, and you'll likely miss a few 
 sack attempts until you get used to it.  

  Once you get used to the game's presentation quirks, you'll find the same rock-solid football gameplay 
 that lifted last year's game from the murk of mediocrity. The illuminated passing cone that made 
 its debut in the console and PC versions of Madden 06 is nowhere to be found on the DS game and, 
 as such, the passing game is nearly exactly like last year's. Players can sink into performance-reducing 
 slumps or go on a tear and literally pick you apart. (How else can one explain a three-touchdown 
 passing performance by Trent Dilfer?) The ground game, on the other hand, seems more effective 
 this time around, both when running up the middle and when darting to the outside. Big holes can 
 open up through your offensive line when running between the tackles, and thanks to the game's 
 mostly solid frame rate, you'll be able to take advantage of these running lanes to pick up some 
 big yardage. If there's one big gameplay complaint, it's the relative difficulty we had bringing 
 down mobile quarterbacks. Sure, Michael Vick can dodge some sack attempts, but no way is he going 
 to be able to brush off a head-on diving tackle from a defensive lineman like he can in this game. 

          Setting your depth chart, trading players, negotiating contracts... just part of the fun 
 of the franchise mode, which makes its debut on the DS.     

  The biggest addition to Madden 06 for the DS is a franchise mode, albeit one that is not that far 
 removed from a simple season mode. You have player contracts to deal with (along with pesky, demanding 
 player agents) , you can negotiate trades with other teams or sign free agents, and you can keep 
 track of news from around the league on a weekly basis -- all of which you can play over multiple 
 seasons. It's bare bones and functional (there are no fancy owners' expectations or the ability 
 to set concession prices) and it has much of the functionality you need in a franchise mode on 
 a handheld system. We would have liked to have seen some more user-friendly explanations of team 
 needs during the signing periods, but those familiar with offseason activities in football franchise 
 modes will likely feel right at home.  

  The rosters in Madden 06 for the DS have some problems: Kellen Winslow Jr. is still starting for 
 the Browns, and Craig Krenzel is still a backup for the Bears (and, for that matter, Rex Grossman 
 is still healthy) , among other errors. Most of these inconsistencies can be fixed with a few simple 
 roster adjustments in either season or franchise mode, and it should be noted that both modes support 
 the inclusion of original teams that can be created using the create-a-team feature. It's not a 
 terribly in-depth tool -- you choose your team name, city of origin, logo, uniform design, and color 
 palette and off you go -- but it's nice to have it in there.  

  Other gameplay modes in Madden 06 include custom league and tournament modes, a two-minute drill 
 feature, and practice and situation modes. In situation mode, you can choose to create your own 
 unique game-time situations using a number of different criteria, such as time remaining, down 
 and distance, and home and away scores, or you can choose to play through a series of classic NFL 
 matchups from the past. A minicamp feature will have you running, passing, kicking, and tackling 
 your way through a number of practice-field minigames (which, just like regular head-to-head matchups, 
 can also be played wirelessly against one of your DS-owning friends) . There is also a create-a-play 
 feature that lets you formulate a play nearly from scratch by choosing your starting set, the type 
 and direction of your quarterback drop, individual blocking assignments for linemen, and the routes 
 your receivers run. It would have been more fun to create crazy routes for receivers by drawing 
 them directly onto the DS touch screen, but the current setup of scrolling through more than 60 
 different route options works fine as well.  

  In terms of graphics, Madden 06 on the DS doesn't look remarkably different from last year's game. 
 Player models are still chunky and pixelated -- about the only distinguishing characteristic you 
 can make out is the player number on jerseys. Moreover, the passing animations can be clunky -- a 
 ball may be swatted away from a receiver's hands by a covering defensive back that seemingly didn't 
 even lift his blocky little hands. Still, there are a few new tackle animations that add some punch 
 to the physical side of the game, and the frame rate seems solid throughout.  

          You can't tell in this screen, but Madden just repeated himself. Again.     

  Al Michaels 
 and John Madden make limited audio appearances in Madden 06. There may be more commentary in this 
 year's game than there was in last year's, but it's rarely any more insightful. John Madden will 
 be repeating his color commentary inside of two possessions, and Al Michaels warns the offensive 
 team to "hurry up" each and every time the play clock dwindles down to 10 seconds. Crowd noise 
 is prevalent this year, but it also seems to cut out periodically for no obvious reason. A slimmed-down 
 selection of EA Trax-approved tunes makes it into the game, and just like the rest of Madden's 
 audio, sounds fine through the DS's speakers.  

  Just as in the rest of the gaming world, Madden NFL 06 is the only choice for DS owners with a 
 football hankering. If you've been eagerly awaiting a franchise mode for the DS Madden series, 
 you'll be pleased to note it's here in 06, along with another structurally sound game of football 
 and some DS-only features that should hold marginal interest for most players. If, on the other 
 hand, you're looking for something remarkably different from last year's game, you likely won't 
 find it here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This was the first ever Madden game I have ever played on any platform, and I must say that I love 
 it. There are so many features to choose from, ranging from Mini Camp to Practice Mode to Season 
 and Franchise Modes, and the developers at EA Tiburon did an amazing job when adding so many new 
 features that are just for the DS and it's touch screen with Passing and also Field-Goal Kicking. 
 
  
  Although this game has it's high points there are also some things that need alot more dramatic 
 work. I play on season mode and my latest season I went 16-0 with the Detroit Lions and went on 
 to win the Super Bowl and I play the difficulty on All-Madden, I also won most of my games by 50 
 points or more with the occasional 80 point game and one 90 point game vs Cleveland I remember. 
 So there is alot of work that has to be done with this problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 is a nice football game for the DS. I don't play sports games as I mentioned earlier, 
 so this was a much needed refreshing break from the games I usually play which most of the time 
 include blowing up pretty much anything that moves. Anyways you can pick any of the NFL teams and 
 each has their own playbook. You can play quick games where you just pick your team and you are 
 playing. There is also a season mode and other modes like it. One thing I liked a lot was making 
 your own team and plays/playbooks. It was cool to go onto the field with a brand new team that 
 you most likely just worked on for the past hour. Now here is some of the bad stuff. Scoring is 
 not always the easiest thing to do. Running plays will 9 out of 10 times get you a maximum of 3 
 yards or you lose yards. And because of some of the games small bugs passing is tough too. Despite 
 the fact that the ball was thrown right at my player, no opponents around me, he still missed it. 
 But that is ok, you will get used to it and will get over it. Graphics are fine far away but when 
 they zoom in the are big and blocky. So if you need a break from your violent killing games, you 
 will certainly like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasterwoo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It basically plays like the old school Maddens. If you line uf a LB on the outside you're 
 almost gauranted a sack. You can hit guys after the play is dead and all the old stuff the made 
 the Sega versions so fun. The syllus is only used to kick so it's really not a factor.
  
  Graphics: Visually the game is lacking. If you've been play Madden on the newer gen consoles you 
 won't be impressed here.
  
  Sound: Well, it sounds like Madden.
  
  Value: Hay if you have to have a football title for on the go this isn't a bad pick up.
  
  
 The Word: I wouldn't buy this game unless you actually have to have a portable football game. It's 
 just doesn't compete with the counsel versions and that could be an unfair comparison on my part 
 but it is what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THStrackrunner
Rating: 2.1
Date: May 28, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  Oh wow, what a waste of 35 bucks. Do me a favor and spend that money on Mario Kart DS. This game 
 was as fun as changing a poopy diaper. The gameplay was horrible. You couldnt see the recievers 
 you were throwing to. Therefor, you cant tell if their open. Also, the graphics were so bad. When 
 the players were walking on the field, the were flat. People have told me that its for a hand-held 
 game, and that the graphics cant be all that good, but if you're gonna make the players flat, then 
 dont make the game. This game was a shame to Madden. If i was madden, i would never had released 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhufford
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Madden 2006 may be the worst modern football game I've played on an 128 bit system. Luckily for 
 us, I am not talking about any of those. No, I've decided to go with the portable model this year. 
 The DS seems to be the appropriate antidote. With the two screens and all, I muster closer to blindness 
 every day.
  
  From the get go, I am floored by the amount of options they have thrown into this thing. It has 
 everything from mini-camps to a full franchise mode. You can also create custom leagues and teams. 
 A first for a portable. Sadly, you 
  cannot yet create a player. I love the fact they have also chosen to include Madden cards. When 
 they were first introduced in 2004, I despised them. Now they've managed to grow on me like an 
 old pair of underwear.
  
  Surprisingly, my favorite game mode has turned out to be the Two-Minute Drill. A portable console 
 is meant to be played while on the go. More often then not, I just simply don't have or want to 
 spend the time playing multiple full games on this. It is very convenient to pick it up for a just 
 a couple quick drills.
  
  Sadly, I regret to inform you that the graphics are poor. I mean very poor. You could get the same 
 if not better graphics from the SP. By throwing in mass amounts of content, they had to sacrifice 
 many corners in visuals. Don't get me wrong, it's very playable. It just underachieves greatly 
 compared to other titles we've seen on the DS. And don't get me started on 
  the kicking game. The kicking game has become the momentary bane of my existence. It was designed 
 for someone with much smaller hands then I.
  
  Other than that, the gameplay is phenomenal. The controls are simplistic compared to last year's 
 version. Yet they are very effective. They are placed together in a smarter, more comfortable configuration. 
 Overall, it is hard not to love this game. It loses some ground for graphics, but does outrank 
 its bigger brothers this year. Football fans will not be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 is out for every platform now. So if you have just a DS or a GBA here is my review 
 my 20th review actually.
  Gameplay: MADDEN NFL 06 is great and it is the first handheld sports game to have "Franchise Mode". 
 That is up to 16 seasons. You also have "Play Now","Tournament", and "Season" mode.
  
  GRaphics: CRAPPY isn't the right word for it. They are ok but could have been alot better than 
 they are. It is a update from Madden NFL 04 which was the last handhelp sports game I bought. The 
 GBA and the DS are a little differnt but not too much.
  
  Sound: This game has some good sound but there isn't too much sound but the sound you hear is great 
 for the handheld.
  
  Value: Madden 06 DS lives up to the MADDEN name. This is the best handheld sports game ever. Maybe 
 that is exaggerting but has to be really, really close to the top.
  
  SUPERb
  GoB August 05 News 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nibs
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  This Game is great for all sport lovers our People that love high flying grabs and smashing tackles! 
 The GamePlay is great in this game there is a selection of game choices such as  
 
  In the game there a wide selection of plays that a first can be confusing but overall once you 
 know it it's wicked fun. The ONLY downfall in this game is it's easy to break for example I could 
 do the same play over and over and the cpu cant stop me till the 3rd or 4th time. Graphics are 
 great in this game with all the detail and the INSTANT Replays! The sound is Rock in the menu and 
 the annoucers in the game that gives it a cool affect. it's a great multi-player game and great 
 fun! If you enjoy smashing people buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanana
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  After getting my DS i had decided on my first games. I was so excited. I expected the best but 
 was thoroughlly disappointed with this game. You have to really TRY to like it to think it is decent... 
 I tried and I am survivng with it but hardly.
  
  Graphics- Poor
  Gameplay- Moderately Poor
  Sound- Half decent but not good enough to play with
  Value- Don't 
 quite know what it means but poor
  Tilt- Don't quite know what it means but poor
  
  This is easily the worst DS game that I own or have ever played. I was so disgusted with this game 
 and I still am.
  
  TO ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO BUY THIS GAME DON'T DO IT... I WILL PAY YOU TO TAKE IT OFF MY HANDS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourllama7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The reason i got this game is so i could play madden in the car, i never though in my mind that 
 it would be as good as the ps2, xbox, gc versions but its a decent game if you want madden on the 
 go. So of course its going to get boring if you play it at home over and over agian but once and 
 a while its fun.. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidogamfanatic9
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is very excellent I thought it was very good gameplay and great sound and graphics. higkly 
 recomended for any one who loves the NFL and a whole lot of football. there were a couple little 
 mistakes but they didnt effect the game In a big way these problems werent very big problems. the 
 problems were that sometimes you can run right through a player or the people would dive when you 
 didnt tell them to. the gameplay is very good and the players are acurate and it is just plain fun 
 in many ways. Go get this game youll love it. Despite these few errors I thought it was a very good 
 game I give it a B and 8.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Hi I'm Yadish and this is my second reveiw! This game has no intensity
  although it does have a franchise passing is hard but you can run with ease. Create-a-player is 
 a nice addition same with creating a team but this games is not very good and I dont think you 
 would be very happy with the game. The game seems like it was rushed there are some glitches but 
 the gameplay was not very good at all. It seems like u want the game to be over so you can get 
 it over with that's not how games should be they should be AWWW man its over wish i had more time. 
 And John Madden will u please stop repeating yourself we get it the first seventy times! Thank 
 you for reading my reveiw! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noble99
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 3, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  this game gets so boring after the first or 2nd time you play this game. I think they should of 
 taken more time with the graphics and the game play. this is nothing AT all like the ps2 game or 
 xbox.... really i dont see why anyone would buy this game..... It got soo boring. i really wasted 
 30 dollars on it.
  
  if your gonna buy it dont.. ill give it to you.. PLz try and play the game befor you buy it . because 
 i really dont think anyone would enjoy this game for more then 1 hour... if ur thinkin well im 
 gonna buy it for a long trip DONT ull be bored in 5 min 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:45 pm PT
Review:  You call this Madden?!! This is more like a recycled thing that time forgot. While its not the 
 best game maybe its the best the DS has to offer. And with EA locking up the NFL liscences its 
 the only football you might see on the DS. 
  the graphics are ancient and dont hold up at all. The is no sense of collision, no stiff arming. 
 Fells and looks like your ice skating. Everything that was graphiclly wrong with the PLaystation 
 one versions of the game back then youll find here.
  
  The controls are hit and miss but mostly miss. You work it like other maddens except dont get use 
 to hit and truck stick becaue youll suck at this game badley if you relied on them before. Youll 
 truly appriciate how far the series has come since the old days. Its like madden appriciation week 
 playing this one. The kicking system stinks and should either be re worked or taken out all together. 
 Its a good Idea to use the stylus to kick but unless you can draw fast and straight your screwed. 
 
  
  There is a good side you can play the mini games. which to me is more fun than playing an actual 
 game. The music is good considering its cart based and madden and michaels make their odd ball 
 comments every now and again. 
  
  Bottom line this game is probably not worth buying just rent it oh yeah you cant. Sucks to be you 
 if you bought it and it sucks to be me. Oh well maybe like the dolphins or cardinals next year.
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
