-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/madden07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Graphics slightly improved over last year.
 Expanded touch-screen controls feel intuitive.
 Two screens give you two views of field.
 Plenty of play modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics still look blocky at times.
 Audio commentary is too limited.
 Completing passes and blocking receptions is too difficult.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 135 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: Exient
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 22, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden NFL 07 overcomes its no-frills presentation by providing all of the play modes and rich football 
 fundamentals that fans have come to expect. 

  Anyone that's looking for a football game to take with them on the go will likely be satisfied 
 with Madden NFL 07 for the Nintendo DS. As was also the case with last year's game, the graphics 
 and audio aren't the best the hardware has to offer, but the game overcomes its no-frills presentation 
 by providing all of the play modes and rich football fundamentals that fans have come to expect 
 from a game with John Madden's name on it. Furthermore, while this year's game doesn't bear any 
 major improvements over its predecessor, it does incorporate a handful of subtle upgrades that, 
 taken together, justify picking up this latest installment.  

          Thanks to the system's twin screens, you get two different views of the action.     

 
  Once again, the graphics and audio in Madden get the job done without testing the limits of the 
 hardware. The 3D player models and stadiums look decent from certain camera angles, but in others 
 they still look pixelated and chunky. Player numbers on uniforms are easy to make out, whereas 
 names and faces are unrecognizable. Each stadium is generally accurate, although, aside from certain 
 key architectural features, artsy details are limited to a few outside buildings and some EA Sports 
 signage. Compared to last year's game, the graphics in Madden NFL 07 are a little cleaner and the 
 animations are a little smoother. Most notably, catches and tackles don't appear to be so robotic 
 this year. The variety of camera angles, replays, and end-zone celebrations has also increased 
 in this year's game. While that doesn't necessarily change how the game looks, it does make the 
 overall presentation seem livelier. Unfortunately, there isn't much that can be said about the 
 audio. Crowd noise and player grunts are prolific, but the commentary provided by Al Michaels and 
 John Madden is limited and repetitive. On the one hand, their comments are accurate to the situation 
 and easy to understand. On the other hand, it's disturbing to hear Michaels say "he'll feel that 
 tomorrow" multiple times in a single quarter.  

  Thankfully, resting beneath that rough presentation is a rich football simulation packed with all 
 of the gameplay-related bells and whistles that fans want. Each coach has his own playbook filled 
 with the actual plays he calls during NFL games. If you want, however, you can also create your 
 own plays and add them to your favorite team's playbook. On offense, you can have the quarterback 
 call an audible, select a hot route, pass to the indicated receivers, or make a suicide run into 
 the defensive line. The running game lets you sprint, spin, juke, and shoulder your way through 
 the defense. Before the snap on defense, you can reposition players, call an audible, or put on 
 secondary and defensive line shifts. After the snap, you can take control of the player closest 
 to the ball and have him jump to deflect passes or dive to tackle the carrier. Every action can 
 be controlled using the system's buttons or the touch screen. In the case of audibles, you can 
 specify up to four plays on offense and defense, which you can call at any time simply by speaking 
 into the system's microphone. For example, if you set a zone blitz to the red-one audible, all 
 you need to do to shift your defense into position is say "red, one."  

  Stylus input, while not required, is greatly encouraged in this year's game. You can pass to your 
 receivers using the indicated buttons, but dragging the stylus to do so feels more hands-on and 
 better simulates the act of tossing the football. Hot routes and defensive shifts are, likewise, 
 more intuitive when you can actually draw the route you want your receiver to run. The new defensive 
 playmaker option also lets you reassign defenders simply by dragging and dropping playmaker icons 
 onto them. For instance, if you want your safety to drop back into a deep zone, you only need to 
 drag the DZ icon onto him. The touch-screen kicking controls are set up similarly to how they were 
 last year, but they've been expanded to allow precise control over the distance and angle of a 
 kick. You still need to draw a straight line quickly in order to get the most distance, but now 
 you can set your kick and target points before the kick by tapping the touch screen. This gives 
 you the freedom to draw a short line for onside kicks and shallow punts, and a long line for deep 
 punts and field goal attempts. The system's two screens are set up such that the on-field action 
 is shown on the lower screen, while a top-down X's and O's view of the field is shown on the upper 
 screen. Owners of last year's game will recognize that the two screens were swapped this year. 
 This change makes it easier to pass and kick using the touch screen, because players can see the 
 actual view of the field instead of a flat depiction.  

  On the field, the CPU artificial intelligence is mostly the same as it was in last year's game. 
 The CPU puts up a good fight, even on the lowest settings. Running plays are more effective than 
 passing plays in gaining yardage against the CPU, mainly because the CPU can get into position 
 and deflect with better timing than a human player can. For the same reason, it's tough in the 
 early going to deflect or intercept tosses made by the CPU. The process becomes much easier once 
 you learn how to pick the appropriate plays and remember to have the defender jump when he's near 
 the ball. On either side, quarterback sacks are still fairly infrequent, although they happen a 
 bit more often in this year's game. With regards to scoring, high scores are common when playing 
 on the lower difficulty settings, but touchdowns and length of possessions seem just about right 
 on the medium to higher settings. Besides adjusting the overall difficulty, you can also tweak 
 a gaggle of tuning sliders that influence various aspects of the CPU's speed, skill, and accuracy. 

          This year's game encourages greater use of the stylus. In particular, kicking, passing, 
 and play-calling are more intuitive using the touch screen.     

  The overall selection of play modes hasn't changed from last year. Diehard fans will want to dive 
 into the season and franchise modes. The franchise mode lets you control a team for multiple seasons, 
 while also handling trades, contract negotiations, drafts, and preseason games. Stat-heads will 
 appreciate that the game keeps track of dozens of worthwhile player stats, and automatically handles 
 skill progressions as well. Other play modes include custom league and tournament modes, a two-minute 
 drill feature, and practice and situation modes. In the situation mode, you can set up your own 
 unique game-time situation by setting different variables, such as the score and down, or dive 
 into a classic NFL matchup and try to change or relive history by fulfilling preset goals. There's 
 also a minicamp mode, which contains five different minigames oriented around the various aspects 
 of play. By taking advantage of the system's Wi-Fi capability, you can go head-to-head against 
 your friends in full-length games or compete against each other in the minicamp challenges. Rounding 
 things out, there are basic editors that let you create your own teams, players, and custom plays. 
 These editors aren't elaborate, but they get the job done.  

  Taken as a whole, Madden NFL 07 for the Nintendo DS is a solid and feature-rich football game. 
 Certain aspects of the presentation could have been executed better, but those rough edges don't 
 sully the game all that much. What's most important is that everything that fans have come to expect 
 from a game bearing John Madden's name is in here, from the real-world plays and celebrations down 
 to the fundamental aspects that make you feel like you're actually leading your favorite team to 
 victory.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dirk4MVP
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The game itself if you played it on the Gamecube, like I do, or any other game system like the 
 XBOX, or Playstation, the graphics are good. But the graphics on the Madden 07 on the Nintendo 
 DS just suck! You can't tell anybody from anybody else, you can't even make the plays go the right 
 way. Seriously, I'm sorry, but the creator needs to make great graphics on every game, on each 
 game system. And well, what else?
  
  Graphics are not well.
  Graphics are not good.
  Graphics are bad.
  Graphics are really bad.
  Graphics are very bad.
  Graphics are terrible.
 
  Graphics are really terrible.
  Grahpics are very terrible.
  Graphics are horrible.
  Graphics are really horrible.
  Graphics are very horrible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edyugi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game to play. Madden 07 for the ds has nice graphics, though the facial features 
 could be better. I love the way this game uses the touch screen. They could've worked on the kicking 
 feature, whenver i do an onside kick its goes out of bounds. The cpus also put up a good fight. 
 It seems that every now and then your team will play poorly on franchise- in oreder to prevent 
 undeafeated seasons. The audio is terrible. The commentary is repeated and you canot understand 
 the crowd. I also would've appreciated the practice mode within franchise. Also, the cpu only proposes 
 trades during the inbetween season period. So all in all this is a good game but a little rough 
 around the edges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpk911
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  a very good game. best in the series. But there are some minor flaws in this game that i dont like. 
 one of them is when you tackle a guy, and they fly back really far. the kicking is okay but hard 
 to get used to. i dont like it that it is so easy to run for a touchdown. i run for a touchdown 
 almost every kickoff. if i dont get a touchdown on the kickoff, i get atleast 40 yards minimum. 
 so i would recomend that you get it but be ready to encounter these errors. so thats my review. 
 madden 07 is still best in the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdscrub
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  sure it may be more of the same that was brought to us last year but last year was not that bad 
 so thats not such a bad thing.
  
  i have always been a big fan of madden games and when they first came to the DS i was skeptical 
 but now that i have played 2006 and 2007 i find that i actually like them. the only complaint that 
 i have is that it is just more of the same and it can get old fast but its a good game and i see 
 now why madden is still number 1 in the football world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 has solid gameplay if your like me and you like franchise mode . The controls took me 
 some time but I finally got it. the spin is really easy to perform and the juke... well it's messed 
 up it sure it comes in handy, but it pauses and then moves in the direction you pressed. Passing 
 is the easiest thing. Graphics: Need improvement the ball is bigger than the charectors heads, 
 and i can't even see there faces.
  
  Gameplay: Probably make up for the Graphics. It suprised me you could play Franchise, Season, and 
 make your own league.
  
  
  
  Thats my review bye for now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 was a flop on the ds.07 makes up for it. The game is now on the touch screen it makes 
 some new game play. It looks better but still looks blocky and players still look kinda flat. The 
 football still plays good. Some might find it to PS for them. I did not like the switching of players 
 it felt like it picked random and fudged up the play some. Scoring feild goagls and other long 
 kicks is confuseing at takes time to get down. Being able to call new playes at the last minut 
 is a good idea but no calling plays. Being able to draw hot routs is cool too. But you just press 
 an arrow. You get tones of modes here. You can even make a team, player, and plays. There is no 
 wifi or singel card play but a lot of multi player. If you like football you might like this. It 
 has a lot to offer and will keep you playing for a wile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karmaxdust
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I think they should just do away with all DS sports games. Everything about the game is bad. From 
 the graphics, to the commentary. Why is the football bigger than the player's heads?
  It is just too blurry. They should increase the sharpness somehow.
  And I do not like the kicking 
 game; having to use the stylus and all.
  
  anyway, it kills time when i ride the subway, that's about all it's good for.
  The only games 
 DS should release are animated games.
  
  PLEASE, no more sports games. I seriously don't know how the overall avg is 7.5. bad bad bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludadav
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  I have owned the Madden NFL 06 and it was a so so game, due to its gameplay, but 07 brings a new 
 feel of footbal for the DS.
  
  Graphics look better, but some parts just don't look right. Though the graphics are still great, 
 and makes the game playable. Great 3D models for the players, and the stadium looks better, making 
 this game feel alive.
  
  That dual screen has not been forgotten, by using the stylus you can pass/throw to a player on 
 your team, you can also use the pad to pass, but using the stylus feel better and the way it should 
 be. And on defence you can draw routes so that your reciever can run. And of course just tackling 
 by dropping an icon stating that they are the playmaker. And for field goals, you are using the 
 stylus by moving it forward, same as last year, but you can also do different types of punts and 
 so on.
  
  Let me not forget the Franchise, yes there is still a franchise mode, make trades build a superb 
 roster of players and so on. Its still there for anyone who is interested in that part.
  
  Multiplayer is available so you and a friend can go against each other, its a good addition.
 
  
  Closing it off, Madden NFL 07 is a great game for any Football fans, don't be afraid to dish out 
 the money to buy this game, its worth it, and you will spend a great deal of time here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tux_do
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so first of all, I have only previously owned Madden 05 for the DS. I had alot of fun with 
 that game, but all in all, there wasn't enough to keep me entertained, and the graphics were pretty 
 lame. But Madden 07 for the DS is much much better in my opinion.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are easy, except it takes some getting used to the kicking if you haven't 
 done it before. You have the option to pass using the stylus, but I find it much less usefull, 
 because it is dificult and in acurate. The running is pretty smooth, and it's fairly easy to spin 
 around blockers, but juking is not suggested. If you push L or R, your runner pauses at first, 
 and then makes a burst in the direction you want. The delay is so late that it is almost pointless 
 to use.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are alot better than 05, but the characters are still unusual 
 looking, and the ball is bigger than their heads. The stadiums look nice however, it gives a more 
 realistic feel than before.
  
  Extras: I really like how it has a training camp, if you are struggling during games, just go to 
 the camp, and work on what you need help with. There is a create a team, and play mode, they are 
 nice to be there, but aren't that great. Franchise mode isn't exactly what I expected it to be, 
 it's pretty much just a season, but you can watch coach stats, and things like that.
  
  All in all I like this game, if you are a football fan, but don't have as much time to play at 
 home, Madden 07 is very nice to have on the DS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
