-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mage Knight: Destiny's Soldier
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/mageknightds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Complex, interesting turn-based gameplay has some unique layers of depth.
 Lengthy campaign filled with dozens of battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bland presentation looks like it could have come from more than a decade ago.
 Convoluted interface bombards you with data but is missing key features.
 some noticeably missing gameplay features, like multiplayer and a skirmish mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.4, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 69 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Developer: Big Blue Bubble
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Sep 26, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mage Knight DS is based on some good design ideas derived from an interesting tabletop wargame, 
 but they're drowned out by a poor interface and weak presentation. 

  Even if you're not familiar with the Mage Knight tabletop wargame, you could tell that Mage Knight: 
 Destiny's Soldier is based on such a game. Its complex, strategic battles involve a variety of 
 medieval fighters and creatures, and you'll take turns against a computer opponent rolling dice 
 to see who hits whom in this simulation of a simulation of fantasy warfare. Yet while there's a 
 deep and interesting strategy game at the heart of Mage Knight DS, a Game Boy Advance-grade presentation, 
 a convoluted and often clunky interface, and a lack of gameplay options make the end result feel 
 like it was rushed out the door.  

          There are many hurdles to jump over before you can begin to enjoy Mage Knight: Destiny's 
 Soldier.     

  WizKids' Mage Knight tabletop game is like a streamlined, relatively faster-paced version of the 
 better-known Warhammer tabletop game by Games Workshop. The action takes place in a swords-and-sorcery 
 setting simply known as the Land, which is populated by elves, trolls, griffins, and many other 
 fantasy creatures. What distinguishes Mage Knight from a gameplay perspective is that it models 
 how combatants' abilities degrade as they take injury as a battle wages on. In most games, of any 
 type, either your characters are alive and capable of performing all kinds of different moves and 
 abilities, or they're dead. But in Mage Knight, as a warrior takes damage, he'll typically start 
 to slow down and weaken. However, the effects of damage vary by character, as some warriors may 
 fly into a berserker rage when hurt or gain other special abilities. Also, warriors may be ordered 
 to push themselves by taking more actions during their turns at the expense of health points. This, 
 along with the game's dozens of different characters, certainly gives Mage Knight DS considerable 
 depth -- though, at times, it seems like a simulation of a bunch of out-of-shape combatants. And 
 just getting a feel for the gameplay can be an unduly difficult process.  

  The game is mostly controlled using the touch screen, but the interface could have been a whole 
 lot better. There's often a ton of information onscreen, as well as a lot of little hard-to-read 
 icons, and it'll take a long while before you get comfortable with any of this. Despite how many 
 statistics get thrown at you, the interface seems incomplete. When you're assembling an army before 
 a battle, there seems to be no way to sort through your growing list of warriors or to dismiss 
 warriors you no longer need or want (warriors don't permanently die if they're defeated in battle) . 
 Basic actions, like creating your formation before a battle and attacking foes, require too much 
 work, tapping tiny icons on the screen and awkwardly dragging and dropping characters around the 
 map. The interface does include a built-in help system that's essential to understanding what some 
 of the onscreen icons mean, but this doesn't address some of the fundamental issues about how sluggishly 
 the game often plays out, relative to many other turn-based games.  

  What's more, Mage Knight DS is missing a lot of the gameplay options you'd reasonably expect from 
 a game like this. There's a branching, story-driven single-player campaign that spans a long sequence 
 of battles that soon grow very difficult. The back of the box claims there are more than 70 maps 
 in all, though there's often little in the way of variety from one to the next. As for the story, 
 it's mostly delivered in the form of long-winded text and static character portraits. And that's 
 about all you get. There's no multiplayer component, in spite of the head-to-head competitive nature 
 of the gameplay. Even a simple pass-and-play two-player option probably would have helped. You 
 also can't create your own battles against the computer or replay battles you've previously fought 
 and won, so all you have are the campaign missions. You can replay the campaign and choose from 
 a number of different main characters, but the campaign itself will still be the same.  

  The campaign also substantially ramps up in difficulty, going from easy to hard rather suddenly. 
 It's not that you'll be faced with brilliant battlefield tactics, because the enemy artificial 
 intelligence is nothing special and can be lured into some basic traps. However, you'll often be 
 forced to contend with superior enemy odds, which means you have to make every move that much more 
 carefully. Some missions also force you to run a gauntlet by achieving victories several times 
 in a row with the same set of warriors, without the benefit of being able to recover their strength 
 in between. If you fail such a mission, you have to start the sequence all over.  

          Even if you can get past the interface, the sluggish pacing and missing gameplay features 
 hurt this one pretty badly.     

  There's no excuse for some of this game's omissions and other problems, and its presentation quality 
 isn't impressive at all, either. The environments look bland, the sound effects are minimal, and 
 there's not much music. However, there's some personality to the various types of warriors in the 
 game, and some of these 2D animated units, while technically crude, look pretty good. Likewise, 
 the simple sound effects for rolling dice and hitting foes are oddly satisfying.  

  The game itself can indeed be engaging and challenging if you're willing to spend a couple of hours 
 getting your bearings and can look past some serious problems. Since there's a well-thought-out 
 game design underneath the interface, it's certainly possible to get into Mage Knight DS and spend 
 some good, quality time thinking about the best army to bring into each battle and balancing the 
 various trade-offs and risks of doing battle. But unless you're patient, forgiving, and looking 
 for a complicated strategy game, you'd best stay away from this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: max_wolfstein
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Pros: Stay true to Mage Knight tabletop game.
  
  Cons: Graphics poor, game controls terrible, storyline medicore.
  
  When I first heard about 
 this game coming out I was excited since I like the tabletop game. But when I bought it I was sorely 
 disappointed. First thing I did not like about the game is the touchpad is not very responsive 
 and buggy. I do not know how many times I lost the scenario due to misclick error on the touchpad.
 
  I found the music medicore and got tired of hearing it. The storyline was boring and same for 
 all the races so it did not matter which race you picked. I could not even play it through the 
 first portion of the game.
  The game does keep true to the tabletop rules, but with poor graphics and unresponsive touchpad 
 made this game unplayable for me. I do not recommend it to anyone except for the hardcore Mage 
 Knight fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulsdixon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say other than this is my own thoughts. The game appears a good take on whiz-kidz 
 board board game. The thing most people will say is there no 2 or muiti-player modes here but if 
 your looking for a game to play on your own than you can't go wrong here. They a very long campaign 
 here, with alot of character that really come from the board game.
  It 's a easy game to get into with a good story and helpful hints along the way so you don't lose 
 yourself. P. S if there any spelling mistake I'm sorry but not the best speller 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysozymes2
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  This is my first experience with the Mage Knight games, I really like the idea with a turnbased 
 strategy. Once you overcome the pretty steep learning curve, since there's so many rules to follow, 
 the game is pretty fun to play - for the first 1 hour. It's really, and I mean _really_ easy to 
 predict the AI movements during the battles. The only increase in difficulties are that the enemies 
 have higher stats. Even with the different objectives (which was a nice touch) , there's actually 
 no change in winning strategy. Just isolate and kill everything before moving onto your main objective.
 
  
  Not worth my money. Stick to Age of Empires for a strategy game.
  
  Just my two pennies worth... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaborwaki22
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I was very sceptical to purchase a game with no solid pre-release review's. I took a chance and 
 found that the DS could harness a spectacular strategy or even roleplaying game. Mage Knight: DS 
 is a pretty fun game, and i really enjoy how it plays. But all in all, this type of game is a multiplayer 
 treasure.... If, it had multiplayer. I will be honest that I like it, but I would hate to be Namco 
 right now. I hope that in the future they take this template for a game and run with it in a multiplayer 
 perspective.
  
  I am interested in trying out the Mage Knight table-top game now, maybe that was their goal? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  So apparently the Mage Knight series has been around for a while and has a serious following attached 
 to it.
  Me? Id never heard of it prior to seeing this DS incarnation on the shelf in my local EB Games. 
 So, you wont be getting any elitest tripe about how they changed the game from the original, 
 and got rid of my favorite hero and where are the hills and height bonuses? Also, considering 
 that the official review will tell you everything you need to know about the gameplay itself, Ill 
 just post some of my thoughts (good and bad) of the game thus far.
  
  The battles are, f or the most part, linear, in that you fight a preset sequence of them, and if 
 you lose one, you keep replaying it until you win and can move on to the next one (and advance 
 the storyline) . I find this method sort of tedious, especially if you run into a battle that you 
 lose again and again (which happens if you pick the wrong troops, or dont figure out the winning 
 strategy right away) . The strategic component to the game typically involves accomplishing whatever 
 goal the map requires (capture the enemy hero, majority of the flags, obliterate everyone, etc.) 
 in a limited number of turns (anywhere from 10-20) . Frankly, I prefer a more open-ended battle 
 system, where you are free to take as many moves as you want to finish the job, but thats just 
 me. I also wish the world map was more open to allowing you to explore, rather than leading you 
 on a rail from one place/battle to the next automatically. At least including a skirmish mode might 
 have helped, but for whatever reason, they chose to leave that (and multiplayer) off this version.
 
  
  The game rules take some getting used to if you havent played Mage Knight before, requiring the 
 player to slow down and take their time. Basically you are allowed roughly three or four moves 
 per turn, and if you try to move the same warrior in consecutive turns, that warrior will take 
 damage. Yes, you heard me right. You try to move twice in a row, your guy gets hurt. So, you move 
 three guys, next turn move three different ones, next turn move the first three again, etc. It 
 makes for a very slow-paced and sometimes frustrating experience, especially since you are always 
 racing against the turn clock. Then again, it is a new dimension added to the turn-based strategy 
 RPG realm, increasing the depth of the game. I just find using a turn clock is a cheap way to enhance 
 the tension in a game, preferring instead the 'take a few good units to battle overwhelming odds' 
 sort of tension-builder, but again, that's just me.
  
  The number of different available units with their own individual characteristics and special moves 
 allows for a great deal of strategizing in putting together ones army. Do you fill up on the front-line 
 grunt warriors with a supporting healer, or put a few grunts up front with a battalion of archers 
 and mages backing them up? The choice is all yours, but be careful: when you buy a mercenary for 
 you army, theres no changing your mind and trying something else. It does mean one can try the 
 game again with a different strategy in mind, enhancing replay value (and dont forget the other 
 heroes to choose from at the startalthough the story will be identical) .
  
  Graphics are good enough for this sort of game, with the warriors depicted clearly, so that you 
 can pretty much tell who they are by looking at them. The cutscenes are hero faces with text, again 
 fairly out of date, but the dialogue and general story is good enough to make up for that.
  
  The touchscreen is quite useful in selecting and moving units, but can be a bit off at times, 
 requiring the player to repeatedly try to grab the warrior they want to move. A small thing, probably 
 nothing you can do about it given the limits of the DS touchscreen. Pushing A or B cycles through 
 your warriors anyway, to help alleviate the problem if it gets too aggravating. It's no worse than 
 I found for AoE, at any rate.
  
  One thing that shines here is the music. A good score, with a decent (albeit slightly smallish) 
 assortment of pseudo-classical fantasy-style orchestral pieces, it is one of the few games I havent 
 immediately turned the music off.
  
  So. As a turn-based strategy RPG, it isnt at all a bad game, but again, the movement rules require 
 some getting used to, and the repeated battles when you lose can get old fast. Would I recommend 
 this game? Yes, if you enjoy the genre. If youve never played a turn-based strategy RPG before, 
 Id recommend starting with Age of Empires or that old classic (which I didnt actually like) , 
 Advance Wars, and working your way up to this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Destiny's Soldier is an astounding direct translation of the rules and pieces of the miniatures 
 strategy game. While all other console versions of the game abandoned the turn based strategy roots 
 of the intellectual property, Destiny's Soldier is a rich game with deep strategy and excellent 
 game-play. Minor flaws mar the surface, and even a few glaring ones that keep this from being an 
 exceptionally brilliant turn based game along side Advance Wars: DS.
  
  Lack of multi-player is exceptionally painful, and in fact the primary failure that really pushes 
 this down from an A list quality title. The fact is, it would be like making Risk single player 
 only. Mage Knight is designed completely around a multi-player experience. There is not even a 
 skirmish mode for custom single player maps outside the campaign.
  
  Other minor technical flaws glimmer here and there, some more annoying than others. Actually, there 
 is really only one, the controls. Mage Knights: DS's controls are very touchy when it comes to 
 movement, making selection of a troop slightly inaccurate, and then often failing to move the character 
 exactly where you want it to go. A problem easily solved by less directly interactive methods of 
 game-play,. I rather imagine, though, that this is the price we pay for such a robust DS game. 
 Plenty of companies with good ideas just wont feel validated differentiating the system's games 
 so much without putting in heavy touch screen controls. You will almost never use any of the buttons 
 except for help and looking up info.
  
  All together though, flaws included, Destiny's Soldier really satisfies a deep hunger for rich 
 strategic game-play in a way that few other games really do, though the number of them on the DS 
 is rapidly growing. If you need a single player break from the awesomeness that is Advance Wars: 
 DS, this really is it. It is extremely ambitious in its depth. It just needs more ways to play 
 freely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilikfire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Here's my review for it.
  
  I got this game today, and I am truly enjoying it. It's a fantasy turn-based strategy game with 
 a similar plot to that of Lost Magic. At the beginning of the game, you pick one of 5 heroes to 
 play as. From there on, you go on recruiting and battling with monsters and allies to try to destroy 
 the Sovalani reign of terror. Grahically, this game is similar to Lost Magic, although I find it 
 not as polished with more detail but jagged edges. Character animations are smooth, there's no 
 lag, and no graphic glitches like Lego Star Wars II.
  
  This game uses the touch screen for everything, and uses it quite well. It's a good thing this 
 game is turn-based, however, because you need to remember a lot of things.
  
  Gameplay is solid and fun, although battles get repetive after about six in a row. The system this 
 game is based on is after a boardgame and thus you'll see the dice roll when deciding whether or 
 not you deal damage, get to do an extra action, etc. There's a lot to remember and it gets rushed 
 at you realy quickly, but there is an in-game tutorial to help you out.
  
  My only pet-peeve with this game is the sound. The music and sounds are great at first, but I find 
 myself wishing that there was a few more tracks for it to play.
  
  Unfortunately, this game has no multiplayer at all, but it doesn't really bother me because this 
 is a really meaty game and the single-player will have you playing for a long, long time.
  
  For $30, it's a great game. I'd have to say be careful, however, if it's priced anywhere above 
 that. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
