-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Magical Starsign
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/magicalvacation2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cute script manages to succeed with some good humor moments.
 diverse cast of characters and critters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Storyline is pretty bland despite the crazy cast.
 battle system is much more basic than its nested rock-paper-scissors structure suggests.
 worlds you'll visit are all distinct, but small, with random encounters padding them out.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.0, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 401 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Brownie Brown
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Oct 23, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Magical Starsign is a lighthearted role-playing adventure that partially makes up for a lack of 
 gameplay depth with its quirky, oddball world. 

  Magical Starsign is a colorful and lighthearted role-playing game that tries its very best to charm 
 you right out of the gate. From the overly cutesy art style to the game's amusing penchant for 
 naming characters after foods, there's almost always something to make you smile. While its starsign-based, 
 sometimes awkwardly paced battle system and simplistic storyline are short on depth, there's enough 
 personality filling the niches to keep this little RPG appealing.  

          Hey, wait a minute -- this isn't Hogwarts! What gives?!     

  Our assorted heroes and 
 heroines start off at the Will-O'-Wisp Academy, studying magic under the tutelage of the bright, 
 if absentminded, instructor, Miss Madeline. The kids overhear Miss Madeline and the Academy's principal 
 chatting about an urgent matter that would send Madeline off their homeworld of Kovomaka to the 
 wind planet, Puffoon. When their beloved teacher doesn't return after three months, the industrious 
 lop-eared Lassi takes it upon herself to search out the school's legendary hidden rocket ships. 
 Upon discovering the vessels, the kids climb on in without a second thought, and before you can 
 say "magic school bus," they're launched into space and scattered among the Baklava system's many 
 diverse worlds. It's a basic good-versus-evil adventure that would get pretty dull if it wasn't 
 for the occasional jolt of inspiration, like discovering the Space Police is a paperwork-based 
 organization that doesn't actually take action on crime or traveling to seek wisdom from a sage 
 that ends up being a possessed, floating stick.  

  Each of the characters in Magical Starsign controls magic derived from the elements embodied by 
 Baklava's planets. The robot Mokka has an affinity for earth, the energetic Pico has an affinity 
 for fire, the serene salamander Chai has an affinity for wood, and so on. Each element has its 
 own strength and weakness, like how water is weaker than earth but trumps fire. Your own character 
 in the game -- you can choose a boy or a girl, and name yourself -- has a choice of a special light 
 or dark affinity. Light and dark oppose each other directly while not affecting any of the other 
 elemental signs, which has implications for the game's battle system.  

  The bottom screen of the DS is where you'll do all your exploring of the bright, cartoonish world, 
 and while you can technically use both the D pad and the face buttons to move, it's easiest by 
 far to maneuver about by tapping the stylus in the direction that you want to travel in. Magical 
 Starsign completely abandons almost every button on the DS in favor of the touch screen, and on 
 the whole it works well, especially for browsing menus in the field and in battle. Navigation in 
 the world can be a little on the cranky side when trying to move around various obstacles, since 
 you can easily send your party dashing on a tangent and then have to route them back. You can also 
 cast elemental spells to help solve puzzles by selecting them from the bottom of the screen, and 
 you can collect items strewn across the landscape, like rainbow shells and delicious gummi frogs. 
 The top screen serves as a continuance of scenery a lot of the time, but you can also pop up a 
 number of different world maps, status updates, and other such helper screens that keep your adventure 
 streamlined.  

  You'll hit battles randomly as you explore the various (small) planets, bringing up to six characters 
 into battle at a time. You can arrange your party into front and back rows, where the front row 
 can perform melee strikes as well as single-target spells and the back row cannot melee but can 
 instead hit all foes with a single spellcast. When casting a spell from the back row, its damage 
 is spread out across all enemies, so its effects are less potent than a single-target cast. As 
 you might imagine, it's advantageous to coordinate your turn-based magical attacks to attempt to 
 take advantage of enemy weaknesses, though there's an added wrinkle, and that's planetary auras. 

          The gummi frog harvest looks to be plentiful this year.     

  As the elemental planets move through space, their powers get a temporary boost when they're aligned 
 with certain regions of their orbit. Thusly, when the fire planet receives its fire aura, any fire-affinity 
 character also receives a power enhancement. You can check where the planets are at any given time 
 through the "astrolog" screen, which you can bring up on the DS's top screen during battle. You 
 can even use a special spell called celestial swap to use a character's magic points in an attempt 
 to swing the planets into advantageous positions.  

  This sounds fairly strategic, but most of the time you can ignore the planetary alignments, toss 
 out spells, and do just fine. Not only do auras boost spell power, but you can also tap your characters 
 with the stylus during a particular point in their spellcast to give them extra power. A character 
 with a planetary aura active will glow, and they'll hit even foes they should be weak against for 
 a good amount of damage. The only point at which things can get tricky is during boss battles, 
 which can run hot and cold as far as difficulty goes. And even if you've got a handle on the elemental 
 magic, there's always light and dark to deal with.  

  Your main character has either a light or dark magical affinity, and it's attached to the game's 
 time-based day/night cycle. Light characters are strong during the day and weak at night, while 
 the opposite is true for dark affinity. However, since light and dark operate on something of a 
 schedule, if you happen to have a light hero and hit a dark magic boss at night, you can expect 
 to get hit for ridiculous damage and be almost powerless to mitigate it. Another issue with the 
 battle system is that, while the developer tried to help streamline matters with an option that 
 repeats your last action, casting animations and such don't get any faster, especially when you 
 have to watch each of them carefully to get the magic-boosting tap off at the right time. As a 
 result, you'll stare at the single casting animation over and over again, wishing you could urge 
 the process to go just a wee bit more quickly.  

  Magical Starsign has a distinctive, cartoonish feel to it, with the various characters and animal 
 races meshing traditional anime looks with overexaggerated features and outlandish outfits. The 
 worlds you'll explore each have their own flavor, though they tend to be fairly small and don't 
 have much of a variety of environments within a particular planet. The game's music is upbeat without 
 being particularly memorable, and the battle music in particular loops a good deal.  

          This is quite possibly the only game where you can get a twig to tell you your fortune. 
     

  At least it's fairly meaty for a handheld adventure, clocking in at around 20 hours for a full 
 experience. There are numerous little items to collect along the way, some bonus dungeons to explore, 
 and some interesting wireless multiplayer offerings. If you meet up with a friend who owns Magical 
 Starsign through tag mode, you can exchange Amigo info and earn items and eggs. You can incubate 
 eggs in your rocket ship, and when they hatch, you'll get a special "egg character" that you can 
 use in multiplayer games as well as the single-player game -- although egg characters won't level 
 in single-player, which is a shame. Multiplayer dungeons let you compete directly against your 
 friend for items and other prizes, though there aren't all that many dungeons to choose from, and 
 the bigger the level gap between you and your friend, the more lopsided the game will be.  

  Magical Starsign offers up a quirky cast and some genuine humor, and while the battles aren't 
 all that nuanced, they're easy to grasp. Younger role-players and those who can appreciate a cute 
 script, a world that positively brims with gummi frogs ripe for the picking, and talking pottery 
 might consider making room in their DS for this magical journey.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Out-Of-Ammo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Let's say your looking around in GameStop. Not really looking for anything in particular, When 
 Suddenly, you're looking in the DS section and you see about 5-6 used copies of a game called "Magical 
 Starsign". The first thing you think is "Wow, this game HAS to suck." After All, a lot of people 
 traded this game-in. Then you look at it's price tag. $10.00 used. Then you think "it might suck 
 , but it only cost $10.00, At least I'll have a new game in my collection. You bring it home, pop 
 it in, and start playing. You wanna now what your thinking Right now, Wow, this game KICKS ASS!!!!!". 
 In Magical Starsign, You play as a young magician who's teacher was kidnapped and you end up going 
 on an adventure through space so you can save your teacher. You get to choose whether you want 
 to use light magic or dark magic and your fellow students have their own types of magic, too. The 
 gameplay is similar to that of final fantasy. So the next time your in GameStop, Give that ugly 
 $10.00 game a try. You won't regret it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrettskye
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I just recently picked this title up, desiring some decent RPG gaming on the go for cheap. Having 
 found an inexpensive copy of this, I figured this would help fill the gap before Persona 3 FES 
 and The World Ends With You. Not really?
  
  There's nothing really wrong with the game, it's just the story doesn't fit my personal taste in 
 games. The story goes like thus: A group of students at Will O' Wisp Academy blast off in into 
 space in search of their teacher, who left for another planet and never returned. The students 
 each left in different rockets, each of which went to a different planet, and so the player must 
 traverse from planet to planet, finding each of his classmates in turn, while hunting down their 
 missing teacher, and the fiend behind the evil plot, Master Kale.
  
  It's not bad, but it's presented in such a cutesy, sugar-coated way, that it was hard for me to 
 really get into. Some people may see this as a total selling point for them, and granted, there 
 were some very funny segments in the game. One particularly interesting segment is when the players 
 are trying to enlist the aid of the highly bureaucratic Space Police. Reminds me of the old Infocom 
 game, Bureaucracy. Without having to actually fill out the paper work.
  
  The battle system is pretty generic, with a standard Fire beats Water beats Lighting sort of deal. 
 The neat part is that the planets you are on constantly orbit the sun, and each segment of space 
 is aligned with a certain element. When the planet your on is in your element, you become more 
 powerful during that time. But the same also goes for the monsters you'll face.
  
  Overall, the game was good, it just didn't appeal to my tastes. I'm personally going to give this 
 game a seven, because it is a sound game, but it may not appeal to all fans of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basludanto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  What's this? A turn based RPG that I didn't hate?
  
  Don't get me wrong, I grew up playing AD&D and Ultima on the computer, Phantasy Star, Final Fantasy, 
 and a great deal other RPGs. However as the years passed, I quickly grew tired of the marginal 
 gaming aspect and almost not even there battle system of RPGs (before you argue, if you call Final 
 Fantasy's way of fighting a battle system, then shopping on target. com, navigating a database, 
 or voting are also battles, since all of these, like the FF "battle system", are simply comprised 
 of going through menus) .
  
  So then I got Magical Starsign for Christmas. I had seen the ads, but was not interested since 
 I don't like just holding down a button (and choosing who I'm holding it down at) to fight. But 
 it was a present, and I'm not ungrateful, so I gave it a shot.
  
  Boy was I surprised.
  
  First off, the story is very whimsical and does not take itself too seriously (a fatal flaw 
 in so many games these days) . The characters are likeable and not overly clichd despite trying 
 to represent every demographic through somebody (another flaw in too many games) . You are able 
 to choose whether you are male of female and your character is not angst driven, moody, amnesiac, 
 bitter, or a loner, which is a plus. No mysterious, obtusely contrived back story to wade through 
 (I LOVE back story, but GOOD back story) .
  
  The visuals and sound are well done. Vibrant colors compliment the varied locales while the tunes 
 are pleasant enough. Again, everything has a light hearted look, as well as a stylized one.
  
  And the gameplay DOESN'T SUCK. Just how is this marvel accomplished, you may ask. Well, rather 
 than keep the battles sterile affairs where the characters and enemies are separated by an invisible 
 and uncrossable wall and often obscured by layer after layer of menu, the battles in Magical Starsign 
 are actually engaging. This is done by keeping the menus to a minimum, the action fast paced, and 
 having the characters interact with each other. When you punch an enemy, your character jumps over 
 to it and actually punches it. When the enemy hits you with its staff, it moves to you and hits 
 you with the staff. This seems minor, but it makes the battle actually seem like... a battle. It's 
 amazing what a little difference like that can make. In addition, if you manage to tap your character 
 at the right moment when casting a spell you can deal extra damage. This manages to keep the battle 
 exciting since you actually play a role in how the battle turns out, not relying solely on the 
 rolling of imaginary dice. Finally, the camera also zooms around enough to make it exciting but 
 not too much to seem spastic. 
  
  Wonderfully, leveling up is not so tedious that it becomes a chore.
  
  All the controls of 
 the game are done via the stylus. I was one of the many skeptical, even after many months of owning 
 a DS. However, I overcame my unwarranted prejudice and am now a believer. The use of the stylus 
 in Magical Starsign is well done and unobtrusive.
  
  I cared enough about this game and enjoyed it enough to play it all the way to the end, which is 
 amazing for an RPG I don't have a ton of nostalgia for. I would recommend this game to any who 
 enjoy the RPG genre, and those who are curious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxapollo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Magical Starsign is a lighthearted RPG targeted towards a younger audience that works fine but 
 never really takes the leap forward to excel. I randomly picked this game up because I love RPGs 
 and it was a good deal at the time (I got it for seven bucks used) . I can't say I regret buying 
 it, either.
  
  A vibrantly coloured, vivid and living landscape pervades Magical Starsign. The character design, 
 while anime-ish, is perhaps a tad off the beaten track. The dual screens are used throughout the 
 game, though not always in the most useful sort of way. It is cool that some bosses and spells 
 are so big they take up both screens, but a lot of the time you are just seeing the sky or a map 
 on the other screen. It works for what it is, though.
  
  As you might guess, magic is very important in this game. Actually, it has been made so important 
 that your characters physical attacks are almost useless, other than to kill the rare enemy that 
 is totally resistant to magic but quite weak to physical damage. The visuals for the magic are 
 quite nice, but the selection of spells in combat is quite paltry at only 5 spells per character 
 plus an extra bonus spell from a small set that can be assigned to any of your characters. Although 
 each spell has a couple animations, depending on whether the character is in the front or back 
 row, this still doesn't lift the total and utter boredom of running through the same spammy motions 
 in combat that players may develop towards endgame.
  
  The music in this game is not bad at all. It does a fairly good job at setting the mood, and it 
 matches the visual environmental design very well. Some of the tunes are a little short, though 
 and end up looping too quickly and can become boring if not grating. Don't expect epic symphonic 
 orchestrations here; they wouldn't fit into this game environment anyway. The sound effects range 
 from amusingly effective to lackluster.
  
  Battle mechanics amount to the typical old-school styled menu-option selecting. It's turn-based, 
 with speed stats determining the combat order. Nothing too exciting there. On a side note, healing 
 in this game kind of sucks because the characters who can heal (only one, really, since the other 
 one depends on your choice of element for the main character) lose a huge chunk of MP any time 
 you need them to heal. Thankfully, healing items are pretty easy to find, although not always as 
 effective as a whole-party spell... The touch-screen elements are incorporated into battle in terms 
 of selecting things from the menus, targeting, and performing 'spell strikes' and defensive shielding.
 
  
  The game's story is original in its surface ideas, but totally derivative when you look deeper. 
 Characterization is well done, and each of your characters along with many of the NPCs end up with 
 distinct personas. Don't expect any startling or ground-breaking development, though. Things are 
 pretty flat and set in stone. There are also no totally unexpected twists in the plot. It's pretty 
 darned straightforward.
  
  Overall, this game is not bad. It tries hard to be a lot of things but never quite succeeds in 
 completely engaging the gamer beyond the surface. It is clearly targeted at a younger audience, 
 or at the very least, someone seeking out something lighthearted and straightforward. I wouldn't 
 recommend paying full price, but it's good enough to get a rental or be purchased used. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mahobudo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Some people may not understand my appreciation of this game however anyone who has played and liked 
 other Brownie brown created titles will understand my love for this. The art style itself is very 
 reminiscing of Legend of mana. I being a fan of legend of mana can appreciate the art work and 
 graphics in that style. The graphics themselves are very detailed and well done, plus the hand 
 painted style feel like an old PS1 rpg's I have played. And they reason I got into rpg's were because 
 of that feel. This game has one of the first uses of the DS's graphics capability to produce very 
 nice CGI graphics. The music is very well and on the same quality of most of square works. But 
 this isn't what you all really by a game for its for the gameplay and the story right? right? well 
 for alot of you it is. And for those people the gameplay has the most chrono trigger feel I have 
 felt since, well chrono trigger. Actually the whole story reminds me of chrono trigger. The battle 
 system works much the same and the use of six characters makes battles fast and fun. Your characters 
 through certain events have to go from world to world trying to save their fellow classmates. The 
 game play needed from world to world is interesting. And the worlds each change the feel and the 
 atmosphere in game which makes some good use of graphics. But the one thing about this game that 
 I love the most is the use of the stylist. All the menus, puzzles and spells are done through the 
 stylist... and its done RIGHT. For example a small tab before a spell is finished will allow more 
 energy to flow to your character giving them a power boost. In conclusion I dont have much more 
 I can say to praise this game. But if I have one thing to say that will hook any rpg gamer or mobile 
 gamer in it would be that you can save your game ANYWHERE! And that means alot if you play rpg's. 
 If I have one bad thing to say the game is a bit easy.. but its a moblie game and you dont want 
 it to be too hard. So this balances it out a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pimplando5484
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Japanese RPG's for most, if not all of my life. The one thing that i've come 
 to expect, in any game (RPG or otherwise) , from the past 5 or so years. Is an auto save feature. 
 I really love this game. And, it's one of the best DS games, that I have played, so far. But, imagine 
 my dismay, when I complete 2 of the worlds, just to be beaten by one lousy monster (not even a 
 boss) , and I lose over 7 hours of progress. Yes, I should have been saving constantly. Yes, I should 
 have tried to flee from the fight. But, in the heat of the moment, and being so focused on progressing 
 in the game, I forgot. The one thing I do enjoy, about the save function in this game, is that 
 you can save anywhere. I just wish, that at the end of a planet, or even at the beginning of a 
 planet, you would either be...
  a) asked to save your progress.
  or...
  b) the game would save your progress for you.
  
  I'm really hoping for a sequel to this, in 
 some way, shape or form.
  
  Maybe Magical Starsign for Wii...
  
  But, I digress.
  
  If you're looking for a great, funny, compelling, time-waster of a Japanese RPG.
  
  Then, I 
 think that Magical Starsign might be up your alley.
  
  (Saving issues, aside) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anmvamp
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a very back to basics, simple RPG for the Nintendo DS. And in my opinion that is just what 
 my little Dual Screened warrior needed. This is one of the few traditional RPG's that I have seen 
 for the DS besides the almighty Final Fantasy III. One difference here is how the entire game is 
 played using the stylus. It is possible to move around the dungeoun maps with the d-pad, engage 
 in conversation with others using the R button and also further conversatons with it as well, but 
 all the menus are activated using the stylus. It may seems daunting at first to those with a lower 
 brain function (we joke, we joke) , but it is actually quite comfortable.
  
  Magical Starsign follows the typical story of oh no (someone important) is missing, lets go rescue 
 him/her/it! You take control of either a male or female student at a magic acedemy who can use 
 either dark or light magic (your choice on both male/female and light/dark) who decides to blast 
 off into outerspace in order to rescue his/her teacher from the grips of KALE (dun dun dun) an 
 ex-student bent onruling the world. Now I don't know about you, but I don't know a single student 
 that would just take off into outerspacein order to rescue a teacher that will just give you a 
 detention for being late. The world map in this game is 5 unique planets corresponding to each 
 element (wind, earth, fire, ice, and wood) . More planets are unlocked as you get further in the 
 game to represent the light and dark elements. At first you just kinda drift along the universe, 
 but eventually you can fly to which ever (very small) planet you would like in a super-ultra... 
 lame ass rocket.
  
  
  Now comes the battle system. Since the game is HIGHLY based on the use of magic (trying to punch 
 and kick against tough enemies will result in your demise - you get no weapons) the battle system 
 can be summed up to a Rock-Paper-Sicsors type format. Fire beats Wood, Wood beats Wind, Wind beats 
 Earth, Earth beats Ice, and Ice beats Fire. Oddly enough light and dark are both effective against 
 each other which can lead to some intense boss fights. A few nifty tricks in the battle system 
 is how the positions of the planets can strengthen your magic (and the enemies) , and the ability 
 to charge up your magic attacks if you tab your character at the right time before launching the 
 attack.
  
  
  One of the coolest (sounding) features that I have yet to experience is it's online play. The Tag 
 mode allows users to aquire and raise eggs that will grow into creatures that can help you during 
 battle (I; ve tried this but not a single person has been available when I attempt to connect) , 
 while Amigo Mode allows the user to play online with a buddy in a special dungeoun that rewards 
 you with items if you do well. Some may be put off by its childish graphics (think the old Super 
 Nintendo/Legend of Mana type graphics) , but the truth is they look wonderful on the DS. All in 
 all I think this to be a good traditional RPG for the DS. In a time when everyone is trying to 
 pull off something radical its nice to know that some developers are still here to makes us some 
 enjoyable games that you can pick up and be like yeah, i know how to do this instead of being like 
 WHAT THE F*** AM I SUPPOSED TO DO NOW!? The only down side to this is that it is HIGHLY repetitive 
 and the story is quite lacking. Not at all good for a traditional ****RPG.
  
  
  My Overall Rating: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealapowers
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Customization is really important to me, like to be able to change a character's skills or weapons. 
 It's gotta affect the gameplay. In Magical Starsign, weapons, armor, and special items mean about 
 squat. The ridiculous skill system is really what bothers me. Each character has one elemental 
 affinity, and they only learn spells of that type. That wouldn't bother me, but you only get a 
 new skill every ten levels or so. Booooring. The story isn't that bad, but it's not that good. 
 I only bought this game to satiate my want for Final Fantasy III, so I wasn't really expecting 
 much. Since FFIII is out now, just do yourself a favor and save your money for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bengalsrz4
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 23, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  To start, Magical Starsign is one of my favorite games that I've played on the DS thus far. So, 
 here is my in depth analysis:
  
  Gameplay: Lots of towns, and a lot of unique places to explore. Batlle system is a basic turn based 
 RPG style with a few twists. The row system works great. If you put a party member in the back, 
 their magic will be weaker, but will hit every enemy rather than just one, and vice versa. Another 
 thing that makes the battle system special is the Spellstrike feature. While casting a spell, if 
 you tap your character with the stylus at just the right time you can cast a much more powerfull 
 spell. You can also use this strategy when getting attacked (tap character before getting hit.)
 
  
  Story:
  
  What starts out as a simple Save your teacher story ends up getting a lot more in depth and very 
 interesting. The characters are funny and have a lot of personality and keep you interested the 
 whole way through. The world is very unique, and I'm almost sure this is the only game you'll find 
 talking pyrite cubes.
  
  Graphics/Sound: Rather than trying to make bulky 3-D models that just end up looking terrible, 
 Magical starsign uses beautifully colored 2D sprites which adds a nice atmosphere to the game. 
 There is some pretty good music in the game, but nothing really notable, and the fighting sound 
 effects are pretty good as well. Value:
  
  This game will probably last you around 25-35 hours for one playthrough. Most people play through 
 the game 2-3 times though. One thing about the game that keeps it interesting is that you can have 
 some slightly different experiences depending on which type of magician you select at the begenning: 
 Light or Dark. Another neat thing about the game is the Amigo Mode. You can play through the dungeon 
 with up to 6 total players. Its a competition to collect the most treasure chests but it takes 
 some teamwork to get through. Overall: 9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 14, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Magical Starsign is not a bad game per se, but it just isn`t that good. The graphics were 
 my first major let down. The gamespot review mentioned the visuals were on the goofy, cartoonie 
 side, and I thought that would equate to something like Children of Mana, which has completely 
 awsome visuals. From the clips and pictures on the web, starsign looks alright, but when you see 
 it up close and personal in the real world on your DS, it actually looks like some half-baked cheap 
 pastel crud work from the cartoon network. Instead of looking sharp, warm, and children of man-ish, 
 it looks like a cheap pastel cartoon where the colors, although warm and fuzy, end up feeling flat. 
 To make it worse, the cutscenes look like the world is made out of playdough.
  
  Next, the story. Starsign goes beyound goofy and lighthearted, and steps over the line into the 
 just kinda stupid. The game opens up with a crummy set-up where your magic school teacher goes 
 over the basics of magic and attack and defense and then after a lot of useless blabla you find 
 out she`s disappeared and 3 months later (blablabla) you and your ragtag school mates set off to 
 find her. The set up takes way too long for what it actually is. Plus, having a bunch of little 
 school kids careering accross the universe not to save there homeworld or the universe but simply 
 to get their teacher back is weak.
  
  The battle system is fun for the most part, but the game is heavily centered around magic and sadly 
 your classic fighter classes are somewhat left behind and the game seems to boil down to an all 
 mages rumble.
  
  But the game is not all that bad. Dispite the not so good storyline, the character and place names 
 are entertaining, like how most everything is named after food.
  
  The sound effects are pretty good for me, especially the japanese-esk battle cries your little 
 dudes yell out when launching their magics.
  
  And lastly, the battle system, as mentioned right above, is mostly fun and well designed (except 
 for the all magic) . It is simple and streamlined through a touch screen interface. (Just wish it 
 would have been a little more diversified instead of revolving mostly around magic) .
  
  But overall, because of graphics are close but no cigar, a brain dead storyline, and a lack of 
 diversity in the battle system, the game just falls a little flat. If anything else, at least it 
 keeps me mindly entertained in the dull hours at work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DreFullCircle
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 12, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I, like may people, was an RPG basher. Outside of Pokemon (cool, huh?) I'd never really dabbled 
 in what I called nerd games. It just didn't tickle my fancy to level up magicians and ogres and 
 crap like that. i'd tend to play games with RPG-like elements. On a semi-impulse buy, (I'd heard 
 of it a few times out and about.) I picked magical Starsign up and was impressed by it.
  
  The story begins at a school of magic, in the vein of Harry Potter. After about 15 minutes of reading 
 text, your teacher is kidnapped and the character you create (pick from male and female and choose 
 an name.) sets out to rescue her, as well as find the other students who have crashed landed on 
 various planets. the game sticks to a cast of 6 playable characters, so people who expect a buch 
 of characters as in games like Pokemon will be disappointed. A positive spin though, is the opportunity 
 to learn about each character, which all have different powers and personalities.
  
  The story is all presented in text, which is understandable, seeing as how there's so much dialogue. 
 It is filled with funny moments, and not in the mistranslated Engrish sort of way. The localization 
 team put funny stuff in the dialoge, and not just American jokes. You are encouraged to talk to 
 as many NPC's as possible, as the game doesn't really pont you in the right direction. it's rather 
 open-ended. I'm not entirely sure what a traditional RPG is supposed to play like, but this game 
 seems like it gets the fundamentals right, while imploring the use of the touchscreen. You could 
 play the entire game with the stulus if you chose, and it makes waking around much easier than 
 the D-Pad. The top screen displays the action, while the bottom screen moves the characters and 
 serves as a menu. If timed right, you can also gain a power-up by tapping the screen. Potions, 
 spells, and physical attacks all make thier obligatory appearance. The graphics are not a selling 
 point. The game looks like a slightly polished GBA or SNES game. The art style is inspired, but 
 it's hard to appreciate it if you're not a fan of 2D. There are some cool special effects which 
 are on the higher end of psuedo-3D. The camera will sometimes zoom in, exposing the harsh reality 
 of pixels. On as positive note, the game also inclues a few short pre-rendered cutscenes, mainly 
 in transition between planets. The music is charming RPG fare. The score is whimsical, highlighting 
 the magical theme. There are a fewvoice snippets when battling, but they get repetitive quickly, 
 if not instantly. The sound effects all have a 16 bit feel to them, which could be seen as nostalgic 
 or cheap. it's all a matter of preference. All in all, this game is good for beginners in the RPG 
 genre, such as myself, as well as people who can dig the subtle nuances of games such as these. 
 If you are searching for a Pokemon-type collect-em-all game, look elsewhere, because this one is 
 a bit more intimate than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crocodilian
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Intro And General: Currently Clocking in the region of 15 Hours of Play so far on this game, and 
 believe it to be a fantastic addition to the Nintendo DS RPG Genre. The Game uses the touchscreen 
 of the DS to its fullest as every aspect of the game is touchscreen only, none of the side buttons 
 are used in this game as every button is placed upon the touchscreen and in the options menu of 
 the game itself. With this the interactivity is greatly increased as the player has the ability 
 to move the character into exactly the possition that they want the character to be placed in. 
 The major problem with moving the character using the touchscreeen is that a limited amount of 
 angles has been plotted so the character moves in very angular movements, not smooth curves that 
 would be expected if the touchscreen was in use for this, never the less this game really brings 
 out the potential of the DS touchscreen technology. Visuals:
  
  Visually the game is unfortunatly average for the DS system, with rather minimum use of the 3D 
 graphics that is available. However what makes up for this is the Cut scenes within the game, which 
 do make full use of the 3D graphics of the DS using an Anime shading style to keep in form with 
 the light-hearted kiddish style that is shown throughout the game with names of items and general 
 look of worlds. Certain Attacks within the game use the 3d Technologies of the DS rather well, 
 however most if not all of the attacks draw in close to the enemy or character, this creating huge 
 pixilation on the screen which is a huge let down as it causes the game to look rather out dated 
 and again not using the full extent of the DS.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The Gameplay of Magical Starsign is remarkably fun and easy to get to grips with. Though the Game 
 does not seem to be fantastically open ended which RPG's are usually famed for their open endedness 
 this does not spoil the overall feel of the game as an RPG. The game also lacks side quests to 
 distract you from the main story of the game, usually helping in training up characters to make 
 the main story all the more easy to go through in the long run, If anything were to be called side 
 quests within this game it would have to be the item collecting, where an NPC character mentions 
 things about if you collect a certain amount of a particular item they will create a new better 
 item you, though this again is very limited and hardly accounts for the side quests that many RPG 
 games give the player to undertake. Putting this asside the game runs very smoothly with few frame 
 lags allowing for a smooth continuous flow of the game without being scared if the game will crash 
 on you or not like some RPG's have the tendancy of doing if they play to slow. Overall:
  
  Overall I feel that this game is a proud addition to the Nintendo DS game lists and that any RPG 
 fan would love to play dispite its minor faults such as the lack of co-ordinates to which the character 
 can move whilst using the touchscreeen. The game seems to be lenghtly unlike many new RPG's to 
 date and is extremely easy to get to grips with making it hard to lose interest in, which is helped 
 by this fantastic storyline of Friendship and rescue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  The game starts with you choosing a character and naming him or her. Then you are to start classes 
 with some of the students on the Planet Kovomaka and each of the students including you, have a 
 special ability, each having to do with the elemant you're associated with, i. e. Earth, Wind, Water, 
 Fire or Wood. The class teacher Madeline will then teach you how to fight and cast spells. Afterwhich 
 she will then be called upon to another planet, goes missing and the whole class sets out to find 
 her.
  
  Over the journey, you'll travel to different planets, fight enemies, solve tasks all in a touch 
 and response RPG manner. And in each battle, if your planets are in the right zone at that time, 
 your attack will be more powerful. A colourful cartoon-like game that doesn't have a good plot 
 but at least the story can be quite unpredictable at time. What I didn't like was that the items 
 to equipped were too little variety. And the random battles when you walk along the planets can 
 be quite annoying as well sometimes. Every one or two steps and you're stopped by enemies.
  
  I was pretty hooked on this game when I first started. But then I just got lazy to finish it 
 after awhile and it's still shelved away in my gamebox. Pretty long game that's worth a buy if're 
 a true RPG fan who likes long stories thats never seem to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xdre3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  With this game, you can easily play 20 hours out of it, but if you go for the extras, it might 
 take you 40 hours. You will always want to see what happens next. This game uses 2D sprites, but 
 I like them better then those big grainy pictures in other games. The game has a long intro, but 
 it's perfect after that. Everything is controlled by the stylus, like talking, walking, and battling. 
 The battle system is great, but the bosses are a little easy. I'm planning my next 5 moves and 
 then the boss runs out of HP. Overall, it is great, and it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Ever wondered why planet allignment is deemed as important to some people? Some say that they grant 
 fortunes, others say they can tell the future. Magical Starsign uses planet allignment for something 
 entirely different. The game is an RPG, but not one you'd really know how its controlled. Magical 
 Starsign is a touch screen based RPG with a light hearted story.
  
  The plot is simple. Your teacher has gone to space, reportedly the Wind Planet. Unfortunately, 
 she hasn't come back, and the characters begin to worry. Some of the students at the Will-O-Whip 
 Academy have found several space ships. One of which decides to board one. You all have the idea 
 of going after her, but realise in doing so you've split up from the rest. Now you have to find 
 your friends and teacher across the five elemental planets.
  
  Lets just say the story isn't much of an incentive to play, which is a shame since the cast of 
 characters are so well thought out. You have everything from humans, robots, chameleons and otters. 
 The problem lies with the ability to tell the story, and it just seems like planet hopping around 
 small worlds. There are random battles to smooth out this, but they're too random at times.
  
  As forementioned, this game is a touch screen game. You actually have to click where you want 
 to go. If you point at something specific, normally the characters go there. If you point at nothing, 
 they just carry on. This isn't always as responsive as one would wish, and you could end up running 
 into something you wish you didn't. In terms of the games menus, they're fairly straightforward, 
 but remember to keep the help option on in order to know what things do. You can also use skills 
 (depending on characters) in order to solve problems. The biggest problem lies with the games teleportation 
 system, in that its not obvious how to use it. You give Stars to a character who enables the portal, 
 but he never tells you that in order to use it, you have to physically look at your map in the 
 options and click where you want to go. It's oversights like this that spoil games sometimes.
 
  
  The battles are the most interesting, and ironically, the most boring thing in the entire game. 
 The use of touch screen elements is nice. You can use the options to select spells, attacks and 
 moves, which works really well. Characters gain MP after a round, so running out of MP isn't a 
 problem. The problem with the whole system is that it lacks the depth of most systems. There is 
 a basic elemental rock-paper-scissors motiv to it, in that certain spells are more effective than 
 others. Everything has an alignment, which is handy, since you can see it, but also not that special. 
 The game also features planet alignment and day/night alignment. The purpose of this is to boost 
 power of those who's planet is in the right place at the right time. This goes for enemies as well, 
 which may shock some players. The planet alignment moves a little too slow, while the day/night 
 one moves a little too fast, so nobody really benefits too much here.
  
  There are multiplayer options in the game, including the Amigo mode in which you can hatch an egg, 
 and raise what was inside. You can take on dungeons against a friend, though there's a problem 
 in that if you've raised your creature higher than a friend has, it could be unfair. The visuals 
 are hit and miss, in that the FMVs look nicely designed, while the rest looks outdated. The art 
 style is similar to some older Square-Enix games, which is a perculiar choice. Sound isn't that 
 good, and the fight tune gets very old very quickly.
  
  All in all, this game isn't worth much. The presentation and amount of depth for the game is seriously 
 lacking and although the character designs are great, the rest of the game doesn't do it justice 
 at all. Multiplayer may provide a little more fun, but not a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelr07
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, started playing and at first everything felt a bit rushed. Lots of information 
 was crammed in all at once. But after about 20 minutes of playing, this became one of the best 
 RPG's I've ever played. The battle system if flawless, movement is perfected via the stylus and 
 the graphics are suitably cartoony; setting a light-hearted and enjoyable ethos in the game. The 
 music may be repetitive at times, but never to a frustrating point. However, the bosses can be 
 slightly challenging at times, but this helps vary the battle difficulty which begins a bit too 
 easy. Once you get into this game, it becomes very enjoyable, and you will find yourself playing 
 it for hours on end just to see what happens next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayamaria
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  The first try I've done on this game has been pretty positive. Yeah, it sure has been weird, but 
 all this cute atmosphere has been a major factor which has influenced my views on this. Sure, the 
 story isn't the greatest among all the RPGs but its light-hearted humor is awesome. Really, who 
 could create a town of Pots without doing a big-huge background text to explain it? Magical Starsign 
 do it without major explanations as if the world is like this because it's like this. However, 
 I've been pretty shocked to read the other people reviews which have said that the battles are 
 really long. It's not true at all if you keep yourself active and there's major fun with playing 
 with the spell-strike option as well as the strategy used. However, I've been playing this game 
 for 19 hours and I'm still having a great fun, which is unusual for me who can't stick to a game 
 without playing other game at the same time. Love it or hate it, for me, I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: cute script manages to succeed with some good humor moments, diverse cast of characters 
 and critters, many egg characters to collect, much bosses that are sometimes a bit difficult { like 
 chard} , nice turn based battle system, each of the six characters can learn much skills, you can play 
 this with 6 players total in the multi-player mode.
  THE BAD POINTS: you cannot play via wi-fi in the EA version, you can only get the characters if you 
 have many amigo's in your list. [CONCLUSION] a very nice RPG for the DS, with his nice battle system 
 and funny characters and critters and planets,
  and you surely must get if you already have MARIO&amp; LUIGI: PARTNERS IN TIME a surely must have 
 for every ds owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_MKRPG
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  It's great game, but very bizzare. It reminds me of golden sun for the GBA in a way but in a smaller 
 scale. The storyline isn't a masterpiece but a bit lighhearted. The point to rescue your teacher,... i 
 don't know who would actually save their teacher but that not the point. You travel to various 
 planet in search of your classmate who are looking for your teacher. Each one has a specialized 
 power. The game is turn based and the most innovatded part is the battle system. YOu must battle 
 and keep eye out for the planets movement. You have two line in which you can move ur party. Front 
 line and back line. front line can attack one enemy while the back can attack multiple enemies.
 
  
  In the end the game is not bad but can get very bizzare at time, some items are called wakey tail 
 and frogs restore your your life. So if you like golden sun i'm pretty sure you like this aswell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MKDragon007
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The game is aimed towards probably a younger consumer or crowd, but any fan or rpg's like PS2's 
 Dark Cloud or GBA's Golden Sun is bound to get wrapped up in a game cause of how it works. The 
 system is not such a hard one, but it makes it enjoyable. It is compared to that of a Golden Sun 
 game, where you would pick the attack and pinpoint it to the particular enemy you want it to hit. 
 The only real problem I have with the games battle style is that for you to attack multiple enemies 
 you have to put one or some of your teammates in the back row, where only the character (s) on the 
 first row would get hit and the character (s) on the back row would hit multiple enemies, but waste 
 more magical power using it. The overall idea of the game is amazing and I have no regrets of having 
 bought the game. In fact, I would even recommend it to rpg fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seth619
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  This is a true RPG. You can customize your character. You can pick your name. You can even change 
 your party members' names. It is truly a great game. They have some pretty high detailed cutscenes 
 too.
  
  First you have to pick your sign. Choose either light or dark. Then choose your gender. Then the 
 names. You start out at Will o' Wisp Academy. The beginning is kinda boring. Your teacher, Miss 
 Madeline has to go to another planet. So you feel like going after her. Lassi, one of your classmates, 
 runs off to find a rocket. There are rockets at your school. Then when you get there, you fly off 
 to Erd, the earth planet.
  
  The game is really fun. You should get this where ever you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefanatic544
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Magical Starsign is a fun rpg style game that gives you awesome movie like cut scenes, and a variety 
 of spells and items. Other than the fact the boss battles which are sometimes really hard and take 
 a real long time to beat I say Magical Starsign is a really fun and addictive game. A really cool 
 addition to this game is Amigo Mode where you can either choose to go to Tag Mode or go into Amigo 
 Dungeon. I encourage people to get this game if they like rpg games, can never get tired of fighting 
 bosses, and to people who like a solid and fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellSin69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  My thoughts when I first saw this game was, Well... that sure looks retarded. but, alas, it grew 
 on me. It was pretty fun at the beginning with the touch screen in full control the entire time. 
 At least this game makes the touch screen actually useful, unlike other games that make it a pain. 
 Mostly the turn-based battling system is pretty fun but, might get repetitive since usually all 
 you do it click a button called repeat , and like you would of expected it repeats your last action 
 (that is most likely a magic attack) . The bosses in this game were extremely easy and the gameplay 
 didnt hold really far to the end but, with all the cool stuff to collect and space travel fun this 
 RPG is a sure renter at first. Lets move onto the actual review shall we?
  
  Gameplay:
  Well each character has a element set to them and the main character can be either light or dark. 
 This adds some what of replay value if you want to see if the story-line changes if you choose 
 dark or light at the beginning but, perhaps it doesent since the first run through the game was 
 boring enough. The battling system is turn-based with the flow, choose attack, person attacks, 
 next person, etc and so forth. It was fun for a bit but after a few hours of touching the same 
 repeat button over and over and over and over. The battling just got to were it was a nuisance 
 from the story line. The progression in this game is awesome because it feels like every 5 battles 
 you level up, well thats because you are! All your characters need is 100 exp points every time 
 to level. Fun right? Well if you have a brain of a child this game would be entertaining because 
 its EXTREMELY EASY. More on the gameplay side features a nice array of elemental magic, items, 
 and the occasional kicks, punches, and hyper death beams =] .
  
  Graphics:
  Who doesent like shiney cell-shaded 3d cut scenes!!! Also the 2d animations for the spells are 
 FANtastic. Love em'. There extremely shiny and pretty and.. well lets not get off course from the 
 review here. The graphics make up a big part of this game with the colorful sprites odd clothing 
 and odd-ball characters, like a bunny person thing, keeps you playing for awile just to see what 
 the next planet looks like and what kinda weird aliens you will find! C'mon who doesent like colorful 
 graphics with kid-like charm. =D
  
  Sound:
  Well im never to good in this department but, the sound was pretty good aside from the annoyance 
 of hearing your person scream/shout everytime you cast a spell like Ryu or Kin. The battling sounds 
 do get extremely annoying at times but, the planetary sounds and all the environment sounds are 
 nice. I recommend listening to music while playing this game though. = [
  
  Controls:
  Aha! Why even need this section for the DS, I mean this whole game is controlled by the touch screen. 
 You can use the D pad to move around and the L + R buttons to look at things and it works the same 
 way like tapping them. I recommend playing with the stylus its alot easier for both of us. Value:
 
  Well I don't think the game is quite there in means of price. It was fun and all but the gameplay 
 and annoying sound isent all there to keep me playing. I do recommend renting it but, as far as 
 buying it.. get it used.
  
  All-right moving on to the fun part of the review! The stuff that this game had that others didnt!!! 
 Yeah!
  
  Well, the one that that really stands out about this game is that... well... each planet has an 
 element and when its in the right orbit or when an elements planet goes into its zone the character 
 with that element gets a boost. Example: A the fire planet is in the correct orbit with the fire 
 zone. Thus, the fire guy gets a boost on power. An exception to this is the main character who 
 is light/dark. There is a day/night feature in this game that is pretty cool if you ask me. All 
 the sprites change if its day or night. They get brighter during the day and darker at night. This 
 is how, you, the main character powers up. Kinda simple when its day time, light gets a boost. 
 When its dark, well dark gets a boost. Understand? Good. Keep in mind I made this review to not 
 give out any spoilers but, If i did am i truly sorry. Hope you liked this review, thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothicdragon216
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  Children of Mana, Final Fantasy, and soon to be Zelda are all action/RPG games with histories of 
 good games behind them. This game came out of nowhere and I've enjoyed it more than some console 
 RPGs. The gameplay is familar, but the touch-screen bonus for casting is a nice touch. You move 
 with the stlyus, which some people complain about, but I think it's fluid and easier than holding 
 down a button. Touch a person, and your characters run over to the person and engage convo with 
 them. Touch a gummy frog, and your character runs over and catches it.
  
  The artistic style is nice. It's not too flashy with no content (see PSP games) , but it isn't bland. 
 The graphics aren't supurb, but there isn't much to complain about. You don't need to squint and 
 think about something to realize what it is. Trees look like trees, rocket ships look like rocket 
 ships, and otter pirates look like otter pirates.
  
  The Animal People scheme isn't new, but there is enough funny dialouge with each NPC to give a 
 gamer of any age a chuckle here and there. The music is fun, but not that fresh. You get bored 
 of one song for all your battles.
  
  Overall, it's easy to pick up, and hard to put down. I'm 14 hours into the game and juts taking 
 my time, not really worried about beating it as much as I'm having fun with it. I recommend you 
 do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  6 school children, full of magical powers lose there teacher to some evil force or something or 
 another and so they decide to steal rockets from there school and go after here. They get themselves 
 stuck into an crazy adventure which involves the whole world, but do these children care about 
 the world no lol. They just care about saving there teacher and going back to school? Guess thats 
 kids for you? You get a choice between dark magic and light magic and male and female and boom 
 thats your main character for the game with 5 others water, fire, wood, wind and earth to aid you 
 on your crazy adventure. The characters all look corny sadly lol. The main character and the water 
 mage look the best, the rest look like so crazy wacko's you would find in some crazy childrens 
 book or something lol. A robot, a bunny who has the hots for you it seems which is nasty! A weird 
 lizard, and two others who look somewhat normal compaired to the rest of your crazy group. This 
 whole game involves you using the touch screen, There is no way TO NOT USE IT! You must use your 
 styles. For a game like this its more annoying then fun. Like honestly during random battles you 
 just wanna slap a button sometimes but you can't. The touch screen adds nice features in battle 
 like you tap on your characters at the right time to block damage and increase your damage. Also 
 each character has there own star sign which will increase there power when there planet is alligned 
 with the right symbol on the star map. This adds the depth of the game, otherwise your using magic 
 of the same spells again and again with minor power ups you get. Theres 5 spells for each character, 
 with some minor ones anyone can learn. The game seems very boring after a while and makes you just 
 not want to play as its very repetive. The game isn't that easy as well if you don't use the star 
 elementals and weakness correctly. This game offers a nice amount of hours of play but its still 
 wacky and lam story I am sorry it gets boring. The characters all seem very childish and have no 
 real personality of there own. A few of them do, but alot of them are basically the same with the 
 odd difference. The graphics in this game are ok at best and the cut scenes seem to look like they 
 were made from playdo if you look at it lol. The sound is horrible and normal at best, and the 
 only voices are gruts from custing or being hit. I was a bit edgy on getting this game but I got 
 it on sale, otherwise I probly wouldn't of gotten this game and kiddy regret getting it, as I don't 
 even feel like picking it up all the time its not that great. Hate saying this but I am not enjoying 
 this rpg and don't recommand you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkluigi5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Magical Starsign for the Nintendo DS is a great RPG. I actually picked it up because Children of 
 Mana wasnt out yet, but i found this game to be far better. The colorful enviroments, great graphics, 
 and a cast of characters that will make you laugh make this game a wonderful game on the DS. Magical 
 Starsign fully uses the touch screen, even to the point where everything is controlled by it. The 
 gameplay in Magical Starsign is fantastic. The battle system is simple enough so it doesnt take 
 too long for a turn. The graphics are amazing, the cutscenes are 3-d andeverything, and the enviroments 
 were very detailed. The sound is great, in battles you hear your players battle cries and everything. 
 Magical Starsign is a great game, and you would be smart to pick it up. You Wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  My first few minutes with Magical Starsign were enough to be completely taken in by the story, 
 and not many games do that. A sort of Harry Potter meets space travel, Magical Starsign is a fantasy/sci-fi 
 RPG that sure is far from the cookie-cutter formula.
  
  The story begins as a beloved magic teacher at the Will O'Wisp magical academy disappears. After 
 a while of not hearing from Miss Madeleine, six of her students decide to go looking for her. Their 
 adventure turns out to be much more than they expected, as their quest for the teacher's rescue 
 turns out to be a save the entire galaxy from an evil wizard kind of task.
  
  To begin the game, you are given a choice of two main characters: a girl who commands light magic 
 and a boy who commands dark magic. Light magic gives you healing and protection spells, while dark 
 magic allows you to drain life from monsters.
  
  Aside from this character, there are five other apprentice magicians, each with his/her own elemental 
 spell ability. A robot that casts Earth spells, a salamander that commands Wood magic, a dog-like 
 spunky creature that possesses some powerful Wind magic, a somewhat grumpy Water mage and a hot-tempered 
 Fire caster. Obviously, each spell is more powerful against a certain element and weaker against 
 another. Dark and Light are strong against each other, but not particularly outstanding when used 
 against any of the other elements.
  
  So far, it seems like your regular RPG, right? Fantasy, magic users, save the world... But that's 
 probably as far as the familiarities go.
  
  The most interesting concept in Magical Starsign is how the movement of the planets and day/night 
 cycles affect your casters. Your characters signs (the symbols for their elements) represent a 
 planet. As the planets orbit around the sun, the spells become more or less powerful depending 
 on which sign the planet is on. For your main character, the magic boost is dictated by day or 
 night. If you want a magic boost, make sure you wake up at the time that benefits your character 
 (you can pick to wake up in the morning or in the evening when staying at the inns) . The game is 
 made for constant magic use. As you can imagine, you won't be using physical attacks unless you 
 find an extremely resistant monster. Magic is also used outside of battle in certain key spots. 
 At times, you will reach spots where it may seem you're stuck. That means you must use one of your 
 character's magic while on the world map. You can use Lassi's wind to dissipate a storm, Chai's 
 wood magic to sprout a giant beanstalk, Sorbet's water abilities to put out a fire and so on. It's 
 an interesting feature that I quite liked.
  
  The stylus is your only means of control for this game. Tap, touch and drag for everything and 
 then some: equipping characters, changing battle formation, re-aligning planets, move, pick up 
 objects, use recovery items. It's a very interactive process that takes away that turn-based RPG 
 feeling because you're right on top of the action during fights, since you can dodge attacks and 
 boost your spells by tapping the right character at the right time. Takes a bit getting used to, 
 but it's well worth it. I'm not so good at dodging, but I have my spell boosts down to perfection. 
 Changing your party members' positions allows you to create different strategies for fights. Keep 
 in mind that those in the front row can only cast single-target spells while those in the back 
 row hit multiple targets (but less efficiently) with one spell. You will want your support magic 
 on the back row so they can heal and protect everyone at the same time.
  
  Although the controls are unique for this genre, the gameplay is what we are used to. Turn-based 
 fights, kill for experience and items, level up, grow powerful. Your characters can have up to 
 five spells of their element, plus one more learned from a book. So aside from having all attacks 
 and buffs, you can teach your characters one extra spell that doesn't belong to any school of magic. 
 A very useful one is Celestial Swap, which lets you use your MP to move a planet to the position 
 you want, obviously to change the boosters. It can totally turn a fight around.
  
  As you progress through the game, you will travel to all the different planets in the Baklava solar 
 system, initially to save your classmates and later on you can explore them freely before progressing 
 with the story. Each of the seven planets has its own unique look, monsters and inhabitants, and 
 it's worth to explore every little bit of every planet even if just to see how things are. You 
 will find a frozen planet with pirates and otters, save a forest planet from burning, visit a village 
 whose inhabitants are ceramic pots, help moles with an ant problem, fight robots, talk to dwarves, 
 confront the corrupt Space Police, get a consultation with a psychic twig, get hints from radishes 
 and travel to the insides of a stone giant. Humor is a constant in the dialogs, and I actually 
 laughed out loud several times, particularly with the pyrites who insist on saying weird stuff 
 and convincing you to take them with you. Even just to sell them later. An example: a pyrite says: 
 Shiggitty shiggitty shwa . Your options are Yes or No. Another pyrite says Your pocket looks cosy 
 . Again, Yes or No. Regardless of how the answers don't fit in, if you pick yes, the crazy pyrites 
 will be added to your inventory. But in the meantime, if you talk to every single one of them, 
 you get to hear some weird things from oddly-named little cubes. That's not to say the game doesn't 
 have its serious moments. A brave dying stone golem and the sacrifice of another character had 
 my eyes watering. Everything is very well written, and there is a good mix of feelings throughout 
 the plot. The music greatly helps conveying those feelings, everything from cheerful village tunes 
 to the urgency of a battle theme.
  
  Graphically, Magical Starsign is another RPG featuring cute little sprites, but the environments 
 are crisp and well rendered, and there are some impressive animated cut-scenes for certain events 
 that are extremely well done.
  
  On top of it all, there is even a multiplayer Wi-Fi mode where up to six players can gather to 
 explore a dungeon together and exchange eggs which will then hatch into creatures that you can 
 add to your party.
  
  Great stylus mechanics, original magic system and an interstellar storyline spanning through at 
 least 20-25 hours make Magical Starsign a traditional yet innovative must have for any RPG fan 
 and DS owner. Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens can be found at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=magicalstarsign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Square_ruler
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Best old school rpg's on the DS you can't go wrong with this game. While pretty short it is still 
 a very good game!!!!! The game brings you in a new kind of world the space with new inivative things. 
 The graphics are amazing. The sounds are good. The story is very very basic (normal) there is no 
 big twists and other things like that. The gameplay is innovative, very good but still a bit hard. 
 In all Magical Starsign is a great game for all rpg and inovative games fans!!!!!!
  There is one thing that blow me off, the videos wow, awesome!!!! This game looks alot like the 
 graphics of popolocrois on the psp!!!!! Just go buy it and youll see it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanybox
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually pretty good so far. It has old-school graphics and sound spiced up with some 
 decent animations and fmv. The story is a little immature but kinda funny and surprisingly endearing. 
 I actually like the battle mechanic with the planet alignment and day night timings. The rock-scissor-paper 
 element strength is nothing new, but if it ain't broke it doesn; t need fixin'. This game is not 
 revolutionary in it's play, but the control system is actually OK if different, and you can always 
 use the d-pad and shoulder buttons if desired. I'm not sure why all the bad press, but if you like 
 way old schoold RPG's like the original FF's, then this one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well, where to start. Ultimately, there isn't much of anything wrong with the gameplay 
 itself. The battle system as you would expect is a traditional turn based system, only as you could 
 easily guess it is controlled via the DS touch screen. Unlike some recent games, this RPG actually 
 still uses random battles, which is definitely a hate it or love it type thing. Before I get into 
 detail about the gameplay mechanics though, let me introduce you to the story itself. When you 
 begin you are in the Wil'o Wisp magical academy, in a class with your teacher Miss Madeleine and 
 your 5 friends. Unfortunately, evil is roaming the galaxy and their teacher sets off to get rid 
 of it.... but three months later she still hasnt returned. So comes forth the galactic struggle 
 with more villainous creatures and villains. Now when you think of an RPG, you think of an in depth, 
 fun filled, exploration galore experience right? Well, it delivers on most of that, but not all. 
 Exploration exists, but it is very limited.... and dungeons are unfortunately extremely linear. 
 No puzzles, no nothing.... just random battles. Luckily though, you can go pretty in depth with 
 character customization, which is a nice touch even if it isnt really advanced. In fact, the battle 
 system itself is pretty nice. The only complaint I have though is that it doesnt give you an option 
 of using buttons to control the battle menus. In fact, controls seem to be this games biggest issue. 
 The story is good, exploration is tolerable, but controls are horrible. The touch screen controls 
 just dont work very well, and they almost seem a bit too sensitive and bland. Even the buttons 
 control is horrible. You would expect to use the face buttons to control menus and such right? 
 Nope... think again. Instead you are FORCED to use the touch screen in everything except movement. 
 You will also notice that certain commands just seem to be only feesible with the touch screen, 
 so basically you might as well get used to it. Overall though, the gameplay isn't too bad. It certainly 
 is a lot better than a lot of other RPG's on the DS, I will give it that much. Luckily the part 
 humor part serious story helps make the game more enjoyable as well.
  
  Graphics: Some parts of this game can be great visually, other parts are plain ugly. The touch 
 of cutscenes helps mix things up a bit, and even though the animations are ugly they are tolerable 
 (although why all species are animals I do not know) . The graphics are very colorful, and the backgrounds 
 have a pastelish look to them. If only the graphics looked that good in battle when the camera 
 zooms in though.... luckily if you played Lunar Dragon Song you won't mind one bit though.
  
  Sound: The music in the game definitely are not Final Fantasy quality, but they are decent 
 enough. There are quite a few different tunes for boss battles and random battles, which is good, 
 and every planet has a new theme. Overall the sound isn't too bad, but it has room for improvement 
 too.
  
  Value: If you have a friend to play the multiplayer game with, you will get quite a long lasting 
 experience out of this game. It is also quite a lenghty game anyway ranging from about 20-25 hours 
 of gameplay or so, or going longer if you complete everything. To sum things up, this game will 
 definitely please those looking for an rpg, but if you are looking for Final Fantasy quality then 
 I say look further.... or at least look for Final Fantasy III :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_gouda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a good, solid RPG that will eat a good chunk of your time.
  
  The battle system is turn based. Unfortunately, the battles are of the random encounter type, where 
 you'll be walking and then BAM, all of a sudden you'll be transported into battle. I guess this 
 is good if you like that kind of stuff, but personally I can't stand random battles.
  
  Lucky, the magic system is pretty good, and the planet system is a unique way to take advantage 
 of spells when certian planets are aligned in the right places in the solar system. And the spells 
 all have spiffy neat effects with fireballs and thingys flying all over both of the DS screens.
 
  
  According to the game if you tap your character before they get attacked, you will not recieve 
 as much damage and also, you will give more damage to enemies if you tap the screen before you 
 attack. So far I have had mixed success with this.
  
  The story is lighthearted, humorous and well paced. I'm just nitpicking here, but I wish there 
 was a little bit more character developement so you could get more attached to the characters.
 
  
  This is a good RPG for the DS. I'd say check it out if you like RPGs and don't mind random battles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _crazykeith_
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Magical Starsign is an old-school RPG for the Nintendo DS. The story of Starsign goes as follows 
 : Deep within a magical universe lie the elemental planets, each with its own magical attribute 
 (Earth, Forest, Water, Fire, Wind, as well as two affinities not affiliated with planets, Dark 
 and Light) . The game begins by letting you choose between Dark and Light affinities, as well as 
 gender and name. You may also choose your classmates names. After a brief introduction, you start 
 in a classroom with an ensemble of students. Each member of your friends carries their own affinity, 
 and you carry either Dark or Light. Though I didnt enjoy the choice of only two elements, it does 
 help to broaden your skills, as you arent as worried about which element you should focus on, 
 as you are more tuned to the story and characters.
  In a plot turn, you learn that your teacher is departing to a distant wind planet to attempt to 
 find a former student who is threatening to cause great damage to the universe. After months of 
 waiting, your friends and you decide to embark in the schools secret rockets to save her. After 
 departing, a friend and you land on a desert like planet, way off course; and so your journey begins, 
 traveling at random to strange planets until you finally find your goal. The gameplay in Starsign 
 is all touch screen based. It is a turn-based RPG, and so utilizing the touch screen, the game 
 lets you choose attacks, spells, items, and movements all with the stylus, or if you are particularly 
 picky, anything that can fit on the screen. The movement outside of battle is also touch-based, 
 and much like a point and click game, if you tap on an object or person, it will take you to them, 
 and automatically select them for the action that occurs when you usually select them. Sometimes 
 the game can be difficult to handle though, as you may bump into walls often.
  Visually, the game is wonderful, the spells especially show the games graphics off. Some bosses 
 and larger monsters can even take up both screens. The color scheme, although some may disapprove, 
 can truly mesmerize the eyes. Audio is very good as well. The music changes for the different actions, 
 battles, and scenes. The afore mentioned graphics are accompanied by similar 3-D scenes to Metroid 
 Prime Hunters, as they are very nice, although somewhat filtered. All in all, Magical Starsign 
 is a very balanced game. Although it may lack a creative catch to the game, it has a charm to it. 
 I was sold after an hour of play, and I am now into my 27th hour played. That may be an exaggeration, 
 as I was probably watching commercials and eating cheetos while the game was still on. Thanks folks, 
 hopefully you liked it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this one shorter than my usual 5-paragraphs of blah blah, since there isn't much 
 wrong with this game, and a most of the right stuff is already out there, or will be soon.
  This is a solid and fun group-style RPG, complete with turn-based battles that are VERY VERY reminiscent 
 of Golden Sun. If you enjoyed that one, you will enjoy this, no question. Stop reading, go buy 
 it, you will like it, I guarantee.
  You control a main character who must try to track down what happened to his school teacher by 
 stealing a rocketship and travelling from planet to planet, building up your powers through random 
 battles, and finding friends to join your quest.
  The graphics are quite cartoony, the dialogue is actually not too bad (humourous on purpose, rather 
 than accidently, as one often finds with these import-translation jobs) , and the gameplay is very 
 familiar territory, right down to the over-the-left-side view of your troops against theirs in 
 battle.
  The graphics go right along with the general 'attitude' of this game, which is to not take itself 
 all that seriously. This is pretty much the one distinction between this and, say, the Final Fantasy 
 franchise. For example, the first King of the first planet you visit is named, get this, King Gorgonzola 
 de Fromaggia . The head cheese of cheeses, for those of you not familiar with Italian dairy products. 
 Another example: you don't collect mana and healing potions, you gather yellow and green gummy 
 worms, rubber boots and bandanas as armor..... you getting the picture? Yes, it is an RPG, in that 
 you level up your characters through random battles, find stuff to buy and sell, etc. The only 
 difference between this and Golden Sun is the fact that it is poking fun at the genre throughout 
 the game. So, you won't exactly get completely immersed in the whole process, but it makes for 
 an entertaining romp; sort of a Golden Sun meets Toejam and Earl.
  I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurama_fox2000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first turned on Magical Starsign, I really didn't expect too much from it. I was definately 
 wrong. The story starts out pretty slow and predictable, but as you continue to play it begins 
 to get a litte more immersive. The graphics are incredible for a DS game (actual CG cutscenes! 
 woot!) . There is actually one part.. about 3 hours or so into the game, where using one of the char's 
 wind spells you are able to make a wind powered generator turn on. The generator powers like an 
 entire light show inside the cave that kinda had me hypnotized for a few minutes. The battle system 
 is also great. The spells are really flashy, and there's a whole element vs. element system that 
 adds a lot of strategy. On the random side, however, there are 5 planets that are in constant rotation 
 on the top screen during battle. When the planet of the correct element goes into it's area of 
 the galaxy the character of that element is powered up.... but the same is also true for opponents. 
 During battle you can also move characters to the back row, in which they loose the ability t attack 
 physically... but their spells now have more room to expand so they hit all enemies instead of just 
 one. The spell effect changes slightly as well. I've only played the game for about 5 hours, but 
 It really is a great game and I can't wait to continue. Pros:
  Great Battle system (strategy with a little randomness) , Graphics look great, perfect difficulty.
 
  
  Cons:
  Camera zooms in at the beginning of a spell sequence, so the graphics go from great to awful, the 
 story gets off to a slow start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanchocurse
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I picked up a copy of this game hoping to acquire a piece of hand-held rpg gold and was a little 
 disappointed by the contents of this cartridge. At first glance this games has all the makings 
 of a truly memorable handheld rpg. It has a great story, saving your friends and teachers from 
 other planets by travelling by rocket. I turned the game on and was a little skeptical after the 
 touch screen only interface started up. I love the touch screen as long as it supports left handedness 
 and since this game was touch screen only it certainly allowed for me to play with my left hand. 
 I found it very difficult however to actually control my character. I would have him running into 
 wall or around key higlighted areas a couple of times before I could actually talk to whatever 
 my litle green arrow was pointing to. I would have liked to have been given just a little d-pad 
 or button control for the battle sequences. About an hour into the game I actually began feeling 
 sick from the combination of color and music in the game. I don't think there was anything wrong 
 with either the music or the colors in the game alone but when put together they turned my stomach 
 into the next Mount Vesuvius. That was about the time I decided to close my shiny white DS Lite 
 so as to avoid ralphing all over it and my marathon of Magical Starsign was cut short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think this game was gonna be this good when I first played it. But this keeps on getting 
 better and better as you keep on playing it. The graphics in this game are pretty sweet, but not 
 so sweet when the camera zooms in. The design of the planet and the battle fields are really nice 
 and colorful. The music in this game is pretty great and the good thing is that bosses have their 
 own song.
  The battle system is excellent, with your characters and the enemies getting power up with the 
 rotation of the planets and is also pretty cool that each of your character has their own power, 
 like fire, water, wood , wind , land and light or dark. Overall, go and buy this game because it's 
 a very enjoyable game with a really nice story and battle system. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
