-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Magnetica
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/puzzloop/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's like Zuma, but on the DS.
 Three single-player modes and a multiplayer mode.
 Responsive touch-screen controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay starts to wear thin when played in longer sessions.
 Overly pricey for what the game offers.
 Multiplayer isn't especially compelling.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.1, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 179 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Mitchell
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Jun 5, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Magnetica is a good, solid rendition of its chosen formula, but there isn't necessarily enough to 
 the package to pull you away from your current addiction to any of the DS's other, better puzzle 
 games. 

  Say the words Puzz Loop to all but the most serious obscure puzzle game fans, and you'll likely 
 get a blank stare in return. Say the word Zuma to just about anybody with any sort of penchant 
 for puzzles, and immediately the lights will snap on. Perhaps that's because Puzz Loop, despite 
 being the originator of the same puzzle formula both games use, never caught on in North America, 
 and only years after that game's release did Zuma come along to usurp the concept and popularize 
 it over here. Magnetica for the Nintendo DS is Puzz Loop, or Zuma, or whatever you want to call 
 it. It adds in touch-screen controls and a few twists on the formula to effectively call it an 
 update, and ultimately it's a fun little puzzle game that just so happens to reside on a system 
 rich with good puzzle games. In comparison to what else is out there, it comes across as rather 
 ordinary.  

          All the challenging ball-matching madness from Zuma is now on the Nintendo DS in the form 
 of Magnetica.     

  For those with no prior knowledge of Magnetica, Puzz Loop, Zuma, or any other silly name for the 
 same game, the way in which the game works is that you are presented with an ever-growing string 
 of colored balls moving perilously toward the center of a loop. You must then use a launcher of 
 like-colored balls to break up the string in sections of three and send the string moving backward. 
 Combos can be enacted by hitting multiple strings in a row, which nets you big points and takes 
 off large chunks of the string. All balls of the same color are magnetically attracted to one another, 
 and if you're left with a big hole between one section of the string and another, you can shoot 
 a ball of a similar color to the one on the end of the string closest to the center to send the 
 string shooting back a good distance. There are also some power-ups that blow up all the balls 
 of a single color, slow down or stop time temporarily, and the like.  

  It's a simple but effective formula that's served Zuma well over the years and works just about 
 as well in Magnetica. Functionally this is very much the same game as Zuma and Puzz Loop but shrunk 
 down into easily playable handheld form. One quirk specific to the DS is the use of the touch screen 
 to fire off balls. Rather than use the traditional arrow-based pointer to target your balls, you 
 simply use the stylus to flick a ball in the desired direction. It's not quite as precise a method 
 as you would get with the pointer, but generally the touch-screen controls feel about right, and 
 if you're careful, you won't find yourself with too many frustrating misses.  

  But while the game uses a winning concept, after a while it's hard not to feel a bit worn down 
 by it. It's not that there's a lack of content to keep you interested, mind you. The game offers 
 three distinct single-player modes, including a challenge mode that tasks you with getting through 
 as many of 99 levels as you can in one single shot; a quest mode that includes 60 different puzzles, 
 all of an entirely different shape and variety; and a puzzle mode, which eschews the typical time-based 
 methodology and gives you an extremely limited number of balls, forcing you to think carefully 
 about where you shoot, because if you're left with any balls on the field after you've run out, 
 it's game over. There's also a multiplayer mode for up to two players where you and a friend can 
 battle it out via multicard or download play.  

          Additions like puzzle mode make the gameplay a bit more interesting, but it's not quite 
 enough to make the game stand out.     

  That sounds like an excellent array of modes, but it all just sort of blends together after a while. 
 The gameplay stays sharp throughout, and the challenge is most certainly there, but something about 
 the game's layout and content just isn't compelling for terribly long. It's good in short bursts, 
 but if you find yourself playing for any lengthy stretches, you'll burn out on it quickly. Also, 
 the multiplayer just isn't that great. The rub there is that by pulling off combos on your screen, 
 you send colorless ball bearings over to your opponent to screw up their strings. It's a reasonable 
 setup, but you can't see your opponent's screen to know how much damage you have or haven't done, 
 and you get zero feedback on how you're doing comparatively (except, perhaps, for the flustered 
 cursing of your opponent when he or she is losing) . There's also not much to the game's presentation. 
 The game is appropriately colorful, if a bit repetitive looking with its use of the metallic, pseudofuturistic 
 motif. The audio consists mostly of generic but enjoyable tunes that play in the background, and 
 little bleeps and bloops here and there.  

  Most of these problems would be easily forgivable if Magnetica weren't a full-priced DS game. Superior 
 DS puzzle games such as Meteos, Tetris DS, and even Zoo Keeper can be purchased for less than the 
 $34.99 Magnetica costs at retail. That's not to say that you shouldn't play Magnetica, as it contains 
 plenty of puzzles and it's nice to have a version of the game on the go (assuming you don't already 
 have Zuma on your mobile phone) . It's a good puzzle game that has its addictive qualities -- it just 
 shouldn't be your first or even your second choice for such a game on the DS.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nastybedazzler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  When you first start this game it seems really cool... until you get into the later levels. I'll 
 admit this game is very addictive and I've been playing it for hours on end but it can also be 
 frustrating as hell. 
  
  I haven't been this pissed off playing a video game since many years ago playing Burger Time for 
 the original Nintendo. If you've played that game you'll know what kind of frustration you're in 
 for.
  
  This game is a real challenge and although it usually plays fair, sometimes I think it's taking 
 some cheap shots. Some stages you'll find yourself playing 25+ times before completing it and on 
 more than one occasion (like right now) I've wanted to throw my DS at the wall. 
  
  They've also included some very unwelcome challenges that make the levels more annoying than fun. 
 Blow in the mic to clear up smoke? Are games still pulling that crap? That novelty wore off before 
 the DS even hit the shelves to buy. Blowing in the microphone is retarded at best and it's something 
 I don't feel like doing while I'm riding the bus or sitting in the lobby at college (or anytime 
 for that matter) . My point is that portions like that make this game suck at times but it's only 
 on a few stages here and there so it isn't too much of a problem.
  
  As of right now I've only played the Quest mode and I'm about 40 levels in. Something tells me 
 that there are 100 levels to this and I don't know if I could even complete this game. It's already 
 brutally tough as it is and I'm not even halfway finished (if I'm right about the level count) . 
 I can't comment on the other portions of the game but there are quite a few modes so you're definitely 
 getting your money worth if you want to purchase a game that's going to take you some time to complete.
 
  
  I hardly review games but after playing Magnetica I seriously felt compelled to warn anybody who 
 is thinking about buying this game what they're getting themselves in to. If you like "puzzle" 
 games of this type then go for it. If you like a challenge then go for it, but you've been warned. 
 Seriously warned. 
  
  Also, if you like puzzle games of this nature I highly recommend Picross because it's a truly excellent 
 game. I've completed that game 100% and must have choked at least 100 hours out of it (GameSpot 
 gave it a great review as well) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  If you asked me to name a single genre that was most improved because of the DS, I'd most likely 
 answer the puzzle genre. It's debatable, I suppose, as a number of classic genres have been improved 
 and a few new subgenres created, but the puzzle genre really has received a breath of fresh air 
 thanks to the innovations provided by the DS. The touch screen, in particular, has allowed a reinvigoration 
 of game mechanics that previously had grown old and stale. One such innovative game is Magnetica, 
 and while it may have been overshadowed by its more popular brethren such as Meteos and Tetris 
 DS, it's a fun game that deserves checking-out if you're a puzzle fan. 
  
  The premise of Magnetica is genuinely creative. It does not involve blocks of any sort -- in fact, 
 there are no four-sided items with which you can interact in this game! Instead, you'll deal with 
 circles -- marbles, actually. When three or more like-colored marbles come into contact, they'll 
 spontaneously disappear. Marbles will proceed along a path and it's your job to take control of 
 a marble launcher to get fling marbles to get three-of-a-kinds to get rid of all the marbles. This 
 is done using the touch screen and it works quite well -- there only problem with accuracy (or 
 lack thereof) lies with your own skill at flinging the marbles around. There's a sense of urgency 
 to this, though: if any marbles reach the end of the line, you'll lose. It is by keeping the marbles 
 out of this hole that you'll beat "levels", and this is likely the mode of play with which you'll 
 spend most of your time. 
  
  There a three main game modes, however. The first is Quest, in which you'll proceed through quite 
 a few levels to ultimately beat the game -- there's no plot of any sort, however. I've already 
 described the basic gameplay mechanic, but it gets considerably more complex than this. The game 
 adds some twists to the basic implementation that really keeps things from getting boring. For 
 example, it'll add more colors of marbles making it more difficult to line them up, add multiple 
 marble launchers, varying paths for the marbles to take, plus a number of power-ups. These will 
 fiddle with time, in general, allowing you to slow down or even stop the flow of marbles to help 
 keep things under control. 
  
  This is all fairly interesting and fun, but you're not going to get anywhere by simply lining up 
 three marbles at a time. As you progress through Quest, the "levels" get quite difficult. For example, 
 the path will cross over itself or spin around, making it more challenging to hit the marbles you 
 want to and sometimes even trapping yourself. To take big chunks out of the marble supply, you're 
 going to have to set up some combos. See, there's another principle that I've so far neglected 
 to mention: like-colored marbles are magnetically attracted to each other. So if there's some open 
 space between two red marbles, they'll immediately come together. 
  
  So, you can naturally use this to your advantage and create these insanely long chains of vanishing 
 marbles. The trick is to set it up, however. You begin by deciding on your central group of marbles, 
 then begin by setting up marbles on either side of that middle set. Then, when everything's ready, 
 you launch the correctly-colored marble at the middle pair. They disappear and, if you've done 
 everything correctly, cause a chain reaction of vanishing marbles. It's really fun and satisfying 
 and the game screen can get quite hectic. However, there's also some strategy to this: in later 
 levels it becomes critical to your success to set up these chains. But if you wait too long, you'll 
 probably end up trapping yourself. And when marbles start coming faster and faster in later levels, 
 you'll find it very hard to dig yourself out of a whole. 
  
  The Quest mode is probably the most engaging and entertaining part of Magnetica, but there are 
 some other fun features to play around with as well. There's a Challenge mode which essentially 
 throws you a never-ending stream of marbles and you're left to try and achieve high scores. This 
 mode is fun for those who've beaten the Quest and aren't finding a lot to do with the game any 
 longer. But better than that, in my opinion, is the Puzzle mode. It takes a very different approach 
 than Quest and rather than focusing on quick action and spur-of-the-moment decisions, it challenges 
 you to think things through and set up really complex combos. You're given a short strand of marbles 
 and a limited amount of marbles in your launcher. Your task is then to get rid of all the marbles 
 in the string using only the marbles in your launcher. It's easy early on but later you have to 
 think very creatively and try out some strategies that may seem like they wouldn't work. It's a 
 lot of fun and contrasts nicely with the hectic action of Quest mode. 
  
  Graphically, Magnetica is unimpressive, though no more so than you'd expect any other puzzle game. 
 It's hard to mess up colorful moving magnetic marbles, and the developers haven't done so. The 
 music and sound effects are similarly bland, which is slightly more of a disappointment. That said, 
 the game's presentation is top notch -- menus are crisp, clean, and easy to navigate. Additionally, 
 the dev team has done a really great job of making these marbles just the right size. Maybe this 
 is just because my DS Lite is getting a little worn down and confused, but with games like Meteos 
 it's sometimes tough to grab the block I'm looking for. Such a problem is nonexistent in Magnetica, 
 however. 
  
  Magnetica's biggest shortcoming is just the fact that there's not as much replay value here as 
 there is in most quality puzzle titles. Quest mode spans very many levels and the puzzles are a 
 great way to spend some time, but after you complete those there's not a lot to come back to. There's 
 no free play mode, which would have been nice (though you can replay Quest levels as much as you'd 
 like) , and challenge mode loses its appeal after a while. The game's fun basically relies on the 
 different "maps" you play on, as each map is going to require a slightly different strategy. There 
 was great potential here for a level editor or even downloadable maps, but sadly Magnetica was 
 released fairly early on in the DS' lifetime and such implementations were basically unheard of. 
 
  
  That said, it's still a fun game. If you're a hardcore puzzle fan, you should definitely pick this 
 one up to go along with such games as Tetris DS, Meteos, Planet Puzzle League, and Puzzle Quest. 
 It's not quite as good as any of those games, but it's still fun and innovative and offers a break 
 from the traditional puzzle game mechanic. It suffers a bit on the value side of things, but if 
 you can find it used or just discounted, I'd strongly consider picking it up. It's a fun game and 
 while it's not quite worth 30 bucks, there's still a lot of puzzling excitement to be had. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Spot-Bot-1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  I got mine at meijer for $29.99 + tax .06% $31. and change I saw this on the net for $19.99 this 
 was very sad to see it at $30. I couldnt understand it but then I went back to the site where it 
 was $19.99 to get that one with free shipping and return the one I got from meijer but the site 
 where I saw it changed there price $29.99 is this game going up because of the holidays ? I say 
 go get it this might be a good resale investment even for a used game the price went up in a day 
 (from when I saw it at $19.99) Im just going to play mine have fun with it (why not right ? ) and 
 for those that are looking for zuma I found it for the ds under the name luxor 2 might be as close 
 to zuma as we are going to get for the ds anyway buy used at the game store nearest you you will 
 save about 5% and like I said ds is a great resale investment used or new alright later thanks 
 for reading this review 
  
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  UPDATE
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  I cant stop playing this game its packed with hours of fun I changed my rating and increased it 
 to haha a higher level then i had it I really like this game
  
  a must buy for any price that is not over $30. makes a great gift
  if your buying a used one 
 go for it even if you dont get the box or anything your not missing any cool stuff im still playin 
 it ok i gotta go im almost to level 99 dont forget you have endless hours of play when your playing 
 from the wall jack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cult_of_Cthulhu
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up for $17 in australia and it has kept my fiancee happy for over two months now 
 ( she is down to the last two or three levels)
  
  It's a very simply puzzle game but hey tetris was even simpler and that game is still the number 
 one selling game of all time.
  
  This may not be a game for everyone but to those who like puzzles ( I'm talking to you ladies) 
 it is the best and cheapest thing about.
  
  Oh and I give all DS games a 0 on sound, because of the many I have played I always put the volume 
 on zero after the first few minutes of annoying clanging PC speakeresk sounds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariodeath
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Its a better version than Zuma. But unless you have the rumble pack, its kinda boring. But then 
 again, its Adventure mode is da bomb. over 30 levels, yeah thats awesome. And the Vs. mode is just 
 plain fun. defeating your friends and all that, heh heh heh. This game is pretty tuff. im on level 
 13 and I cant get through. The Survival mode is awesome to prove your friends that your awesome 
 at this game and your not a loser! To rap it up im just going to say, THAT WAS THE CHEAPEST PRICE 
 I GOT THIS GAME FOR!!!!!! I GOT IT FOR 5 TO 10$!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmier
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, it was in Wal-mart from their DS download center. I found it to 
 be entertaining, and wanted to play more when my DS ran out of batteries. Later, I borrowed it 
 from a friend, and my experience was different. Playing it on the way home, I found it to be simplistic 
 and repetitive. It was still an interesting concept, but the entertainment value was diminishing 
 rather quickly. Then I got home and played it. I lost some serious sleep that nignt. When I got 
 into the quest mode, I realized how fun this game really is. Successfully mixing the formula up 
 with different challenges, multiple rails, and more colors, Magnetica caused me to lose a lot of 
 sleep the next few nights. However, after a while, I realized what type of game this is. This is 
 a familiar game: all of us have played this kind at one point or another. This is the kind of game 
 that you play for hours on end, then you realize, after countles hours, that nothing really changed. 
 The formula stayed the same, and you kept doing the same thing over and over again. However, that 
 does not take away from the addictive nature of this game, and I can reccommend it to anyone who 
 enjopys an innovative puzzler, especially someone who is fairly new to the world of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syluvan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  This certainly wasn't a bad game, but it doesn't quite make the cut. The concept base of the gameplay 
 and the magnetic physics scheme are both well thought- and carried-out, but control, especially 
 aiming, is often difficult. It's especially frustrating when you see a perfect chain opportunity, 
 then realize that there are three loops of marbles to get through before you can get to it, and 
 by then you may have messed it up. The marbles just move too quickly to set up any decent-sized 
 chain without endless hours of practice. Other puzzle games put out recently unfortunately overshadow 
 this otherwise inventive idea. Put simply, I love the game and its concept, but its few minor catches 
 might make it worth your while to choose something else to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuesdaynext
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  I've read some of the other reviews that compare Magnetica to games -- none of which I've played 
 or even heard of before. But I have played Luxor. In fact, when I saw the preview for Magnetica 
 I was all excited for a portable version of Luxor. For me, though, Magnetica is not as playable 
 as Luxor. At the core, they are the same game... marbles/balls rolling along a predetermined track 
 being picked off by the user controlled "shooter". For starters, Luxor has much prettier graphics 
 with its Egyptian theme complete with scarab beetle chase-car and pyramid-esque screens. 
  
  Magnetica's levels all seem to be play-until-you-die levels instead of having true completion 
 levels. I haven't played Magnetica for long but I find the endless play to require more time than 
 I can devote to a puzzle game. 
  
  If you're looking for a quick play or a portable version of Luxor, this might not be the right 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Get ready to lose your marbles over Magnetica!
  
  If you have ever played Puzz Loop or its more famous clone, Zuma, you will feel right at home playing 
 Magnetica. 
  
  The gameplay is the same as any previous versions of this title, whatever you may know them as. 
 The chain keeps coming and you have to launch the marbles onto it, forming color combos of three 
 or more marbles and creating chain reactions to make the chain smaller and keep it from reaching 
 the end of the line. The major difference is that now you get to use the stylus on the touch screen 
 to flick the marbles onto the chain. Pretty cool, huh?
  
  But Magnetica gets better than just being "touchy".
  
  Obstacles and special items make the 
 game so much more than Puzz Loop (or any clone of it, for that matter) . There are slots that you 
 can aim at and land in to get the slot machine going and spin for a chance at a special item. There 
 are detonators that clear all marbles of the same color of the marble they hit. There are yellow 
 stopwatches that slow down the chain and red stopwatches that stop it for a short period of time. 
 There are switches on the tracks that make your chain go a different direction. There are also 
 rockets that push everything in front of them towards the end of the line fairly quick.
  
  And many times - and these are probably the most challenging (or frustrating, depending how you 
 look at it) of stages, since things can go downhill pretty fast - you will have several launchers 
 and several different tracks, each with a different chain. There are more obstacles, but I'll talk 
 about them a little later.
  
  Magnetica offers three single-player modes. Challenge mode is a single stage where you survive 
 for as long as you can as the chain gradually speeds up. Each stage has 99 levels, and if you manage 
 to stay alive that long, you clear the puzzle. There are four difficulties for each Challenge mode 
 stage.
  
  Quest is a mission-based mode where you only have access to the next puzzle once you complete the 
 previous one. The objective of each Quest stage is to clear all the marbles from the chain. Every 
 ten Quest levels you get a bonus level where you have to do a number of different things, all involving 
 launching marbles of course. In the first boss, you have to hit it so it drops coins, and you collect 
 as many as possible; in the second boss, you have to destroy the marble chain around it; the third, 
 well, I'm not there yet, but no one said Quest mode was easy!
  
  Puzzle mode brings you a series of mind-boggling chains and a pre-set number and colors of marbles 
 to use on them. You have to use all of the given marbles in the order they appear to set the marble 
 chain so it clears itself by forming consecutive combos. Clear the chain and get rid of all the 
 marbles to complete the puzzle. Initially, there are only ten puzzles, but more will be unlocked 
 as you solve existing ones.
  
  Quite a bit of the game's magnetism resides in the versus multiplayer feature, either over wireless 
 connection or DS Download Play. 
  
  Versus mode picks up single-player obstacles and turns them into tricks that you can use against 
 your adversary. To begin a Versus match, you choose the rail shape, the time limit, pick if you 
 want to use attack items or not, and then add a handicap level. The handicap is basically the amount 
 of bearings (the clear marbles that are destroyed when you create color matches next to them) that 
 you send your oponent when you make chain combos.
  
  If you thought single-player had enough special items, check out the Versus mode attack items: 
 Ion Clouds that create smoke screens (though if you blow on them, they go away) ; Gravitons that 
 alter the trajectory of your opponent's marbles; Viruses that turn marbles into bearings; Black 
 Holes that swallow your opponent's marbles; Recoils that form marble-deflecting barriers. It somehow 
 reminds me of the goold old days of playing Tetrinet.
  
  Magnetica is basically a reinvented formula of an old classic puzzle game (the original Puzz Loop 
 dates from the late 90's) that requires you to have quick reflexes. The colorful and bright graphics, 
 upbeat music, easy to use interface, and great touch screen recognition have me attracted to the 
 DS like a magnet.
  
  The only thing that may turn off any puzzle game enthusiasts is its price, as Magnetica is not 
 a budget title. If that's your case, wait until it comes down and then get yourself a copy. Until 
 then, see if you can find someone who has it and experience the game through Download Play, otherwise 
 you'll only be missing out on a great and addictive puzzle game.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=magnetica 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Once again, the DS has a new title that adds just one more reason why this system is one of the 
 best things to come along in gaming. Magnetica is not the greatest game in the world, but it works 
 well. The graphics are engaging, the gameplay is fun and challenging, and there's plenty of variety. 
 It's just a cool little game you can pick up and hammer on for about ten minutes and come away 
 with a good gaming fix.
  
  My only criticism is the price. Right now, this game is a little pricey for what it is, but give 
 it a couple of months. I'd say this is a good $20 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDW101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Not everything needs to be the same. This is not for everyone. It may not even be for me but, my 
 wife is digging the HECK out of it. She also likes Tetris and about all the famous puzzle games. 
 She has indicated to me with many smiles how much she really likes this new MAGNETICA! I bought 
 her a new DS-LITE yesterday and this is the game she picked out. I knew it would be right up her 
 alley. Remember, not all games need to be up the same road.. Not everyone, and a lot of the gals, 
 really like puzzles and thinking games but not necessarily to the point of total frustration. I 
 think if you're looking for a great gift for that special someone that you want on your side with 
 the whole gaming budget, you might want to give this some serious consideration. Nope, it not for 
 the hard-corer but, most of the folks that make the game industry successful monetarily, aren't 
 hard core gamers. The hard core crowd is the minority for sure.... The masses do it for fun, relaxation, 
 and entertainment and this is a great choice for that!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReRush
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played Zuma, you've basically played Magnetica. This game has three basic modes 
 which are Challenge, Quest and Puzzle. The object of Quest is to launch little magnetic balls into 
 a line of other magnetic balls and ultimately destroying the whole line. To do this, you must join 
 3 of the same color. However, just launching balls into little groups of three will end the game 
 fairly quickly. Your objective is that when you shoot any color of ball to destroy the group, it 
 will be magnetized into destroying another group. At first, this concept can be confusing but will 
 become apparent very quickly.
  
  Puzzle mode is quest mode except the line of balls don't move and you only have a certain amount 
 of balls to shoot at the line. Your objective is to use all the balls to destroy the line of balls 
 without leaving any balls left in either stock.
  
  Challenge mode is a basic quest mode except you go as long as you can.
  
  There is also a multiplayer 
 mode in which you are able to use download or multi-cart to go head to head.
  
  Together, you'll have around 200 different challenges to do. It's really quite a fun game for awhile. 
 Sadly, many of the modes are so comparable to Tetris DS or another puzzle game availabe that modes 
 seem meager compared to that of better and cheaper puzzle games. Wait for this to come down in 
 price and snag it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
