-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Major League Baseball 2K7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/majorleaguebaseball2k7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's budget priced.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You're limited in what you can do, and the controls are unresponsive.
 No season mode or trade function.
 Graphics are a throwback to the early 1990s.
 Uniforms don't look right, and every player is the same bald guy with a hat.
 There's only one stadium.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 2.5, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 85 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Skyworks
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Mar 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
On the Nintendo DS, Major League Baseball 2K7 is a cruddy-looking, vague approximation of baseball 
 that lacks basic features every sports game should have. 

  Ever since the Nintendo DS came out, baseball fans have been waiting patiently for a company to 
 make a baseball video game for Nintendo's dual-screen portable system. Unfortunately, now that 
 2K Games has finally done so, the feeling you're most likely to experience as you start playing 
 Major League Baseball 2K7 isn't one of joy or relief. Instead, your mood will probably turn to 
 disappointment and regret as you realize that the game lacks basic features like trades and a season 
 mode, the control mechanics and visible action deliver only a vague approximation the sport, and 
 the crude graphics are a throwback to games people were playing on 8- and 16-bit systems more than 
 a decade ago.  

          MLB 2K7 on the DS isn't fun and doesn't feel much like real baseball.     

  Immediately 
 after you insert the cartridge and power up the system, you'll notice that there aren't many options 
 open to you on the menu. You can play a nine-inning game alone or against a friend, start a playoff 
 series, play in an all-star game, or go through a home run derby. That's it. There's no season 
 mode, which is baffling since the cartridge does provide three save slots for keeping track of 
 playoff games. You can't even adjust the rosters or create new players. When you're setting up 
 a game, you can pick a team and its uniform, as well as juggle players from the active roster and 
 bench, but you can't adjust the number of innings or pick a park to play in. In fact, even though 
 all 30 MLB teams and players are represented, there's only one ballpark. Judging from the outfield 
 stands and awning, it appears to be the old Busch Stadium that the St. Louis Cardinals moved out 
 of after the 2005 season.  

  It isn't just the options that they skimped on. The game's entire presentation is threadbare. Audio 
 is limited to umpire calls and some cheesy ballpark cheer inducers that play as often in response 
 to the away team's successes as they do for the home team's. The graphics are a joke. There's one 
 overhead view of the field and just the single outfield backdrop. The upper screen displays the 
 overhead view, which resembles Bases Loaded 2, a game that Jaleco published for the 8-bit Nintendo 
 Entertainment System back in 1990. Players move matter-of-factly in the overhead view, never once 
 jumping or diving. Meanwhile, the spectators in the stands look like circular blobs of color. When 
 you're hitting or pitching, the lower screen shows a "catcher's eye" perspective that encompasses 
 the hitter, the pitcher, and a view of the outfield behind the pitcher. This viewpoint brings the 
 production values forward a few years, roughly equivalent to what World Series Baseball '95 for 
 the Sega Genesis looked like. On the one hand, the player models are large and the head-on perspective 
 offers a good view of the ball as it leaves the pitcher's hand. On the other hand, the hitting 
 and pitching animations are jerky and the player models are the very definition of generic. Every 
 player is the same tall guy with a cap covering his bald head. Only the skin tone and uniform colors 
 change. Uniforms also lack anything in the way of team names, logos, or pinstriping. The New York 
 Yankees' uniforms don't even have pinstripes! That's pathetic. It's also somewhat ironic, considering 
 that Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter is pictured on the game's box.  

  Incredibly, though the catcher's viewpoint is the most pleasing to the senses, the game forces 
 you to spend a significant amount of time watching the overhead view displayed on the upper screen. 
 That's because for some insane reason, when a player gets a hit, the catcher's viewpoint is replaced 
 by a crude representation of a baseball diamond. To handle fielding and baserunning, you have to 
 watch and maneuver the tiny characters in the game's Bases Loaded-style overhead view. The Nintendo 
 DS hardware is roughly on par with the Nintendo 64 in terms of 3D horsepower, so it is capable 
 of producing the 3D stadiums, polygonal character models, and adjustable camera angles seen in 
 baseball games produced on the Nintendo 64. Instead, Major League Baseball 2K7 for the Nintendo 
 DS resembles an 8-bit NES game half the time.  

  Of course, graphics alone don't ultimately make or break a sports game. Shoddy graphics can be 
 forgiven if a game is fun to play and captures the feel of the sport. Sadly, Major League Baseball 
 2K7 falls short in those criteria, too. It's not just that fielders don't reach or dive for the 
 ball; MLB 2K7 suffers from an overwhelming number of flaws that get in the way of playing the game 
 and make for a loose interpretation of baseball. The control layout is the same one that every 
 baseball game has been using for the last decade or so, except that you have the option of using 
 the touch screen to select and aim pitches and swing the bat. However, despite the familiar controls, 
 you have no control over how hard your pitcher throws or how much power your hitter puts into a 
 swing. You also can't press the button early to have a fielder smoothly pick up the ball and relay 
 it to a base. Almost every baseball game in the last five years has let you preload throws! But, 
 without question, the worst problem with MLB 2K7 is that you have to overcome some serious problems 
 with the graphics and controls in order to accomplish anything. Picking a spot in the strike zone 
 to swing through before a pitch is thrown is weird, but it's something you can learn to live with. 
 Trying to hit the ball while the animation slows to a crawl and randomly stutters isn't. When you're 
 fielding or baserunning, the game will often ignore your button commands. You'll tap or hold the 
 button to have your outfielder gun the ball to second base or to have your runner advance on a 
 deep hit, and they'll just stand there. The only way to ensure players do what you want is to repeatedly 
 press the button.  

          There is only one stadium, the uniforms don't look right, and you can't trade players. 
     

  Some flaws are just plain embarrassing to see in a so-called modern baseball game. Pitchers don't 
 cover first base when the first baseman fields the ball. The simplistic physics only result in 
 a limited number of hit trajectories and don't produce short hops. Around the sixth inning or so, 
 the CPU's pitcher will begin to throw wild pitches regularly. For most people, the breaking point 
 will come after having played a couple innings, when it dawns on you that players are getting hits 
 when they're not actually making contact with the ball. Frequently, a hitter will finish his swing 
 animation before the ball reaches the plate, but, instead of racking up a strike, the game will 
 transition to the fielding viewpoint and show the ball sailing into the outfield.  

  Major League Baseball 2K7 on the DS doesn't really feel like baseball, and it isn't fun. The game 
 was made for a portable system and is being sold at a budget price, but these limitations aren't 
 the reasons why it turned out the way it did. Plain and simple, 2K Games and Skyworks failed to 
 do the job right. There's no excuse for a baseball game running on the DS to play this poorly, 
 look this bad, or miss so many of the key features other sports games have. It doesn't matter whether 
 you consider yourself a casual fan of the sport or eat, sleep, and drink the major leagues. Either 
 way, you won't get any enjoyment out of this pathetic excuse for a baseball game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Brandon1107
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This is an OK game. Right when you turn it on you realize there is no season mode, franchise mode, 
 or Create player mode. There are 5 modes, 4 are very similar. These 4 are a regular game, playoffs, 
 All-Star Game and Multiplayer. In a Regular game you play against the computer. The computer AI 
 is braindead. You can be pitching and there is a man on first. Before you even push the pitch button 
 the guy on first runs toward 2nd base. There is only 2 fields, one for the AL teams (Yankee Stadium) 
 and on for the NL Teams (Busch Stadium) . Also when you look at the stats of players they dont make 
 any sense. Every pitcher has a BA of .000, 0HR and 0 RBIs. Except for a few pitchers like Zambrano, 
 He has a BA of .000, 1HR and 6RBIs. Playoff mode is the same as regular games except you play a 
 team in a 5 or 7 game series. All-Star Game is the same as regular game with the 2006 all-star 
 teams and multiplayer is just you playing against a friend. The last mode is HR Derby. You see 
 how many Home Runs you can hit before you get 10 strikes. Also there have been times were my game 
 would go all crazy where baserunners legs would move and the baserunners stayed in the same place 
 while the fielders kept reappearing and dissapearing. This is an okay game for a small price like 
 20 dollars. I just hope MLB 2k8 for the DS won't be as bad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  On the Nintendo DS, Major League Baseball 2K7 is a cruddy looking piece of junk game. Ever since 
 the DS was released I have been waiting for a company to make a baseball game, but instead of feeling 
 happy about this game you may find yourself feeling dissapointed and regret as you realize that 
 the game lacks so many features that you can get on other platforms. It lacks so many features 
 such as a season mode, create a player, adjust rosters and countless other features. 
  
  But wait there is more. The audio is limited to only the umpire calls and the cheer of the crowd. 
 The graphics are a joke, there is one overhead view of the field and just the single outfield backdrop. 
 The players cannot jump or dive, teams with pinstripes do not show up. The game itself resembles 
 an 8-bit NES game most of the time. The game is filled with so many flaws it is embarassing, the 
 pitchers don't even cover first base when the first baseman fields the ball. The game is not fun 
 and you will not get any joy out of this poor excuse for a baseball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: todd100
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Major League Baseball 2K7 is an ok game. It is like an old school baseball game for the DS. I'm 
 not sure if it is the only baseball title for the DS but I'm just happy for their to be a baseball 
 game for the DS. This is all I expected in a baseball game for the DS, I didn't expect 360-like 
 graphics or franchise mode or anything, I'm just happy for there to be a baseball game for the 
 DS. What a run-on sentence!! The good: A good game if you just wanna play baseball!
  
  The bad: Every guy is the same!! It is an ok game that I would suggest spending your 20 dollars 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 03_Zoidberg
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Much better than most say would say. Very underappreciated. So what if its old school I like em 
 better that way. Dont get me wrong its not perfect. The graphics are in MAJOR need of work. I would 
 love to see the teams actual uniforms and ballparks (really is that something I should have to ask 
 for) and I want my SOUNDTRACK! The modes are fine I really could go without a frachise mode I dont 
 need it for my handheld purposes I get enough fun out of the Playoff modes.
  
  Bottom Line: While it has problems it is still an enjoyable pick up n play baseball game. I spent 
 a ton of time pllaying it on my way to the world series in the playoff mode. GO REDS!!!!!
  
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phat_tonyca
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Another year, another game. Major League Baseball 2K7 comes along but making its first stop on 
 the Nintendo DS and even the Game Boy Advance.
  
  While I must admit that I am a big sports fan and enjoy these sports game, I enjoyed the EA's take 
 of baseball (before that whole NCAA) over the 2K aspects. I always thought that 2K was rich in 
 stats, features, it just lacks a certain je-ne-sais-quoi for its gameplay. At least that was my 
 take for the xbox version. Also note I'm not a huge fan of the whole right stick click hit. These 
 new games that are trying to include the right stick is just annoying. Using these lines 2K sports 
 thought why don't we use the stylus as a baseball bat. It looks like a baseball bat.
  
  I can just picture the 2K Sports team brainstorming for their release of the game:
  
  - Person 
 A I know we are going to use the stylus as a baseball bat !!
  - Person B: Genius!!!! Incredible
  - Person C: Shouldn't we update the roster? Include more than 
 one stadium? Have real-life looking baseball players? Have at least some similar swinging style 
 like Pujols? Maybe Season play would be interesting?
  - Person A: Those are great points but I thnk the stylus should be the main focus release of the 
 year. And anyway we will have something for 2K8 to build upon!
  - Person C: I quit...
  
  And yes another chapter ends in another terrible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_weird
Rating: 1.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  THe swing and pith imting is off. You can't tell if it is out of strike zone or not. Everybody 
 looks the same and bats the same stats don't matter. The sound is weak, a very small range of noises. 
 The buttons register extremely slow. And it seems like the fastset player is the catcher. There 
 are no compliments for this game. DO NOT BUY IT!!! The consoles are much better and this game is 
 a bad attempt for trying to convert it to the DS. $20 is too much for this quality of game. A dissapointing 
 attempt at trying to make a realistic sports game for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InvaderSora
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Come on. It's pretty good. Yes, pitching is very slow for some reason, but the touch screen to 
 hit is brilliant.
  Graphics are alright. not the best i have seen on the DS&lt; but it is still rpetty good. Sound 
 includes YOUR OUT! , hitting, etc, etc. So, this is way udner appreciated. At elast rent it. It 
 is fun, even with the flaws in this game.
  
  I agree that it could be better, but actually give it a try. You will most likely have fun.
  
 
  Who knows? maybe MLB 2k8 will be better?
  
  Overall, i reccomend this for at least renting. Especially if you're a baseball fan witha DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Ok, I've been playing baseball video game for a long time and this one is one of the worst, not 
 only baseball games I've played, but worst video games I've ever played. Everything suxs in this 
 poor excuse for a game. The graphics are terrible The stadium look the same if your in Yankee Stadium 
 or Petco Park, the sound is like it came out of the Atari 2600, there is little features in the 
 game, but the worst has to be no season play, yes you play one game at a time and it doesn't even 
 save your stats!!! I mean come on guys I know it's a hand heldv and can't hold as much memory as 
 the PS2, PS3 or others, but I've played games like Final Fantasy 3 with over 20 hours or game play 
 tha looked awesome. I also played as my team the Yankees and Randy Johnson was still on the roster, 
 I mean he got traded months ago. The controls were also terrible, to include the pitching, fielding 
 and batting. 2K I'm done with you guys, I was dissapointed in the PS2 version of MLB 2k6 and gave 
 you guys one more change to redeam you self with this year. Now, on with The Show. Thank God that 
 the people at Game Stop was nice enough to refund my money, stay away from this stinker at all 
 costs, it was the worst $20 I've never spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newagedevil
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Horrible. It doesn't look good. It doesn't play good. You can't start a season and it won't keep 
 up with your stats. All the players look the same with the exception that they are tinted to match 
 their race. Pitching is VERY slow. Batting isn't any better. Fielding is just disastrous. Even 
 the ability to pitch and bat with the stylus doesn't add anything to the game play. Same stadium 
 for each team... just blah. Avoid this game at all cost. ....... just trying to make this 100 words. 
 just trying to make this 100 words. just trying to make this 100 words. just trying to make this 
 100 words. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
