-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: March of the Penguins
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/marchofthepenguins/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interpreting the movie as a series of environmental puzzles is a clever concept.
 Lemmings-style puzzles are intricate and challenging.
 The penguins are cute and look funny when they waddle.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lemmings-style puzzles are too challenging for younger players.
 It's a joke how easy the maze chapters are.
 A game like this should offer dozens more puzzles.
 Graphics and audio are much too plain.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 3.9, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 32 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DSI Games
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 27, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ironically, while this penguin-themed puzzle game seems geared toward younger players, it may be 
 too challenging for the average kid. 

  Just as the title suggests, the video game rendition of March of the Penguins is based on the award-winning 
 film documentary about emperor penguins. In the game, you help the tuxedo-colored birds migrate 
 inland, forage for food, and care for their young by solving puzzles and navigating mazes set in 
 the harsh Antarctic wasteland. It may seem silly that a company would make a video game out of 
 a documentary, but the puzzles and subject matter actually mesh together fine. However, what isn't 
 fine is that although the game is clearly aimed at younger players, the majority of puzzles require 
 an adult-sized intellect to solve. Anyone that's still in elementary school will probably shut 
 the game off in frustration long before finishing the first chapter. Conversely, anybody with two 
 digits in their age should be able to work through each of the game's 12 puzzles, but they'll likely 
 find no joy in doing so, because the graphics, audio, and overall presentation are geared toward 
 simpler tastes and fall way behind the curve compared to most of the other games that are available 
 for Nintendo's handheld systems.  

          Six of the game's 12 chapters are Lemmings-style puzzles where you have to place objects 
 in the environment to help the penguins reach the goal.     

  Half of the game's dozen chapters are reminiscent of the classic puzzle game Lemmings. The penguins, 
 as they are prone to do, have decided to march from one end of the level to the other. It's your 
 job to plant objects along their path that will help the cute birds navigate the various hills 
 and make it to the end without falling into the chilly waters below. Steps let them climb, tents 
 let them bounce really high, snowballs cushion their fall, and so forth. In all, there are eight 
 different objects that you can drag and drop onto the penguins' path. You must have solid spatial-reasoning 
 skills to figure out the right sequence of objects, as well as be able to make decisions quickly, 
 since the penguins are constantly waddling toward their perceived goal. Because this is an E-rated 
 game, they don't die if they fall into the water. They simply reappear at the beginning of the 
 level. However, the trade-off is that you only have a limited amount of time to finish the level. 
 If you have a mishap near the end of the level, there usually won't be enough time left over for 
 any stragglers to rejoin the main group. Factoring in trial and error, it can easily take 30 minutes 
 or more to figure out each Lemmings-style chapter.  

  The other six chapters are simpler maze-navigation tasks based on key scenes from the film. In 
 one, you have to guide a male penguin through a gauntlet of other penguins while keeping hold of 
 a slippery egg. In another, you have to dive into the water and catch fish while avoiding predators. 
 Compared to the Lemmings-style puzzles, these maze chapters are ridiculously easy.  

  Some might enjoy the challenge posed by the Lemmings chapters, if only there were any payoff for 
 doing so. Six puzzles is nowhere near enough, considering the typical puzzle game has dozens upon 
 dozens of puzzles. Furthermore, the presentation is much too simple to captivate anyone that has 
 other games at their disposal. The backgrounds are stark and lack color or animation. The penguins 
 are cute and have a smooth waddle, but they're tiny and don't do much except flap and shuffle. 
 It doesn't help that the accompanying audio consists of a few instrumental tunes that loop constantly, 
 along with some basic sound effects that are meant to be footsteps and penguin squawks. Between 
 levels, beautiful photographic stills from the film are shown, along with factoids about the emperor-penguin 
 migration.  

          The other half of the game's levels involve guiding penguins through simple mazes.     
 

  The game is available for both the Game Boy Advance and the Nintendo DS. Both versions have the 
 same levels, graphics, and audio. The DS version is easier to play, however, because you can use 
 the stylus to instantly drag and drop objects. The map that's always visible on the upper screen 
 also comes in handy, as does the automatic save feature. By contrast, the GBA game doesn't have 
 a map and makes players write down passwords to maintain progress. Of course, the GBA game does 
 cost a few dollars less.  

  Not that many people will or should consider buying either version of March of the Penguins. The 
 Lemmings-style puzzles are much too difficult for younger players, while older players will be 
 turned off by how bland and short-lived the overall product is. The silly thing isn't that they 
 made a video game out of a documentary film. The silly thing is that they made it too difficult 
 for one audience and too insubstantial for the other.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  When movies are turned into video games, they are generally released on multiple platforms to capitalize 
 on profit opportunities. DSI took this into account when they released the game version of March 
 of the Penguins, available on both the GBA and the DS.
  
  Split into twelve chapters, and just like the GBA version, March of the Penguins for the DS follows 
 the most popular penguin species, the Emperors, as they make their way through their breeding season 
 which is filled with obstacles and enemies. Level types vary, but they are split into four basic 
 groups, and are mainly played on the touch screen.
  
  The easiest of the chapters are the swimming levels, where you guide an Emperor penguin through 
 the ocean depths in search of food. Enemies are present, but I found the damage to be basically 
 nonexistent, allowing players to concentrate on the air bar, found in the top left corner of the 
 screen. As penguins need air to breathe, you can't keep them underwater for too long, and must 
 keep a watchful eye on their oxygen, resurfacing when necessary. There isn't much challenge to 
 these chapters, but it can take a fair amount of time to find the necessary amount of food to complete 
 the level.
  
  The next two level types are fairly similar in that they both take place on the ice caps as you 
 guide an emperor to their mate, safe spot, etc. One template has you walking through a maze of 
 penguins while guarding an egg, while the other has you sliding on icy portions, following a path 
 of snowflakes to your mate. The overhead camera angle in these levels adds a bit of difficulty 
 since you can't really see where you're going, but along with the added challenge comes the possibility 
 for frustration.
  
  The fourth and most abundant chapter type places you in control of the landscape while 24 Emperors 
 march across the screen at a very slow pace. Gaps and ice cubes block the way and it's up to you 
 to place various objects in the penguins' path to help them safely reach the other side. Tents 
 serve as trampolines, snowballs as cushions, and fish as lures to change the penguins' marching 
 direction. You also have a selection of ramps, stairs and slides at your disposal, and you'll need 
 every tool in your arsenal in almost every chapter of this type.
  
  These levels also include the only real differences between the GBA and DS versions of the game. 
 The first difference is the fact that you can use the stylus to drag and drop your tools in front 
 of the penguins, instead of holding down the A button while using the D-Pad. The invisible lines 
 separating each item from the other is a little obscure at points, so you might find yourself picking 
 up the wrong item, but it doesn't mar the situation too terribly.
  
  The other difference is the addition of a Binocular View, which is shown on the top screen. The 
 binoculars show you a zoomed out picture of the game play field, allowing you to see a bit farther 
 behind and in front of the current action taking place on the screen below. With 24 penguins to 
 keep track of at once, it's nice to be able to see if any are lagging behind, but the camera isn't 
 as far zoomed out as it probably should be, so confusion can still arise.
  
  While the idea of complex routes and planning ahead does add a great deal of strategy to an otherwise 
 simple premise, the backgrounds and environments blend so well together (being that everything 
 is covered in white snow or ice) that figuring out which item to place where can become confusing. 
 This is especially true when you factor in the background ice blocks, some of which can and can't 
 be interacted with. Consequently, you'll often find yourself sending the Emperors off of a cliff 
 to their doom.
  
  This wouldn't be such a bad thing, since the penguins regenerate at the beginning of the level, 
 but what does mar the situation is that every level is timed. While ten or more minutes may seem 
 like plenty of time to guide your group of penguins from one end of the level to the other, when 
 you factor in their suicidal tendencies, a limited supply of tools and somewhat disorienting backgrounds, 
 it's not an unusual situation to find yourself running out of time.
  
  Fortunately, these chapters are not the entirety of the game, and the other level types are easy 
 enough to make up for any irritation that the former levels might cause.
  
  While the gameplay itself may be a little too complex to throw into the hands of a younger child, 
 the overall message is not. Sponsored by National Geographic, March of the Penguins is edutainment 
 at its finest. Before and after every level, you are not only given the password to allow you to 
 come back to where you were (there is no save system) , but are also given trivia facts about the 
 penguins such as When searching for food, Emperors can travel hundreds of miles in a single foraging 
 trip. These bits of trivia are filler material at best, but they are great for the kids who would 
 be the main players of the game.
  
  But getting back to the actual look of the game, the graphics are surprisingly decent. The penguins 
 have individual movements and waddle to the their own beat. The gameplay is fairly black and white, 
 which is obvious considering the environment and the main characters, but there is enough detail, 
 on the ice cap levels especially, to keep children happy. The same can be said about the music 
 and sound department. There is something so cute about the honking sounds penguins make, and I'm 
 happy to say the in-game call is just as satisfying. Being that the game takes place in the middle 
 of the blistering cold, there aren't many other sounds available except for the occasional sloshing 
 of ice water and flutter of the wind. Adding to the almost quiet nature of the game is the background 
 music, which is very calm and almost soothing even though it tends to be repetitive. So while the 
 gameplay might be a bit redundant and perhaps even boring to the older generations, it is simple 
 enough in most aspects to make this a decent children's title, or a worthwhile addition to any 
 penguin fan's collection. Where most titles released today are considered too violent for younger 
 children to play, March of the Penguins is definitely not frozen in that mold, and will easily 
 provide a few hours of enjoyable and educational gameplay for those who do decide to pick it up.
 
  
  Review part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=marchofthepenguinsds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is more of a puzzle game. You have your Penguins and you try to get them all to the same 
 place by moving and useing objects because there are things blocking the path that the Penguins 
 are on. It was a little confussing at first but once you get going it was fun. The sound and graphics 
 are ok and the game play is fun for a little while but gets a little old after a while. Right now 
 it is new and cost 20.00 so I would say it is worth the money if you like these kinds of game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
