-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/mariovsdonkeykong2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Navigating the Minis around stages via the touch screen is great fun.
 more than 80 different stages, with plenty of variety.
 cute, colorful visuals.
 level-creation mode is a wonderful addition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You'll get through the main story mode very quickly on your first run through.
 some stages are still extremely easy, though not as many as the last game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.7, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 947 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Sep 25, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The new touch-screen controls, level creator, and colorful presentation make March of the Minis 
 an even better puzzle game than its predecessor. 

  Released in 2004, Mario vs. Donkey Kong for the Game Boy Advance took a decidedly more puzzle-oriented 
 look at the infamous conflict between Italian plumber mascots and oversized apes that has captivated 
 a generation for more than a quarter century. It was a unique and enjoyable spin on the typical 
 Mario brand of platforming, though it was also a little on the easy and short side. Now the battle 
 comes to the Nintendo DS in Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis, a full-blown sequel that 
 changes up the formula significantly. Touch-screen controls play a heavy role in the gameplay, 
 and no longer do you control Mario himself; rather, you'll control the Mini-Marios that you frequently 
 rescued in the first game. Throw in a new level-creator mode, an attractive presentation, and plenty 
 of Donkey Kong-style monkey business, and you've got yourself an even better package than the original. 

          Pauline returns from whatever dark pit Nintendo shoved her into for the last 20 some odd 
 years, only to get kidnapped by a giant ape yet again.     

  Much the way Mario vs. Donkey Kong paid frequent tribute to the Donkey Kong games of old, March 
 of the Minis goes right into nostalgia mode from the opening cutscene. It's opening day at the 
 brand-new Super Mini Mario World theme park, and the Mushroom Kingdom is all atwitter with excitement. 
 Mario's on hand to cut the ribbon, and he's brought a lady friend along with him. Is it Peach? 
 Daisy? His mother? Nope, it's Pauline, the long-forgotten heroine of the original Donkey Kong arcade 
 games. Wouldn't you know it, Donkey Kong himself is in the crowd, eyeing the comely brunette. And 
 when his offers of affection are ultimately ignored by Pauline, DK flies into yet another rage, 
 kidnapping the girl and taking her to the roof of the park. Now, it's up to you to rescue her. 

  And by you, we don't mean the usual hero in these situations, Mario; rather, we mean a whole mess 
 of Mini-Marios scattered about the game's eight worlds. March of the Minis follows a similar structure 
 to the first game, with different stages in each world, as well as a boss stage where you fight 
 Donkey Kong. However, the stages don't play much like they did in the GBA game. Here, the gameplay 
 takes a slant far more akin to something found in the Lemmings series. Each stage has a number 
 of deactivated Mini-Marios sitting in one spot or another. To activate them, you simply touch one 
 with the stylus, and it will begin walking in whatever direction it's facing. You can turn it by 
 swiping the stylus in the opposite direction, make it jump by swiping upward, and stop it by tapping 
 on the Mini again. The ultimate goal is to get all the Minis in a stage to a door that's usually 
 blockaded by a series of traps, pitfalls, enemies, jump pads, movable walls, and the like.  

  While the controls sound simple, the game itself is not -- at least not overly so. Navigating the 
 game's stages is less the tough part; more so, it's trying to keep track of all the various Minis. 
 The game is especially keen on you keeping a string of several Minis moving at once, and though 
 you can just as easily get through most stages only moving one Mini at a time, you won't score 
 particularly high if you don't keep a bunch of them going simultaneously. Fortunately, it's easy 
 enough to move the camera around the level, so you won't often find yourself struggling to figure 
 out where your Minis are or where they're headed, and if you can get them all together into one 
 string as they reach the level exit, you'll get a nice score bonus.  

          Steering the Minis isn't overly complex, but you've got to keep close track of them if 
 you want to avoid losing them, and get the big scores.     

  It's easier said than done. The original Mario vs. Donkey Kong may have been exceedingly easy for 
 a good chunk of the normal game, but March of the Minis is only overly simplistic for the first 
 couple of worlds. It's easy enough to get through most stages on the first or second try, especially 
 if you're not overly concerned with collecting the various coins and items that sit in perilous 
 places throughout each stage, or even with getting every single Mini through the door (so long 
 as you rescue at least one, the next stage will unlock) . However, to get bronze, silver, and especially 
 gold ratings on each stage, you'll have to spend a good deal of time practicing each stage, discovering 
 all the ways you can use your multiple Minis to get through faster and more efficiently. March 
 of the Minis is the very definition of easy to learn, tough to master, and it squeezes out a good 
 bit more replay value than its predecessor simply for that fact. You can bust through the single-player 
 mode in maybe three or four hours, but it will take you much longer than that if you want to hit 
 gold ratings on every stage.  

  You'll almost certainly want to keep playing, because March of the Minis is such a great bit of 
 fun. Stages rarely take more than a minute or two at a time, but guiding the Minis around each 
 stage's various obstacles is quite an addictive endeavor. There are so many little details to keep 
 track of, such as enemies you can ride or use to hop high distances, platforms and walls that can 
 be removed and repurposed elsewhere, switches that remove walls but create others, fire traps, 
 spike pits, water spouts, and so on. There's a great variety to the stages, even if the controls 
 don't involve more than simple stylus swipes.  

  In the last stage of each world, you'll go up against Donkey Kong in a boss battle. These are a 
 little different than in the last game, as technically all you're doing is launching Minis out 
 of a cannon at an exposed DK. However, there is a bit more to it than that. For one, the number 
 of Minis you rescue throughout a world's stages ends up being the number of Minis you can use to 
 shoot at DK. Hitting DK with a shot doesn't decrease your ammo count, but being hit with one of 
 the various objects DK throws down at you, or firing into a spiked barrier, random floating enemy, 
 or other such obstacle will cost you one Mini. You have to continuously rotate your cannon around 
 to avoid objects, as well as adjust based on where DK appears on the top screen, as he's quite 
 nimble and likes to move around. The last boss battle in the game changes the game up a bit. We 
 won't spoil it for you, but we will say it's much more like the classic Donkey Kong that most have 
 come to know and love over the years.  

  If you tire of the available stages at any point, you can opt to create your own using the game's 
 construction mode. With this mode, you simply pick one of the available worlds and start building 
 a new stage using any of the available set pieces, traps, and enemies found in those specific worlds. 
 As level editors go, it's a fairly easy and fun one to use, and you can create excellent stages 
 without having to spend hours at a time painstakingly placing items. But what fun would it be if 
 you couldn't show off your creations? Fortunately, March of the Minis lets you trade levels both 
 by syncing up with a friend that has a DS and a copy of the game or online via the Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 service. Simply hop online, hook up with another player, and send and recieve levels using the 
 easy-to-navigate online menus. It's a relatively simple process and a great way to add new content 
 to the game.  

           Mr. Kong, you may consider yourself canonized.     

  As far as presentation is concerned, March of the Minis is a sharp and colorful-looking game that 
 takes its cues from Mario and Donkey Kong games of the past. Though none of the stages are particularly 
 large, everything has a crisp, bright look to it, and the character graphics are simply adorable. 
 Mini-Marios are undeniably cute as they mechanically wander around a level, periodically turning 
 to the camera to cheer or crumbling to pieces when they hit an enemy or fall into a trap. The audio 
 design is also very well done. The music is catchy and even includes a few familiar old Donkey 
 Kong tunes; the sound effects are pleasant and don't repeat overly much; and the cute little vocalizations 
 the Minis make are hard not to love.  

  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 may not play quite the same way the original game did, but the new take 
 on the formula is a fun and refreshing one. The touch-screen controls are easy to get a handle 
 on, and with more than 80 different stages to play through, as well as the construction mode, you'll 
 find yourself with plenty to do. It's simply a great time for Mario fans and puzzle fans alike. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:51 am PT
Review:  Atracious controls make this game a mess. The gameplay is however attractive. Worth playing. Interesting 
 graphics.
  Mario and Luigi and Mario and Donkey Kong are very similar. This is still a terrific game to play. 
 I have had it now for six months. It is extraordinary. 
  Atracious controls make this game a mess. The gameplay is however attractive. Worth playing. Interesting 
 graphics.
  Mario and Luigi and Mario and Donkey Kong are very similar. This is still a terrific game to play. 
 I have had it now for six months. It is extraordinary. Atracious controls make this game a mess. 
 The gameplay is however attractive. Worth playing. Interesting graphics.
  Mario and Luigi and Mario and Donkey Kong are very similar. This is still a terrific game to play. 
 I have had it now for six months. It is extraordinary. 
  Atracious controls make this game a mess. The gameplay is however attractive. Worth playing. Interesting 
 graphics.
  Mario and Luigi and Mario and Donkey Kong are very similar. This is still a terrific game to play. 
 I have had it now for six months. It is extraordinary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkey_Face
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:42 am PT
Review:  March Of The Minis is a great game with good replay value. The story line is a bit lame, but the 
 level are awesome. For each level the objective is to get as many mini marios in the door (the 
 finish) as possible. Levels get more complicated as you get further in the game making you have 
 to use your brain. Boss battles are easy and a bit too repetitive, making it less exciting as it 
 could have been. Over all the story mode is pretty good and worth playing a second or third time, 
 but it's the level creator that makes this game so good. You can easily build, trade, and share 
 levels with your friends using Wi Fi. Building levels is really fun and you can easily build levels 
 just as good or better than in the real game. The better you do in story mode the more pieces you 
 unlock to build with, making this game have replay value. It's great game and definitely worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  Despite the popularity of Mario and his mates, the original Mario Vs Donkey Kong on the Game Boy 
 Advance was largely overlooked. It was an addictive platformer with heaps of Mario charm but it 
 seemed to pass under most people's radars, with not even a special edition red GBA SP emblazoned 
 with a Mario logo helping the game gather much attention. So it was a pleasant surprise when a 
 DS-based sequel was announced, since we didn't think the Mario Vs Donkey Kong 'brand' was popular 
 enough to warrant another offering. There have been a few changes though...
  
  For starters, don't expect the same sort of gameplay that featured in the first game. This is a 
 sequel in name only, since the control method and basic game mechanics are completely different 
 from those of the GBA game. You're no longer controlling Mario with the D-pad and guiding him through 
 a number of levels to defeat Donkey Kong, as the moustachioed plumber isn't even in the game (except 
 for in a couple of fantastic cut-scenes that make great use of the DS's two screens) . Instead you're 
 in charge of the Mini Marios, a group of clockwork toys who have to make their way to the top of 
 a building in order to rescue Mario's lady friend, Pauline, from the clutches of Donkey Kong.
 
  
  
  Although at first glance March Of The Minis may be reminiscent of puzzle games such as Lemmings, 
 the gameplay here is more relaxed as you have much more control over your Minis' actions. Instead 
 of selecting and assigning tasks from a menu, you control the Minis using the touch screen. Sliding 
 the stylus horizontally across a Mini makes him walk in that direction, while sliding it over him 
 in the opposite direction will make him go the other way. Moving the stylus up makes your Mini 
 jump, and tapping on him makes him stop in his tracks and await instructions.
  
  This control system - particularly the fact you can stop your Minis so you can think about what 
 to do next - makes the game less of a frantic test of quick thinking and more of a tactical, patient 
 process. Yet while this more relaxed pace may be better for your blood pressure it does make the 
 game less of a challenge. Maybe it's the fact that most of us at ONM were raised on fiendishly 
 difficult puzzle games like Solomon's Key, but we were able to saunter through March Of The Minis 
 without too much hassle. 
  
  And while we completed some levels in the last world in one go, other levels about halfway through 
 the game took us a couple of goes to get past. There doesn't appear to be any sort of difficulty 
 curve, with levels randomly ranging from easy to moderately straightforward. 
  
  
  
  Take It Easy
  Here's an example of a typical puzzle - and bear in mind that this is the 50-somethingth 
 level, so it's well past halfway. One of your Minis needs to get to the exit but there's a Piranha 
 Plant above him who's spitting fireballs so he can't get past. The plant's on top of an open blue 
 gate though, and another Mini is standing next to a yellow switch. If you press the yellow switch 
 the yellow gate opens but the blue one closes, meaning the plant is left spitting fireballs into 
 the gate while your Mini walks under it. And that's it. Okay, there's more going on in that level, 
 but it all consists of similar switch-pushing, gate-opening action. Once you've sussed the simple 
 tactic needed, it's just a case of repeating until the level's complete.
  
  It seems that instead of offering progressively harder levels, the game instead introduces new 
 gameplay elements and obstacles every few levels, such as magnetic walls, moving floors and rotating 
 pipes. However, the game's intuitive controls end up being its downfall because all these obstacles 
 can be negotiated with the greatest of ease. 
  
  Most of the enemies don't offer much of a challenge either since many of them don't do you any 
 damage, instead simply pushing into your Minis or throwing them up onto higher platforms. As a 
 result they become more of an annoyance than a danger.
  
  As well as the main levels, each world also has a whack-a-mole-type mini-game (unlocked by collecting 
 cards that spell out 'minimario') and a boss fight, which involves firing the Minis you've saved 
 out of a cannon towards Donkey Kong while avoiding his missiles. Though these other levels are 
 enjoyable enough, they too suffer from the problem of being far too easy for more experienced gamers.
 
  
  
  
  Thankfully, March Of The Minis' longevity is extended by its Construction mode. Here you can build 
 your own stages using the simple interface, meaning you can make levels that are harder than the 
 in-game creations. Once you've finished your stage of doom you can hook up to the Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection and stick it on Nintendo's server for friends to download. There are also some Nintendo-created 
 stages on there in case you don't have any mates with a copy of the game. 
  
  The level-creation function is a decent enough distraction but, ultimately, most people who buy 
 this game will only use the single-player mode. And as entertaining as the solo game is, the hardest 
 levels will be cracked before long. Yes, there are nearly a hundred levels, but when you consider 
 that's just over 30 pence a level, most of which you'll complete quickly and never play again, 
 it doesn't seem so impressive.
  
  Not-So-Tough Guy
  That's not to say that March Of The Minis is a poor game: on the contrary, it's an extremely enjoyable 
 puzzler and is great while it lasts. It looks terrific and it's packed with charm. The biggest 
 problem is that the sheer easiness of it means it might not last you that long. 
  
  If you're relatively new to gaming or buying this for a younger gamer then whack another 10% onto 
 this score but otherwise, Wi-Fi features notwithstanding, this potential classic fails to kick 
 into second gear when it comes to the difficulty stakes. It's like playing football against a team 
 of seven-year-olds: it's fun to have a kickabout but you can't help wishing that once in a while 
 one of them would run rings round you and give you a bit of a challenge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramzes64
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis jest kontynuacj bardzo dobrej gry, ktrej pierwsze 
 wydanie ukazao si na Nintendo GameBoy Advance w 2004 roku. Wtedy to nowa gra, z dosy 
 ciekawym podejciem do tematu:  przypominajca jednoczenie 
 pierwsz arcade'ow gr Donkey Kong w ktrej Mario zadebiutowa jako JumpMan 
  bya powrotem do korzeni jednoczenie wprowadzajc co nowego.
  
  W pierwszej czci sterowalimy hydraulikiem, ktry musia uratowa skradzione 
 z fabryki nalecej do Mario Toy Company" mae zabaweczki zwane mini-Mario. W czci 
 drugiej, ktra ukazaa si ju na Nintendo DS w 2007r, zaczynamy od ceremonii wielkiego 
 otwarcia Super mini-Mario Word". Przedsibiorstwo si rozroso, fabryka poza mini-Mario 
 produkuje rwnie mini-DK, mini-Toad oraz mini-Peach. Zaproszona na otwarcie pikna Paulina 
 po przeciciu wstgi dostaje od Mario i Donkey Kong'a mae zabaweczki z ich podobiznami. 
 Dziewczyna wybraa jednak mini-Mario, co zamao serce zauroczonego ni DK'a, 
 ktry z ogniem w oczach porywa j wind na sam szczyt budynku. Na ratunek wyruszaj 
 zabaweczki  bo to wanie nimi bdziemy grali w drugiej czci Mario 
 vs. Donkey Kong.
  
  Kade z omiu piter (wliczajc ju parter) to osobny wiat, na ktrym 
 mamy po dziewi zrnicowanych leveli i walk z Donkey Kong'iem. Kady 
 pitro-wiat wyrnia si te innym otoczeniem, wprowadzajc coraz 
 to nowsze przeszkody i przeciwnikw. Mi najbardziej spodoba si wiat Magnet Mania" 
 w ktrym to mini-Mario mog porusza si po namagnetyzowanych cianach i sufitach, 
 chodzc bokiem i do gry nogami. Wspomnie naley, e kady nowy element 
 (dwignia, ruchoma platforma, winda, itd) jeli pojawia si pierwszy raz w grze, 
 to w okienku HELP moemy obejrze tutorial" przedstawiajcy jak z tego korzysta.
 
  
  Sterowanie odbywa si w caoci na dotykowym ekranie uywajc do tego 
 stylusa. "Patyczkiem" wskazujemy kierunek ruchu zabaweczek poprzez krtkie manicie" 
 w lewo lub prawo (od dou w gr powoduje skok) , dotknicie mini-Mario zatrzymuj 
 go. W ten sposb musimy doprowadzi naszych malutkich przyjaci do drzwiczek. Wydaje 
 si to proste, ale aby ukoczy level - naley uwaa na wiele przeszkd 
 utrudniajcych zabaw, a gdy do ogarnicia mamy wicej maych Mariankw, 
 to gra nabiera smaczku. Z atwoci mona ukoczy kady poziom, 
 nawet nie doprowadzajc wszystkich obecnych na planszy mini-Mario, ale wanie gdy 
 s one w cigym ruchu, a do tego dojd do drzwiczek jeden po drugim i wszystkie, 
 to wynik kocowy jest wyszy  tworzy si COMBO naliczajce ilo 
 zabaweczek wchodzcych do drzwiczek, pniej doliczane s punkty za czas, nastpnie 
 czy zrobilimy to w ruchu cigym nie zatrzymujc ani jednego na chwil. 
 Dodatkowo jeszcze nagradzani jestemy punktami za zebrane monetki po drodze i zniszczenie 
 przeciwnikw. Zdobyte w ten sposb punkty okrelaj ocen - czy dany level przeszlimy 
 na brzow gwiazdk, srebrn, czy moe zot. Dla zachty 
 naley wspomnie, i po pokonaniu w ostatecznym rozrachunku Donkey Kong'a pojawi 
 si pietro (piwnica) z dwoma dodatkowymi walkami finaowymi z gorylem. Do tego wanie 
 s te gwiazdki, 40srebrnych odkrywa pierwsz, a 40zotych drug  dodatek, 
 ale zrnicowany pozwala jeszcze na chwil pocieszy si w singlu Mario vs. 
 Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis.
  
  Sam system gry dla wielu przypomina ten z Lemingw  doprowadzi wszystkich naszych do drzwi, 
 uwaajc na to aby ich nie straci po drodze. Sterowanie jest bardzo dobrze dobrane 
 i intuicyjne, spotkaem si wczeniej z rnego rodzaju wypowiedziami na forach 
 internetowych, e moe ono przysporzy problemw, e ekran dotykowy nie wyapuje 
 wszystkich komend, e mini-Mario czasem zrobi co innego ni zamierzalimy. 
 Ja si z tym nie spotkaem, grao mi si rewelacyjnie i z przyjemnoci 
 maziaem" po ekraniku stylusem.
  
  Jako bonus do kadego pitro-wiata, mona uzna porozrzucane w levelach 
 karty z literkami, ktrych komplet tworzy wyraz MINIMARIO", a zebranie wszystkich odblokowuje 
 minigierki Shy Guy Smash. S to trzydziesto sekundowe gry na refleks - musimy rozbi 
 jak najwicej wychodzcych z rur Shy Guy'w, uwaajc jednoczenie, aby 
 nie trafi na bomb, ktra odejmuje nam pi punktw (za jednego dobrze trafionego 
 Shy Guy'a dostajemy jeden punkt) . Shy Guy Smash jest odskoczni, pozwalajc si 
 odpry od gry waciwej - na kolejnych pitrach jej poziom trudnoci 
 oczywicie ronie (rury z ktrych wychodzi nasz cel" potrafi by niele 
 wykrcone) . 
  
  Po uratowaniu Pauliny satysfakcja z ukoczenia gry pozostanie, ale co zrobi aby cieszy 
 si ni duej? Jest co takiego  kreator leveli. Moemy sami zbudowa 
 swj poziom (przechodzc singla, odkrywamy rnego rodzaju narzdzia: przeszkody, 
 przyciski, przeciwnikw, platformy, ta  mwic krtko za dobre wyniki, jestemy 
 nagradzani zestawem do budowania) . Kreator jest prosty w obsudze, a samo budowanie potrafi 
 zaj mnstwo czasu (na myleniu, pniej testowaniu, poprawianiu) i dopiero 
 jeli uda nam si zbudowany level ukoczy  zostanie on zatwierdzony przez 
 konsol jako prawidowy, ktrym w pniejszym etapie bdziemy mogli podzieli 
 si z przyjacimi.
  
  W Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis moemy gra z innymi bezprzewodowo, dzielc 
 si naszymi levelami (kady grajcy musi posiada wasny kartrid 
 z gr) , a osoby ktre nie posiadaj wasnej gry, mog pobra od nas wersj 
 demo. MvsDK2 umoliwia rwnie rozgrywk przez Internet wykorzystujc usug 
 Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Tryb online wyglda nastpujco: musimy wymieni 
 si Friend Code z drug osob i zsynchronizowa j (levele te trzeba 
 synchronizowa) i dopiero wtedy bdziemy mogli udostpnia nasze i ciga 
 od innych ich poziomy. Ten system dla mnie jest dobrze rozwizany, bo obaj gracze nie musz 
 by w tym samym czasie online. Problem stanowi ju znalezienie kogo chtnego 
 do wymiany swoimi levelami. W Polsce znalazem jednego Przyjaciela" z ktrym wymieniem 
 si FC. Mona szuka te na zagranicznych portalach  polecam forum gamespot. com 
  ale nie forum oglne, a forum gry ( gamespot. com   Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis 
   Forum ) . Jest te moliwo pobrania omiu leveli z serwera Nintendo, 
 ale s one tam na stae i przez p roku nic nowego si nie pojawio (syszaem, 
 e podobno po wydaniu gry byy aktualizacje)  dlatego najlepiej szuka ywych" 
 tworzcych poziomy graczy. Sam miaem dopisanych ponad pitnacie osb, a kada 
 z nich zbudowaa co najmniej trzy levele co daje ju niez sumk dodatkowych 
 poziomw (a s i tacy co maj wicej i cigle tworz) . Trzeba te 
 przyzna, e niektrzy potrafi zrobi takie plansze", e gwkowa 
 bdziemy jak wskoczy na jedn platform, a ju samo dojcie do drzwiczek 
 graniczy z cudem. W pamici gry, moemy zapisa osiem wasnych wykreowanych 
 leveli i dwadziecia cztery cignite od innych osb.
  
  Audiowizualnie gra prezentuje si bardzo dobrze. Grafika w 2D, kolorowa mariankowa" znana 
 wszystkim nie wprowadza nic nowego, a utrzymuje si w sprawdzonych klimatach. Dwik 
 rwnie trzyma poziom (lekka muzyczka w tle, odgos nakrconej zabaweczki, jakie 
 brzdki: spryn, wysuwajcych si platform, wind, przyciskw, rozbijajcych 
 si mini-Mario) .
  
  Podsumowujc Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis mog miao powiedzie, 
 e dorwnuje czci pierwszej i tak samo jak jedynka", wcigna 
 mnie na dugo i daa si ukoczy w 100%. Zmiana grywanej postaci z Mario 
 na mini-Marianki te wysza na dobre, dopasowujc system rozgrywki do moliwoci 
 dotykowego ekranu DS.'a. Tryb online, pozwalajcy na ciganie dodatkowych leveli 
 dziki Nintendo WFC jest kolejnym argumentem na TAK", namawiajcym do zapoznania si 
 z t gr. Jeli mielicie przyjemno zagra w pierwsz 
 cz MvsDK  to mniej wicej wiecie czego si spodziewa - polecam!
 
  
  Grafika: 9
  Dwik: 8
  Grywalno: 9
  
  ----------------------------------------
  recenzja ukazaa si w portalu:
  www. retroage. net
 
  www. mario. er. pl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis is more than just a sequel to the original Game Boy 
 Advance title, but a whole new game with touch-screen exclusive design, a full-featured level designer 
 and Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection support.
  
  A mix between an action and puzzle game, Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis starts off 
 with the opening of the new Super Mini Mario World theme park. Just as Mario is about to cut the 
 ribbon with his special guest of honor, Pauline, Donkey Kong sees the gorgeous lady and kidnaps 
 her. Mario is now on an adventure to rescue Pauline from Donkey Kong, but instead of controlling 
 Mario himself, you'll be taking control of his Mini-Mario toys using the stylus and the touch screen 
 to control them. With over 80 different stages in eight different worlds to get through and a few 
 boss battles with Donkey Kong, Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 can be one addictive game.
  
  Each stage begins with a number of deactivated Mini-Mario's that eventually need to get to the 
 goal to move on to the next stage. Each stage is designed differently with a series of traps, pitfalls, 
 enemies, jump pads, movable walls, etc. to stop the Mini Mario's from getting to the goal. To activate 
 the Mini Mario's you just touch them with the stylus and they will begin moving. To make a Mini 
 Mario jump, just slide your stylus up and to turn them around just slide the stylus the opposite 
 way they are facing. Almost everything in the game is controlled with the stylus. Once you activate 
 a Mini Mario, they will just move in the same direction, which is why players must guide them to 
 the goal avoiding any traps or enemies. To stop a Mini from moving, just touch them with the stylus. 
 If a Mini Mario runs into another Mini Mario they will collide and turn around going in the other 
 direction. With so many Minis in a stage, it could get a little overwhelming to control all of 
 them so make sure you know where and what each Mini Mario is doing at all times. Guiding the Mini 
 Mario's throughout all the stage's various obstacles is very addictive and fun. At the end of each 
 world there will be a boss battle with Donkey Kong in which you have to hit him with Minis using 
 a cannon. The number of Minis you have to use depends on how many Minis you got to the goal in 
 that world. If you're hit with something DK throws at you, you'll lose one Mini. The boss battles 
 are pretty fun and help change up the pace of the game.
  
  The first few stages in the game are fairly easy and help players get use to the controls and design 
 of the game. Most of the stages shouldn't take more than a minute or two to complete, unless you 
 decide to collect the various items throughout the stages. One of the best additions of Mario vs. 
 Donkey Kong 2 is the full-feature level creator. Once you've completed all the stages in the game, 
 you can head over to the Construction Zone and design your own stage with all sorts of traps and 
 enemies. Just pick one of the templates to use and let your level designing begin. The best thing 
 about creating your own level is that you can share them online through the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connect 
 support. Upload your created level to be shared with players around the globe and you can also 
 download stages other players created. The level creator and the ability to share created levels 
 is one the coolest features in the game.
  
  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis is probably one of the most overlooked games on the 
 Nintendo DS. It's arguably one of the best games to use the stylus and touch screen so well. The 
 mix of action and puzzle elements makes this game one of the more interesting and addictive DS 
 titles around. With its addictive gameplay, more then 80 different stages to play, a full-featured 
 level designer and Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection support this game has tons of replay value and is 
 a great game for any Nintendo DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey Kong for the GBA was a great puzzle game and it was good to see Mario and Donkey 
 Kong's rivalry brought back. Now a sequel has been made to take full advantage of Nintendo's next 
 handheld, the DS. The game uses the touch screen magnificently and is a great puzzle game and with 
 only a few problems.
  
  Let's start with the good side of this puzzler. The addition of the Mario Toys replacing Mario 
 was met well. Instead of only controlling Mario you control 1-10 or so Mario Toys and the goal 
 is to get them all to the end of the level. Of course how can you control all of these at once? 
 That's where the touch screen comes in. You simply move the stylish across the Mario to point them 
 in the direction, and simply touch them to have them stop. The controls are simple, yet posses 
 depth and work great and just make the game real fun. This is definitely one of the DS games to 
 use the touch screen best!
  
  Another great new addition to this series is the level creator. With it you can make your own unique 
 fun levels and the system itself is addicting. I've already made 7 levels, all of which I love 
 to play and try and get a gold star on. The mode is fun, and you can even send your stages to friends 
 with online. You can also receive levels from Nintendo and play those bonus levels. It's really 
 neat and the whole thing works great! 
  
  Of course the whole game isn't solving puzzles. There are also 9 Boss Battles throughout the game 
 against Donkey Kong and 2 Bonus ones to unlock. The secret battles and final battle are all really 
 cool and fun to do over and over. The other boss battles..... well not so much. They can get repetitive 
 and are pretty easy. 
  
  That's another problem this game has. It overall is a bit on the easy side. You will rarely ever 
 get game over. The puzzles can be hard but that won't happen much. The game is also short overall, 
 but there is lots of replay value with the level creator and unlocking the bonus boss battles. 
 
  
  Also, one thing I really hate about this game is the story (well just the ending) . This game has 
 a good story where DK kidnaps Pauline and Mario and his toys have to save her. But the ending is 
 SO stupid! Seriously, this is an ending for little kids! I don't want to spoil it but know that 
 it's really dumb. Even the bonus video is dumb too! The ending is one of the worst ever! It really 
 kills this whole game's story.......
  
  The music is nice. Remixes of classic tunes are used here as well as a few new ones. The graphics 
 aren't too bad as well. The sprite animation looks beautiful and the movies are beautiful and fun 
 to watch.
  
  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis is a fun new take on puzzles. The touch screen is used 
 great, and the level creator is a great new addition. The difficulty is a bit off and the ending 
 is horrible but the gameplay and controls make this game so fun that you'll want to play it as 
 fast as you can until you unlock everything, and it's a real addicting fun twist on puzzle games 
 and I recommend it.
  
  Actual score: 9.25 (What I wanted to give, but GS uses .5 system) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I just have mixed feelings about this game. This game is pretty fun, but it's not very challenging 
 to most gamers. The game offers the option of creating your own level, naming it, and playing it. When 
 you're done totally tricking your level out (or it runs out of space to place items) , then you get 
 to test play it before it being fully completed. Once you get all your Mini Marios to the door, then 
 if you go to level design and choose play level, the box around the name of your level will be green. But, if 
 you haven't beaten it in test mode, then it's pretty much worthless. Also, you can't share your level 
 with another Mario Vs Donkey Kong 2 game unless if you have beaten it in test mode. As you'll notice 
 on the box, the game says Single Card Play, so you can play multiplayer! No, not really. It does say 
 Single Card Play, but if you actually read it, it says that the other player gets the DEMO and that 
 means that they can't play with you. So if you're looking for some decent multiplayer, then you better 
 hope that your friend has this game. Some levels can be a little challenging, but not by much. The 
 bosses are really easy, even the last one. They're basicly the same thing, you shoot Mini Marios out 
 of a cannon at Donkey Kong, but with the last boss, you have to make it up to him. It's not hard though, so 
 don't worry about it. Overall, this game is pretty fun, even though it would be cool with more cutscenes 
 throughout the storyline. I would buy it again if I could, I think you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firecookie29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Donkey Kong has taken Pauline and gone to the top floor. So this time, Mario watches as you guide 
 his fearless Mini Marios to the top floor of Super Mini Mario World. In this sequel to Mario vs. 
 Donkey Kong, you dont control Mario, instead you control the Mini Marios using the touch screen 
 and stylus. Of course the game starts of easy, but you'll eventually need to control multiple Mini 
 Marios at once, while making sure they stay out of danger. One thing is the same though, and thats 
 they're both 2D platformers. So im sure that you'll eventually get a gold rank on levels if you 
 practice enough. One of the best things about this sequel is that you can create your own stages 
 and share them with friends over Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. So I hope you have enjoyed this review 
 of one of the best puzzle games for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paalkaaran
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  It's fun in the beginning, but gets boring as you go on in the game. Using Mini Marios is fun, 
 but you have to make sure that the Marios don't get killed by the obstacles on each level of the 
 eighty levels. Every level is different and fun, but as you get farther into the game, it gets 
 a little boring. Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 is a lot of fun, but after you win the game, it gets less 
 fun everytime you play. It's not bad, but it isn't so great either. This game was fun though. Some 
 of the levels are a little hard, but not by much. The bosses can be quite hard sometimes. You use 
 the DS stick, but it doesn't scratch your screen or anything like that. Being the first DS game 
 I got, I loved this game and I think that anyone who liked the Super Mario Games would like this 
 too. This is my review on the game: Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  This is the best game! Very fun for kids like 12 and under. It may be a little to boring for kids 
 over that age so it may be enjoyable to play with friends instead. This game move your Mario toy 
 (Maybe they shouldn't have called it March of the Mario Toys) I kind of couldn't understand min 
 but they are Mario toys! But the best playing with your mario toy is going to building construction 
 and choose special mode cause' they also have a Toad toy, a Donkey kong toy, and princess peach 
 toy. But I don't know why they have to choose their own stage for these toys. But like getting 
 the last video is pretty hard. You need to complete B1 and B2 I guess... This game has your Mario 
 toy jump and 2 Mario toys go on elevator and all kinds of cool stuff but some of the enemies in 
 this game cheats and falling of a very log cliff breaks your Mario toy. I'm still trying to get 
 more gold stars so I can try to unlock B2 That's pretty hard to do but if you do a very great job 
 and score as much points as you can. I unlocked B1 at first so if you haven't unlock B2, keep trying 
 to get 40 gold stars to unlock the B2 version. Other than that, its the easiest thing in the world! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  One of the staples of the Mario franchise is spin-off games, from quality RPGs like Mario & Luigi, 
 to... not-so-quality games like Super Mario World Pinball. Now comes another spin-off: Mario vs. 
 Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis. Though it is a sequel to the GameBoy Advance original, Mario 
 vs. Donkey Kong, it plays quite differently. While March of the Minis is not a traditional Mario 
 platformer, the game does a decent job of capturing the spirit of a Mario game, and provides a 
 fun (albeit short) game play experience.
  
  The game begins with a poor excuse for a plot, which isn't even alluded to throughout the rest 
 of the game. Thanks to the huge success of Mario's newest products, the Minis, a new Mini Mario 
 Theme Park is opening. The guest of honor is none other than Pauline, Mario's first romantic interest. 
 Donkey Kong, jealous of Mario, kidnaps Pauline and takes her to the top floor of the building; 
 from there, it's up to Mario, with the help of his Minis, to rescue Pauline and save the day! While 
 it seems as if there's actually some potential in the plot, it's thrown to waste, sadly. Aside 
 from the cutscene that you view at the beginning of the game, there's no plot whatsoever throughout 
 the game. The plot begins strong and seems promising, but it's never developed to it's full possibility. 
 Unfortunately, this takes away some potential goodness from the overall gaming experience.
  
  The crux of March of the Minis is the game play, and the interesting way that the game is controlled. 
 You use the stylus for the entire game; all of your commands to your Minis are executed through 
 strokes and taps of the stylus. For example, to make a Mini go a certain way, you simply slide 
 the stylus in that direction; to make a mini jump, just tap it. Control is intuitive and makes 
 sense, and they definitely contribute to the ease of the game. Game play, also, is interesting 
 in March of the Minis. The game is divided up into floors; on each floor, there are 8 levels. Each 
 level is, in essence, a puzzle. The object is always to guide each Mini (ranging from 2 to 5 in 
 each level) to the exit gate of the puzzle. It seems simple, and it often is. However, there are 
 a number of enemies and obstacles that will get in your Minis' way; the Minis are fragile, and 
 will be easily broken if they encounter any sort of danger. Unfortunately, the obstacles are too 
 easy to be of much note. Instead of being a difficult, bran-wracking puzzle game, it rather becomes 
 a tedious, monotonous game. You do not have to think hard about how to avoid most obstacles, so 
 the game becomes more about executing the same couple of tasks over and over again, in an effort 
 to make sure all your Minis make it safely. The sad truth is, the puzzles are just too easy to 
 be of any worth.
  
  Another aspect of game play that makes March of the Minis far too easy is the requirements for 
 beating a level. It is not to get all of your Minis to the gate; instead, you only have to get 
 one through to successfully complete the level. This means that even on a puzzle that offers a 
 shred of difficulty, you still do not have to be very good; if you get lucky (which happens way 
 too often) and get one Mini through the gate, then the level will be cleared. Yet another problem 
 with March of the Minis is its length. The game ends all too soon, and the ending seems sudden. 
 It is quite possible to breeze through this game in a few hours. In addition to the fact that the 
 game is so easy, the levels themselves are also very short. You never have more than 200 seconds 
 to complete a level, and often they can be completed in 50 seconds. Also, you will rarely have 
 to replay any levels; they're easy enough that anyone competent should be able to beat them on 
 the first try.
  
  However, that's not to say that March of the Minis is not a good game, because there are certainly 
 some strong points about it that help pull it out of the mire it's descended into. One great thing 
 about the game is, ironically, the game play. While it is very easy and can quickly become boring, 
 it can also be very addictive. If you've ever experienced "One More Turn Syndrome" (caused usually 
 by games like Fire Emblem, Advance Wars, and Final Fantasy Tactics) , then you'll appreciate what 
 this game has to offer. Once you get in the groove of solving puzzles, it's pretty difficult to 
 stop, and you may forget it's simplicity thanks to the shocking addictiveness of the game. Also 
 serving to make the game addictive is the very fact that levels seem so short. Because the puzzles 
 can be beaten quickly and relatively easily, it doesn't seem like much to try just one more puzzle. 
 Trust me: if you give this game a chance, you'll find yourself constantly saying to yourself, "Just 
 one more levelafter all, it'll only take a minute." It's surprisingly nice that despite this game's 
 occasional monotony, it can certainly provide for some fun, sleepless nights.
  
  By far the greatest part of March of the Minis' game play is the special features that each of 
 the levels possess. All of the levels have a theme, and obstacles and enemies that you encounter 
 in that floor will relate directly to the theme of the floor. For example, in the Haunted House 
 floor, you will encounter Shy Guys and invisible walls; in the Jungle floor, you will encounter 
 forest-themed decor. While some of the floor's themes are a bit mundane, others are pretty creative 
 and provide a ton of fun. For example, in the Magnet Mania floor, there are a myriad of magnetized 
 walls through the puzzles, which your Minis can walk upon. The magnets provide more intricate game 
 play, makes puzzles slightly more challenging, and, as a result, make the floor overall more fun.
 
  
  The game also offers decent replay value, thanks to some unlockables and the ranking system. On 
 every puzzle, you will get a score based on a variety of elements: how quickly it was completed, 
 number of Minis successfully delivered to the goal, etc. Based on your score, you will receive 
 a bronze, silver, or gold star. It's a pretty rewarding feeling to get a gold star on a level, 
 and there's something unique about the ranking system in March of the Minis. In most games, ranks 
 serve no particular purpose; rather, they're there for the perfectionist players, who want to be 
 perfect on every level. However, in March of the Minis, collecting high ranks actually serves a 
 purpose; once you beat the game, you may unlock an additional floor of puzzles (that means 8 more) 
 if you have a certain number of silver medals. There are also other less mundane unclockables available 
 in March of the Minis.
  
  The graphics also come as a bit of a shock. In many puzzle games for the DS, such as Tetris, Meteos, 
 and Magnetica, graphics are obviously low on the list of priorities. However, because March of 
 the Minis is not a straight-up puzzler, there is the potential for decent, if not great, graphics. 
 Luckily, the developers have capitalized completely on that potential. The game's graphics are 
 bright, colorful, and beautiful looking. While it's true that the game is only in 2D, the game's 
 cheery graphics, which perfectly complement the feel of the game, prove what graphic potential 
 DS games can have.
  
  The boss battles, surprisingly, contrast the majority of the game and provide a genuinely fun gaming 
 experience. In each boss battle, Donkey Kong appears on the upper screen. You must shoot your Minis 
 from a cannon and hit Donkey Kong a certain number of times to defeat him. The number of Minis 
 you have as ammo depends on the number of Minis that you lead to success on the floor. So, if you 
 did poorly on most of the puzzles on a level, it will be difficult to defeat Donkey Kong. The boss 
 battles do grow slightly repetitive, thanks to the fact that you're fighting the same boss in a 
 similar fashion over and over again. However, the monotony is slightly alleviated by the slight 
 originality that each battle possesses. Each time you fight DK, there will be an extra element 
 of the fight; for example, DK may jump from platform to platform, or unleash fireballs at you. 
 These elements prevent the boss battles from falling into mediocrity, and instead cause them to 
 be a pretty enjoyable part of the game.
  
  The true saving grace of March of the Minis is the level creator. It's well done, very fun, and 
 provides numerous extra hours of game play time. You are given a huge, blank grid, and you may 
 fill it in with whatever you so desire: platforms, obstacles, and enemies. Interestingly, the level 
 editor may actually cause you to want to play more of the story mode. This is because for every 
 map you use, you are allowed to use one theme; the themes all come from floors that you have cleared. 
 For example, if you've cleared the Pipe Plaza floor, then in the level editor, you will have access 
 to all the enemies and obstacles that you would find on that floor. It's a lot of fun to create 
 levels and play them through. Since you can make your levels as difficult or as easy as you want, 
 the level editor helps to offset the pathetic difficulty in the rest of the game.
  
  Multiplayer mode is based entirely on the level editor, and is surprisingly enjoyable. Once you 
 have created a puzzle and proved that it can be beaten (by beating it yourself) , you may trade 
 it to another player that has a copy of the game. You can trade over local wireless; however, it's 
 even better to trade over WiFi. If you have someone's Friend Code, you may exchange maps that you 
 have created; you can have a total of eight maps saved at one time, so you don't have to beat a 
 map as soon as you receive it. Multiplayer is fun and simple to use, and will provide even more 
 hours of game play time.
  
  March of the Minis is an interesting game; unlike many games that seem awesome at first and slowly 
 get worse, March of the Minis is not at all good at first; you need to let it grow on you. While 
 it's not a difficult game, you can set the pace for the difficulty yourself with the level editor 
 and through WiFi trading. Game play is fun and addicting, although it can become a bit monotonous, 
 and the graphics are fantastic. If you're just looking for a game that will pass the time, then 
 Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamaFreakygamer
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  ... MARIO VS. DONKEYKONG 2: MARCH OF THE MINIS...
  
  ... I'm not to keen on this game as it was a big big letdown for me.
  I like puzzle games but 
 this to me was very boring...
  
  GOOD THINGS :)
  
  Good use of the touch screen and controles,
  Great music,
  Good graphics,
  Good story line.
 
  
  BAD THINGS : (
  
  Every lvl are like each other,
  You shold be able to do ALOT more!
  There shold be 3D maybe.
  When you get to build your own 
 lvl it should be easier! It has a limit of how many items there are.
  As some people seem atracted to WI FI games, I'ts rubbish as no ones on!
  
  ... You should definitly 
 rent this first but i dont think you can rent DS games but you know what I mean!
  
  ... Theres somthing else about this game but I cant put my finger on it!
  
  It sounds to be 
 good as at the end you face DK and its like the first mario game EVER - Donkey kong where you have 
 to climb to the top of the scafholding with mario, but im not keen on this game!
  
  ... TY for reading my reveiw... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minishdriveby
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario and his old girlfriend Pauline are at there grand opening of marios new theme park Super 
 Mini-Mario world. The idea was brought into life by Mario's toy line of mini Mario's, Donkey Kong's, 
 Toad's, and Princess Peach's. Donkey Kong is attending the opening and falls head over heels for 
 Pauline; he goes up and gives her a toy DK but is rejected when Pauline takes a mini Mario. The 
 enraged ape grabs Pauline and runs to the nearest elevator, breaking Mini Mario containers along 
 the way. So now its up to Mario and his army of mini toys to take town the beast.
  
  The game worlds are made up by the different floors of the building. The floors contain 9 levels 
 and 1 boss level. This game isn't a platformer but instead, a lemming's like action puzzler. Each 
 level as you escorting the army mini-Mario's (there's a different number of the toys you have to 
 escort in each level) into a door way. You do this using your stylus, which is a neat way to do 
 command the toys, and its also very responsive. You use the stylus to move the Mario's left, right, 
 stop (if you don't tap them they will just keep going in the direction you told them to go) , and 
 make them jump. Sometimes it's hard to make them all stop when there traveling close. If one stops 
 then the other will hit the one that has stop which cause these stopped one to start again, and 
 the others too turn around in the other direction, and then everything can get jumbled up. You 
 can also use it in certain areas to interact with the environment such as making a pink block walkway 
 for the toys or, making a platform rise so you can get the toy's to a higher walkway. Each floor 
 has a theme, which incorporates new environmental challenges. So it usually never gets boring.
 
  
  After Completing each level you are scored on your time, number of coins obtained, how many Mario's 
 went into the door one after another, and if you got the letter card for the level (more on the 
 card later) . The rankings are stars, the best is a gold followed by silver, then bronze, and the 
 worst you can get is no star. Well the worst is not completing the level but don't worry the game 
 isn't much of a challenge, each level takes about  a minute to a minute and a  to complete. The 
 Puzzles aren't real mind benders. Luckily there are about 80 levels.
  
  Now every level you're able to collect one card with a letter on it. Collecting every card in the 
 level will spell out MINIMARIO and unlock a mini-game. The mini-games are all the same, just tap 
 the objective number of shy-guys as they appear out of pipes (kind of like whack-a-mole) , but don't 
 hit bomb-ombs, and do it within the time limit. This is very simple and usually you do it before 
 another very simple task. Boss fights.
  
  The boss fights are shooting levels. You're usually shooting semi-live ammunition at DK who usually 
 throws stuff at the cannon or hides, tries to do something to miss being hit by mini-Mario's. Yep 
 that's right the ammo our mini-Mario's you saved in the earlier levels leading up to the fight. 
 These levels are very simple and easy too, you basically just hit DK 6 times which will not deplete 
 your ammo very much cause most of the time you'll have around 20 minis.
  
  The game starts out with a CGI opening, and then converts to a somewhat 2.5D gameplay. The toy's 
 and enemies are all in 3D but the backgrounds are in the basic 2D, colorful themes that you would 
 expect from a Mario game. The Top screen is pretty much blank just showing, how many toys have 
 made it into the door, and how many points you've scored. Though the exception to this is bosses 
 where Donkey Kong is on the top screen and you're shooting your toys up at him.
  
  The sound isn't too memorable, there is voice acting in the opening scene but that's just a advertiser 
 telling about Mario's theme park. There are good sound effects like when the toys break or when 
 they fall in water. Other then the sound effects, they've just remixed some of the old Mario songs.
 
  
  The games story will only last about a hour to a hour and . You can always go back and try to 
 improve your score, there are also basement levels that are unlock once you beat the main story. 
 The coolest thing to do after the game is to make your own levels in the level editor, you can 
 not only make levels but you can all play other peoples levels using WIFI, which makes the game 
 have an unlimited amount of levels (if you have wifi) .
  
  Overall it's a pretty easy going, short game only lasting about and hour 1/2 for more experienced 
 gamers, without the exception of level editor. If you're looking for something that's not much 
 of a challenge or something for the little kids, then this maybe perfect for you. If you hate games 
 that don't give a challenge then you'll probably won't like this. But I have to say this is a pretty 
 fun game for a rainy day, or if you had a stressful day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario Vs. DK. What is the game? It's a classic sequel to the smash hit Mario Vs. Donkey Kong
  
  It includes a construction zone, all new in the series. The construction zone lets you create 
 your own level. It's the best feature in the game.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the best of the series. The music is very creative as well, and you get 
 to see the enchancements. The sound is great, it is very hyped to listen to.
  
  The camera is focused on the character the whole time. The control is sweet, but is a little clunky 
 at some costs. The difficulty is hard, because the final battle is very confusing.
  
  
  The game is one of the best on the DS, as well as an instant classic. Go buy this game whille you 
 have a chance. Overall; this sequel is one of the best sequels ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnddmdb642
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey 2: March of the Minis is an excellent platformer and puzzle/strategy game, and 
 is in my opinion one of the best on both of those lists for DS. The 2D graphics are fun and cartoony 
 (if cartoony is a word) , and the gameplay is addictive.
  
  In the game, your job is to navigate the Mini Marios around levels and then fight Donkey Kong as 
 the end of each set of levels. Your minis must avoid large falls, water, spiked pits, and enemies 
 throughout the game. The DS controls using the touch screen are simplistic and fun to use.
  
  One of the best aspects of the game is the ability to design your own levels, and come up with 
 crazy ways to beat them. This level design will keep you coming back.
  
  However, March of the Minis is far from perfect. It is pretty short, and sometimes the levels are 
 too easy to beat. Sometimes the controls do not function as well as they should. But aside from 
 that, Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis should be owned if you have a DS.
  
  Rating: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnifas
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  MvsDK was very fun on the Gameboy Advance, but does the sequel satisfy?
  
  Yes AND No.
  
  Mario vs Donkey Kong on the GBA was very fun, but March of the Minis fails in the fun category 
 for the more hardcore gamer, but it still entertains and fill time on bus rides. In MOTM you don't 
 play as Mario directly, you play as Mario commanding the minis (2 to 4 per stage) to the exits on 
 the stage by use of the stylus. First an foremost when the title is Mario vs Donkey Kong shouldn't 
 we play as Mario, Second this is the follow up to the one on the GBA but it feels more like a spin 
 off.
  
  The Controls are very simple, tap or drag the mini mario and he'll follow your orders, drag up 
 he'll jump. With the far more complex controls on the first installment which was to revive the 
 Jumpman series, MOTM feels more like a downgrade from Jumpman with touch controls.
  
  There are 8 worlds in MOTM each with 9 stages, 1 bonus, and 1 boss battle. Stages progress from 
 very easy to easy world to world. You have infinite retries though you really dont need em unless 
 you want to be perfect. Stages are basically press the switches in the right order and time, preventing 
 you minis from dropping, or destroyed by monsters on the stages, and collect coins/Letter Cards 
 for points. As mentioned in the controls paragraph this game feels like a downgrade from Jumpman... Thats 
 right Jumpman is more fun than this will ever be.
  
  The game come complete with a construction set where you get to build your own stages using parts 
 from each world as you unlock them. The controls are easy to understand here.
  
  After playing this game up to world 6, I dumped it back into the pile of games I have and dug up 
 Mario Vs DK for the gba to play instead, this game doesn't deserve the 8.2 it has.
  
  Presentation: 6/10
  Level design is fun but too simple for some gamers. Nice FMVs.
  
  Gameplay: 
 7/10
  Controls are very responsive, but the game is far too easy. Not as fun as the first installment.
 
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  Too uhhh.... cute, not my preference. Preferred the first installment's style.
  
  Sounds: 7/10
 
  Good Music, not very memorable. Some speech in the game but I think MvsDK1's sound was done better.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal: 8/10
  Construction set is the only reason this got an 8, without it 4/10.
  
  Overall (Not Average) : 
 5.5/10
  Just Plain boring, no challenge. Rent it if you can, not even worth looking for in a discount bin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowser_jrFan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  It is a good puzzle game. But far 2 easy. You can make your own levels and trade them with Wi-Fi. 
 I went on it is fun. But you need friend codes. You already have Nintendo's friend code (There 
 levels are hard) , The story mode is easy . Other than that it is a good game. You can have Mario 
 mini, DK mini, Toad Mini and Peach mini. It is good if you are looking for a puzzle game (Not really 
 my type) The videos are GREAT. The music is okay. It is an okay game but not if you do not like 
 a good puzzle. You can send demos to people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctrdragon
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  On November 19 2004, Nintendo decided that DK would be in a game with him as a main character, 
 but Mario was the true hero! And on March 9 2007 this game was brought down from the heavens to 
 the shelf. I brought it and started to play it. It was perfect!
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  Mario, the president of the Mini Mario Toy Company has opened a theme park, the Super Mini Mario 
 World. Pauline, who hasn't appeared in a game for years is a guest VIP for the ribbon cutting ceremony. 
 DK is in the audience, and he falls for Pauline. He and Mario offer her a mini toy of themselves. 
 Pauline choose Mini Mario and completely forgetting DK, and finds him (Mario) cute, but DK get's 
 into a temper and kidnaps Pauline and escapes to the roof of the park. Mario teams up with the 
 Mini Marios to stop DK again.
  
  GamePlay: 10/10
  
  The main game is built into 9 worlds where you control Mario? No, you control the Mini Marios. 
 Each level requires 1 Mini Mario at least to make it to the end to continue. If you can't do a 
 level or bored of the main game, make your own levels with the Level Editor. You'll never get tired!
 
  
  Touch Screen Usage: 11/10
  
  The game is all touch screen! Building a level, moving Mario, selecting a level. You all need the 
 stylus for (or a pencil) . The only letdown is the sensitivity. That's all.
  
  Graphics/Sound: 10/10
  
  The game is mostly 2D but part of it is 3D, but it's great. The sound 
 is perfect. Different music for each world/level other than one tune ringing through your head. 
 Great.
  
  WiFi Usage: 10/10
  
  Got a great level/levels to show off? Then use a Wifi connection to do so. You can use Nintendo's 
 created levels and use friends with your FC (Friend Code) . No amount of chocolate can top this! 
 :)
  
  Replay Value: 11/10
  
  Play main game, Level Editor, Wifi, you can do anything with this. Do one, get bored of it so you 
 do something else, do a different thing, repeat something it goes on and on.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Only one comment for this: Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 7, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2
  The only loser is whoever buys this game
  
  Presentation (10%) - 7
  Controls (17.5%) - 3
  Variety (25%) - 4
  Audio (7.5%) - 9
  Depth 
 (15%) - 0.5
  Value &amp; Fun (25%) - 1
  
  OVERALL - 3.23
  
  My Review Policy: http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-24801077&amp; user=yodariquo
 
  
  Previously played game in the series: None.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay Outline
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 is a puzzle game in which you try to get your scattered mini-Marios to 
 the exit door somewhere in the level by navigating them passed various obstacles. You earn a star 
 rating of Gold/Silver/Bronze based on your score based on various factors but this is not neccessary 
 to complete the game.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication 
 Meter - 1%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Playing 
 this game more than once will not increase your enjoyment. Puzzles take no time and are pretty 
 self-explanatory. Although you have to finish the game to play the best level.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation 
 - 7
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 has a distinctive 2D toy sprite style that suits the game well. The Mario 
 and Donkey Kong toys are quite cute and everything is pretty detailed. Each floor (there are 9 
 levels on each of the 8 floors) has its own style, such as jungle or fire and the style changes 
 with mostly good results. The jungle enemies are a bit bland.
  
  At the start and end of the game you get high-quality CG cutscenes, the first that sets up what 
 little story there is, and the last concluding in a weird, unexplainable fashion. They don't quite 
 match the visual style of the game itself, though.
  
  Overall in terms of prettiness, Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 does quite well. There are a couple caviats 
 in the visual design regarding interaction, however. You control multiple mini-Marios in each level 
 (up to 8, usually only 3 or 4, though) but you can't neccessarily see the entire level despite 
 your Marios being scattered about. A simple alleviation to this little irritation would have been 
 to add a zoomed out view on the top screen.
  
  The other problem is that you can't tell at which ledges your mini-Marios will stop, and at which 
 they'll fall off. Similarly, it is not clear (although trial and error will say) how many mini-Marios 
 can fit on each platform.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls - 
 3
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The touch controls do not work. Simply, they don't work. You stroke across a mini-Mario in a direction 
 to cause him to walk in that direction, but it may or may not comply. It may ignore you several 
 times over. It may interpret it as a tap, which causes it to stop. Your stylus movements leave 
 a golden glittery trail, which even though you can see it going over the mini-Mario, occasionally 
 it will ignore you. You also stoke up to cause it to jump.
  
  In the environment the mini-Mario won't comply either. If a mini-Mario walks toward an edge that 
 drops into water, it may or may not fall in. If a mini-Mario walks toward a ledge, it may or may 
 not go down. If you use the stylus to tell it to go forward over that edge, that may or may not 
 get it to go, not because of it ignoring the stroke, but for whatever reason, it won't go down 
 that edge.
  
  If a mini-Mario walks into another mini-Mario, it gets worse, because it will turn around and go 
 the other direction, and the one it bumped into will do the same, which makes no sense.
  
  The boss battle controls are also weird. You shoot mini-Marios from a canon you angle by spinning 
 what can only be descibed as a pirate-ship steering wheel back and forth on the touch screen which 
 is slow and awkward.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 4
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The level design is too consistent for its own good. Despite a decent variety of enemies, it's 
 all basically the same. You make the mini-Mairos walk to the door without having to do anything 
 different in strategy, if there even was one in the first place.
  
  The boss battles are all basically the same also, although with a different theme and mildly increased 
 difficulty each time. The final boss is different and by far the best segment in the game, perfectly 
 fitting the subject matter as are the unlockable battles.
  
  Beyond that you aren't doing much but directing traffic which is pretty relatively simple. There 
 are two types of enemies -- those that affect movement (allow you to got places you couldn't without 
 them) and those who just get in your way. There's nothing very tricky to them, but there are a 
 fair number of them.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Audio - 9
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The audio is an excellent set of remixes of classic Mario and Donkey Kong themes that make it worthwhile 
 to take a listen. The songs range from throughout the series, from right back to the original arcade 
 Donkey Kong game to Mario 64 to the Rare Donkey Kong games. There are some instances in which there 
 is some original music that isn't up to par.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 0.5
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Really, the game is just categorized as a puzzle game by default. In reality, puzzles require thought, 
 Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 does not. It's getting something that moves in straight lines to a door 
 in a small level. The obstacles couldn't reasonbly be difficult as you aren't directly controlling 
 the mini-Marios, so they're stupidly simple instead. High scores in levels aren't so much the ways 
 in which you can go about the level (there usually is only one reasonable way) but rather be able 
 to manage the frustrating group of mini-Marios.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun (without online) - 1
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The simplest 
 thing to say is that Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 is not fun. That is a literal quote. It is not in 
 any way fun to play this game level by level. The boss battles are tolerable enough to suggest 
 that there is an element of fun in them but that is it. Other than that, it never came up in the 
 game.
  
  You go from start to finish and earn a score. The levels take 30 seconds to complete, and giving 
 yourself at most 30 seconds to take a look at the level to what you have to do, each stage only 
 takes about a minute in total. There are 8 floors with 9 stages on each for a total of 72, and 
 a boss at the end of each floor. It is entirely conceivable that this game could be completed start 
 to finish in an hour-and-a-half. But really, that's not the problem.
  
  Despite controls, the main issue is difficulty and general concept. If you are just trying to complete 
 the level (get the mini-Marios to the door) it is arguably the easiest game I've ever played, particularly 
 in that you only need to have one mini-Mario survive. On the other hand, if you are trying to get 
 the Gold/Silver/Bronze stars, the flaws in the game become utterly frustrating. It's not overly 
 hard, just aggrevating to control the mini-Marios in a chain, and keep them from wondering off. 
 In each level you get a score, and you score is calculated based on the time you have left, how 
 many mini-Marios you have, number of coins collected, and the bonuses of getting all three in within 
 so long of each other in a chain , and for not stopping the mini-Marios.
  
  If you want to get the Gold star for the level, you require all mini-Marios and the chain and non-stop 
 bonuses. Since you need the chain, any mini-Marios that take the same route must be moved along 
 together, and because of the non-stop bonus, you can't stop them. However, it is impossible to 
 just keep them walking in a direction just based on timing, because of obstacles, enemies, and 
 having other mini-Marios on the other side of the screen. Because of this, you have to pseudo-stop 
 them by sending them back and forth, which is completely stupid. Additionally, when the touch-screen 
 decides to ignore you, things go out of control, particularly if they bump into each other.
  
  They could have, at the least, had eight different mini-games instead of repeatedly unlocking 
 the same whack-a-mole game over and over. This ignoring that you probably already have three different 
 whack-a-mole minigames on other DS games.
  
  The game is the strangest combination of incredibly easy and frustrating. It's not entertaining 
 and it's not challenging. Conceivably the included level editor, which is very complete (although 
 unfortunately you can't mix elements from different floors, such as a fire enemy in a jungle setting) 
 could make it challenging, but it's the concept that's broken -- the poor design only makes it more 
 obvious.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun (with online) - 1
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  You can trade 
 your created levels with registered friends over Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. This is a nice additional 
 feature, but doesn't change the value of the game.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall - 3.23
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 is a game so genuine in its lack of entertainment value that it isn't even 
 fun to laugh at how bad it is. To emulate this game, try doing first-grade arithmetic for an hour 
 then punching yourself in the groin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JellyJake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  I will start with the simple but fun controls- now they are very easy to work, however they aren't 
 so easy to master if your after all the Golds. Graphics are nice &amp; fluffy 2D that Mario games 
 are known for.
  Sounds again are the normal fluffy Mario\Nintendo jobs. The game it's self is fun and very playable. 
 The games is based around Lemmings without having all of them coming at once from the same place- 
 which should make it easier- and to a degree it does. However as with the controls it takes more 
 to master.
  All in all its great tho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  One of Mario's greatest adversaries next to Bowser is Donkey Kong though it seemed in recent years 
 they had made peace, then we got Mario vs. Donkey Kong for the GBA which started the rivalry all 
 over again. This time in a toy factory.
  
  Well, Mario and Donkey Kong are back to mix it up again in Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the 
 Minis. Mario is now the CEO of his mini toy company and has even opened a sort of Chuck E'Cheese 
 style world for people to play with his mini toys. Also this time around, we see the return of 
 Mario's old flame from the original Donkey Kong, Pauline. Is Mario cheating on Peach? Pauline is 
 the guest of honor for the ribbon cutting ceremony, but after picking a Mario toy over a DK toy, 
 DK becomes enraged and grabs Pauline and takes the elevator to the roof of the building. Talk about 
 Deja vu. So Mario sets off to save her right? NO. He's a CEO now. He has minions to do his work.
 
  
  In this one, you won't be controlling Mario or for that matter hardly see him. For the most part 
 you will be controlling mini Marios through the various levels in a Lemmings style puzzler. You 
 use the stylus to guide the mini Marios around pitfalls. You drag the stylus across them to make 
 them move, tap the mini to make it stop and drag it upwards to make them jump. As well as the stylus 
 is used to activate things like lifts and platforms. It can seem a little tricky at first, but 
 soon it will feel like second nature. Eventually you can figure out how to get the highest score 
 by moving your minis so they don't stop and exit the stage in a perfect chain. It can be very addictive.
 
  
  Only a couple minor complaints. First of all, for particularly adept players, the game will seem 
 too short. If you're good with puzzle games then you'll breeze through this in only a few hours. 
 There are some attempts to extend the gameplay by offering two additional boss levels you can unlock 
 by getting enough silver and gold stars in the game as well as a create-a-level mode where you 
 can build a level and share it with friends over the Wi-Fi connection. Another complaint is the 
 boss battles. If you complete the nine stages in a level with all your minis in tact, you then 
 use them in a battle against DK where you use the stylus to control a cannon and shoot them at 
 the mad ape. The controls just don't work well here. It's too easy to oversteer and at times, this 
 gets frustrating.
  
  Still this is a great addition to the already solid DS library and if you're looking for a fun 
 distraction, this might be just what you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop_1717
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario vs Donkey Kong is a very good game. Gameplay: The gameplay of Mario VS Donkey Kong is quite 
 fun. You controll the Mini Marios to the door, while dodging stuff and getting coins on the way. 
 It is quite easy guiding the mini mario to the door but it is still alot of fun. The mini games 
 are also pretty fun. Graphics: The grapics in the games are pretty good but nothing special. The 
 thing that stands out is the grapics in the movies that you can unlock. The movies stretch on both 
 screens and is nice and crisp.
  
  Sound: The music is nice and the minis have cool sounds when you touch them.
  
  Value: You 
 can go through the game at a good speed but is fun while you play it.
  
  I recommend this game to any mario fan. I really enjoyed it and I think you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaterDumple
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Mario vs. DK 2: March of the Minis is an exciting, fun game for the DS. Styled after Lemmings, 
 it is a great addition to the DS titles. Controlled entirely with the stylus, March of the Minis 
 is unique yet classic.
  
  Its the opening day of the new Mini Mario-themed amusement park, Super Mini Mario World, drawing 
 massive crowds. Mini Marios are small, wind-up toys resembling Mario, and they have been flying 
 off the shelves. Te Mario Toy Company also has new toys, the Mini Toad, Mini Peach, and Mini Donkey 
 Kong. Guest of Honor Pauline is there for the ribbon-cutting ceremony. Suddenly Mario offers her 
 a Mini Mario and DK offers her a Mini Donkey Kong at the same time. Pauline chooses the Mini Mario, 
 and DK is seething mad! He causes a commotion, smashes the displays, and kidnaps Pauline, taking 
 her to the top level of the park. Mario must use his minis to battle minions, chase DK, and save 
 Pauline! This opening is told through a great cut scene that would look good on the GameCube with 
 its awesome graphics.
  
  In March of the Minis, you dont actually play as Mario, you play as the minis. in each level you 
 have a number of depowered minis, usually three or four, that you must guide to a door. Simply 
 tapping one or swiping it with the stylus will turn it on, making it do its trademark giggle. From 
 there, controlling the minis is easy. Swipe the stylus across left or right of them to make them 
 move constantly in that direction, swipe them upward to make them jump, and tap them to make them 
 stop.
  There are 9 levels in each of the games 8 themed worlds. In each level you will find enemies, 
 coins, and lots of other stuff to make it interesting. Your minis are virtually helpless unless 
 they get their mitts on a hammer or fire flower, so it can be challenging to get them all out without 
 one if them breaking. The enemies are quite varied. Shy Guys can be ridden by minis, while Bloopers 
 might try to jump on them. Crabs might try to ram them from the side while Thwomps might try to 
 crush them. The minis are cute with their high-pitched voices and funny attitude, so it can be 
 aggravating to see a Thwomp crush one without a thought. However, if you want to get a gold star 
 on every level, you will have to get them all out alive so that hopefully wont happen too often.
 
  
  There is a special card in each level. If you get every card in a world you can play a minigame. 
 If you beat it you will receive all of the worlds enemies, gimmicks, and the like for the Construction 
 Zone. More on that later. The game might not be overly hard alone, but if you go for a gold star 
 on every level it sure is! To get one you must pass a set score on the level, which means never 
 stopping a mini, getting them through the gate in a chain, and getting them all out alive. This 
 can be very easy or ripping-your-hair-out hard depending on the level youre on.
  
  At the end of every world you will fight DK as a boss. This involves moving a cannon from side 
 to side or rotating it and shooting minis at DK on the top screen. He will throw thihngs at you, 
 and if he hits a mini in or out of the cannon it will break. These arent really varied, but it 
 can be hard to get gold stars on them because sometimes the cannon keeps moving when you want it 
 to stop and the like. Not such a good part of the game, but not too bad.
  
  Also in each world there will be lots of gimmicks and such to make it interesting. Something basic 
 would be a pole that your minis can grab onto, but this game always has to have more than that. 
 In this game there is a wheel on the side of the pole that you can use to spin the minis around 
 fast and launch them off for a high jump. The game is full of things like this, and they really 
 give the game its personality and style.
  
  I simply adore this games graphic style. It's hard to describe without seeing it for yourself. 
 It's made up of realistic-looking sprites that move so smoothly you could mix it up with a 3-D 
 game if it werent for the black lines around everything, making it pleasing to the eye. The platforms 
 and such look pretty generic, but the moving sprites are just outstanding.
  
  The game has good sound effects. They have a pleasing, clean sound to them, as if they arent coming 
 from the speakers, they are coming from real life. A few of them can get minorly annoying, but 
 nothing big. Music wise, it is pretty much the same. Good, catchy tunes are pretty much all this 
 game has, except for a few others. Only a few are annoying, but most of them are nice.
  
  The ordinary mode is fun to play, and after you have beaten it a few months later you might want 
 to play it again. What makes you keep coming back for more? The Construction Zone. In this you 
 can create your own levels, almost identical to the ones from the main game! You can simply pick 
 something to put in the level and tap the screen where you want to place it. It can take an hour 
 or more to perfect a good level, but the time really flies by, its so fun. Then you can go on 
 WiFi and trade your levels with other people! This is a great part of the game. The only hinderance 
 is that a few complicated aspects of the game levels don't appear in the Construction Zone, but 
 it really doesn't hinder it much.
  
  With its great graphic style, fun gameplay, and pleasing audio this game makes a great title for 
 the DS. If you are more a fan of slow, strategic games this one may not be for you, but if you 
 like platformers or action games in general this is an overall outstanding game to add to your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love the Mario vs Donkey Kong games, and by games I mean Donkey Kong (1994) on GB 
 and Mario vs Donkey Kong on GBA. Having the franchise move into the touch generation was exciting 
 the first time I heard about it but after seeing gameplay sequences, I was skeptical. Never fear 
 though, the gameplay is strange yet will not be too unfamiliar to fans of the series.
  
  This time you will control the Mini Mario toys, and try to get them to the exits on the levels. 
 In your way lie big toy Donkey Kongs and other various obstacles. You use your stylus to direct 
 the minis where to go. This is easy enough and you will quickly get the hang of it. Just like the 
 originals I jumped right in and was able to knock out levels super fast. Many of the levels in 
 the originals were easy but had some really challenging portions that not only made you think but 
 made you act quickly. March of the Minis makes you think alot, but in the overall picture is way 
 to easy. Even getting the card in each board is pretty easy. Also, it seems much shorter than the 
 first two games, but that may be caused by its ease. The original Mario vs Donkey Kong is almost 
 like two whole games put together, one where you guide Mario and one where you guide Mario and 
 the Minis. March of the minis just seems unfinished. As for the WiFi portion of the game and the 
 level editor. Its a good idea and I
  was able to find some crazy hard levels online, but the online experience doesn't save the title 
 from being shallow.
  
  While its a blast to play, March of the Minis is over too soon and is too easy for experienced 
 gamers to really love. For the definitive Mario vs Donkey Kong experience pick up one of the originals 
 and play through it, if you've played March of the Minis you will be able to tell the difference. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  So I reccomend that youbuy this game.
  
  Gameplay: The game is totally stylus controlled. It seems wierd but it is actually really fun. 
 It also works really well. The game is basically a sidescrolling pikmin.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are just like New Super Mario Bros. A 3-D fore-ground and a 2-D background. 
 It works out really nicely.
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing. They are remixed songs of all the Mario themes. It is really fun to 
 listen to.
  
  Value: The game is cheap so it is worth it. After you beat the game you can try to unlock more 
 levels, characters, items for create-your-own-level, and much more. Also you can try to get all 
 perfect gold stars.
  
  Tilt: The game is totally worth buying. The wifi works well and the game is fun all around.
  
 
  So run to your nearest store and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Despite the fact that I only ever finished 2 levels with a gold star (silver for the rest) this 
 was quite an easy game. I took it on holiday with the intention of it being decent fodder for downtime 
 but I finished it all in 6 days.
  
  Asides from that it's very cute and colorful (as with most Mario games) and has some great gameplay 
 and tunes. It's a lot like the Lemmings games crossed with a little bit of snakes and ladders. 
 The puzzles are clever and fun to solve and it's never boring. I did find the lack of response 
 (only sometimes) from the stylus pen to be a bit annoying, but it wasn't that big of a deal.
  
  Perfect for kids, a decent distraction for adults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perphection
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  To put it simply, this game is currently one of the best games out for nintendo ds and probably 
 will remain that way. When you pick up a hand-held video game, are you looking for a a full length 
 epic game that requires days of your time, or are you looking for a simple, yet addicting game 
 to get you through a long car ride? if you picked the simple addicting game this is designed just 
 for you. Levels start of fairly simple, yet difficult enough to get you hooked and playing. As 
 the game progresses you are challeneged with more difficult levels and the occasional boss. All 
 tasks wi thin the game require you to use the nintendo stylus, and suprisingly it has been incorperated 
 into the game well. Overall this game is worth picking up, because like i said before, it is one 
 of the best games out for DS right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 26, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  March Of The Minis is a fun, and enjoyable game. It has a great puzzle solving style and reminds 
 me of Lemmings. Let's look at what this game has to offer:
  
  Gameplay: Although short, it's still sweet. It will probably take the average gamer a few days 
 to get through, but no more than that. Here's the great thing. Even when the main story is finished, 
 you can still try to improve on your current high scores, and there's even an amazingly crafted 
 level editor for you to try. The creators definately took time with this one.
  
  Graphics: Everything in this game is colorful, very well rendered in 3D, and just plain nice to 
 look at. It's what you would expect and more from a Mario game.
  
  Sound: Perfect. All the sounds, noises and music fits this game prefectly. Even the mian menu music 
 is nice!
  
  Value: This game is worth every penny. It may seem like a cheap quickie sequel put out by Nintendo 
 to hold people up until the next major game, but it's definately not. There is also sooo much replay 
 value, it's unreal! If you are a puzzle fan, buy it right away. If not, rent it first, but trust 
 me, any Nintendo fan who plays this will want to buy it anyways.
  
  Wow, this game seems perfect, like there is absolutely nothing bad I can say about it. Wellll.... actually 
 no there isn't. Good job Nintendo on this one!
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheddarLimbo
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 21, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario faces off against his simian nemesis once more in Nintendos Mario vs Donkey Kong 2: March 
 of the Minis. Donkey Kong has kidnapped the lovely Pauline at the grand opening of the Super Mini 
 Mario Theme Park, and its up to our favorite plumber to save the day  again. This time however, 
 Mario will employ an army of tiny robots  the titular Mini Marios - to take down the big ape in 
 a fun puzzle challenge reminiscent of the older PC Lemmings games.
  
  Each floor of the Park has 9 levels, and in each level, youll be tasked to maneuver the Minis 
 - simultaneously, or one at a time  and direct them over pits, into pipes and around enemies and 
 other hazards. Each level is something of a maze and will require that you get the tiny robotic 
 Marios from their starting positions to an Exit door. To pass each stage, you need only successfully 
 guide one Mini, so the game can go by very quickly. Most players will want to get the maximum score 
 for each level, though, and this will require that you not only get every Mario to safety, but 
 you must do so within a set time limit, and sometimes even within a certain order, as well as refrain 
 from stopping any Minis once they are set in motion. It can make for some fast-paced, sometimes 
 hectic, fun.
  
  The controls make use of the stylus to navigate menus and control your minis, and the only button 
 pressing youll be doing will be to move your camera around the level via the cross pad (the buttons 
 on the right side of the screen serve as a cross pad for lefties) . Well-timed taps and swipes will 
 make up the majority of your input. Tap a mini to get him started, swipe in a direction to change 
 his course, or swipe upward to make him jump. You can also tap a second time to make it stop, though 
 stopping a mini once its been started will result in a scoring penalty. The controls are simple, 
 and effective, and give you what you need to navigate the sometimes complicated landscape, without 
 bogging things down with too many inputs. Occasionally, the responsiveness of the touch screen 
 is such that you are asked for very refined directions that the game is then unable to interpret. 
 Its a minor frustration, and usually the levels are forgiving enough that a single miss-swipe 
 will not foil your plans entirely.
  
  Unfortunately, many of the levels wind up being far too easy, even with all those optional requirements. 
 More often than not a quick study of the environment will reveal the solution, and then its just 
 a matter of a few tries to get any necessary timing down. The later levels are sometimes an exception, 
 with complicated and occasionally frustrating solutions, but this comes a little too late in the 
 game to redeem the package on the whole in terms of gameplay challenge, or replay value. Worse 
 still, are the numerous levels that serve to showcase a new environmental gadget, only to never 
 see that gadget again in later levels!
  
  As you progress through the park, each floor is themed  jungle, lava world, pipe land, etc. - 
 but the thematic elements wind up getting lost in and amongst the more frequent components that 
 are common to all areas (like pipes, and conveyor belts) . Usually, it is only by looking at the 
 colorful backgrounds, or listening to the soundtrack that you will have cause to remember which 
 floor youre even on.
  
  The end-of-floor boss fights are also somewhat lacking. Each floor concludes with a boss battle 
 that plays out in an extremely repetitive fashion: DK hovers on the top screen somewhere, and you 
 control a cannon on the bottom of the screen with your stylus. The object being to hit the burly 
 ape several times with the Minis youve gathered in the level. The controls are always the same 
  swipe left or right to spin a large wheel which will aim your cannon or dodge incoming projectiles, 
 then tap to shoot. Since each boss level is formatted in almost exactly the same way, theres little 
 room for innovation, and no deviation in the control. Also, contrary to the other puzzle-oriented 
 challenges in the game, the only challenge in the boss fights is aiming you trajectories. Like 
 the other levels, you can play these boss fights again after youve beaten them once to try to 
 improve your score (youll need to perform flawlessly to achieve the maximum scores) , but you probably 
 wont bother. After the first few levels these fights quickly loose their charm and cease to be 
 fun altogether. The final boss fight does deviate from this formula, with a whimsical nod to the 
 past, but that level ends up being even easier than previous boss battles.
  
  Visually, MvDK2 is acceptable, but not outstanding. The design is charming enough, given the light-hearted 
 context. The levels are colorful and detailed, and the tiny characters are rendered well. Each 
 of the many toy enemies is cute and appealing, and the backgrounds provide a subtle, yet attractive 
 backdrop for the action. On the downside, since all the action takes place on the touch-screen, 
 the top screen is completely dominated by mostly inconsequential information, like your score, 
 and the number of Minis remaining. Additionally, the menu systems are just plain boring to look 
 at, consisting of the fa&ccedil; ade of elevator buttons. And as for the few movie clips presented, 
 they are so short, they almost might as well not be there at all. The sound and music are a pleasant 
 surprise, with tons of bleeps, growls and whirrs, to go along with all the many gadgets and platform 
 elements. The soundtrack is a nice collection of somewhat jazzy remixes of other Mario themes, 
 and they do a good job of highlighting the action without becoming overwhelming or obnoxious.
 
  
  On the whole, it just feels like there is a lot of lost potential in this games main campaign, 
 so its a good thing the developers included the level editor, allowing you to make puzzle levels 
 of your own and share them via the DSs wifi. With so many forgettable levels in the game proper, 
 its nice to have the ability to make your own.
  
  The plots not that great, but its about what youd expect for a puzzle game. The fun level design 
 brings the game together in a pretty solid package. For what its worth, Mario vs Donkey Kong 2: 
 March of the Minis provides an enjoyable platforming puzzle challenge on the go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the original version on the Game Boy Advance but in this one, its a Lemmings style 
 type of game. There are no tool bars on the bottom screen or a nuke button with it, you use the 
 stylus to guide your mini Marios to there exit. Just before you start on a level you can start 
 planning what you have to do on each level. Also on each level you have to collect tokens to spell 
 MINIMARIO and by doing that, you unlock a mini-game on each floor. The Boss levels are rather tricky 
 because your mini Marios are limited and the point of this is that there is about 30 of them you 
 collect on each floor. You have to shoot at DK in the right range and try not waste them and don't 
 let your toys get broken. There is a little frustration where on each level is trying to halt 2 
 of your mini Marios at the same time because when you stop 1 of them the other behind bumps into 
 the one in front and starts to move again and it takes a little time to master to stop both of 
 them at once. Getting a gold star after compeleting a level is hard because you need to compelete 
 a level quickly to save time and bonuses so your score will very high and getting a bronze and 
 silver star is very easy. Overall this is a fun game to enjoy if anyone is into any puzzle game 
 like Lemmings, this game is jus the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italgiuliano
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 13, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  I thought the game was very boring. It was too dependant on the touch screen. i like the touch 
 screen but sometimes it didnt respond properly. The graphics were decent but good graphics can't 
 back up a bad game. I also thought the wifi was absolutely awful. You could only send and receive 
 levels. That is not fun. Games like Pokemon DIamond and Mario Kart DS have good wifi because you 
 can actually contact other people through racing, battling, trading or even chatting.
  Overall i did not like this game.!
  I don't reccomend anyone whos ever played a Mario game to 
 buy it. I think i dont like it because i'm so used to the original mario vs donkey kongs and games 
 like super mario bros. 1-3, super mario world, and new supermario bros. ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Coming off its shortcoming prelude back in 2004, March of the Minis capitalizes on Nintendo's effort 
 to bring a puzzle formula to the DS that only focuses on the stylus. In fact, the stylus is all 
 you use throughout the entire game, and it plays many rolls in your success rate during a level. 
 The game begins with the unveiling of a new amusement park featuring Mini Mario, Toad, Donkey Kong, 
 and Peach as windup toys. At the red ribbon ceremony, Paula, the long bygone damsel in distress 
 from the Donkey Kong Arcade classics, is introduced as Mario's VIP. Naturally, just as the Donkey 
 Kong Arcade game played out, DK falls in love with the stunning lady, kidnaps her, and makes for 
 the elevator. Mario gives chase, but is unable to stop the elevator from going to the roof.
  
  While the storyline is somewhat vague, the levels are an impressive piece of work. There are 
 only eight floors all together, not counting the roof, with nine stages in each floor. If you know 
 what you're doing, or at least have an idea set and ready, most gamers can blaze through a simple 
 stage within a minute. With that said, it's no secret that this game is exceptionally short. But 
 there are a valiant few stages that can be quite puzzling. While you put your thinking cap on for 
 these certain levels, remember that you have a time limit to get your Mini Mario toys all safely 
 into the next room. Depending on the stage, you'll have a certain amount of Mini Mario toys, no 
 more than five and no less than two, usually, that you must advance into a door. Even by only getting 
 one Mini Mario through the door enables you to move on. There are no lives and no life meters; 
 the toys die instantly upon being burnt, crushed, drowned, or attacked in any way. Even falling 
 from a rather high elevation can break the Mini Mario into many pieces.
  
  Each level has various obstacles and contraptions that always make your run more interesting. Your 
 Mini Mario can jump on buttons to raise or shut pillars or send him flying to the next floor. Even 
 with the levels themselves being quite small, in fact screen size, the puzzle additions allow you 
 to throw, spin, warp, raise, or propel your Mini Mario to another height. To much of these abilities 
 comes help, such as moving platforms, warp pipes, bungee buttons, elevators, spinning bars, and 
 even your enemy toys. These enemies include Donkey Kong's very own toy clones of himself as well 
 as a few other familiar faces such as Shy Guys, Piranha Plants, and Thwomps. Many of these toys, 
 however, can be used to your advantage if you use them correctly. Just remember that at the end 
 of each floor comes a Donkey Kong boss fight that always get the blood flowing.
  
  When you beat a stage, you'll be graded on your overall performance. The three key ingredients 
 are Time, All, and Nonstop. Your time limit is set to three hundred seconds, in which completing 
 the stage gives you more points in that field. All simply reverts to getting every Mini Mario into 
 the door. If you cannot do so, All won't even be a point total to ponder. Nonstop is sort of a 
 mix between your movement and conservation. The reason it's not completely devoted to never stopping 
 is because there are certain phases in a level where you need to stop to simply move on, whether 
 a Piranha Plant is hurling a fire ball at you, or a Thwomp is coming down from above. In any case, 
 once your total points are racked up you can either receive a bronze, silver, or gold award for 
 that stage. This asset is an extra little motive that lets you complete the game 100%.
  
  Controlling the Mini Mario toys is incredibly simple. As stated once already, you only need the 
 stylus to control their every move, whether that is walking, jumping, stopping, or changing direction. 
 However, controlling more than one at a time can be a handful. There are cases where the Mini Mario 
 toys are moving in the direction you don't want them to go, and when you switch them around you 
 in turn take your eye off of the other toy, which could be on his way to a horrific death. The 
 Mini Mario will not stop unless you manually stop him.
  
  The only other mode you can really play is the Construction Zone, which allows you to create your 
 own level. Once you completely beat a floor, it will be added to the Construction Zone kit in which 
 you can edit any of the levels. As much fun as it sounds, it's more of a drag that an actual extra 
 exciting feature. The biggest problem is the lack of possibilities you have. You can't put certain 
 objects in certain spots, and you can't really get a good challenge out of a puzzle you built yourself.
 
  
  From an artistic standpoint, March of the Minis is very illuminating in detail and picture quality. 
 Cutscenes bring out the best of this ability, showing off visuals characteristics similar to a 
 home console. Even in your Options mode you can view images and videos of scenes that you've already 
 witnessed in the game. The entire level play is in 2D, but the graphics are still solid in terms 
 of a simple puzzle game. Perhaps the most impressive piece of stability comes from the sound. The 
 music fits each level theme perfectly with small touches that resemble the Mushroom Kingdom tunes 
 we've heard for so many years. During play time, your Mini Mario toys are instinctively noisy and 
 fired up. If you lose track of one, and it falls or dies in any way, you'll know, even if he wasn't 
 presently on the screen. In boss fights with Donkey Kong, things happen so fast sometimes that 
 you fire at will, but thanks to the audio quality you'll know if you hit Donkey Kong, lose a Mini 
 Mario, or just miss everything all at once.
  
  The most devoted Mario fans and DS owners should definitely pick up a copy of this game. With its 
 short game play, it probably won't last any more than a week in the most experienced gamer's hands, 
 but also note the Wi-Fi allows you to go head to head against a friend in these puzzles. Also, 
 it's not the easiest objective to complete the game 100%, just like with New Super Mario Bros. 
 Once again, the Mario vs. Donkey Kong franchise delivers an impressive puzzle-action game that 
 can get addictive and at the same time mentally challenging. There's no question it will enhance 
 your stylus skills and your mental reactions. March of the Minis is absolutely worth picking up.
 
  
  -TIsh- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRANDON_BURK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis is a sequel to the GBA game Mario vs. Donkey Kong. 
 This game did incredibly well, compared to the original game. Personally, I liked both games, but 
 this one is a lot better. The graphics in this game are showing exactly what the DS can take. The 
 visuals of the game are, for the most part, down-right great. The videos are put together very 
 well. As for the music, well the music is, not incredibly, but very well done and suits the levels 
 incredibly well. The majority of the music are remixes of the first MvDK and other Mario games, 
 like the NES Donkey Kong, SMB, and the like. The MvDK remixes are even better than the original's 
 music, which is a good thing. Now down to the gameplay. The gameplay is very unique and fun, and 
 it's easy to learn the controls. Basically what you do is guide the Mini-Marios to the exit with 
 the stylus, while dealing with enemies, elevators, and the pink blocks the you can pick up and 
 place. The game is also halfway to the easy side, but the game has a few secrets in it's sleeve, 
 after you complete the game. There is also a construction area where you can make your own levels 
 and send them to other MvDK2 owners either locally or around the world with Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. 
 Overall, this game is a amazing experience on the DS, so if you want a unique and innovative game, 
 buy this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  I first got this game because I'm used to getting all games of Mario Bros., but I wasn't really 
 expecting anything special out of this one. I couldn't have been more wrong.
  The general idea of the game resembles the one of Lemmings, so if you enjoyed this game, you'll 
 probably like this one too. If you didn't, don't lose heart, this game is different in many ways.
 
  Your main objective is to make the mini-Marios (little Mario dolls) reach the gate safely, starting 
 from different places and passing through different obstacles, in order to reach Donkey Kong and 
 rescue Pauline who has been captured by him again! The most impressive aspect of the game is that 
 even though the hole game is composed by a series of little levels, it doesn't get repetitive neither 
 tiring, as new obstacles appear.
  For each block of levels you pass you unlock a shy guy smash minigame and a boss stage in which 
 you face Donkey Kong. It is not needed to say that it keeps getting more and more complicated.
 
  If you intend to save all mini-Marios and finish every level with a gold medal, you'll probably 
 have lots of work and lots of ours of fun and puzzle breaking!
  The graphics and gameplay are great and the sound is really good.
  Another point that deserves 
 mentioning is the construction mode, where you can build up your own level, and as Mario vs. Donkey 
 Kong 2: The March Of the Minis is a Wi-Fi game, you are able to trade levels with your friends 
 (and even download a few from Nintendo) , so that you always have new levels to play!
  To sum up, this is a game that really deserves a try. It is very different from everything that 
 is available out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  A game I enjoyed very much until I finished. There is about 80 levels and not one of them will 
 take longer than 5 minutes to beat on your first time through. Basically you swipe your stylus 
 to make a mini walk and swipe up for mini to jump. There is a lot of variety to the like elevators 
 and shy guys. After you finish a level, you get a bronze, silver, or gold star, depending on how 
 efficiently, quickly, and the number of coins you get. It's challenging to get a gold but not fun 
 enough to spend 40 hours on.
  
  The graphic are good but we've seen better.
  
  The sound is good but We've heard better.
  
  You'll beat the game in 4 hours or so, and you 
 can share levels over Wi-Fi, as well as go for the gold, but the fun wears off quickly.
  
  I enjoyed this game, but thought it was to short to deserve a better rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  MotM is a obstacle based puzzle game that draws its influences from classics such as Lemmings, 
 Bolderdash and, of course, Super Mario Bros. The basic plot has DK and Mario opening a factory 
 to make Mini-Mario toys: wind-up, clockwork Marios. But DK is overcome with jealousy when he sees 
 Peach and Mario together at the opening and kidnaps Peach, escaping into the Factory. You have 
 to get your Mini-Marios to the exit in each of the 80 rooms across 10 floors of the Factory, plus 
 beat DK in a series of boss battles. Various obstacles obstruct your Mini-Marios, and you must 
 work out the best way to use your clockwork Marios. In each room your Marios must collect coins, 
 avoid nasties, unlock mini-games (collecting cards) and find the safe route to the exit. Combo-bonuses 
 are awarded for getting all your Marios to the exit in sequence. The stylus is used to start and 
 stop the Mini-Marios, as well as operate some of the room objects such as lifts, poles and springs. 
 MotM is a deceptively simple game that often requires a great deal of planning and thought on the 
 sequence in which you move and use your Marios. Graphically, the game is as you would expect: cute, 
 bright and functional. There is some FMV included, which is a nice touch on the DS. The music too 
 is suitably Mario-esque, and some of the plumbers little sayings make it into the game too.
  
  Unfortunately, there is no multiplayer -either download or multi-card-, but you can design 
 your own levels are share them with friends over the wireless link. The level designer is solid, 
 and inspires you to complete the game to get all of its features. MotM is a fairly short game (8-12 
 hours) , but as with all Mario games you need to work hard to get the gold star rank on each level. 
 The difficulty is just right, and the challenge increases at a linear pace as you advance through 
 the game.
  
  Overall, Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis is a great little puzzle game, and a nice 
 variation on the Mario formula. If you have a DS, I can definitely recommend this game.
  
  Gameplay = 9
  Graphics = 7
  Sound = 7
  Value = 7
  Tilt = 9
  
  Overall = 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamy30
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I was expecting to get a challenging game like the first game for the GBA, and the original for 
 the gameboy. However using the stylis to control the mini marios is dull, i much prefered controlling 
 mario and making him do all sorts of jumps around the stage to get the key, i found that much more 
 fun and worthwhile.
  However i liked the quirky music and the colourful graphics this was appealing, but looking across 
 the map every few seconds and making sure all mini marios got in the door at the right time was 
 real boring. The mini game on each world was ok... They should of varied them atleast, i think 
 by not making different mini games made the game worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AThepro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  One thing about this game is that you feel challenged. It's one of the most addicting games i've 
 ever played in my life with a Nintendo DS. I was stumped the first time I played. After that, I 
 was amazed how addicted I wanted to get all those Mini Marios in. It's just the right difficulty 
 I need to give my brain the teaser it demands in a game like this one. It's unique that the puzzle 
 has many creative obstacles and scenic backgrounds that differ them to other various unique ones. 
 The music blends in with the background excellently. It took me just about 5 minutes to learn everything. 
 Once I found out I had a GOLD MEDAL, I finally got addicted, I said I'll do more . Now i'm a MVDK2 
 addict. My game is on now, i'm going to finish up the rest. You should too, it's worth the addiction 
 and worth buying to start the worthiness of playing this godly game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendogamer94
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I've only played a demo of this game but it looks really cool. Im planning on buying it soon. In 
 my opinion I think it is a must have game. I rated it a 9.6. I give a thumbs up and five stars. 
 Wifi looks really cool too. The game is cool because you use the touch screen to move all the Marios 
 around. On some levels there are even gold marios that give you extra points. And there's also 
 levels with Donkey Kong which is really fun. This game is worth playing and worth having. I also 
 like it because it is challenging and very puzzling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolred
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  The first Mario Vs. Donkey could be typically described as short but sweet. It wasn't a terribly 
 long game, and it wasn't very difficult either, but it was a lot of fun to play, and it carried 
 a pretty refreshing gameplay style for a Mario game. Mario Vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis 
 could be described similarly. Although there are a little over 80 stages to play through, none 
 of them should take you too long to get through, unless you are aiming for the high score. There 
 are, however, a few little tidbits here and there which can lengthen the game-playing experience 
 significantly, such as bonus mini-games, boss fights, and a fun little create-a-level mode.
  
  The story, once again, is pretty simple and not difficult to understand. The Mini-Mario toys 
 from the first game were such a success, that Toad, Peach, and Donkey Kong models have all been 
 released. Also, Mario has decided to open up a new theme park based on the toys: Super Mini-Mario 
 World. It is the grand opening, and Mario is there for the ribbon cutting ceremony. The person 
 cutting the ribbon is none other than Pauline, the same woman who Donkey Kong kidnapped in the 
 classic Donky Kong game. Donkey Kong offers her one of his mini toys, only to be rejected. In a 
 rage, he kidnaps her and heads to the roof of the theme park.
  
  Mario sends the Minis to rescue her, and the game begins here. Unlike the first game, you don't 
 control Mario. This time, you control the Mini-Marios, which is a lot of fun for various reasons. 
 In each stage, you must get the Minis to the exit, all the while avoiding traps and enemies, and 
 hitting switches to get there. Instead of D-pad controls for movement and A button presses for 
 jumping, you control all movement through the Nintendo DS's touch screen. A quick swipe to the 
 right or left will make the Minis go in that direction, while an upward swipe will make them jump. 
 Because you sometimes have up to four Minis to get to the exit, all scattered throughout the room 
 in the beginning, you really have to watch them and make sure they are safe. If you wish to achieve 
 the high score, you must reunite them, and make sure they exit one after another for a chain bonus. 
 You can always tap them to make them stop, but this makes the game too easy, and makes it impossible 
 to get the nonstop bonus. Keeping these things in mind, and adding the switch pressing and bridge-placing 
 mechanics makes this game feel more like a puzzle game than the first.
  
  The game's layout is split up into eight floors, each with nine stages, one mini-game, and one 
 boss fight against Donkey Kong. The boss fights are fun, if not simplistic, and basically require 
 you to smack DK by shooting Minis out of a canon. There are enemies that can break your Minis, 
 but they aren't too hard to avoid.
  
  Clearing floors and the aforementioned mini-games unlocks bonuses for the game's Edit Mode. This 
 is one of the game's most appealing features, and if you can connect your DS online, it is possible 
 to send and receive levels. In this sense, the number of levels you can play is seemingly endless, 
 which is good because this game is so short, simple, and addictive, that it keeps you wanting more, 
 long after you've finished the main story. Creating levels is simple and intuitive. By using the 
 stylus and the touch screen, you simply put obstacles, enemies, and prizes wherever you want and 
 set up the level's layout. You can put elevators, treadmills, and springs in your custom levels 
 as well.
  
  The graphical style used in this game is very colorful, much like the first game. But unlike the 
 first game, everything is much sharper here, and the environments are prettier to look at. The 
 sound is pretty much what you would expect too. There isn't as much speech as there was in the 
 first game, but the soundtrack is charming and fits each stage's theme.
  
  Mario Vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis is, like the first game, not very difficult and not 
 very long. But with nicer graphics, a new control scheme, and a deep system which you can use to 
 create and trade levels, this game is definitely worth checking out, and it is safe to say that 
 it is a far better game than its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushroomer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  What can I say. This game has been my game for the year 2006 and is continuing to be for 2007. 
 Why? The level editor.
  
  The main game itself is not memorable. The only reason I played through the main game was because 
 it would unlock the different templates for the level editor.
  
  So let me skip the review of the main game if you wouldn't mind and skip to my review of the Level 
 Editor Review.
  
  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 - LEVEL EDITOR REVIEW
  
  I cannot start to praise the people that came up with this feature. Among other games such as Exitebike, 
 Elebits and Lode Runner (famicom) , this game has one of the best level editors of its kind. There 
 are some items that couldn't be included from the main game such as pipes that lead off screen 
 and balance weights but the crazy amount of enemies and world map tiles allow for some of the most 
 exciting level editing out there on the market.
  
  If you have this game and have allowed it to collect dust, please pull it out again and get involved 
 with the creative group of people out there that are hungry to play and share their levels with 
 others. I would have to say that I have been a little more than addicted to making levels. Levels 
 that nobody can pass. If you would like to play my levels please PM me and Ill make sure you get 
 to play them.
  
  I would have to say that this game has attracted quite a few 'fair weather fans' and in the many 
 forums I am registered to, I have seen great level designers create 8 - 24 levels, and then they 
 are done. Their levels are still available online, but they are from November 2006 and so forth.
 
  
  England will be getting into the action starting March so what better time for us on the Stateside 
 to get a head start over the Europeans who will probably help the population of this games' wi-fi 
 features. here are some helpful links:
  FC Trading Thread:
  http://uk. gamespot. com/ds/action/mariovsdonkeykong2/forum. html? board_id=m-1-932770&amp; pid=932770
 
  Mario VS DK 2 Union:
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/unions/forums/show_topics. php? board_id=909182414&amp; union_id=12434 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey Kong March of the Minis Review
  Three years ago, or so, a game entitled Mario vs. Donkey Kong was released on the Game Boy Advance. 
 It was a simple puzzling plat-former that didnt require much effort to beat. With complaints and 
 complements, Nintendo soon got to work with a sequel to this original Mario game. A few months 
 ago, the game had finally been created. Nintendo must have noted the complaints and complements, 
 for they have made everything in this game improved and much more of an enjoyable experience. Sticking 
 with some of the popular roots and improving on the not so great parts of the game, March of the 
 Minis surpasses its predecessor by a long shot. Game-Play: If youve played the original Mario 
 vs. Donkey Kong, you probably had your experience with March of the Minis major objectives as far 
 as a story line goes. March of the Minis has a story very similar to the original game, and the 
 way you get to goals of the levels is exactly the same. The story starts with Donkey Kong stealing 
 Pauline and you as the Minis must save her, by completing 8 floors, each containing 10 rooms (levels) . 
 This plays off of DK stealing the Mini Marios in the original game and you have to free them as 
 you progress. Anyways, you start off on a floor, and then a room. Once you clear out the 9 rooms 
 of each floor, you face the boss. Donkey Kong is the boss of every floor, and he always has 6 hit 
 points. You must fire the Minis at him to defeat him. However, he throws things at you to destroy 
 your Mini lineup. If you lose all of your Minis, which is usually about 25, you will lose. Another 
 more common way of losing is by running out of time. So not only do you have to be conservative, 
 you must also be able to keep as many Minis as possible. Thus, boss fights are trickier than they 
 may seem, especially as the challenges in each fight grow as you progress. The control of the Minis 
 is all about the Stylus. This is the only tool needed in the game, besides using the control pad 
 as camera views. Many complained about the use of the Stylus only in older DS games such as Yoshi 
 Touch and Go however MVD2 is simply great with the Stylus. You must tap and drag to execute different 
 abilities of the Minis. They jump on their own and move/stop when designated to. Through each room, 
 you must simply navigate your minis to the next room. This is the exact sane way you complete levels 
 in the original game, thus, the objectives are identical. You are always required to get more than 
 one Mini to the exit, however, only one is required to make it. The others can also reach the exit 
 if you wish to have a greater score. The rooms arent simple either. You must know certain techniques 
 you learned in the past, as you do in many popular games such as the Zelda series. From walking 
 across platforms of all different kinds, to hammering down the numerous supplies of foes provided, 
 you must perform specific things to get past the obstacles met in each room. Despite just playing 
 through each room, you may also try to get star ranks. There are bronze, silver, and gold, and 
 all are eventually required to be achieved to unlock bonus levels/events. Aside from the main story, 
 there is a great thing known as Construction Zone, or something like that. You can create your 
 own levels! This is an awesome feature that I simply enjoy. From seemingly unlimited options, you 
 may create your own levels. You also may trade levels with friends via Wi-fi, which is another 
 great feature. So, although the 80 level puzzler proves to be short lived and only takes 3-5 hours 
 to complete, level editor can keep you occupied for the same amount of time. Thats it on the Game 
 Play.
  Graphics: The simple bright and cheery graphics in March of the Minis proves to be incredible. 
 No one can say no to Nintendos sprites used in their fantastic 2-D plat formers/puzzler. You will 
 love the almost 3-D looking objects/enemies in what appears to be a 2-D world. I love these graphics, 
 especially for the Nintendo DS. So the graphics are great for portable game standards as of today.
 
  Sound: If you like Marios famous tunes then look no further. March of the Minis has a great sound 
 system, and each floor has their own slight alliteration on the same beat. I love the sounds, especially 
 as they are projected through the Nintendo DS. The Minis and enemies also make their great sounds. 
 So sound is fantastic!
  Value: For a 30 dollar deal you get about 15 hours of fun. I really dont think you can let down 
 this offer. The 5 hours (or for me 3 hours) of story mode are memorable, and some of the best moments 
 youll have on your Nintendo DS. You may then be asking for more, and then find yourself killing 
 more time playing the fun level editing. Without the level editing option, I admit this game would 
 not be close to as good as it is. Thank the Lord for the addition of that fun mode. However, Value 
 may vary depending on if you are hardcore and enjoy things the hard way, or you are a gamer looking 
 for fun memorable moments. Thus, certain gamers may or may not be turned on by this game.
  Overall: If you are a fan, definitely get this game. Graphics, sound, game play, and value all 
 look great in my eyes. I liked this game for the fun I had with it. So I hope this helped you with 
 your choices. Thats all for now, peace!
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  9/10 Gameplay: I was surprised when I first played this game because it was so different from the 
 first. Everything is controlled by the stylus, making things very fun. 8/10 Graphics: The CG's 
 for this game are very good. It looks like Gamecube graphics. The in-game graphics are also very 
 colourful and has a happy look to them.
  
  7/10 Sound: The sound goes right with the game and the music is alright. But don't expect to be 
 blown away from the music. 7/10 Value: This game doesn't last that long. Maybe about 8 hours max. 
 But fortunately it has online map editor so that boosts the score up. Overall this game is a Great 
 game. It has fun gameplay, good graphics, an alright soundtrack and has an okay replay value. Is 
 it worth $30? Yes indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best puzzle game on the ds !!!! if u are the sort of person who just plays the 
 game once and thts it the this game is not for u but if u r the sort of person who likes to beat 
 his high scores, plays the game again sort of person then u will love this game !!!! the gameplay 
 is great, navigating the mini marios through 80 levels is great fun !!!! the graphics are very 
 good but they could have been better, the sound is well again it could have been better also !!!!
 
  you can do a lot in this game after finishing it.... u can construct ur own levels and beat ur 
 high scores... its great fun !!!!
  to sum it up this game is a great puzzle game... there is a lot to do and u will have lots of fun 
 with it !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toadster101
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 is the sequel to the uncanny platformer release nearly three years ago. 
 This game, however, is not even close to being a platformer. Its a wild puzzle game, that will 
 be in your DS for a long, long time.
  
  Gameplay: Your objective is to tap and stroke all the Mini Mario toys to the goal. Thats it, just 
 move them with the stylus and don't let them bump into any unwanted enemies. In MVDK2 there are 
 tons of fun boss battles that actually require skill. I think this game plays a lot like Lemmings, 
 which is a good thing. I was surprised to see Pauline make a comeback in this game. Where the hell 
 was she? Anyway, most of the levels are short and easy. Sometimes the controls are a little unresponsive, 
 but you quickly get used to it. I also have to point out the Wi-fi mode. In the Wi-fi mode, you 
 share the levels you made using the masterful in-game level editor. I'd love to try all your levels!! 
 I've spent hours alone building levels and the online capabilities make this game even better. 
 The main game is pretty easy; you can probably breeze through it in a couple hours.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are nicely animatd sprites. What were you expecting? Everything 
 is animated well, but isn't pushing the DS to its limits. Its still all great, I have no reason 
 to complain. You probably won't ( I hope ) . You'll find a large array of enemies including the 
 infamous Shy-Guy and Klaptrap, all animated well.
  
  Sound: Yes, the sound. Its also great. All the tunes in this game are either random jingles or 
 remixed Mario tunes. Both are really great to listen to when you come across them. The SFX are 
 pretty good, but could use a little improvement.
  
  Replay: There is tons to do. Complete the single player campaign, make your own levels, and send 
 them to other players across the world. The level editor alone will occupy a lot of time.
  
  But, Rent, or Leave: Buy this fantastic title if you enjoy puzzle games or anything with the 
 world famous plumber in it. Rent it if you would like to kill TONS of time, and leave it if you 
 do not agree, or just think puzzle games are lame.
  
  Conclusion: I've played better DS games, but this is one of the most addicting puzzlers in years. 
 I highly reccomend you at least give this game a try, its quite the invention. Good job, Nintendo!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinzero1526
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  this is my kind of game the old mario vs donkey kong but a new way of it i like the mini games 
 on it it makes it funner i like the old games i was like it wont bet the old ones but when i played 
 it i was like yes it can it is better i play this game all the time its fun all the mini games 
 u can play but it still has the old game fill to it like im playing the old one but well better 
 i give this game a good score because its just plan fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  bought this game almost a month for my friends to try out and now finally is my turn. needless 
 to say i am a die hard mario games series person. the numbers of games that i played on ds are 
 mainly mario related. yes, i love this game. though it might look simple, i would say that one 
 requires great patience and strategy to complete the game with lots of gold stars and before saving 
 mario's guest of honour - pauline.
  
  in less than 3 hours game play (and i am still at floor 1!) , i could have completed it very fast 
 , disregarding whether am i collecting a gold, silver, bronze or no star at completion of each 
 room from that floor. doing that is simple. however to plan, strategise which step to take in order 
 to maximise saving mini mario's lives within the minimum time use, it takes efforts. it might appear 
 to be like the classic game, Lemmings (there is a PSP version) , the cute mini marios make it feel 
 slightly different though this game has a subset of the available skills as compared to Lemmings 
 .
  
  the audio sounds good to me especially when mini marios response everytime i indicated to make 
 a start to move/stop. the 2D visuals from the game makes you less prone to headache (as compared 
 to new mario brothers DS 64) . color is crisp and sharp with no lags in loading games. i love the 
 introduction - very entertaining. i shouldn't spoil the fun, get one and view it before playing 
 the game.
  
  i gathered that the feature of allowing one to customise the room layout (aka construction) adds 
 a new feel - customisable! this is good especially when one wants to pit with their skills amongst 
 friends via the wireless multi-player mode with a difference.
  
  i havve not tired the GBA of DK vs Mario but i believed that this game will not be worse off from 
 the predecessor. Mario and his game series never disappoint us all the time! at least it is for 
 me, my 2 adult friends and 2 child friends. this game is definitely suitable for both adults and 
 kids! great time to play together too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaker08
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  OK. When I first bought this game, I wasn't expecting a very long or challenging game, honestly. 
 But this? This is crap. I spent $35 dollars for about 6 hours of entertainment. Don't get me wrong, 
 the level creation is a nice part of the game, if you're into that sort of thing. Online play is 
 a plus. But, I expected to get a little bit more out of the game than this. If you're looking for 
 a quick game to play and have the extra dough, sure go ahead and get it. But if you're looking 
 for more than that, steer clear of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniac
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't have a lot to say about this game. I got a good deal on it, picked it up, and I didn't 
 play it very long; however, I can say one thing: it is incredibly easy, the mini games are sub-par 
 in the Mario mini game department, and there just isn't enough going on in this game to keep me 
 interested. Sorry for the lame review, but I just had to share my two cents, I picked it up thinking 
 it would be great as everybody seems to love it, granted, it is a unique game with a cool style, 
 and original gameplay, but it is way too simple, and lacking for me to truly appreciate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_holic
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  I was so looking forward to this game before it come out because the first Mario vs DS was such 
 a great game on the GBA. However, I was very disappointed after I got it. All I have to say is 
 that using the stylus is good on some games but not all of them. Well, if you just want to get 
 through the game and disregard about the score then this game is fine. But if you really want to 
 COMPLETE the game then you are going to have a tough time. You will have to use your stylus throughout 
 this game and that's the most frustrating part. You have to control the mini marios individually 
 and as a team. Sometimes you will find yourself pointing the touch screen with your style here 
 and there all the time and the mini marios just don't move the way you want them to. Now the good 
 side of this game. I was amazed by the opening scene. I didn't know my DSL is capable of showing 
 such beautiful picture. I think that was the best graphic I've seen so far on my DSL. Also, the 
 game lets you create your own puzzle and share it with your friends or you can WiFi it. That's 
 all I have to comment on this game. To sum up, I would say this game is a keeper unless you are 
 a game collector like me. Or else, you should just borrow from your friend or rent it first before 
 you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendorocks
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, Mario and Donkey Kong are at it again. At the grand opening of Mario's new amusement park, 
 Super Mini Mario World, Donkey goes ape (no pun intended) after Mario's partner Pauline chooses 
 a Mini Mario toy over a Mini Donkey Kong toy and kidnaps Pauline. So, it's up to Mario and his 
 little mini friends to save Pauline from Donkey Kong. The game is played in a Lemmings-style game 
 instead of the platformer format that was seen in the original. THE GOOD-
  Well, that Lemmings-style gameplay is executed very well. The gameplay is loads of fun although 
 a little too easy at times. The game is also completely played with the stylus. It basicly works 
 like you move the stylus in the direction you want the Mini Marios to move and touch them to make 
 them stop moving. As you progress through the game, new obstacles will appear for you to try to 
 outwit. So, all you need to do is bring at least 1 of the Mini Mario's to the exit. Although short, 
 the game never gets repetitive. All 100 action packed levels offer something new and different 
 not to mention the often fun boss battles. You'll want to continue to just play and play. The game 
 is extremely addictive and will keep you compelled for the short while it has you. The graphics 
 are also nice. The graphics are really cutesy and colorful. The graphics are polished off with 
 some very nice looking 3-D cutscences at the beginning and end of the game. A very nice feature 
 added to the game is the level creation. Now, a level editor would have been good enough. But the 
 level editor is topped off with the fact that you can share maps you make online. This is a great 
 feature that will keep you busy where the story mode doesn't.
  
  
  THE BAD-
  So, you heard me call the game short a bunch a times so far and I meant it. It took me about 5 
 hours to get through the game. Probably less. 5 hours! The game is just so short it's gotta seem 
 more like a rental than a purchase. And the fact that the game is extremely easy doesn't help it 
 much. The difficulty is up a little from the original game but is still very, very easy. Some of 
 the later boss fights might give you trouble but that should be it. And some of the levels will 
 literally take you about 15 seconds. OVERALL, if you enjoyed the original Mario vs. Donkey Kong, 
 this is a must buy for you or even if your looking for a short little game to occupy a weekend 
 you'll have a lot of fun. But if your looking for a long engaging adventure you should look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willawallo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 20, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing there are many levels to enjoy over 80! and are all very fun. The best thing 
 about this game is the stylus controls you don't use anything but it, and it works just great, 
 for example if you want to jump you move your stylus up on the mini mario and he jumps and you 
 control all of them like that. Another thing i love about this game is that there are very cool 
 features to the game and the graphics are just great, you could play this game over and over again 
 so its got great replay value as well, i recommend this game to any ds owner you will love it.
 
  
  i give this game an 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushgoil
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I am not usually a big fan of puzzle games, but this game is so addictive! The levels are pretty 
 easy at first, but it can be very challenging to get a score high enough to receive the revered 
 gold star, in the later levels. The levels constantly add new elements which ensures that you will 
 not be left saying: didn't I already do this one??? You get to walk on walls, but sorry, you can't 
 swim... The 'make your own level' feature adds to the length of time you can enjoy this game and 
 gives you endless possibilities for competing with your friends! It is too bad that more minigames 
 aren't included to expand gameplay further. Maybe one day the Peach and Toad wind-up toys will 
 be included in a game.. that definately would have improved this game. If you could replay the 
 game using mini Peach on mini Toads which have minor ability differences it would be a complete 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the first one of this series back on the ole GBA which sucked so bad that I 
 gave my friends game back within the hour. This game has realized the past was crap and needed 
 to make up for it.
  
  First and foremost the stylus control is awesome and makes for great multitasking as you do have 
 anywhere from 2-5 min Marios to take care of. The game is the greatest puzzle game for the DS up 
 to this date in my opinion. I have not spent this much time with a game since Tetris came out back 
 in the day. I enjoyed this game intensively and recommend everyone to go and buy it. The sounds 
 are funny as well and the boss battles are challenging yet not impossible and can be won by fluke 
 at times or at least for me. All in all great puzzle game GO BUY IT NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Its funny how some games you may have never given more than a passing interest to previously can 
 become some of your ultimate favorites. It happened to me with Animal Crossing: Wild World, a game 
 Id heard was good but thought would be more something my wife would enjoy; it happened to me again 
 recently with Star Fox Command, a game that, when announced, I knew would undoubtedly be anticipated 
 by fans of the series but was of little interest to me at the time; and now its happened once 
 more with March of the Minis. I never foresaw any of these games ending up in my DS library, but 
 they now each rank among my top favorite titles of all time. So, lets talk Minis
  
  Story: It was a dark and stormy eveningwait, wrong story. Oh yeah, thats rightokay: Mario and 
 Donkey Kong (DK) seem to have partnered up to create a toy company. However, DK has one of those 
 head-over-heels moments for a lovely lady named Pauline (the gal from the original Donkey Kong 
 game, circawell, from a long time ago  when I was a kid) , who is the guest of honor at the unveiling 
 of a new theme park based on their toy company. When both Mario and DK offer a toy to Pauline as 
 a gesture of affection, Pauline chooses the one from Mario. DKs feelings quickly turn to rejection, 
 and the giant ape becomes unraveled. He grabs the damsel and heads for the elevatorMario, unable 
 to stop him in time, sends his team of tiny heroes in to save the girl. And so the minis came marching 
 in
  
  Gameplay: March of the Minis (MotM) plays much as its name implies: you control various minis  
 usually between 2-5 (sometimes as many as 8) at a time  using the stylus, and its your job to 
 successfully lead them through any number of perils to the exit of each room. There are 9 rooms 
 per floor; and 8 floors in the game, plus extras. Keeping track of the minis is not as difficult 
 as it might seem, but of course thats only if you want to get to the exit without any fuss. There 
 are, however, bonuses awarded for keeping the minis moving without manually stopping them, getting 
 all the minis to the exit without any casualties, and leading them all into the exit in a timed 
 chain, i. e. each exiting within 2-3 seconds of each other, as well as other bonuses. Upon completion 
 of a room your points are tallied, and depending on how well youve done stars are awarded  bronze, 
 silver, and gold You never know what secrets youll unlock by racking up those stars.
  
  There are quite a few other variables to experience and consider throughout the game, but for all 
 intents and purposes MotM is an action puzzler. However, its quite different in nature than something 
 like Tetris or some other popular DS puzzle games. In Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 youll be hopping 
 along springs, riding upon the heads of shy guys, and even wall jumping  yeah thats right  wall 
 jumping! Though you dont have the same kind of direct control over the minis as you might with 
 Mario in one of his typical platformers, there are tons of great platforming elements that set 
 this game apart from pretty much anything youve probably played before.
  
  But even with all the juiciness contained within the story mode, its not what I would consider 
 the main focus of the game. By now, probably everyone whos interested in MotM has heard about 
 its level editor, and its in this area of the game where youll likely spend most of your time 
 noodling. With 8 floors to pass in the story mode, there are 8 level-editing kits to unlock; plus 
 another 3 special kits obtained by successful completion of a certain number of mini games (also 
 unlocked via the story mode) . Each kit offers a good variety of room-design options that are easy 
 to use and will allow you to have your creations up and ready for testing in no time. Once youve 
 got a room designed that you think is fit for consumption, theres no reason to keep it all for 
 yourself. Log on to the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and share your works of art with friends. With 
 so many folks worldwide involved in the creative process, players are ensured a never-ending amount 
 of replay value.
  
  Sound: In my own reading of reviews for the game Ive come across varying opinions about its sound 
 and music, but to me MotM offers a perfect mix of cute sound effects and light-hearted music that 
 fit the overall package extremely well. The minis make some truly adorable sounds, and you will 
 fall in love with them partly because of that. Most of the musical themes are familiar to my ears, 
 but they are fresh renditions that come across incredibly well on the DS speakers.
  
  Graphics: Everything works very well in this department, and thats really nothing new for a Mario 
 game. Nintendo usually pays special care to all the minute details of games within the franchise, 
 and this one, at the very least, keeps with that tradition. Its a really fun and cute game to 
 look at; the perspective of all the backgrounds move around as your minis do (or perhaps more accurately, 
 as you move the map view around) ; and the minis themselves are nicely designed and detailed. Everything 
 animates flawlessly  there are no burps whatsoever that Ive encountered.
  
  Presentation: Perhaps the one thing about Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis that really 
 just jumps out at you from the onset is the games presentation. All the menu tabs and screens 
 are a perfect fit with the overall feel of the game, and everything is easily accessible. Additionally, 
 as you progress through the story mode there are tutorials added to the Help menu which acquaint 
 you  using animated examples of gameplay  with the various new elements that pop up throughout. 
 The instruction manual too, like those included with most Nintendo games, is a great, colorful 
 guide to all the ins and outs of the title. My only gripe would be to say that there could have 
 perhaps been a little more instruction offered for the level editor; there are some items Ive 
 still yet to utilize because I cant quite figure out how to properly incorporate them. However, 
 overall the games presentation really stands out among the growing selection of DS titles. Nintendo 
 even had the vision to include a downloadable demo of the game that players can share with their 
 friends via local, single-card wireless connection. Its a particularly nice touch (of enlightened 
 self interest) that should be, in my opinion, part of every single DS title released.
  
  Should you buy March of the Minis? Well, I usually never respond to threads that ask those types 
 of questions. If I did though, Id probably say something to the effect of, what are you in the 
 mood for. If youre in the mood for a really excellent action / puzzle game, then I highly recommend 
 this one. I think its a worthy addition to any and every DS collection.
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  -GD
  
  The Breakdown
  
  Presentation / 9
  The 
 most professional, comprehensive and easy-to-use gaming package for the DS Ive come across thus 
 far. A little more info on how to use the various items in the level editor would have been nice, 
 but otherwise this game offers a near-flawless presentation.
  
  Graphics / 8
  Perhaps not the most innovative weve seen on the system, but definitely some very good use of 
 the system. Everything works wonderfully to express the overall theme of the game.
  
  Sound / 9
  New does not always mean good, and its nice to hear fresh renditions of old platforming 
 favorites. Sound effects are all really well integrated, and the output on the DS speakers is surprisingly 
 pristine.
  
  Gameplay / 8.5
  Good clean fun. For the system that its on, March of the Minis really understands the meaning 
 of pick up and play. Levels are fun to traverse, and perhaps even more fun to create.
  
  Replay Value / 9
  The addition of a fairly deep level editor made up of a healthy selection of 
 kits is an inspired element that I hope to see more of in future DS titles. Exchanging level creations 
 with friends, either locally or via the Nintendo WFC, promises a very healthy amount of replay 
 value for this game.
  
  Overall: 9 (Cr&egrave; me de la Cr&egrave; me!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glowinmo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: well it is a 2d game but the sprite and such look realy nice and well done.
  Gameplay: solid addicting and endless fun PERIOD.
  Sound: it is a mario game so the sound is 
 alot of classic with new stuff thrown in.
  Value: Great single player endless wifi fun and good replay. For the september october lineup this 
 one is a Must.
  
  Now to my less scripted thougts. While you are playing this game it is easy to get frustrated with 
 difficult levels However it is worth playing for hours just to make that perfect level or get that 
 ;ast gold star. (theres some nice unlockables if u can do that) so if you have 30 dollars pick 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GerssonOviedo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 10, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  When you start off, the game isn't that good, until they get a little more challenging and you 
 become emersed in the wonderful, fun world of March Of The Minis. Unfortunately, I have a lot of 
 problems with the Gameplay. The touch screen is a nice novelty, but I honestly think what made 
 MvDK for Gameboy such a success, was that it was a platform style not seen since Super Mario World. 
 The idea of having the stylus as your primary control is not the best nor most comfortable means 
 of playing this game. The music gets pretty annoying, a lot of times I find myself having the volume 
 low or turning off completely.
  
  What saved this game was the Level Editor. The game will keep you interested for about an extra 
 10-20 hours. The Wi-Fi is a nice feature to use when it comes to showing your friends how crazy 
 you can make levels.
  
  In conclusion, this game is worth the money. But would it be my first choice? Definitely not. It 
 does deserve a place in my collection of 12 DS Games nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linksdeity
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Don't be fooled by its simplistic appearance, Mario Vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of The Minis is far 
 from a quaint little puzzler.
  
  With its intuitive stylus use, guiding the, dumb as rocks Minis from place to place is both fun 
 and simple. Whether or not you lead your automaton legion into certain destruction, or march them 
 onto victory, you'll undoubtedly have a blast toying with these little machine's fates.
  
  There are plenty of levels, none of which are too difficult, though a few here and their will take 
 a couple tries to get right. Collecting lettered cards in each level, to eventually spell out MINIMARIO 
 , will earn you a Mini game at the end of each floor (10 levels = 1 floor) , though none of the 
 mini games really compare to the main game.
  
  The music is nothing special, but it's far from bad. It gets the job done, and has a couple nice 
 beats. I'd have liked some more recurrences of classical Mario tunes, but it's nice to see Nintendo 
 evolving its franchises, and not just recycling them. The Mini's make all kinds of whimsical little 
 noises as you guide them through the toy utopia of Super Mini Mario World, but the best sound affect 
 comes from putting your DS into sleep mode. This causes a random Mario quote to be played, my favorite 
 being, Hey, you come back'a here, you'a bi g monkey! 
  
  As far as the visuals go, its a beautiful game. Aside from its bright colors and excellent artwork, 
 the mechanized land of Mini Mario World brings back fond memories of Treasure's cult classic, Dynamite 
 Heady. With its marauding wind up toys, artificial backgrounds and foregrounds ( think exposed 
 I-beams and clouds held up by string) , and clever level design, one could almost call it a fusion 
 of Lemmings and Dynamite Heady.. and also Mario is there... Too much? Yeah I'll stop. There's even 
 a great level creation mode, allowing you to build your own obstacle filled levels... or if your 
 feeling evil, your own deathtraps to lead the helpless Mini Marios into.
  
  Ultimately this game is well worth your hard earned money. After a quick glance through the built 
 in help system (very well done) , you'll be the lord of a metallic Mario phalanx in no time, DK 
 dosen't stand a chance... But i think Magneto would.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  i use to think this game was a peice of crap because it looked so stupid and i like dk and hes 
 the badguy, everyone kept telling me to play and play it because its the best game ever, well guess 
 what i bought it and it is the best game ever, perfect gameplay fun levels and cool little mario 
 toys , i got over dk being the badguy, the wifi mode is really cool i will give some people my 
 code later, i made so many fun levels, and there are so many fun levels in the adventure mode to, i 
 beat this game the first day i got it because i couldnt put it down i recommend you buy this game 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  I will be the first to admit, I did not play Mario vs. Donkey Kong... I wanted to, but never got 
 around to it. This time around, I did not want to miss my chance. I saw that it was on sale at 
 my local Circuit City for a mere $23, so how could I lose?
  
  The game movie with Mario and DK winding up DK and Mario toys respectfully, had me intrigued. Then 
 the opening movie made me giggle, and set up a thin enough plot to understand why this game takes 
 place. This story is this: Mario is opening a theme park modeled after his hit toy line of Mini-Mario, 
 Mini-Toad, Mini-Peach and Mini-Donkey Kong. At the opening ceremony there is a special guest Pauline 
 (I believe was the girl from the original Donkey Kong game. If I am wrong, please let me know. 
 I am just not in the mood to do the research right now to truly find out.) the love interest of 
 DK. DK offers Pauline a mini-DK and Mario offers her a mini-Mario, she accepts the Mario and this 
 upsets DK and he kidnaps her and takes her to the roof. Mario cannot gain access to the elevator 
 to the roof so he uses the Mario toys to rescue her.
  
  The game takes a couple of levels to get adjusted to the stylus controlled game. That is right, 
 you almost never use the buttons or direction pad to control this game. The only use of the direction 
 pad is to pan across the screen to see the whole level and locations of the mini-Marios. In many 
 ways this game is a bit off a copy of Lemmings. For those of you who do not know the game, I am 
 sorry that you have never played. In Lemmings, once the mini guys start moving, nothing stops them 
 including walking off of cliffs, into fire, spikes, etc. This game is similar. Once the player 
 starts a mini-Mario moving, he does not stop until he comes to a wall and he will turn around. 
 He will walk into lava pits, into enemies, or any of other dangerous fates. It is up to the player 
 to start and stop a mini-Mario. This aspect gives you control and frustrates at the same time. 
 Controlling the minis is not that bad. By moving the stylus from left to right through a mini-Mario, 
 he will start walking to the right. Tap on the mini-Mario and he will stop. Move the stylus in 
 an upward motion on the mini-Mario and he will jump. The problem is that the minis are pretty small 
 on the touch screen and sometimes the player cannot get the mini to perform the desired action 
 in the key moment of success. Thankfully, this does not happen often. The player also has the ability 
 to add or remove blocks, burn logs, and move elevator patterns to further assist the minis. The 
 end result is to move all of the minis of the level to an exit gate.
  
  The minis can be moved into the gate one at a time to complete a level; however, more points may 
 be gained by getting all of the minis into the gate at the same time. A level has between two and 
 five minis within it. Some even have a gold mini-Mario that will double the score of the chain 
 of minis brought through gate. The game may be completed with a really low score, but the challenge 
 to the game is to get higher point totals to unlock aspects of the game. The saved minis are then 
 used to square off against DK at the end of each section in a type of shooting gallery game. These 
 consist of literally launching the minis at DK as he drops rocks, bananas or anything that can 
 break a toy Mario. The points are collected at the end of each level and totaled to give the player 
 a bronze, silver or gold ranking. Bronze and silver ranking is pretty easy to achieve especially 
 if all of the minis are pushed through the gate at the same time. To achieve the gold takes multi-tasking 
 skills that are very difficult to manage because to get the points needed for gold takes lightning 
 reflexes that are difficult to execute with the stylus. The chances of me ever unlocking all of 
 the hidden material are pretty slim.
  
  Overall, the game is pretty entertaining. The visuals are colorful and the music sounds like toy 
 box versions of the famous music from assorted Mario games. I am giving the game a difficulty of: 
 Hard because of the skill needed to achieve a gold ranking in any given level. If a person wants 
 to just play the game, then the game can move to a level of: Easy. The levels are not hard to complete 
 if that is the only goal a person may desire. The game, like a lot of portables, is not that long. 
 With non-stop play, the nine floors of the game could be completed in about four or five hours. 
 Do not let this put fear into purchasing this title. There are game extensions to the title.
  
  Besides trying to achieve a gold ranking with each level, there are Wi-Fi features to the game. 
 The game has a build-a-level feature. So, the toughest or easiest levels can be built with the 
 assorted obstacles from the game. These levels can b played solo, shared with friends and even 
 uploaded through a Wi-Fi connection. This build feature is where most of the unlocking is applied.
 
  
  In the end, borrow the title from a friend, pick it up on sale, but do not pay the retail price 
 of $35 for the title, there is just not enough game there to justify that cost. $25 or $27 is a 
 better price to find this title if at possible. The game is great for picking up and playing a 
 level or two because of the shortness of each level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 6, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey 2: March of Minis is a short, but fun adventure. It's very similar to the old-school 
 Lemmings style games. The main differences would be that you are controlling Mario's and you need 
 to watch out for DK's; along with the fact that at the most you need to worry about around 7 different 
 Mario's, not 100 as Lemmings threw at you. But don't get me wrong, it's not a direct rip-off by 
 any means. It feels a lot different, but for ease of description think of Lemmings as the basis 
 around the game. The story is typical Mario style, short and sweet, and personally that's much 
 appreciated. Mario doesn't need a big story to have a good game because he's all about gameplay. 
 So, to sum it up Mario and DK work at a toy factory and they make similar toys (of themselves) , 
 but the hottie likes Mario's better so DK steals her out of anger and you are out to save her. 
 To get to her you must traverse the 8 different floors (plus the roof) and on each floor pass through 
 9 puzzle levels plus a DK boss battle. There's a lot of material here, however due to the low difficulty 
 it still won't take more than 3-4 hours to work through. Some of the Boss stages feel almost cheap 
 rather than difficult, but I still never came anywhere close to losing on any of them. All it did 
 was cost me a bronze star instead of silver or gold. Which is another thing, I'm not sure yet if 
 there is a reward for getting all gold stars even though doing so would probably require working 
 through much frustration. So far it may not sound like it's quite worth the buy, but here's the 
 good part. The game comes with a level editor (so?) and on top of that through Nintendo Wifi you 
 can download all other users levels, Nintendo created levels, and you can upload your own levels. 
 This makes the game virtually everlasting. As long as other people are creating levels you have 
 new content to play with. So, I'd say it's worth checking out. It's cool but not the best of the 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoot3232
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 is a pretty great game. It's a little to easy at first, but then, it get's 
 harder. It's just right for me. Something that got me on this game is that you have to be pretty 
 smart to play. You get used to the controls through the first three levels. You have to move with 
 the touch screen instead of the directional pad. There are also another thing that is great about 
 this game, and that is that you can create your own level and send it to your friends so they can 
 play on it, and you can play it as well. The good things about this game is that you can move very 
 easily through the levels with the touch screen, you can also use the directional pad to look through 
 the level you are playing, the graphics are good as well, they are not great but they are good 
 enough for me. The bad about the game is, i'm not crazy about the music, it could be better, also 
 the creators could have added more tiny little things to the characters to make them look more 
 real, but, i think the reason they did that so it would give the mini marios a more of a toy look. 
 The lay out is an elevator, each time you pass a world (or floor) you would go up to the next one. 
 And after you pass the nine levels in the world, you could battle the boss which is Donkey Kong, 
 which you are trying to get to since he stole Pauline. All and all, this is a pretty cool game. 
 So, if you are looking for the next great Mario game look no further, Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 is 
 just as good as the first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jehonaker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who played the original Mario vs. Donkey Kong, this game may seem a bit strange. 
 The premise is similar, but considerably different. Rather than controlling Mario, you control 
 the adorable little Mini-Marios, who have this nasty tendency to subject themselves to danger. 
 Completing the levels is a simple task, but the difficulty is in obtaining the gold stars in every 
 level.
  Of course, for people like me, one of the defining features of this game that turned me on was 
 the ability to create your own maps. I enjoy sharing maps with my brother and devising rather evil 
 maps that I post online.
  Save maybe a few issues, this is a game that is almost otherwise perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I have played through a lot of the the new Mario Vs Donkry Kong 2 Game and let me tell you this, 
 It is the most addicting puzzle game I have ever played. Remember clasics like the Incredible Machine 
 from Siera? Well if you played those games you know they had a lot of gadgets and what not to get 
 through in order to meet your goal. Mario is the same way not only did I find myself playing this 
 game every spare minute I have but it has endless capabilities due to the built in level maker 
 and editor and on top of that you can send your levels to other players and recieve them as well. 
 This alone is worth the price of admission. If you have the time this week go buy it you won't 
 be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I guess I should start with the graphics and sound. Everything in this game has a cartoonish, kiddy 
 feel to it. But before you say this is some stupid kiddy game, it is not. The cartoon graphics 
 go along with the gameplay quite well. March of the Mini Marios also has a few cuts secenes in 
 it too. The cut secenes are well animated and use both screens to good use. The only complaint 
 is the fact that the top screen is juse used to show info. This game has decent sounds and music. 
 Nothing really stands out, but nothing is bad or annoying, just sort of average. Okay, lets go 
 onto the single player mode. When you first start the game a cut secene will go and you will see 
 DK grab Pauline, the girl you had to rescue in the original Donkey Kong. DK will then take an evelator 
 to the roof of the building. You will then use your army of mini marios to chase down DK. But the 
 levels are short and on the easy side until the end. Time for the main event, the gameplay. March 
 of the Minis is not complex at all. All you do is guide your mini marios, using the stylus, to 
 a goal in the level. On your way there you have to avoid enemies, walk over spikes and water, and 
 many other things. Basicaly you want to get to the goal as fast and with as many marios as possible 
 to get a high score. But the best part about this game is the fact you can make your own levels. 
 You start off with a blank page and fill it with anything you want. You can also unlock new things 
 to add to your levels. And another good part about this is the fact that you can't share your levels 
 with other people until you beat the level with all marios. This is great to keep people from making 
 impossible to beat levels. As fun as making your own levels is, sharing and beat other people's 
 levels over wifi is twice as fun. The only bad thing about this is the fact that you have to have 
 the person's friend code. But there is good news. Nintendo has their friend code in your game so 
 you can download levels from them. Overall I think this is a great game and should be picked up 
 by all ds owning puzzle fans. And wifi makes it all the sweeter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbturner1438
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a great blend of brain tingling puzzles with a quick adventure style. The game incorporates 
 a variety of classic Mario themes and characters that have been modified beautifully to fit the 
 Mini Mario toy world. The platforming/puzzles include a bunch of new obstacles, goals, tools, and 
 more to keep the game not repetitive and interesting. The stylus controls are near perfect and 
 fit the game very well. The feature that lets you build your own level is awesome and a challenge 
 in it's self. You can also challenge friends and strangers on Wi Fi. If you liked the original 
 for GBA than I can bet you'll like this plus some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game isn't quite your traditional puzzle game. Rather than focusing on your thinking 
 ability like tetris, this game revolves more around the action. In Mario Vs. DK2 you don't use 
 any buttons at all other than the optional use of the D-pad for moving the map. Instead you use 
 the stylus to move the minis around the stage. If you tap up, they jump, tap right, they move, 
 simply tap them they stop (for a demonstration watch my video) . The controls are very intuitive 
 and instantly catch on. As for the actual single player, it is really a lot shorter than the descriptions 
 might let on. While 80 different stages is a great amount of gameplay, the levels are pretty easy 
 overall with the exception of a few and it doesnt take long to go through a stage if you are trying 
 only to get to through the course. Nonetheless however, the gameplay is fun. Each new floor of 
 the game offers new puzzle elements, and believe it or not the game feels fresh in each new floor. 
 I am still playing the game and I dont find it to be in the least bit repetitive. The most interesting 
 part of this game though definitely is the level editor. Unlike most editors, this one is very 
 easy to use but yet can also be as little or greatly complex as you want it to be. I can honestly 
 say I couldn't find a single flaw in the design of the level editor. Menus are easy to access with 
 the touch screen, and there is a ton of stuff to add to your levels, especially since you get a 
 new background/supply list of tools after you beat each floor in the main game. Once you complete 
 a level, you can log on to the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and sync your levels onto the internet 
 so anyone on your friends list can play your levels. Wifi seems to replace the otherwise easy gameplay 
 with a nice challenge from users around the world. While it would be nice if you could communicate 
 with people when recieving levels, the connection is simple and easy to use, plus it adds a lot 
 of replay value to the game.
  
  Graphics: There really isn't anything bad I can say about the visuals. The game has a strange 3D-but 
 its still- 2D feel to it. The game doesn't look pixelated, and all the characters and backgrounds 
 look bright and colorful. Again, there really isn't much to critique about the graphics. It definitely 
 shows improvement over the GBA Mario VS. DK, and while it may not push the DS hardware to it's 
 limits it still is a great looking 2D game.
  
  Sound- A great mix of classic music and remixes make this a great game to listen to. While I wish 
 they would have used some more original music, you can't go wrong with DK music and SMB music. 
 They also incorporated different music to all the floors, which also is a good thing to see they 
 didn't just reuse the same music over and over again.
  
  Value/Tilt- The WiFi Connection and level editor bring new depths of replay value to puzzle games. 
 I never seem to get tired of playing this game. Also, even if you dont have friends to exhange 
 maps with online (but considering we are all Gamespot members I would assume we all have friends 
 to exchange with) , NIntendo occassionally will post new maps to download. This game is surprisingly 
 fun, and very addictive. I would recommend this to any DS owner, no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario vs. Donkey Kong was really one of the last solid games for the Gameboy Advance system, so 
 it comes as little surprise that Nintendo would again return to the franchise on its latest dual-screen 
 handheld. Its a good thing they did; Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 makes great use of the touch screen 
 controls that eschew tradition while providing more levels with tougher puzzles, and even a course 
 creator where you design your own mind bending conundrums. With its cute charm and inherent value, 
 Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 is a great choice for anyone looking for a handheld puzzler.
  
  The game begins at an event unveiling Marios new theme park based on his hit clockwork toys. At 
 his side during the occasion is Pauline (who starred in the original Donkey Kong back in the early 
 80s) . Well, it just so happens that Donkey Kong is in the crowd, and when he sees Daisy making 
 those love eyes at Mario, he blows his stack, kidnaps Daisy, and runs off into the theme park. 
 So now its up to our valiant plumber to rush in there and show that ape whos bossright? Well, 
 not exactly. While the original game had Mario running around with the Mini Mario toys marching 
 behind him, this game stars the ceramic toys exclusively. You also wont be directly controlling 
 them  instead, youll use a few simple stylus gestures to direct their movements around the levels. 
 The end result is something that feels more like the classic game Lemmings, wherein you feel as 
 though youre controlling things from an omnipresent point of view. Though they are initially stationary, 
 simply swiping a line in the direction you wish a Mini Mario to go is enough to get things moving. 
 If theyre on the verge of reaching a perilous situation, tapping them with the stylus will stop 
 them. Swiping upward overtop of them will trigger a jump. Surprisingly, thats about all you need 
 to know to get things rolling; if you can grasp those basic mechanics, youll be jumping around 
 on springs and the like in no time flat. The rest of the challenge, however, comes about in manipulating 
 the environment.
  
  Throughout Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2, youll find a good number of apparatus that you can mess around 
 with to get the Mini Marios out of danger. In addition to the original games color-coded switches 
 that will expand contracting platforms of the color in question (while sliding other colored platforms 
 back) , these include things like riding on the backs of enemies across spike pits, shimmying around 
 on tightropes, and classic Mario touches like pipes. Whats interesting is that instead of simply 
 dumping more enemies and the like at you, Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 begins to introduce the same 
 sorts of obstacles with a new feature that complicates their use. For example, the networked system 
 of pipes may have a movable middle piece youll need to slide around with the stylus to get your 
 Mini Mario going in the right direction. The aforesaid tightropes will eventually come with a crank 
 mechanism on the end  by spinning it, any Marios on it will begin to spin, and jumping during 
 this will send them flying up a couple stories to an otherwise unreachable platform. It really 
 helps lend a sense of progression to the game beyond simply moving up the floors.
  
  Though the control scheme has changed, the format of the game remains the same  youll start at 
 the first world  or floor, to keep in theme of being in a gigantic building. Youll progress 
 through a series of nine levels all drenched in a similar theme, be it more focused on using pipes 
 or gravity-defying floors that allow you to scale walls and walk across ceilings. The goal of every 
 level is to guide at least one Mini Mario through an assortment of obstacles and to a doorway marked 
 with an M. Initially youll simply have to make a couple jumps or maybe manipulate a lift or 
 two to get there  later on, though, youll need to manipulate relatively complex series of color-coded 
 switches to alter the platforms available to you, add and remove blocks to pieces of floor for 
 a safe passage, and contend with a couple enemies. When you also consider that there are multiple 
 Mini Marios in each stage starting in different corners of the level, and that hitting a certain 
 switch may benefit one but put the others in danger, Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 becomes an interesting 
 balancing act. You often need to do a series of fluid, precise maneuvers, especially since your 
 score on a given level is greatly increased if you deliver all the Mini Marios to the goal in a 
 continuous chain.
  
  A few problems with the controls do crop up from time to time; specifically, it can be a little 
 tricky to lead a line of Mini Marios at a time. Youll need to tap all of them when you want to 
 stop and think about what to do next, but if youre dealing with a lot of Marios and you dont 
 tap them quickly enough, a stray Mini will bump into others and get them moving again. This can 
 have potentially disastrous results that end up killing a couple of the Mini Marios. It also takes 
 a couple levels to get down the feel of exactly how accented your strokes must be to get just one 
 Mario to do what you want amidst crowds of them. Luckily, these issues more or less evaporate as 
 you play the game and develop a comfort level with it.
  
  After getting to the end of a floor, youll need to do battle with Donkey Kong. These encounters 
 basically have you manipulating a canon-like device with a crank and shooting the Mini Marios 
 youve collected at Kong. After you hit him a half-dozen times or so, hell slink into the next 
 area and you can move on. These battles are pretty interesting at first but quickly lose their 
 luster; luckily, theyre dead easy, so youll be moving on to the next set of levels in to time 
 flat.
  
  Once youre finished forging through the story mode  which will probably take you about five or 
 six hours  theres a pleasantly robust level creation tool called the Construction Set to mess 
 with. After completing a floor in the story, youll unlock the theme and be able to use it to create 
 your very own Mario vs. Donkey Kong levels. The themes run a wide breadth of aesthetic looks, and 
 concise names like Pipeworks and Tropical Island make getting the feel of your level down quick 
 and easy. Once youre in the editor, youll find a simple but effective set of tools that allow 
 you to easily place down pathways, enemies, Mini Marios, and all of the pipes and other mechanisms 
 you found in the single player. It can take a lot of play testing to get your level working right, 
 but the ability to quickly jump between the editor and a play test keep things moving along, and 
 if the Construction Set rubs you the right way, its not too hard to imagine it becoming an extremely 
 addictive diversion.
  
  Some great audiovisuals lend Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2s addictive gameplay a good helping of charm. 
 Graphically, the game is bright and colorful, with lots of detailed sprites that animate well and 
 have lots of different little touches. Let a Mini Mario take too big a fall, for example, and his 
 ceramic body will shatter on impact. The game is played entirely on the touch screen, with the 
 top screen used just to show your current score and other similar bits of info. The boss battles 
 with DK use both screens for a greater sense of scale, and the Construction Set uses the top screen 
 to give you a great, at-a-glance view of your creation. The audio has a collection of moderately 
 memorable tunes that youll find stick with you after youve turned off your system. The cute sounds 
 made by the Minis and by your adversaries also get the job done rather nicely. The problem is theres 
 just not enough to the sound design for it to really stand out. After spending a short amount of 
 time with the game, youll likely find that the audio can more or less drown out at times.
  
  Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 takes some bold steps in changing the gameplay of the original  and 
 it pays off. The end result is a markedly better package with more content, greater difficulty, 
 a colorful presentation, and a potentially addictive editor. Although some control issues crop 
 up from time to time and the boss battles are a little flat, this is a puzzler worth checking out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fungi13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh..... the good old days of Lemmings. Those weird looking creatures that committed suicide for 
 a living. If only nintendo had a mario version of this old classic.... WELL NOW THEY DO!!!!!!!!! 
 Mario vs Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis has the same addicting gameplay of Lemmings combined 
 with the fun of Mario and Donkey Kong!! When you start the game, you'll watch a story that takes 
 place at the opening of a new theme-park called Mini-World. Pauline (I think it's the girl from 
 the old donkey kong game) is cutting the ribbon at the grand opening when DK spots her. He takes 
 her to the top of the Theme park..... so the MINI-MARIOS COME TO SAVE THE DAY!!!! you advance further 
 in the game by going through numerous puzzle stages with the Mini Marios. The object of the game 
 is to get all the mini marios to the exit on each puzzle. You get a score at the end of each puzzle. 
 These puzzles are filled with trampolines, coins, enemies switches, and a lot more stuff like that. 
 You can get your score higher by trying to collect coins, Killing enemies, and getting all the 
 mini's in the exit at the same time. The game's pretty darn easy if you just try to get to the 
 exit as fast as possible, but if you try to get all the coins, kill all the enemies, etc., you'll 
 have much more fun with it, and the game's replay value will last much, much longer. At the end 
 of each world you'll fight DK in a boss-fight. These are pretty easy, and they aren't that complex 
 either. The Graphics are great (especially in the cut-scenes) , but they look pure-flat. In other 
 words, the graphics aren't 3-D like metroid prime hunters, they're 2-D like a side-scrolling mario 
 game. The sound is what you'd expect in a Mario side-scroller. Cute, annoying, and memorable.
 
  
  The game also has another pretty fun feature that lets you customize your own levels and trade 
 them with your friends either locally or over Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. The game also lets you 
 download levels from nintendo that are added weekly. When you progress through the game, you'll 
 unlock construction kits that have certain things you can use to create your levels. Mario vs Donkey 
 Kong 2 is a wonder-full puzzle game for any puzzle nerds out there or lemmings fans. The game sadly 
 doesn't have multiplayer online, but it's one heck of a game that'll keep you coming' for more 
 great addicting action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i thought this game was going to be mediocre i was so Surprised to see it at my wal mart 
 i decided i might as well get something... i was not dissappointed. With beautiful cut scenes, crazy 
 gameplay, great graphics, and i could hardly resist those cute little marios running around. Getting 
 this game is HIGHLY recomended. I give it a perfect. Nintendo made me think that the DS is the 
 System to have again (i doubted becouse i thought there wasnt alot of AA or even A games coming 
 out but this game is the **** Dont be fooled by the mini marios, they are the best part of the 
 game, i mean would you really want to control normal mario by touching? It is a very simple but 
 complex in its own way. you swipe up to jump right or left to walk, simple eh? Wrong the gameplay 
 itself is genious but the game itself is alot harder than swiping and poking. ALOT better than 
 the original and i would recomend it even to non-mario fanatics becouse its more of a puzzle game, 
 than an adventure (like the original M vs DK) Pualina is in it and i am very greatful. I think its 
 better than saving a princess. Well anyway if you want a good mario game and a puzzler pick this 
 game up. (they really price it low i got it for 38 bucks with the tax) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etmaul
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I must say, MvDK2 may look like a pretty lame game, but lame it is not! If you used to play Lemmings 
 long ago for the PC, you'll definitely enjoy MvDK2. The Gameplay is just what you'd expect, only 
 the use of the stylus is key and it works very, very well. Move your Marios left and right, make 
 them jump by flicking the stylus up, stop them with a tap, controlling individual Marios is easy! 
 If you thought Lemmings was easy, the stylus controlled Minis are a dream! The go from simple to 
 complex and require much thought if you want to keep all your Minis as well as collecting all the 
 coins and cards that up your point total. Then again, the longer you take, the less points you 
 get for time at the end of the level. Everytime you complete the entire floor, which usually consists 
 of nine stages, you go up a level in the building; slowly ascending to the top floor where Donkey 
 Kong has Pauline, the woman you're trying to save. Another cool aspect of the game are the placement 
 of blocks, sounds boring right? Not so! Say you have 3 Minis on one row of blocks and you need 
 to drop them to another set of blocks directly below, but because you have your Minis on blocks, 
 you have to tap the blocks you're on, then immediately tap the blocks below to fill them in so 
 your Minis don't meet their death. I know it sounds confusing, but its a neat little feature. There 
 are also Shy Guys, Pirhana plants and windup Donkey Kongs that will be in your way, but fear not, 
 you can use a trusty hammer to bash them into submission allowing your minis to pass.
  
  As for graphics, once again, cuteness wins the race with this one. Who doesn't look at a Mini Mario 
 and go awwwwwwwwwwww, seriously, they're cute. Plus the stages are very bright and colorful so 
 you won't lose interest too quickly when some levels may look the same after a while. Another cool 
 feature which tends to be showing up more and more in DS games are cutscenes, much like MPH and 
 FFIII's cutscenes, the opening for MvDK2 is a nice little feature that further showcases the DS's 
 potential.
  
  As for sound, whenever you touch a Mini, it makes noise, again, cute. The music is nice and doesn't 
 get annoying so that's a plus. Also, all the genuine Mario sounds are here for example, when a 
 Mini gets a hold of a hammer and goes ballistic, I love that music! Other than that, Nintendo hits 
 a homerun with its creative sound efforts as always.
  
  Something you always tend to find in DS games is value. I think this one will have a high replay 
 rate because of the ability to share maps via the wi-fi connection and the levels really don't 
 take that long to complete. One thing Nintendo realizes, especially with the DS is that most people 
 don't play it as much as a console, so being able to complete a level in a short amount of time, 
 while keeping it challenging, is something they took into account. Much like Rub Rabbits and WarioWare, 
 you can do a couple stages on your way to school and pick up where you left off during lunch, or 
 something of that nature.
  
  Bottom line, this game is one every DS owner should consider. Think of all the games that use the 
 stylus, but not really to its full potential, because this one is stylus heavy. After all, it's 
 all about touch with the DS right, so go ahead... be a Mini! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Well well well, our classical Donkey Kong character, Pauline, comes back to our world to celebrate 
 the opening of the new Mario Mini Amusement Park. But wait! Pauline is captured, by Donkey Kong. 
 Well, this isn't like the classic Donkey Kong games like when Mario had to jump up on these crooked 
 grounds. No, you don't control Mario. Instead, you control Mini Mario's who fight there way throught 
 9 rooms on each 8 floors of the building your in. The amount of Mini Marios are random. You could 
 have 2 on one room then 4 in the next. This game is like a big puzzle. You have control your Mini 
 Marios wisely or you could lose them all and you'll have to start that level over. It will get 
 difficult as you have to position them right so you can manuever around obstacles and earn as much 
 coins and stars as you possibly can. This game is easy to beat if you are not focusing on getting 
 as much points as possible. You could beat it in at least 3 hours and that would not be fun. A 
 great feature is the level builder. Build tough obstacles that will be near impossible to get by 
 and see what your friends online or near you can do about it. The second addition to the Mario 
 vs Donkey Kong series is no doubt an improvement. A fan of the previous game will be firmiliar 
 with some of the stuff in it but not all of it. This will be nothing like the classics people. 
 If you like getting around tough obstacles and working with Mini Marios, then you'll love this. 
 This game got a great rating, but not good enough for me no. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
