-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/mariosonicattheolympicgames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features Mario and Sonic together.
 Wide variety of events.
 Crisp and colorful graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most of the touch-screen controls are uninteresting.
 Many of the events are too similar.
 Game can be infuriating when it doesn't recognize your commands.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.9, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 480 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date: Jan 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mario and Sonics' debut as a duo fails to earn them a spot on the medal stand. 

  If back in 1990 you had told either a Nintendo or Sega fanboy that both Mario and Sonic would be 
 appearing together in a game in 2007, you'd have been told that you were completely insane. Well, 
 the unthinkable  has  happened, and the once-fierce rivals are now together for the first time 
 in Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games. It's too bad that this isn't the great platforming game 
 an entire generation has been dreaming of since the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and Sega 
 Genesis days. Instead it's a collection of minigames, some of which are good, and many of which 
 are not.  

           Moving the stylus around in circles to spin isn't very interesting, but it works.     

  One of the game's big draws is that it lets you use characters from the Mario and Sonic universes. 
 From the Mario side you can select Mario, Luigi, Wario, Waluigi, Bowser, Daisy, Yoshi, or Peach. 
 From the Sonic side you can play as Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Blaze, Vector, Dr. Eggman, or 
 Shadow. Each character is rated in a number of categories, but these ratings don't seem to matter 
 much if you're any good at the game. Multiplayer options include download play, which lets you 
 play six events against up to three other people and, if everyone has their own cartridge, four 
 people can choose from all 24 of the game's single events or compete in full circuits. Though there's 
 no online play, the game tracks records for all events, and you can even upload your best scores 
 and times online to see how you stack up with the rest of the world.  

  Mario &amp; Sonic lets you play 24 real Olympic events (four more than on the Wii) , as well as 
 a few of the fantasy variety. A few events from the Wii version are missing here, but they've all 
 been replaced by new competitions. You can play single events; a circuit, where you compete in 
 four events and try to finish first so that you can unlock new sports; and missions, where you 
 compete in multiple events but have specific goals such as finishing in a certain time or throwing 
 the javelin a particular distance. Why you'd ever not want to throw the javelin as far as you can -- and 
 instead try to toss it just a bit further with every throw -- is anyone's guess, but it's something 
 you'll have to do here. Most of these contests use stylus-based controls, a few use only the D 
 pad and face buttons, and some of them require pressing buttons while you use the stylus. Athletic 
 events include: 100 meter dash, 400 meter dash, 400 meter hurdles, long jump, triple jump, hammer 
 throw, the javelin throw, and a few others. These events are really basic and require little more 
 of you than to rub the stylus across the screen to run, make a circular motion to spin, or draw 
 a line at an angle to throw or jump. The controls here work fine, and the tutorials are generally 
 helpful, though you'll experience some trial and error when trying to get your timing down in the 
 100 meter dash.  

  There's more to the game than track-and-field events. You can make a splash in the 10 meter platform 
 dive or take a dip in the pool for the 100 meter race. The latter is performed much like the foot 
 races, except you have to draw a specific pattern repeatedly to swim, as well as hit a button at 
 specific times to keep your stamina going. If you're into gymnastics, you can hop on a trampoline, 
 where you have to move the stylus to jump and then draw patterns you see onscreen to perform moves. 
 You can even do the vault, where you run up to a springboard and then jump across the horse while 
 doing tricks in midair. Another event is skeet shooting, which is significantly more enjoyable 
 on the DS than it was on the Wii. Archery is one of the better games. Here you move the stylus 
 downward to pull the arrow toward you and then line up two pairs of sights with the stylus. This 
 isn't too tough on its own, but when you start having to take wind speed into account, it gets 
 pretty tricky. One of the more entertaining events is a DS exclusive: cycling. The controls make 
 sense, there's a bit of strategy involved with regard to your pacing, and the races are usually 
 pretty exciting.  

           Quickly rubbing your stylus back and forth is a great way to run fast... as well as scratch 
 your screen.      

  One sport that should have been good, but isn't, is fencing. You move your character back to dodge 
 an opponent's attack, and then move the stylus forward to stab when he or she misses. You can parry 
 shots, but you'd have to have lightning-quick reflexes to do so, and there's no point in doing 
 so aside from when you have to parry to pass a mission. Another event that fails to be much fun 
 is table tennis. You can at least move your character around (something which you couldn't do on 
 the Wii) , but the action isn't all that interesting, and due to the fact that one person is displayed 
 on each screen, you have to imagine where the ball is when it crosses the game between the two 
 screens.  

  The big problem with Mario &amp; Sonic is that the mechanics for most events just aren't much fun. 
 The game requires some precise timing and movement to pull off certain maneuvers, but the touch-sensing 
 seems to be a bit iffy, so you're never quite sure how your movements will be read. Even if you 
 aren't having trouble with an event, you probably won't have much fun, unless you enjoy scribbling 
 with the stylus to pretend that you're running. A number of events force you to blow or clap into 
 the microphone -- a mechanic that's totally played out. There's also very little depth to any of 
 the events. Other than a few sports for which the controls really get in the way, it's not difficult 
 to win gold on your first attempt. In fact, you'll probably set world records on your first go 
 at a sport on more than one occasion. Consequently, though you might have fun for an hour or two, 
 you'd be hard pressed to squeeze much more entertainment out of the game, even when playing with 
 up to three other friends.  

           Dream events let you compete in a number of non-Olympic-related contests.      

  The 
 visuals are probably the best thing Mario &amp; Sonic has to offer. The familiar and beloved characters 
 are nicely animated, right down to individualized celebrations. The frame rate is steady, even 
 when eight characters are displayed onscreen at once; it's a very technically solid visual presentation. 
 The audio isn't bad either. If you use the same character over and over, you'll likely grow weary 
 of the repetitious exclamations, but there are plenty of characters available should you tire of 
 one. The music isn't anything exciting, though you can unlock classic Mario and Sonic tunes by 
 playing some of the trivia games, which oddly enough have you do things such as sort goombas or 
 match cards instead of actually answering trivia.  

  Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games probably isn't the game you envisioned when you imagined 
 the once-fierce rivals finally getting together, but that's not its biggest problem. Instead, the 
 trouble lies in the often uninteresting and occasionally frustrating controls, combined with some 
 events that are too similar to one another, as well as shallow gameplay that brings the game down. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 7943
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:20 am PT
Review:  It will be too easy and extremly simple for serious sports fans and hardcore gamers because there 
 is not enough content in a single game as each game is very short and few controlls are needed, 
 also in games like table tennis you can only hit the ball left or right, you cant do all the skilfull 
 complex shots. However these things can be very good becaus the simplicity and easyniess means 
 anyone can play and enjoy themselves. You can play with your friends that don't even like videogame 
 and they can enjoy it. You cane even play with your nan and she will like it. A perfect family 
 game that casual gamers and an non gamers can easily enjoy. It being easy makes it very addictive. 
 You don't even hve to concentrate hard because of its simpleness which means you can relax and 
 have fun at the same time. Arguably the best parts is that it feutures without a doubt the biggest 
 gaming icons by far mario and sonic not only that but it has most of the characters fom thier games! 
 Finnaly to round this up I have two words to sum this game up: simple fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  The Summer Olympics of 2008 takes place in Beijing, China. Contenders from all around the world 
 gather at this grand event to compete for gold medals, trophies, fame and glory. 16 events are 
 planned across a wide array of competitions. In a true spirit of sportmanship the contenders ready 
 themselves for the ultimate test of speed, skill and power. Let the fun and games begin!
  
  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games is an official 2008 Summer Olympics game that pits the famous 
 video gaming figures from Nintendo and Sega against one another. This is the first video game in 
 which both Mario and Sonic are playable characters. As such it is a milestone indeed.
  The game features 16 sports events and 16 different playable characters previously known from various 
 Mario and Sonic games. Each character has different stats across four abilities; Speed, Power, 
 Skill and Stamina. The characters are; Knuckles, Bowser, Vector, Wario, Mario, Amy, Luigi, Blaze, 
 Sonic, Daisy, Shadow, Yoshi, Peach, Tails, Waluigi and Dr. Eggman. The characters are categorized 
 in four types of characters either they're Power Type, All-Around, Speed Type or Skill Type characters. 
 Choosing who to play may require more thinking than just picking your favorite one!
  
  The events you will be competing in are the following; 100m, 400m, 400m Hurdles, Long Jump, Triple 
 Jump, Javelin Throw, Hammer Throw, 100m Free Style, 10m Platform, Trampoline, Vault, Archery, Table 
 Tennis, Fencing, Shooting and Cycling. There are also a few so called Dream Events that are minigame-type 
 renditions of various sports. These are Race, Canoe, Boxing, Long Jump, Table Tennis, Fencing, 
 Shooting and Basketball.
  
  The game starts with some events locked, so you aren't allowed access to all events from the start. 
 Events can be unlocked by completing special Circuits that basically are series of events in which 
 you compete against three AI controlled opponents. These Circuits come in three variants. One for 
 beginners, one for advanced and one for master players. You may of course only compete in one single 
 event too  this is called the Single Match, and you can choose one of the events you have unlocked 
 in which you try to set a top score.
  Other than these game modes, you may also create Circuits of your own that include random events 
 or the events that you choose. Then there's the Mission Mode where you must complete specific missions. 
 Each of the 16 characters has its own set of five missions and most of these missions are tricky 
  for example Dr. Eggman needs to jump at least 6 meters in Long Jump with a jump angle of at least 
 50 degrees, and Bowser needs to hit the bullseye three times in a row in Archery.
  
  All the 16 events play differently, so there's quite a lot to learn the first few times you play. 
 There are clear control instructions for each event. Some events are played with the stylus alone, 
 while others use a combination of the stylus and the buttons on the DS, or only buttons. There 
 microphone is also used  for example you can clap near the microphone before the Long Jump to 
 work up the crowd, in the Hammer Throw event you can do victory cheers and in the Skeet Shooting 
 event you can call the clay pigeons.
  Some of the event specific control schemes are clunky though  rubbing the screen back and forth 
 with the stylus to run in running competitions doesn't feel right but at least it works. Swinging 
 the hammer in Hammer Throw is very unresponsive  it pretty much feels broken. The Free Style swimming 
 also feels a bit complex as it mixes rubbing the screen, tapping the screen and timing button pressings 
 right.
  Other events play great however such as the Cycling and Table Tennis. The Archery and Javelin Throw 
 events are very fun and addicting, and obviously has some depth.
  
  It's also quite satisfying to see that you can adjust the rules for all the events. This will give 
 you even more freedom and allows for some customization and opens up for some event practicing. 
 The other options in the game does not affect the game per se. These are sound volume settings 
 and such. There is no way to adjust the difficulty of the AI opponents in the Circuits - they seem 
 way too powerful in some events.
  
  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games offers local multiplayer in both Multi-Card and Single-Card 
 Play. The Single-Card Play allows for 6 different events (100m, Long Jump, Trampoline, Archery, 
 Basket and Canoe) to be played with up to four players. The events are played simultaneously and 
 when all contenders are done, scores are compared and a winner is declared.
  In Multi-Card Play you can arrange a full fledged Circuit with four players. The multiplayer features 
 are very pleasing and meets most players demands.
  
  The Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection Rankings is another prominent feature in this game. Whether you have 
 beaten an Olympic or a World Record or not in the events you may hook up to the Wi-Fi ranking boards 
 and check the results of other players world wide in all the events. It seems however that some 
 of the scores are hacks, as for example the Archery top spot is occupied by someone who has scored 
 a full 120 points and done it in the time 000.000. It also seems that a whole bunch of people has 
 scored the exact same time (the same millisecond!) in the running events, and that just seems odd. 
 It is however nice to be able to compare scores with the rest of the world like this.
  
  There are a bunch of achievements to accomplish in this game. There are 24 medals to be earned 
 with each character, 16 trophies from the Circuits, 22 Emblems and 17 Crowns. Some emblems are 
 awarded for bad behavior and you aren't allowed to know what must be done to earn all these things. 
 They just appear as empty slots in your Collection Room. You can also unlock stuff in the Gallery 
 Mode by playing five different minigames. These minigames are all very simple and very addictive 
 casual-type games. Playing these games in five different difficulty levels will let you access 
 Olympic trivia, information about Beijing 2008, information about ancient and modern Olympics and 
 information about Olympic athletes. If you clear all five difficulties in one minigame you'll unlock 
 new music in the Jukebox. The Jukebox has music from the classic Sonic and Mario games. Very nice.
 
  
  Needless to say there's a whole lot of stuff do in this game if one were to unlock everything. 
 But it doesn't work all the way  sure enough collecting awards is a great motivation, but some 
 of these awards are simply not worth the hassle. If it's too overwhelming, it can very well turn 
 around on the player and instead work against all the motivation that the player may have to begin 
 with.
  
  The biggest problem that is persistent in this title is though the fact that there are numerous 
 scenes to go through before and after the actual event in which you play. You will find yourself 
 wishing that you could skip these sequences faster  or even better if they were more brief. Because 
 as it appears now you are prompted with the scoreboard after each event, and then there are those 
 camera pans and replays on top of that. The game also seems to auto-save all the time, for no apparent 
 reason. Simply put there are a lot of sequences to be skipped even if you just want to replay the 
 same event and practice in it.
  
  Visually the game maintains a great look. All the characters have smooth animations and it's really 
 a novelty in itself to see famous faces like Mario, Sonic, Tails and Luigi compete in various sports 
 events. The game really captures the environments well, and there's a nice level of detail to be 
 seen in the backgrounds  chao balloons, audience and confetti  it's all there. It should also 
 be mentioned that all events take place in entirely different places  so you'll get to see very 
 much of the stadium in which the events take place and the dual screens are generous in showing 
 you the action from different angles. The replays are also there to show you various TV-like camera 
 angles, and it works great!
  
  The announcer voice is the one sound that definitely takes you into the stadium. In addition all 
 the characters have their personal cheers, shouts and victory gestures, and its well done. The 
 music is good too and really gets you into the Olympic spirit. It's just too bad that the classic 
 Mario and Sonic songs are hidden away in the Jukebox as unlocks.
  
  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games delivers some frantic fun sports with very lovable characters. 
 It's really a winning concept. The different events will all require some time before you can figure 
 them out properly, but overall the game is an uplifting experience. The various characters could 
 have had more differences to them, because as they appear now they only have different stats that 
 are hardly noticeable which is a shame. It would have been a blast if all the characters would 
 have had a special ability of some sort.
  All in all, this is a huge game with lots of content, and there's surely something for everyone 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  To be honest, it wouldn't be completely wrong of us to forgo writing an entirely new review for 
 the DS version of Mario & Sonic At The Olympic Games and reprint the one we ran for the Wii version 
 instead. After all, it's basically the same game, although that's more of a compliment than you 
 might think.
  
  That Sega has managed to condense the entire Olympic experience presented on the Wii into a DS 
 cartridge is a remarkable achievement of which it should be proud. And, even better, that means 
 the overall experience is just as much fun too.
  
  Passing The Torch
  That's not to say it doesn't have its moments of annoyance though - as you'd expect from a DS game 
 that mirrors its Wii counterpart so closely, most of the niggles of the latter pop up in the former 
 too. 
  
  
  Yes, the game will tire you out after long periods; yes, the computer AI still features almost 
 impossible levels of skill in some of the events at higher difficulty levels; yes, the Wi-Fi element 
 is still restricted to uploading records rather than playing with friends.
  
  However, the use of the DS's abilities in some of the events, like trampolining (you draw on the 
 touch screen instead of pressing buttons) is certainly impressive, as are the seven new events 
 exclusive to the DS. Multiplayer options abound too and, as in the 'big' version, there's an extensive 
 range of Mission and Circuit modes for those playing alone. 
  
  But is it worth investing in if you've already got last year's Wii game? That depends how much 
 you enjoyed it, we suppose. It's certainly a must-have for those without a Wii or who missed it 
 the first time around then, but with all its charm it's still well worth considering even if you 
 didn't pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derekgilreath93
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  You would think that putting Mario and Sonic in a game together would be unreal, however they pulled 
 it off well. While I think a Mario and Sonic game would be better as some type of platformer, this 
 is a great game which I'd recommend to any Mario, Sonic or Sports fan.
  
  Theres no story and as the title suggests, sixteen characters (eight from each franchise) take 
 part in the olympic games which comprises of 24 events including races, hurdles, swimming, trampoline, 
 table tennis and hammer throw. In single mode you can play these events individually or go for 
 one of the many circuits where you play through 4 selected events with the character of your choice. 
 Alongside that is mission mode, which gives each character 5 different missions which varies from 
 throwing a javelin at a specific angle to getting a set score in trampoline. 
  
  I find each of the events enjoyable to play and the controls are easy to get used to, however a 
 large amount of events require you to run, which you do my rubbing the stylus back and forth on 
 the touch screen. This can cause the screen to become scratched and damaged as the rubbing function 
 is used quite a lot. In fact nearly all the games are used using the stylus, either rubbing it 
 or tracing arrows or moving it in circles or back and forth. Either way it definately tests the 
 touch screens strength.
  
  Despite that though, the game is great fun to play and there are plenty of stuff to do. Half of 
 the events are unlocked by playing through the circuits and each character has medals to earn and 
 there are also tropheys, emblems and crowns to be won by clearing missons and earning gold medals 
 in events.
  
  As well as these events there is also a gallery feature, which features some non-olympic mini-games, 
 unlocking various facts about the olympics as you progress through all 25 of them (5 games each 
 at 5 different difficulties)
  
  The multiplayer is great if you two of you have the game, however, with the download play there 
 are only six events that can be played- 100m sprint, trampoline, long jump, basketball, canoe and 
 archery which is a little dissapointing.
  
  The graphics, sound effects and music in this game are great, which makes the game all the more 
 playable.
  
  Another awesome feature is the wi-fi, which, like the wii version, allows you to put your top scores 
 and new world records online for eveeyone else to see.
  
  Overall this is a great game that any fan would be proud to own. 
  
  But it did only took me 
 a day to beat it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympics was a pleasant surprise for me and the game is vastly underrated. 
 In the game you will play as one of 16 characters from the Mario and Sonic universe traversing 
 throughout a number of different real life Olympic events. Some of the events the game features 
 are 100m dash, 400m hurdles, Javelin Throw, swimming and diving, fencing, basketball, and many 
 more events. In total there are around 20 or so events including a few dream events. The dream 
 events are altered versions of the Olympic Games which hold suit with Mario and Sonic. In one event 
 Dream Long Jump the game has your character jumping off of a cliff and soaring through the air 
 and then landing on an Island. The variety in the events is very good, but I did not like the dream 
 events too much. 
  
  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games shines in the control department as the games are fun and 
 for the most part easy to pick up and play. Some of the games such as Long Jump and Vaulting will 
 take some time to get use to but for the most part the controls are right on. In the running events 
 you just rub the stylus on the screen as fast as you can to run the coarse. The same basic controls 
 apply to swimming. In the diving event you must enter button combinations to perform tricks and 
 must hit the water at the perfect angle using the 4 face buttons on the ds. In shooting events 
 you use the stylus to aim your shot, and in some events you use the L or R buttons to fire or you 
 simply use the stylus. Most of the other events use the stylus controls and before you play each 
 event the game shows you the controls making each game a little easier to pick up and play.
  
  The graphics and sound in the game are both pretty good but there is nothing really outstanding. 
 Some of the character models while playing table tennis looked blotchy and rough, mainly since 
 you are looking right at the top of their head, but other then that the graphics are serviceable. 
 The music in the game isn't outstanding either but there are some good sound effects while the 
 events are being played.
  
  Overall Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games surpassed my expectations and was a fun game to play. 
 There is a chance you could find this game near bargain bins so I would advice to pick the game 
 up and give it a shot for around 20$. You will find that there is a staggering amount of depth 
 to be offered in the form of the different events and hundreds of unlockables. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSfreak789
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is great! I just can't wait until I can get my hands on the 
 Nintendo DS because I'm on ''Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games'' although I would rather play 
 ''Mario Kart DS.''
  
  THE GOOD: 
  *There are plenty of different Olympic sports to play (e. g. track events, swimming, shooting, Dream 
 events, fencing, etc.) 
  *There are many characters from ''Mario'' games and the ''Sonic'" games
  *It gets you sucked 
 into the game once you've started 
  *The game is able to played as multiplayer 
  *Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is available on Nintendo DS and Nintendo Wii 
  *You can 
 have up to three different users
  
  THE NOT SO GOOD: 
  *The graphics aren't the best 
  *The instructions aren't very clear 
  *Some sports are tricky to play 
  *Some sports aren't 
 worth playing 
  
  Overall 'Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games' has the thumbs up from me although I think you should 
 borrow it from a friend before you go out and buy it just in case you don't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Hay, everyone! It's Mario and Sonic both in the same game, competing in the Olympics! This is a 
 game I just had to get and I was so disapointed when I started playing it that I stopped playing 
 my DS for a week. Yes, I rated it 6.5 but only for the following reasons:
  
  *It's Mario and Sonic on the same screen.
  *You get a good view of the Sonic characters on the 
 DS.
  *Catchy music.
  *Graphics are nice and colourful.
  *Versing with friends could be fun to you.
  
  Now let's read all the bad stuff about it:
 
  
  *Not a lot of stuff to do.
  *Once you've played one of the sports, you will never want to again.
  *Dream events are boring.
 
  *Touch screen controls are completely useless.
  *BE CAREFUL YOU DON'T BREAK THE TOUCH SCREEN.
  *Controls rarely work when you press lightly forcing 
 you to stamp on the touch screen.
  
  Well, there you have it. I guess Mario and Sonic don't go together, especially in the Olympic Games.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  A may be a sap for ds games that are also on the wii, and this is one of them. Mario and Sonic 
 are finally together, and it's probably a dream come true for many fans. But sadly, I think we 
 expected something a little different. It could be for advertising space, or simply that it offers 
 things that both sides of the team can do, but it happened.
  
  The game has a great collection of minigames that require different styles of play, such as track 
 and field, fencing, gymnastics, swimming, and the new cycling. It's definately worthwhile for something 
 to do.
  
  It will keep you busy for a while, but if you're the kind of gamer that wants a challenge and a 
 lengthy play, don't get it. Plus, you may want to consider the wii version too, because that has 
 the feel of actually doing the movements (instead of scratching up your friggin touch pad.)
  
  In all, it's a neat game that offers some enjoyable times and a go for the gold.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_godlet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  First Impression:
  Now I've been in the gaming industry a LONG TIME and have played a fair share of Mario games and 
 Sonic games but... Mario and Sonic. In the same game. Now THIS I have to see.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is interesting to say the least. XD;
  You use both stylus and key controls 
 to move your character through the various sports games. I think you've got almost every sing athletic 
 event covered here though some have to be unlocked through playing other events first. There are 
 several modes under single player:
  Single Match where you get to play one event
  Circuit where you have to compete in a series of three events and
  Mission where you have to 
 compete in an event with a specific goal (Not to let Sonic pass you, gather all the stamina icons, 
 etc.)
  
  As for character selection, your choice of 20 characters from both Sonic and Mario fame are divided 
 into four:
  the Power type (Knuckles, Wario, Bowser and Vector)
  the All-Around (Mario, Amy, Luigi and Blaze)
  the Speed type (Sonic, Princess Daisy, Shadow and 
 Yoshi)
  and the Skill type (Tails, Princess Peach, Waluigi and Dr. Eggman)
  Yes, you heard me right. EGGMAN.
  
  The games play out in 3d and in differing camera angles 
 depending on the event. Controls are responsive though some games are a bit frustrating at first 
 but once you get the hang of things, they're rather fun. 
  Of course, it doesn't really last very long. There isn't really a point to the game and when you 
 look at it, it's a minigame collection with a sports theme and two large names. 
  Some games can take some time to learn and some can be downright frustrating but thankfully, fun 
 outweighs frustrating. 
  
  Last words:
  Well, the impossible has happened! Sonic and Mario are in the same game. So ends the rivalry between 
 the two. This game's a good time waster and.... *evil laughter* If anyone manages to beat Sonic 
 in the 100m Dash using Mario, I would SO like to see a video. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbusDumbledorr
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games. Right off the back, it's an interesting title. Two of the 
 big video game characters combined into one, who doesn't like that? Not to mention the exciting 
 graphics, realistic sound, and realistic physics as well. This game includes both real Olympic 
 sports in a fun manner, and also "Dream Events" which is slightly like Olympic sports, but with 
 a "magical" trait to it. There are also 16 different characters to choose from, giving the user 
 a wide variety to choose the character most like their personality. This game includes events which 
 require you to use quick thinking, good timing, fast reflexes, and of course, a thirst for winning. 
 I believe this is a good game for Nintendo and Sega fans alike. It is just plain fun, easy to get 
 into, and addictive as you try to gain more medals, win more circuits, and get a world record. 
 This game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatrickGunwhale
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Much better than any of the Mario Parties (in my opinion) and even though I don't own 
 the Wii version, all of my friends that own both of the games though say that the DS version is 
 better. But I have to ask one question to GAMESPOT. Why a 6.0? This game deserves a 10.0! It is 
 a unique game and allows you to play as two popular characters. The awesome sonic and mario. Honestly, 
 Gamespot has given only 1 editors choice to a sonic game. And that game was sonic adventure (DC) , 
 I think that Mario is too over appreciated. In my opinion Sonic games are better and more unique 
 then Mario. Remember though, this is just my opinion. Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is a 
 great game and this game deserves at LEAST a 9.7. AT  Though 
 this game is said to be "fair" I say it deserves to be "perfect." Oh yeah, and they say game is 
 the 1,279th best game ever. Balloney!!!! It is the second besy game ever for the DS and the 4th 
 best game overall. $35.00 is the price for the best DS game ever! If you dont own this game, you 
 haven't experienced "FUN" minigames yet! DEFINETLY WORTH THE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup1113
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The first the duo Mario and Sonic meat in a chamiponship is very well knowned around the world, 
 It is the summer olympics games. This game delivery an a taste of the olympic games. M&S has a 
 lot of real events that come from the olympics and do get fun after a while. Some of the the games 
 are very adicting some are just plan dumb. This game takes a bit to master but it fun trying to 
 master it. There are 16 characters, 8 from team Mario and 8 from team Sonic but the teams don't 
 come into play when you actualy play the game. The controles is some time imposible to do the events 
 are impossible to even do Ex: triple jump, fencing and the 10m freestyle. The fan look like cut 
 an paste an to chear they bob their heads up and down. The game play is good because the game can 
 get you into it very fast. The mutiplayer is fun because it's a change then the CPUs crushing them 
 all the time, it's a chalange. Im not here to recomend this game to you but if you treat game too 
 hard this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigiSphere
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at The Olympic Games is a great game, packed full of events and hidden features, 
 you keep on wanting to play to unlock and beat them all! You get to play as your favorite characters 
 from the Mario and Sonic series:
  Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Wario, Waluigi, Peach, Yoshi etc.
  Sonic, Tails, Shadow, Knuckles, Dr Eggman, Daisy etc.
  
  The Multiplayer system is a really 
 great feature, being able to play 6 multiplayer games with 1 card, or even more with a card per 
 player!
  
  Whether trying to earn crowns, get gold medals, unlock new events, unlock music tracks, complete 
 missions, get emblems, break records or compete in circuits, you will always feel like there is 
 more to do.
  A game that you won't be able to put down until you've unlocked everything!
  
  The Dream events are a good addition to the original events, including:
  Race, Canoe, Shooting, 
 Basketball, Long Jump and Table Tennis!
  
  Definitely worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anton_111111
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Mario and sonic at the olympic games is better on the nintendo DS system as the controls are alot 
 easier than the wii version like archery and long jump are easier on the DS also there are more 
 events there are 4 more dream events 1 with a different name they are called: Dream boxing, Dream 
 Long Jump, Dream Canoe, Dream shooting and Dream basketball The DS has cycling and 10m platform 
 diving but the DS has no relays e. g 4*100m relay.
  
  Mario and sonic at the olympic games isn't particulary good multiplayer as on DS download play 
 u can only play 6 events 100m, long jump, trampoline, Archery, dream canoe and dream basketball
 
  
  graphics 10: some of the best graphics on the DS
  gameplay 8: the best olympic games video games
  Sound 9: better trhan the original better gallery 
 music and the commentar speaks less
  
  Overall 9.5: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbyethumbs
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic games 
  try to look past the fact its got Mario and Sonic for a moment and look at the game itself.
  
 -Good Graphics and sound
  -Good side missions
  -Some educational value about the olympic games
  -Plenty of sports events to keep you entertained
 
  -Some good online features
  
  Basically this game is just track n field gone touch screen. Not that that's a bad thing but that 
 IS all it is, there's no story to the game, which makes it a bit hard to keep your attention for 
 too long. But the gameplay itself is entertaining while it lasts, some events can prove to be a 
 bit stressful at times (for me; the Vault event was enough to drive me to insanity) but like everything, 
 it takes time and practice.
  
  Personally i thought the side missions and other bonus features we're more entertaining than the 
 competition itself. Each character has their own set of missions to complete involving certain 
 events and these missions tend to be challenging but in just the right amount. There is also another 
 set of challenges which involve tasks not involving the sporting events which are quite fun and 
 as you progress through these challenges you can unlock music from both the origanl Mario and the 
 original Sonic games which will put a smile on your face if you're a fan of either character.
 
  
  There is a fun reward scheme throughout the game where when certain events are won or certain conditions 
 are met you will be rewarded with trophies, emblems, crowns etc. this feature alone makes you pick 
 up the game again and again just to try and collect all the rewards even if its at the expense 
 of some once healthy and painless hands and wrists.
  
  The online features for the game are'nt too bad either, the leaderboard showing the world records 
 for beating certain events gives you something to aim for and you can update the leaderboard whenever 
 you wish.
  
  Now let's look at the obvious, it's Sonic and Mario! although the game is'nt fantastic its worth 
 a play just for some light entertainment and who does'nt want to see Sonic and Mario going head 
 to head in a race, fencing, table tennis or anything else for that matter. Seeing them play chess 
 would still be just as entertaining! (personally im rooting for sonic :P)
  
  So i guess in summary if you want this game, fair enough, but dont rush to your local game retailer 
 with your hopes too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechDresdain
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, produced specifically to take improvement of all the features 
 the DS has to offer, boasts 16 official Olympic challenges as well as two new events that are exclusive 
 to the handheld game - 10m Platform Diving and Cycling. 
  
  Each Dream event takes an Olympic sport and brings it into a video game-inspired world filled with 
 obstacles, power-ups and familiar opponents from the worlds of Mario & Sonic to challenge even 
 the best players. Using the only one of its kind Touch Screen and Nintendo DS stylus, players can 
 cooperate with the game as they jump, swim, run, shoot, pedal and flip their way through dependable 
 antagonism to win Gold medals.
  
  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games presents DS players the chance to play as any one of 16 video 
 game characters  eight from the world of Mario and eight as of the world of Sonic - each bringing 
 their own talents and physical capabilities to the competitions. The game is filled with challenges 
 for all kinds of gamers thanks to the three gameplay modes - the Single Event Mode where players 
 can choose one specific event to play, the Circuit Mode where players can choose a chain of events 
 to compete in, and the Mission Mode where players have the opportunity to fulfill a series of solo 
 challenges that test their athletic capabilities, timing and reflexes. Mario & Sonic at the Olympic 
 Games finishes up with the Gallery, where mini-games and Olympic trivia come jointly to convey 
 more addictive DS fun.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ques4d4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Game Console/Handheld: Nintendo DS
  Name of Game: Mario and Sonic: The Olympic Games
  Genre: Sport
  Players: 1-4
  Online Enabled: Yes 
  
  Mario and Sonic (also available on 
 Wii) is one of the most hyped games of 2007/2008. It brought together two key gaming characters 
 and put them together in one game. But how did it really turn out?
  
  The story of the game is...
  Well erm, there isn't one! Unless you consider picking an event 
 and character an exhilarating RPG experience! So I think we should just leave story out of the 
 way.
  
  Bit onto a key part of the game, game play!
  In the game you choose between a wide variety of different Olympic tasks, you then pick a character 
 and aim for the highest score possible. If you achieve a high score you unlock new games to play 
 or you can post it online! The games are good fun, but some are dreadful. All round the games can 
 get repetitive extremely easy, which is a problem if you had just shed out 30 to play it. You 
 play games in various ways such as the DS keypad, the touch-screen and the shoulder buttons. For 
 example running is controlled by rubbing the touch-screen as fast as you can.
  
  The Wi-Fi is played by a scoreboard, or a game against another person. However the main problem 
 is they are constantly being hacked, so you rarely have a chance of winning. Making it no fun at 
 all.
  
  The graphics of the game are of a decent quality and don't hurt your eyes which can be a good thing 
 for those it happens to frequently. The game is in full 3D, similar to the style of Mario Kart, 
 or Super Mario 64 DS. Something which I won't deny is excellent.
  
  The game's sounds are also of very good quality, sounds are easy to make out. However there isn't 
 many sounds which can be a bit of a downside unfortunately. However they won't affect your game 
 play or put you off.
  
  Summary:
  
  Story  2/10  Virtually non-existent. 
  
  Game play  7/10  Good, fun game play that unfortunately quickly becomes repetitive.
  
  Music: 
 7/10  Decent music, that won't get boring and repetitive for a while.
  
  Online Mode: 5/10  Overran by hackers, making it not as fun.
  
  Lifespan: 7/10  Games to 
 unlock but does get repetitive quite quickly.
  
  Overall: 6.5/10  Another bargin bucket buy-only game.
  
  (Note I am currently looking for 
 an amateur reviewing job, I can supply games. Contact me on chaos. sasuke@gmail. com - Pay may not 
 be required.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antthetitch
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  You would think that putting Mario and Sonic in a game together would be unreal, however they pulled 
 it off well. While I think a Mario and Sonic game would be better as some type of platformer, this 
 is a great game which I'd recommend to any Mario, Sonic or Sports fan.
  
  Theres no story and as the title suggests, sixteen characters (eight from each franchise) take 
 part in the olympic games which comprises of 24 events including races, hurdles, swimming, trampoline, 
 table tennis and hammer throw. In single mode you can play these events individually or go for 
 one of the many circuits where you play through 4 selected events with the character of your choice. 
 Alongside that is mission mode, which gives each character 5 different missions which varies from 
 throwing a javelin at a specific angle to getting a set score in trampoline. 
  
  I find each of the events enjoyable to play and the controls are easy to get used to, however a 
 large amount of events require you to run, which you do my rubbing the stylus back and forth on 
 the touch screen. This can cause the screen to become scratched and damaged as the rubbing function 
 is used quite a lot. In fact nearly all the games are used using the stylus, either rubbing it 
 or tracing arrows or moving it in circles or back and forth. Either way it definately tests the 
 touch screens strength.
  
  Despite that though, the game is great fun to play and there are plenty of stuff to do. Half of 
 the events are unlocked by playing through the circuits and each character has medals to earn and 
 there are also tropheys, emblems and crowns to be won by clearing missons and earning gold medals 
 in events.
  
  As well as these events there is also a gallery feature, which features some non-olympic mini-games, 
 unlocking various facts about the olympics as you progress through all 25 of them (5 games each 
 at 5 different difficulties)
  
  The multiplayer is great if you two of you have the game, however, with the download play there 
 are only six events that can be played- 100m sprint, trampoline, long jump, basketball, canoe and 
 archery which is a little dissapointing.
  
  The graphics, sound effects and music in this game are great, which makes the game all the more 
 playable.
  
  Another awesome feature is the wi-fi, which, like the wii version, allows you to put your top scores 
 and new world records online for eveeyone else to see.
  
  Overall this is a great game that any fan would be proud to own.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the olymic games, it's a fun game. This game has a whole bunch of things to 
 do. From bow and arrows to running tracks this game could have you entertained for a while if your 
 into mini games and repetative game play. There isn't really much of a story mode, I think thats 
 why gamespot rated it bad. The graphics are really good. They have lots of details from every asect 
 plus you get all the details in the stadiums. Another thing thats cool is just the use of the touch 
 screen which you use alot. The bad things are the touch screen. You use it soo much and you have 
 to push so hard at times you feel depressed once your done because you feel that is like breaking 
 it, that's a huge let down for me on this game. Other than that, this game is really fun and I 
 would reccamend it to any Mario and Sonic lovers. Thanks for reading. 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo-Gh0st
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is difficult to describe , it has some fun elements to it , but also some really bad 
 parts which let it down. There is no story to the game , you just have to win the events to unlock 
 more events and get the gold medals. 
  
  Characters - There are four types of characters in this game , they are - all-around , speed , 
 power and skill 
  
  Power characters - Knuckles , Bowser , Vector and Wario
  All-Around characters - Mario , Amy , Luigi , Blaze
  Speed characters - Sonic , Daisy , Shadow 
 , Yoshi 
  Skill characters - Peach , Tails , Waluigi , Dr Eggman
  
  Events - There are nine types of events in the game , they are - athletics , aquatics , gymnastics 
 , archery , table tennis , fencing , shooting , cycling and the dream events
  
  Athletics - 100m , 400m , 400m hurdles , long jump , triple jump , javelin throw , hammer throw
 
  
  Aquatics - 100m freestyle , 10m platform
  
  Gymnastics - trampoline , vault
  
  Archery - single sport
  
  Table Tennis - single sport
  
  Fencing - single sport
  
  
 Shooting - single sport 
  
  Cycling - single sport
  
  Dream Events - Dream Race , Dream Canoe , Dream Boxing , Dream Table Tennis , Dream Basketball 
 , Dream Shooting , Dream Fencing , Dream Long Jump
  
  This game does have a few good parts to it , like the missions for each character , and unlocking 
 the dream events , getting all gold medals.
  But there are some aspects of the game that can be very frustrating , like when you need to win 
 an event but it is too hard and takes about 30 tries to complete.
  
  This game is not a must have for any DS owner and i would suggest only getting it if your a die 
 hard Sonic / Mario fan and you love the olympic games.
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I wouldnt recomend getting this game. Please play a demo or something for it b4 u even think of 
 considering it. The graphics are ok, controlls are ok, but the game has little to offer. I only 
 played this game for 3 days and I must say its really sucky, sonic and mario should be sad something 
 so boring and rancid could come to a nintendo consol. The game is repeating things over and over 
 and gets really boring really quick.
  
  If you want get it for wii, its MUCH MUCH better than this peice of handheld disasterpiece (slipknot 
 refrence =p) DO NOT BUY UNTIL YOU PLAY DEMO AT WALMART!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! If your looking for a game 
 for handheld with mini games consider classics like brainage or mario 64 ds (has some sweeeeeeeet 
 mini games) I wish I never bought this, its probably going to gamespot along some other crappy 
 ds games that I bought recently
  
  *mario and sonic bow their heads in shame* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I championed both the Wii & the DS for their unique selling points over their competitors better 
 graphics & built in doo-da's & Nintendo have been rewarded lavishly by the market for their innovation. I 
 love games on the DS which allow me to use the stylus & microphone in a unique manner but now we 
 see that Nintendo are failing to maintain such innovations as they are now clutching at straws 
 with what to do with that damn stylus. I delight in the use in the stylus on games such as Metroid 
 Prime: Hunters & Zelda & the Phantom Hourglass but this is unnecessary for this game yet it is 
 annoyingly still used. As was pointed out by the game spot review in the sprinting games rubbing 
 the stylus really quickly will allow you to win but it will also scratch your screen if you are 
 not careful. If you have played some of the more serious games in the Olympic series that didn't 
 involve an Italian plumber or a giant Blue hedgehog like Athens then the basic mechanics as to 
 how to perform in the events are still there, you are still tapping things in time & hammering 
 away at 2 buttons as fast as possible so nothing really new but of course this being a bit fictitious 
 non Olympic games are also included in a series of events termed "dream events" none of which are 
 more than poor ideas on how to make the game a little more innovative but here they are just clutching 
 at straws & the game just feels like a collection of sports related mini games riding on the back 
 of the previous successes of the 2 main characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  The Good: Over 20 Olympic Events. Good character roster. The gallery and jukebox is pretty cool. 
 Multiplayer is fun (only if you both have the game)
  
  The Bad: Controls get REALLY repetitive. Your buttons will be broken by the time you finish Dream 
 Boxing. Controls will mess up your buttons and touch screen. This is the most dissapointing part 
 of the game, the game has Wi-fi, but u dont play Olympic events, you just put your records online 
 (whoop-de-freakin'-do) . Overall, I was very excited to get this game (mostly because of the Wi-fi) 
 but nintendo has let me down yet again. You mind as well just buy the WII version instead. The 
 game also gets really boring after the first week you play it. Sonic is my favorite video game 
 character, and Mario is in my top ten, so when I heard about this game I thought YES!!! finally 
 a game with two of my favorite video game characters, but i was wrong, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wario_Kid
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because i played it on my friends wii and loved it, so i bought it the day it 
 came out on the DS. One thing that stood out to me at first are the games graphics, one of the 
 best i have seen on the DS. Also the controls are quite easy to get the hang of. Having said that, 
 i must say that a lot of the controls are just, well, the same. For example long jump and javelin 
 are practically identicle. Some of the games just dont word, like vault, but most of them do. Most 
 of them are very fun and keep you coming back to break all the world records. If you think this 
 is just a wii to DS port you are very wrong, there are many more games to play and this centinaly 
 wont tire you out like the wii. I would recommend this game to anyone (like me) who has a DS but 
 not a wii. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This year the Olympic Games is held at Beijing in China this year. This game has been out for a 
 while for the Wii, DS version came out abit later then the Wii version later November. Based on 
 the Olympic Games you play charcters from the Mario seires and Sonic series you can play as Sonic 
 or Mario or even Vector the Aligator which nobody liked that much in the Sonic series.
  
  Gameplay is mostly using the touch screen and button mashing, you can also clap into the DS mic 
 to get the crowds attetion doing run-jump events. When you doing the 400 M or Swimming events your 
 rubbing the DS screen, rubbing to fast on the touch screen might cause a scratch or a massive bash 
 on the DS touch screen. Some of the games are enjoyable such as cycling, clay-piegion, Archary 
 orTrampoiling. There are 4 of each charcters in each abilty area like speed, power, skill and all 
 round, 16 playable charcter altogethor. Before selecting your charcter to play as you can choose 
 single player, Circuit which is winning throuphies based on names and there's Mission where you 
 can select a charcter and choose a mission and unlock emblems or awards.
  
  Graphics look well done it's got alot of juice from New Super Mario Bros and Sonic Rush graphics, 
 but look really nice for a DS game. Sounding based on the Olympics but may get sick of the same 
 music and voicing in the game pending if your a hardcoe Mario fan or Sonic fan.
  
  There is Wi-Fi multiplay so you can play online or play against a friend who has a DS and this 
 game. Value isn't that bad if you see it for 20- $20 in your local Game Shop it's worth getting 
 on your DS it's a fair game to play. Should take you a couple of hours which will help you pass 
 time if you don't like watch anything on TV that much.
  
  But is enjoyable game you'll propperly play for quite abit. 3 or 4 years later you'll propperly 
 find this game in your bargin bins.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: much_denial
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario, Sonic and their friends compete in the Olympics. There are a variety of activities such 
 as swimming, running and gymnastics. Play to be number one and unlock medals/trophies to stroke 
 your ego.
  
  Come on, what's the point of playing this?
  
  This is just a collection of boring mini-games that are very similar to each other. The controls 
 are too simple and some of them just make you end up scratching the touch screen. There's this 
 one activity where you have to clap or blow into the mic to "warm up" the character so he gets 
 all pumped up. Might be fun for you, but I felt like an idiot blowing and grunting at my DS while 
 I was out in public.
  
  I guess you could also classify this game as edutainment, seeing as there is an unlocking "gallery". 
 What this so-called "gallery" is, is just more useless mini-games but it's different this time 
 -- you play to unlock information about the Olympics. Wow, I'm having fun AND I'm learning! All 
 right, you also unlock sound tracks, but I'm pretty sure that's not what the sponsors for the game 
 had in mind anyway.
  
  Look, I don't mind playing games to beat high scores but if the game is shallow and boring, I don't 
 really see the incentive to keep playing. You might say it's made for multi-playing, but honestly, 
 I don't think I can get one my friends to play this with me. It would be just as boring, playing 
 alone. On the plus side, the graphics are o. k. and it's cool to see Mario and Sonic together but 
 that still doesn't make the game good enough even for a rental.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  With the momentum of Mario Party DS, Nintendo (with SEGA) have released a solid and fun game. I 
 enjoyed the Mario Party arrival to DS. This game has as much fun and enjoyment as you would expect 
 in a Mario game. There are many manys to play this game.. you can play in a story mode type fashion, 
 single event and DS to DS with a friend, and more.
  
  The graphics look very good for a DS game. The game control utilize as features that the DS was 
 designed for. I think people of all ages will enjoy the game (although kids mostly) . I have been 
 playing it solid since last night.. I find it fun. 
  
  If you're a diehard Mario fan.. you'll like this.
  If you're a Sonic fan, you're gunna see your 
 favs in a new way with this game.
  
  Either way, if you're looking to play olympic esque games with amusing characters (ol' skool and 
 new) .. you'll amuse away some fun time with this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
