-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario Hoops 3 on 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/mariobasketball/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Control is laid out in an interesting way.
 has a good number of different courts and characters.
 has control options for left- and right-handed players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Requires second copy of the game for real multiplayer.
 single-player isn't too engaging.
 minigame modes are lame.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 12, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.1, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,108 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Square Enix
Genre: Basketball
Date: Sep 11, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mario Hoops presents an interesting new way to control what turns out to be a fun little basketball 
 game. 

  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a Mario-themed basketball game that uses the Nintendo DS touch screen for 
 shooting, passing, sidesteps, and just about every other move you can pull off. It's a good use 
 for the touch screen that's often clever and gives you a variety of moves to choose from at any 
 given moment. That sets up some unique strategies that come into play when you're going up against 
 another player. But the teams you face in the single-player mode aren't nearly as much fun.  

 
          It's not uncommon for one team to score more than 400 points by the time the game is done. 
     

  As the title indicates, the game pits teams of three players against one another. The ballers include 
 Mario, Luigi, Bowser, Wario, Peach, Yoshi, Dixie Kong, and so on, though despite the wide selection 
 of characters, there only seem to be a few different types of players. As you'd expect from a Mario-themed 
 sports game, liberties are taken with the rules of basketball. The biggest one is the way scoring 
 works. You'll never see a two-point basket in this game. Instead, the number of points you score 
 for a basket varies and seems dependant on the type of shot and how many coins you're holding onto 
 when you score. Question-mark tiles litter the floor of the court, and dribbling on them while 
 tapping the touch screen earns you coins. You can also earn coins while dunking by executing a 
 charge dunk, which leaves you hanging up in the air near the basket while coins ring up. That leaves 
 you wide open to get bopped by one of the opposition, though, making the shot risky. Many of the 
 moves in the game also have countermoves. To stop steal attempts, you can hold the stylus on the 
 screen. From there, moving the stylus around moves the ball in the player's hands, letting you 
 dribble on the other side of your player to dodge the swipes of an incoming steal. But that, of 
 course, can be countered by a charged-up steal. The list of different moves goes on, and many of 
 them have proper countermoves. If you were playing against a player of similar skill, the moves 
 and countermoves can be interesting.  

  Unfortunately, the only way you get to play against a player of similar skill is if you happen 
 to have a friend with a copy of the game. Online support for Wi-Fi multiplayer would have been 
 a smart addition. Game sharing only lets you participate in a couple of tedious minigames, and 
 the artificial intelligence you face off against in the tournament and exhibition games is a little 
 too robotic to be fun for long. There are four cups and multiple difficulty levels for each one 
 that unlock as you play, as well as five settings for exhibition matches. In the harder games, 
 they'll swipe the ball from you if you get careless, and they'll usually block your charge dunks, 
 as well. But scoring is rarely difficult; instead, it's defense that gets tougher as you play, 
 as the AI opponents get better about preventing steals and passing the ball when their shots are 
 likely to get stuffed. That evens the playing field out a lot.  

  The lighthearted nature of Mario's previous sporting efforts is also found in Mario Hoops, most 
 notably in the different courts you'll play on. Many of them have unique gimmicks, such as one 
 that has a special coin on the court that lets you spin the reels of a slot machine after you score. 
 The spin may come up blank, or it might make matches that either increase or decrease the point 
 total of the basket you just scored. Other courts have pits of fire, roaming bob-ombs, thwomps 
 that appear out of thin air and attempt to crush you, and so on. Overall, the feel of the game 
 is suitably Mario-like, which isn't an automatic guarantee, given that the game was developed by 
 Square Enix.  

          The AI gets better in the later stages but still isn't as much fun as playing against another 
 person.     

  Mario Hoops has good graphics, devoting the top screen of the DS to the 3D, on-court view and the 
 touch screen to a bird's-eye view from above the court, showing you where the question-mark spots 
 are and where the other players are located. But the game's animation lacks variety. Mario and 
 his posse don't have many different dunks, and the supershot animations are the same every time 
 you do them. Still, it's bright, colorful, and has a good sense of style. The music in the game, 
 however, wears thin quickly, as does the voice acting. Mario has two things to say: "mama mia" 
 when something goes wrong and "fantastico" whenever anything good happens. The other characters 
 are all similarly limited on the vocabulary side. With only three characters on a team, all of 
 the voice clips are overplayed almost immediately. The rest of the game's sound effects, though, 
 are decent.  

  It's short on modes and asks you to replay the same tournaments on multiple difficulty settings, 
 but the core gameplay in Mario Hoops is pretty good. If you're near other DS owners who are likely 
 to play multiplayer with you frequently, Mario Hoops is a good choice. But by itself, the game 
 wears out its welcome a little too quickly to be wholly recommendable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (108 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mario_7173
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:11 am PT
Review:  Well Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a fun game and is a must have for any mario fan but there are some flaws. 
 Some good things are interesting controls and easy to learn how to play but some bad things are 
 the music which I found very repetitive and the length. Ok on to the proper reveiw...
  
  Well I'll start with the good things. Gameplay is good and is laid out in an interesting way. You 
 can use stylest controls or button controls both which are pretty good but I don't think you can 
 do certain things with the button controls that you can do with the stylest ones. Theres also a 
 option of left hand play which is good. The grafics are very good and well thats about it.
  
  Some bad things are the music (the sound was good) which I found very repeatative (as I said 
 above) . Also it isn't the longest game your gonna come across, in adventure mode you have 4 cups 
 and 3 games in each cup so yeah not alot. Anyway lets wrap this up.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Grafics: 9/10
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
  Anyway thats all I got c you 
 guys around :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkaar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:43 am PT
Review:  Mario hoops 3-3 is a fun little basketball game that is definetly worth buying but it still isnt 
 perfect. The game features Mario characters and even a few Final fantasy characters. You can control 
 the game by using the stylus or the buttons, which is good because all of the people propaply wont 
 like the stylus controls. The singleplayer game is based on the gamemode called tourney. In tourney 
 you choose 3 characters and then just basicly play 3 matches and the tourney is already over. Luckily 
 there are 4 tourneys to choose from and you can play them on easy or difficult. The sound in the 
 game is good, the soundtrack is also solid but nothing very special. The graphics are very good 
 for a ds game and all of the characters look good. The gameplay isnt all that good if you use the 
 stulys but with the buttons everything should go well.
  
  gameplay 7/10
  
  sound 8/10
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  So overall Mario hoops 3-3 is a very fun game that lots 
 people will enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  Another month, another bout of deja vu as we revisit a game that should have been out last year 
 but is only hitting shops now. And straight off, the thing that's clear about Mario Slam Basketball 
 is that these are the best 3D graphics on the DS so far.
  
  Every court looks stunning, with details and special effects you wouldn't think possible on the 
 DS. You can play on a giant raft that's drifting down a rushing river in the DK stage, or on one 
 of those cannon-filled floating ships from Super Mario Bros. 3 as a thunderstorm rages.
  
  The character models and the fluidity of their animations are equally impressive. Top this off 
 with a slick frame rate and you have a game that has to be seen to be believed. 
  
  
  This game sets new standards in visual quality on the DS, and it attempts to do the same in innovative 
 use of the touch screen - but it doesn't quite manage it. Using the D-pad or buttons to move around 
 the court, you use the stylus to bounce the ball, shoot and perform crazy manoeuvres. 
  
  The basic moves are simple - tapping the stylus bounces the ball, an upwards swipe takes a shot, 
 and stroking downwards when in defence activates a tackle. To pass, do a side-swipe in the direction 
 of the recipient. It's a clever system that lets you do more than you could with buttons. For example, 
 you can control where the player bounces the ball by tapping parts of the screen. If a defender 
 comes in from the left, tap the right of the screen to bounce the ball there. Ingenious.
  
  But this system doesn't always work. Say you want to pass to a team-mate who's in front of you. 
 Your natural reflex is to stroke upwards, but that makes you take a shot. Then there are Super 
 Shots, which are performed by tapping a pattern on the touch screen, only the patterns are different 
 for each character so you have to learn them. 
  
  Mario Slam Basketball also tries something new with the points system. Instead of simply scoring 
 points, you have to gather coins by bouncing the ball on item boxes. After you grab a bunch of 
 coins you have to put the ball through the net to transfer the coins to the scoreboard. This sounds 
 like the quirky sort of idea that you'd expect from a Mario sports game but it changes the focus 
 of the game and turns it into a coin-grabbing contest. 
  
  Add to that the wacky items (homing Red Shells, bombs and other Mario Kart weapons) and there's 
 not much basketball left. Crazy items make the action, well, crazier, and a lot of the time they 
 can be fun, but they interfere with the sport a bit too much, and the explosions and Shells can 
 be frustrating. 
  
  
  
  Luckily, earlier tournaments in the single-player game allow you to get used to the game's control 
 style and remixed scoring system. If anything, they're a bit too easy, with CPU-controlled players 
 just standing around. Then, suddenly, the difficulty shoots up and the computer becomes invincible. 
 
  
  I Wish I Was A Baller
  After steaming through the toddler-difficulty of the earlier Cups, a burst of trickiness is like 
 running head-first into a wall. The computer will have you constantly marked, passing is tough 
 and performing a Super Shot is near impossible. If you like a challenge you'll welcome this difficulty, 
 but younger gamers will be stumped. 
  
  This doesn't ruin the game though, and all the mayhem makes for a brilliant multiplayer mode. With 
 a single cartridge you can play coin-collecting challenges against a friend, but if you want to 
 play basketball both of you will need your own copy of the game.
  
  Mario Slam Basketball is a fine addition to Mario's sports range. The control system is flawed, 
 the difficulty curve is wonky and the coins detract from the sport, but if you're not precious 
 about the rules of basketball you'll have a lot of fun here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 surprised me quite a bit. The graphics are rather good and there's a huge range 
 of characters to choose from.
  Now I just want to say that it's too bad that I'm a left hander. To me, this game is extremely 
 uncomfortable because I'm using the A, B, Y and X button to move my chartacter. Let's get into 
 the goods and bads.
  
  THE GOOD
  *A HUGE range of characters including a few from Final Fantasy and Donkey Kong games.
  *Good 
 graphics. It's great to see all the levels and characters in full 3D.
  *Makes a lot of use of the stylus.
  
  THE BAD
  *Too challenging.
  *I hate using the buttons 
 and stylus at the same time.
  *Touch screen controls don't always work out the way you want it to.
  *The CPUs on your team 
 are useless. It's like 3 onto 1. I'm struggling around trying to get the ball by myself and when 
 I do get it there's 3 guys crowding around me. Soon the ball is their's.
  *Incredibly frustrating.
  *No Wi-Fi Connection.
  *Download Play only offers 2 crummy minigames.
 
  
  Well, that's it. Obviously there are more bads than goods. 
  I just can't seem to get my head around it.
  Now remember, I'm left handed so I find this game 
 extremely difficult and stuff, but to a right hander, you may love it.
  So the bottom line is, LEFT HANDERS, STAY AWAY.
  
  STORY.............. N/A
  GAMEPLAY......4.0
 
  GRAPHICS.......8.0
  SOUND.............5.8
  OVERALL.........6.0
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegiz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long time since anything related to Square Enix was found on a Mario game. the last 
 time was... well... since Super Mario RPG (by Square) . Now they emerge to make a new game involving 
 2 nets, a large wooden floor and a few cameo appearences by Final Fantasy characters.
  For starters the game is a great game at first. with the best graphics on any mario game to date. 
 and music that goes well for the courts. also the courts are nicely designed for the game. Nearly 
 every detail was drawn out on the screen. And the courts are in a variety of places. From Mario 
 stadium, to the erie Luigi's Mansion, to the Rainbow Ship. the controls work well and use the DS 
 touch screen well. and the gameplay mechanics are also good.
  However there were a few problems I faced. For one thing the games get repetive very fast and does 
 not hold the addiction that the Mario Tennis or Mario kart series have. Also the game could've 
 been made by Nintendo and not by Square Enix. While I applauded their effort to try to make games 
 outside the already large RPG world. they could've done better. And another thing, Final Fantasy 
 and Mario don't mix. One is anime and the other some cartoony art style. And because they also 
 made Super Mario RPG they could've put in... The Axem Rangers. Now that would be cool.
  Overall the game is good for a while. but then when the FF characters come in. it becomes boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game I thought it was fun... just fun. The reason why this game isn't 
 great is because there arent enough modes or even game modes in the game. 
  I rented the game and me and my friend were excited to try to the 2 player to only find out that 
 you needed 2 cards of the game to play 2 player. It's little things like that that make this game 
 average.
  
  here is how I rated the game:
  
  graphics:8/10. These are the best I have seen on the ds so far and are good but animations are 
 repeated often.
  
  controls:9/10. These work very well and suprisingly aren't very hard to master. It's way to hard 
 to use your special shot on the latter tournaments though.
  
  gameplay:7.0/10. The game is fun but you do the same things often and will get board of the game 
 in a week or less.
  
  extra:5/10. Like I said before there is a complete lack of extra modes and the 2 player seems like 
 a ripoff
  
  overall:7/10
  
  I recommend that you definately rent this. You will have a lot of fun with the game for about a 
 week or two and then you will get bored.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  why was this game released on the DS? why not the Game Cube? the game is so good it would add deserved 
 a place of choice but instead of this one we get Mario strikers... (don't get me wrong here Mario 
 strikers still is a good game but well it's just not that good)
  anyway Nintendo sure knows how to make Mario play in any sport existing on the planet and make 
 it enjoyable and the best example is this game. 
  
  1st of all the character setup: not only is there a great bunch of Mario characters but since the 
 game was developed by Square Enix there are also surprise appearances from final fantasy characters.
 
  
  2nd: the great gameplay of the game even tough it's on the ds i mean there is everything classic 
 to Mario spin-offs like special moves, items, interactive stages, and a great dunking system
  
  3rd: the stages although some of them are just normal basketball terrains with a different 
 background most offer quite a punch like for example the daisy's garden where the hoops has been 
 replaced by two Petey piranhas and if you want to dunk you have to wait till Petey sleeps...
  
  this game is just simply awesome and come to think of it i'm glad they made it on the ds because 
 it let's you play it where ever and when ever you want. trust me this game is a must add to any 
 Mario fan's collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 for the DS was extremely fun and took a lot of skill to beat the game. It had 
 extremely fun gameplay, good graphics (for a Mario game) , and very fun controls. If you don't know 
 let me tell you how the controls work. You have to tap the screen repeatedly to dribble the ball 
 and use the control pad to move. If you dribble on the top part of your screen your character will 
 dribble in front of you. If you dribble in the lower right part of your screen your character will 
 dribble the ball behind him and the the right a little. If you dribble on the left side then the 
 right really fast doing left right left right left right left right your character with dribble 
 the ball in-between your legs back and forth this is useful because if your dribbling in front 
 of you and someone comes up to you they can steal the ball so you switch where it is so they can't 
 take it. If you move the stylus on the screen in the direction of your teammates then you'll pass 
 it to them. If you move the stylus forward you will shoot a basket and if your close enough to 
 the basket the you will dunk but in the later levels there's no way to get that close without all 
 three guys on the other team clobbering you. Oh and if you draw a special symbol on the screen 
 like for Wario you draw and w and for Mario you draw a m. well as I was saying if you draw a special 
 symbol on the screen you do a special move which costs coins but is pretty much unbeatable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is too underrated. Its a great game. Its very addictive too. Lots of characters from 
 the Mario universe and even some from the Final Fantasy Universe, cuz Square Enix helped make the 
 game. Now, is it worth the money, well it depends. If you know someone who owns the game, then 
 get it cuz multiplyers great. If not, try to find it used cuz 1 player is still good.
  
  
  Gameplay: You use the d pad to move, and the rest is usuall sliding on the touch screen to 
 pass, shoot, and punch the ball out of your opponents hands. Its a lot of fun. Theres also coins 
 you collect that with each one it coints as a point when you make your next basket. There are also 
 items to help you.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good actually. the movements look very smooth. As for the courts, They look good 
 as well.
  
  Sound: Good SEs, great music too.
  
  Multiplayer: Superb. Really awesome. As for the DS download play, not all that great.
  
  Unlockables 
 and Extra Content: Lots of courts, characters and balls to collect. And alternate costumes.
  
  
  Final Comments: A good game which deserved more credit from gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RT-uchiha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  okay first off, people say it's annoying and hard. its not..... when I first got this game i thought 
 "wow" as you get further into playing this game it get's intense .especally the final battle but 
 once you beat that it's very fun to play for about a year, then you'll want to test ur skills against 
 someone, but that's where the fun stops i was very disapointed about no wi-fi connection. in order 
 for this this to be a must have get a friend or two or maybe four to pick this up and you'll never 
 get tired of this game.... the download play get's boring and that's at least where exhibition shoulda 
 been. if you want a good game think about it.... if ur a mario/basketballl fan and you a DS... it's 
 a must
  if a sequel were to come out it better have wi-fi connection on it ,they should also make a mario 
 baseball for ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman803
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  A mario basketball game! Wow! I can't beleive it! I can't wait to get it! That's exactly what I 
 thought but I was a little bit disappointed. 
  
  First of all, I didn't like the control shceme. It just felt weird to shoot, pass, dribble, and 
 basically do everything with the touch screen. The only thing you didn't do with the touch screen 
 is move your character and that isn't great either because the Dpad is on the left side and what 
 if you're left handed? Would you have to use the stylus and move your player with the same hand? 
 Another thing I didn't like was that the game was just way too easy. It is so incredibly easy to 
 steal the ball and dunk. But I didn't hate every thing about this game. I liked how there were 
 so many characters and each character had their own special dunk. The graphics aren't half bad 
 and the court design is really interesting. So the bottom line is that if you are looking for a 
 mario sports game, make Mario Hoops 3 on 3 one of your last choices. I would recommend Mario Superstar 
 Baseball or Super Mario Strikers. This game is just plain old OK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  In the game you can play has the major Mario Characters.
  
  Characters: Mario
  Luigi
  Wario
  Waluigi
  Yoshi
  Bowser
  Daisy
  
  In the game there is only one unlockable character. 
 The game is hard and fun but it gets kinda boring. On the court you use items like red shell and 
 bombs and you get some coins and if you get hit by one you lose coins if you hit the other players 
 then you get coins. The more coins you get and if you duck then the more points you will get.
 
  
  The good the game is very fun and the Game play is amazing.
  
  The bad is that the Stylus controls suck and the game is very hard.
  
  Overall this game I 
 get 8.0 outta 10 if you are getting this game then I would think about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  This is a mario basketball game wicth is a first for mario and its not bad. It has pretty good graphics 
 for the Ds and a bunch of nintendo charecters like  
 kong, Dixi kong, Donkey kong, Boo, Flyguy, Paratroppa and some final fantasy charecters like Ningas, White 
 Mages, and Black Mages, It has a tourney mode with 4 tornements MUSHROOM, FLOWER, STAR, AND i THINK 
 RAINBOW. You also can unlock new balls and courts like some balls are yoshis, watermelon and so on. If 
 you beat all the Tourneys you get hard mode. You can also play mutiplayer which I havent tried yet. It 
 has wierd but good controls you youse your styles to do everything but move which you youse the 
 d pad for. So this is a good game which includes a exhibitionn mode and a training mode for biggeners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JordyCool1
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Mario Slam Basketball is yet another Mario sports game , this time for the DS, The game has clever 
 controls , and I must admit , which are fun to use as they let you do many things which you would 
 do if playing basketball in realife including stealing , blocking , dodging the openent and , of 
 course , shooting. When shooting , how many points you score depends on how many coins you collect 
 , every coin is worth one point and getting the ball in the hoop is worth twenty . Once you get 
 the ball into the hoop your coins are banked and turned to points. But collecting points tests 
 you dodging skills as if the openent swipes and hits the ball you loose some of your coins. All 
 this is fun but after plaing endless matches it becomes very boring . Unfortunatly the minigames 
 arent much fun , and actualy playing basketball against another person requires two copys of the 
 game. Overall Mario Slam basket ball is fun game , but has bad features that means that lets the 
 game down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golazo3
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is great in many ways, it is a perfect combination between basketball and Marios Adventures. 
 The game is imersive and is fun to play, its many multi-player. The game rocks all the way, until 
 you finish the game that is because after replaying tournaments and completing the challenges the 
 game begins to lack its glamour. 
  
  The game excels in almost everyway, including some things to do after the game is complete and 
 a nearly excellent set of minigames, although there are only two minigames, these minigames are 
 incredible if you play with your friends. Another good detail of the game is the great amount of 
 features in some of the maps, the variety of maps and how they are designed is simply incredible 
 much better than i had excpected when i first saw the game.
  
  The maps are all from the mario series as well as one bonus map from final fantasy. The characters 
 in the game look really good durng game modes, they have very detailed bodies and move essentially 
 better than in previous mario sports games, the sprites move about at a great speed and have a 
 quick reaction time (UNLIKE mario strikers)
  
  The touch screen works perfectly for making your characters dribble, pass and score only using 
 the touchscreen control pad and R very confortable. There are not many problems with the controls 
 apart from the fact that its hard to get your movements correct when your concentrated on the top 
 screen.
  
  The games is completely capable of entertaining you for some 15 hours, then it begins getting boring. 
 Although you might not expect much from a Mario sports game made by Square Enix, the game is good 
 if you are a fan of mario and sports, this game might not be as good as Zelda or Metroid Prime 
 but it is still worth a try.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  I was quiet excitied to play this game when I got it, but was dissapointed after wasting time with 
 the controls to really play the game in depth.
  
  I did like the 3vs3 atmosphere as well as the power ups you can get while playing. It felt like 
 a basketball version of Mario Kart. Being able to grab coins and then shells and send them at your 
 opponent gave this game more than just that boring basketball feel. 
  
  Where the game was hurt was the controls. I understand wanting to use the stylis to justify it's 
 existance but this game goes a little too far. There was no need to use the stylis in this game. 
 It just prevents a game from being great. I have rather large hands and I know the game isn't targeted 
 at me as the audience as I'm in my late 20's but it's still a cramping style of play. 
  
  Here's the bottom line. If you are younger and don't have to worry about having large hands this 
 game could be quiet enjoyable. But if you are a little older and have large hands the stylis game 
 play is just too much to want y ou to come back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I'd just like to say that this game has supurb visuals, gameplay, and well thats it. The single-player 
 is pretty boaring, but livable. If you have a friend with the game you will probably enjoy this 
 game better, but if you don't then you should probably pass on the game. The real problem with 
 the game it that is butchers the sport of basket-ball into little bits of gameplay that resemble 
 basket-ball, but not realy. You still score by making baskets, but you will spend 90% of the game 
 dodging eachother and getting coins, which are the actual "points" in the game, so you usualy get 
 around 250 to 350 (if your good) in ONE basket. which realy annoys me because I just wanted to 
 have a mode that lets you just play basket-ball, you know, where you get 2 to 3 points per basket 
 and you don't have crazy items. The realy cool thing about it is that there are both sqare-enix 
 AND nintendo charecters to play with. (so thats cool) But all in all it dosen't feel like your playing 
 basketball, more like a totaly different sport, which will be a good or a bad thing on a case by 
 case basis. But i would also like to note that the music is EXTREMELY annoying, and CAN-NOT be 
 turned off, except of corse if you actualy turn the sound off completely, which is a shame because 
 the sound-effects themselves are pretty good. if you play the game expecting to play basket-ball 
 then you will be disappointed but if you buy it expecting a completely different sport9and your 
 ok with that) then it might be worth while.
  
  Good: some of the best visuals the DS has.
  smooth controls.
  multi-player is fun. (but you 
 both have to have a copy)
  sqare-enix charecters are there.
  
  Bad: Horrible and just plain annoying music (if you can call it that)
  Isn't basket-ball.
  Single-player 
 is short and generaly boaring.
  Multi-player needs two copys of the game to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Not much has been going bad since the Mario Sports series kicked off. Most Mario sports games are 
 good. This, however, is not. It might have Final Fantasy characters, but they're not enough to 
 succumb the feeling this game has. It's terrible with use of game-play, but many other problems 
 clinch a bad spot in this game.
  
  Game-play: 3/10
  
  The game-play is the most actorious in a handheld basketball game ever. The items are completly 
 useless, and such is true. However, a strong point in the game-play is that it involves Cactuar, 
 an awesome character, and more. It's terrible reasonings end up cased in by abysmal item control. 
 The trick dunks are completly worthless, and it's almost impossible to win a game.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  
  The graphics are okay for this, but some characters, such as Cactuar, have 
 awkward movements at some times.
  
  Sound: 4/10
  
  The music isn't really that special. It's not a kind of soundtrack to really have, but it does 
 have some catchy points. However, the audio is terrible, one of the worst for a basketball game.
 
  
  Camera and control: 4/10
  
  In tilt, it's a disaster. The control is very jerky, and picking up and throwing items is sometimes 
 frustrating. The camera isn't very good either, and doesn't manage to get good taste in the middle 
 of the action.
  
  Value: 4/10
  
  This is easily the worst basketball game on a handheld system ever.
  
  Average score: 4.2/10
 
  
  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 can't be perfect, great, good, or fair. It's one of those games you should avoid 
 playing. Nintendo made a huge mistake making the game. If this is what Nintendo calls "a masterpiece" 
 Then Big Rigs is the best game ever. Basketball fans shouldn't even rent this game, the same with 
 Mario fans. Abysmal items, terrible tilt, bland graphics, disasterous game-play, and dumb min-games 
 screw this game into a poorly made basketball release that's bound to dissapoint anybody who buys 
 it, and I learned it the hard way. It can't be the best basketball game, because it might be the 
 worst.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pc1oad1etter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was a joy to play, and even with the "smarter ai" in later levels, I managed to beat 
 the game with little trouble. Honestly if you consider this game's single player tourney "hard" 
 please L2P. 
  
  This game is heavily dependent on multi-player but considering the game is in mid-range for price 
 (retails around $29.99, my used copy cost me $20) I'm surprised just about everyone doesn't have 
 a copy of this game. 
  
  The gameplay is fun and intense. A Nerf armor or some kind of grip is highly recommended if you 
 plan on playing this game for any extended length of time as it requires you hold the DS in one 
 hand to control the characters while using the stylus to manage the fine art of Mario Basketball.
 
  My hand definitely got cramped after a couple games until I snapped on my good ol' Nerf Armor. 
 
  
  The graphics are akin to Mario 64, but more polished. There's a wide array of characters with fun 
 animations and their own unique signatures for the moves you'll employ. One of my favorite moves 
 is the butt stomp that will keep your opponents from standing still for too long. The court environments 
 vary greatly and add quite a bit to the game. A battle on the deck of a pirate ship keeps you on 
 the move as cannon balls roll around until they blow up. Skate around a frozen pond as you try 
 to keep traction with the ball, as people toss freezing projectiles at you. All of this added together 
 should keep you get bored of the same old back and forth that's associated with many basketball 
 games. And if you find it boring... take some ritalin because that's not normal.
  
  In my opinion, the lack of WFC is probably the only thing holding this game back from being as 
 popular as Mario Kart. While I do have a few buddies that have this game, it'd be great to be able 
 to hop on a WFC match with friends and lay the smack down than have to suddenly bring up "You got 
 your DS? Let's play Mario Hoops!"
  
  This game is highly underscored in the ratings and all I can do is hope for a new iteration that 
 will include access to Nintendo's WFC. 
  
  By the way I'm not even really a fan of sports games, but this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Here's Luigi, down the middle lane! He's uncontested! He'll drive to the basket and  SCORE!
  
  Ball put back into play by Bowser, covered by Mario. From nowhere, a red shell  from Peach! 
 Luigi recovers the ball  he's down the left lane, pursued by Bowser! He slows downMario speeds 
 aheadLuigi to Mario, andMario with the basket!
  
  I lay my head back on the seat-rest, the wind from the open window blowing back my hair. I've finished 
 yet another game of Mario Hoops 3-on-3. Its frantic, exciting, though admittedly sometimes out-of-control 
 action, combined without the fact that games seldom lat more than about five minutes, makes it 
 perfect for long car trips such as this one. My hand is sweaty from holding the stylus and tapping 
 so frantically, and is beginning to cramp. I contemplate playing one more game; my head aches, 
 but the game is just so addictiveFine. One side of me gives in, and I tap, "One More Time". Here 
 we go!
  
  I dry off my sweat hand on my equally sweaty shirt (the air conditioning never comes on in my car) , 
 and happily anticipate the new game. My headache has disappeared  my mind's completely on the 
 game. Before I begin, though, I make a few selections  mainly, the course on which we play and 
 the time of each quarter (or half  whichever you prefer) . For exhibition games such as these, 
 my course of choice is the typical Mushroom Kingdom Court, a no-frills court perfect for straight-up 
 basketball. Of course, as with every Mario ports game, there are several more chaotic courts for 
 me to play, if I so choose. In select courses, random events occur, such as jumping Cheep-Cheeps, 
 Bullet Bills zooming throughout the course, and a huge Petey Piranha acting as a hoop.
  
  I tense up for the explosive start-of-game. Every game begins with a jump ball  my favorite part. 
 One character from each team of three competes for the first possession of the ball. As Lakitu 
 tosses the ball up above the two players heads, I quickly slide my stylus upward  this is the 
 motion for jumping in Mario Hoops. To my dismay, however, the other player grabs the ball. Acting 
 quickly in response, I slide my stylus forcefully back in a down position. To my immense satisfaction, 
 this move works perfectly. My player dives back to the ground, causing a miniature earthquake and 
 knocking down the opponent, and forcing him to drop the ball!
  
  My three players (Luigi, Bowser, and Peach) all scramble toward the ball, racing the remaining 
 two opponents (DK and Dixie Kong) for possession. I hit the L button, and control immediately switches 
 to that of the nearest player on my team  in this case, Peach. Rather than making a mad dash to 
 the basket, though, I work on a longer-term game-play strategy.
  
  In Mario Hoops, each basket scores 20 base points. However, rather than simply going for a mere 
 20 points, I work towards a massive score, worth easily a hundred or more points. By racing around 
 the court and dribbling on Question Blocks, I can quickly gather coins. Once I make a basket, each 
 coin I have is worth an additional point! As I go about collecting coins, though, the defense jumps 
 into action. Peach is having difficulty by-passing Donkey Kong, so I quickly slide the stylus to 
 the left, which executes a smooth pass to Luigi, who's wide open. I quickly maneuver him toward 
 the nearest Question Block, and begin quickly tapping on the screen. This movement initiates a 
 very quick dribbling, which allows me to very quickly gather coins from the blocks.
  
  I've quickly garnered some 50 coins  a shot made now would make more than 70 points. This lead, 
 admittedly, can be very quickly cut, but it's a start. I charge toward the basket, only to find 
 Diddy Kong in my way. I quickly slide the stylus backward, which creates another pass, this time 
 to Bowser. He's wide open, and I decide to try for a Power Shot. I tap out the intricate sequence 
 on the screen (it differs for different characters) , and Bowser gears up for his shot. He's outside 
 the three-point line, so he passes it toward the basket. Luigi sees the pass coming, and jumps 
 up for the ally-oop. He grabs the ball, and dunks it into the basket. This special shot, combined 
 the the 50+ coins I've collected, makes this shot worth more than 80 points! After watching the 
 sweet replay, I get my players back and prepare to make a defensive stop against the opponents.
 
  
  Diddy Kong brings the ball up the court, and I, playing as Bowser, prepare to take up the defense. 
 I begin by making several quick downward sweeps with the stylus, causing Bowser to swing his arms, 
 in an attempt to hit Diddy and force him to give up the ball. Unfortunately, though, Diddy manages 
 to protect the ball, so I'll have to develop another strategy. This time, I jump up into the air, 
 and pummel back down, the same strategy used at the jump ball. Sadly, though, this is where Mario 
 Hoop's biggest problem comes into play. Because all the controls are initiated by the touch screen, 
 confusion in moves can easily be confused. You may mean to perform one particular move, but because 
 of similar strokes on the screen, may accidentally perform another. This is what happens here. 
 Instead of pummeling back down, I just stay in the air, and Diddy races by me, and quickly scores. 
 I grit my teeth in frustration.
  
  As I dribble up the court, another key element of the game comes into play: items. Dixie Kong fires 
 a green shell, which ricochets around the court and accidentally hits my player! This causes him 
 to drop the ball, and Diddy scoops it up, races down the court, and dunks again. There are a variety 
 of items, though, and all contribute to the chaos that is both the purpose (and sadly, downfall) 
 of Mario Hoops.
  
  I end up loosing the game in the final seconds, which is annoying. Luckily, though, I have plenty 
 more to do. I can play the Tourney Mode, which allows me to unlock new characters. In addition, 
 there are several balls and courts to unlock, which are sure to keep you busy.
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  In the end, while Mario Hoops is a fun game, it's 
 just not top-notch like other Mario sports games. The chaos present throughout the entire game 
 is the fun that is the staple of Mario spin-off games, such as Mario Kart and the many Mario sports 
 franchises, but in the ends, it also plays a bit as the game's downfall. Melee is fun in a game, 
 but when it takes the forefront as a game play element in any game, then it becomes a bit much. 
 It's a shame, really, because aside from that critical game play factor, this game is wonderful: 
 tons to do, beautiful graphics, and fun music. If you're dying for a Mario sports game to take 
 with you wherever you go, then perhaps you should look into Mario Hoops. If, however, you're into 
 something a bit more realistic or a bit more controlled, then dribble on by Mario Hoops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnix994
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario hoops is a mario-sport game that was developed by Square Enix and as you come along new challenger 
 you will eventually meet a cast of caracter from Final Fantasy. You dribble shoot and pass using 
 the Stylus. in multiplayer you can not only play tournaments or exebition games but also play minigames 
 with them.
  
  Graphic- using graphic's comparable to Mario 64. the game utilise a full 3-D view in the upper 
 screen in the third person view and a detailed 2-D map of the entire court on the lower screen
 
  
  Sound- the sound is not actually the best i have heard on the Nintendo DS only a couple of theme 
 songs will be catchy enough to stick to you but nothing incredible.
  
  Gameplay- This is where the game takes the cake the gameplay is actually pretty hard to get too 
 at first but after a couple of tutorials and some practice you will get the hang of it and you 
 will see it is well worth the effort.
  
  In conclusion if you are a multiplayer player on the DS you will see that this game is a well worth 
 fun challenge game. but if you only intend to play it in a single player manner you should maybe 
 think of renting the game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthcanucks
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 17, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. It is way to hard, gives basketball a bad name, has stupid power-ups, CPU 
 shots always go in, yours go in 2 times out of 10. This game is only fun because of 2 reasons, 
 its cool when you make a basket, and it works when you put it in the DS. THIS GAME SUCKS THIS GAME 
 SUCKS THIS GAME SUCKS THIS GAME SUCKS THIS GAME IS A RIP-OFF , IT GETS KINDA FUN, THEN IS DISAPPOINTING, 
 FUN THEN BAD FUN THEN BAD HORRIBLE THEN FUN BUT MOSTLY JUST BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD . IF YOU DON'T GET MY POINT, THEM CHECK YOUR PULSE BECAUSE IF YOU DON'T GET MY POINT 
 THEN YOUR  
 PERIOD.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  NEVER BUY THIS GAME UNLESS YOU WANT TO BURN IT OR GET RIPPED OFF!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I WOULDN'T 
 EVEN BUY THIS GAME FOR 1 CENT.
  
  
  
  SUMMARY: SUCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavyTeady
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is just too much fun to put down. The controls flow together perfectly. The scoring system 
 is just shere delight. And the fact that there are recognizable Square Enix characters as well 
 as the expected Nintendo gang is just beautiful. The touch screen control make the experience, 
 but there is a button controlled option. But either way you chose to play I'm sure you'll love 
 this game.
  One thing I enjoy about this game is the wacky scoring system. On your drive to the hoop you'll 
 pick up coins that are worth 1 point each after you make a basket. But you must watch out for enemies 
 fireing green shells, red shells , bom-boms , and many other items at you. If one maneges to connect 
 with you you lose a good portion of you coins and drop the ball.
  The shooting and dunking aspect is made extremely easy. You shoot by making an upwords stroke with 
 the stylus. You can charge your shot t increase the odds of it making it. You dunk in the same 
 manner but you first must be closer to the hoop. You can also do a special by taping in a specified 
 symbol twice on the screen. This is a guaranteed basket worth 40 points if you make it.
  When all is said and done this game is simply addictive. Alternate ball colors unlockable courts, 
 and secret characters give this game alot of replay value. You'll want to challenge all you can 
 to multiplayer to prove your skills. I highly suggest you pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dead_red
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Mario hoops 3 on 3 is a game devolped by square-enix and nintendo. This game has 4 modes in witch 
 are tourney, practice, multi player and exibition. Your probaly gonna spend most time in this game 
 with tourney but if your a skilled player you''ll beat the game before you know it. Tourney offers 
 four tourneys in each difficulty. Probaly the thing that i was disapointed about was probaly the 
 fact that there is NO WI-FI mode at all. Multi-player is either dowload play or people close to 
 you with the game. The download play has two rediculious mini games a coin gathering game (witch 
 contains no ball) and a dribble contest to go over the ? markers. Anyway the graphics are ok i 
 guess but the music is downright annoying. So all and all this is a ok game with Some large set 
 backs. So I say if you like mario charchters and old school final fantasy charchters ballin it out 
 you should check this outbut if you like real basketballl go get NBA 2K8 p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Mario has been the star of many sports games in his career. Now, he has come to the basketball 
 court on the DS. Mario Hoops is a good game, but there isn't enough to do to keep your attention 
 for very long. The touch screen controls work excellently and are very good, and the motions feel 
 just right. As far as the actual game goes, there's training, tournament, exhibition, multiplayer, 
 and a couple extra challenges. That's it. I don't even feel like I need to explain, that's all 
 there is to do! The games involve three players on each team, and you play a game of basketball. 
 There are some items and obstacles to make it a bit different from actual basketball, though, just 
 like all other Mario sports games are
  
  This game would have benefitted greatly from Wi-Fi play and more to DO, but it just doesn't have 
 that. One cool thing about this game is that Square Enix helped make it, and there are a few cool 
 Final Fantasy characters thrown into the Mario universe. The game does get a lot of credit for 
 the controls, graphics, and overall fun gameplay, but there just isn't enough in it to make you 
 want to play it for more than a couple hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5Winston5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a basketball game with Nintendo twists to it. Let me just say I've been waiting 
 for a Mario basketball game every since Mario Tennis came out. The touch screen controls are very 
 innovative, but if you're one of those weirdos that does not like Nintendo Wii or DS innovation 
 then you can turn off the touch screen controls and use the buttons. The graphics for this game 
 are absolutely beautiful, especially for the DS. There are 21 characters for you to earn in this 
 game. There are both Nintendo characters and Square Enix characters. You can also choose different 
 types of basketballs there are 18 to unlock. Some of the varieties are the different colors and 
 some different shapes. one basketball you earn is a goomba, it's funny that that throw in something 
 like that. You do multiplayer with single card, but you can only do mini games. You need two copies 
 of the game to play an actual basketball game with someone. Similar to the Mario Kart singe player 
 mode Mario Hoops 3 on 3 has a Mushroom, Flower, Star, and Rainbow Difficulty. There two things 
 bad about this game. One it should have been online that would have made it perfect. And second, 
 there should have been a little more options or content in the game. All in all Mario Hoops 3 on 
 3 for the Nintendo DS gets a 9 out 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWD98
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is good game for its numerous unlockable basketballs and characters. The special 
 shots are pretty good too. I dont like the fact that depending how many coins you get determines 
 how many points you get when you make a shot. The characters move way to slow and it so frustrating 
 to lose I can't even describe it. The courses are pretty cool besides the petey pirhanna one where 
 it's like impossible to make a shot and I hate all the little yellow boxes everyhere on the court. 
 Though it does feel good to win but I found myself forcing myself to play another match to get 
 to the championship. As you can see its not really basketball and thats why its called mario hoops 
 3 on 3....... I think it's a good game to rent but not to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedGuy93
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a game that deserves a nice big old C average. Looks like square enix and 
 nintendo didn't do their math homework. I fthey did, they would've known that Mario is fat. I mean, 
 how long can a plumber stay in the air for? They also would've known that princesses can't dunk, 
 nor be coordinated. The graphics absolutely reek. Bowser looks more like a racoon than a spiked 
 koopa. You have to charge up to shoot. The guys have to body slam you or claw you to get the ball. 
 And just to let you know, Yoshi is a speed type, not an all-around type. And that song in exhibition 
 mode is the most annoying song I have ever heard in my entire life. People definitely hyped this 
 game a little too much. There is one good thing about this game; it's about basketball, and Mario 
 is in it. This game deserves a 4.5/10. :P
  
  Oh and by the way, Cactuar isn't a very good basketball player. My cousin who is 7 loves him , 
 this game reeks. REEKS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  It seems like every year the Mario franchise churns out a number of sports titles, and while most 
 are statistically successful, it's noticeably difficult to find one that is loaded to the brim 
 with single player features. At essence, you get your money's worth out of the game through multiplayer 
 elements, but the overall value is marred by the lack of substance. As a whole, the entire Mario 
 Hoops package is a steal -- if you have DS-wielding friends interested enough to participate in a 
 game. If not, the single player modes don't have enough in them to amount to a savvy purchase. 
 On the other side of the ball (pun intended) , the concept of the game is pretty idealistic and, 
 to a degree, innovative. However, the polish just isn't there.
  
  The game sets up like you'd expect, with a few modes to choose from, a variety of familiar faces 
 to play as, and some locales from all sorts of Nintendo games to tip-off at. However, the gameplay 
 sets up a little differently, as mostly everything you do is engraved into the touch screen and 
 stylus. You shoot with the stylus, pass with the stylus, defend with the stylus, and even dribble 
 with the stylus. The formula works quite well to a degree, but the camera angles don't, making 
 it tricky to position yourself for a specific play.
  
  The action and interaction throughout a match is very slow-paced, and the controls don't always 
 respond in the proper fashion. There are no boundaries (but invisible walls) on the court, no fouls, 
 and no conventional scoring. On average, a player may get 25-30 points in just one shot, because 
 of the obscure dynamics of scoring. You can gather up coins by dribbling the ball on a series of 
 coin blocks dispersed all over the court, and when you do score, the totals points rack up from 
 the amount of coins you had. In addition, instead of 2-pointers and 3-pointers, you'll shoot 20-pointers 
 and 30-pointers.
  
  One of the most interesting aspects of the game is the specials for specific players. By sketching 
 a particular pattern on the DS, your character will frantically dribble the ball adeptly and produce 
 an unstoppable dunk or an imposing feed to another player for the ultimate alley-oop. In theory, 
 the main concept of the game actually confides within style points, rather than simple basketball 
 fundamentals. You'll mainly find yourself dunking the ball and setting up long range alley-oops 
 to set the bar for your opponent.
  
  The artificial intelligence is really one of the worst executed parts of the game. The game is 
 either too easy or too hard, so you'll never really experience a formidable opponent that can rack 
 up points, but at the same time, give you an edge in your game. That said, you can blow away some 
 of the competition by up to 500 points with ease, while some of the later teams can beat you by 
 over 100 with ease. The game really lacks feel in the difficulty layout, and it's difficult to 
 get "better" by practicing against mediocre teams, only to get beat down by a much more superior 
 opponent later down the road.
  
  In all truth, there's nothing really apparent that stands out with Mario Hoops. Square Enix doesn't 
 fit the bill for a Mario sports title, and disappointingly, neither does the DS. That combination 
 alone makes Mario Hoops a flashy, but overly degrading Mario game. If there was more execution 
 and polish to go along with the slick concept, it may have been more appreciable. In the end, however, 
 this is a game you shouldn't bother with unless you have a friend or two willing to play you head-to-head. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Understand that I have hatred to basketball games, basketball itself, and mainly all sports game's 
 alike. This game's kind of kept me hooked, and somehow takes me back to the goodness of Mario Tennis 
 for the Nintendo64. It isn't really an amazing performance though considering it's known to be 
 Mario and Final Fantasy together when there are only 5 Final Fantasy characters (all of which are 
 secret) . The simple and creative stylus strokes are a big highlight of the game where steals, passes, 
 and the magic-like special shots can be done with just taps and slides. The multiplayer and challenge 
 of the game is also fun, but if you're looking for a hard-core Mario spin-off, this is probably 
 not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaClaw345
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  As an arcade basketball game, Mario Basketball 3 On 3 is definitely on the right track. Its fun, 
 easy to play and features many of your favorite stars from the Mario world such as Luigi, the Princess, 
 Wario and even Donkey Kong. It has the added advantage of the DSs touch controls which is something 
 you wont find in the arcades. The touch controls make the gameplay a little more intimate and 
 intense but the longer that you play the game the more you realize the shortcomings of this control 
 system. Its not a big problem if youre a casual gamer but if youre looking to really master 
 this game I suggest you get your hands on a basketball sim and leave this one to the weekend warriors.
 
  
  Using the stylus you touch, draw and tap various commands that include dribbling, shooting, passing, 
 blocking and stealing. Some of the commands are more responsive than others. For instance, the 
 dribbling is great. Simply tap on the screen and youll bounce the ball just like in real life. 
 Question mark block containing coins make great platforms for dribbling on. As the ball bounces 
 on the block, coins are collected. The more coins that you amass the bigger your score will be 
 if you happen to make the next shot. You can collect up to 100 coins at a time on some blocks which 
 will increase the basket score by five times the regular amount which is 20 points. Power-ups can 
 also be found in some of these blocks such as the star that makes you invincible, the mushroom 
 that makes you faster and the bomb that will temporarily stun your opponents.
  
  Blocking and stealing are also good touch commands. Make a downward slash with the stylus and youll 
 attempt to swipe the ball from another player. Move toward them by pushing the D-pad and you might 
 be able to complete the steal of the ball. Slashing upwards will enable you to jump and hopefully 
 block the ball while its in the air. If you can manage to time another slash at the right moment 
 you will unleash a double jump that should guarantee you control of the ball. When landing, slashing 
 down will cause you to hit the ground like an earthquake, once again temporarily stunning your 
 opponents.
  
  Passing involves drawing a straight line in the direction of the character that you want to pass 
 the ball to. Keep in mind there are two other AI-controlled characters on the court with you at 
 all times, even though they dont really do much to help you out. The character that youre passing 
 to will not always be located on a perfect horizontal line and all too often you will advertently 
 draw an angle instead of a straight line and the ball will end up somewhere else, such as at the 
 basket which makes it vulnerable for interception by the other team. The further along that you 
 get in the game the more difficulty you will encounter with this touch style of control. Things 
 get faster and more frantic later on. More advanced moves will require the drawing of a symbol 
 or a letter which lacks any kind of basketball feel. Not only does it feel unnatural but it wastes 
 time and gives your opponent the advantage, not that they need it because they virtually every 
 move they attempt is pulled off flawlessly. This style of control should be confined to casting 
 magic spells.
  
  Your opponents in the single-player mode have an unfair advantage over you. They appear to have 
 no weaknesses. Even after you get used to the control system and the lay of the land, so to speak, 
 you will be thrust into a new arena which is a typical madcap Mario world filled with platform 
 elements such as cannon balls, man-eating flowers and rolling barrels. So now you have to contend 
 with the dangers in the environment as well as attempt to play an intense game of basketball. The 
 environments, or courts, are very well designed but they just interfere too much with the gameplay, 
 the main focus of which should be basketball. Some of the courts include a ghost ship, the beach, 
 a volcanic island, an icy level, Bowsers castle and a casino filled with slot machines that can 
 increase your score much like the coins in the question mark boxes.
  
  Its the multi-player mode that unleashes the full potential of this game. If you use the single-player 
 mode as a training exercise, youll be in good shape to take on the most skilled of human opponents. 
 Its refreshing to play against an opponent that will actually make mistakes. Since the playing 
 field is leveled, the controls seem like less of an issue since you are both hindered by them. 
 This game was designed for four-players, its obvious that it wasnt an afterthought. You can see 
 all of the players clearly on the screen and although they obscure each other when they all converge 
 at one point, its not unlike real football in that regard. Otherwise the controls work well and 
 there is no lag, framerate of collision detection issues.
  
  Square Enix has really done its homework to deliver a great looking, colorful package that is so 
 Mario that it should make Nintendo a little jealous. It blends traditional Mario 2D graphics with 
 3D environments for extra depth and visual impact. Youll hear a lot of familiar sound effects 
 including the Mario-running-out-of-time panic music. The characters all have a few different words 
 of dialog they use when they score or leave the court. The in-game animations blend seamlessly 
 with the actual game to display great dunks, dekes and other entertaining asides.
  
  Mario Hoops 3 On 3 is packed with characters, modes, mini-games and unlockables. If you can play 
 through the single-player mode on the most difficult setting you will unlock some characters from 
 Final Fantasy. My only complaint is that a lot of gamers will get bored long before they ever complete 
 the single-player mode. But as long as youve got the Wi-Fi mode and some friends to play against, 
 this might not be a questionable purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is that mario got into another sport, basketball, the mechanics work 
 pretty well. If you like the DS touch screen rather than moving on the D-pad, or vise versa, you 
 can use both ways to make a good movement. There are many courts to play on, you got a simple basketball 
 court, then nintendo gets creative (as they usually do) and get these gimmick courts on the list 
 of basketball courts, and they work out just fine. There are a lot of characters to choose from, 
 there are even some square-enix characters in there. The bad parts of this game is the repetitive 
 gameplay, you play tournaments, get new characters, get new basketballs, and thats it, too repetitive. 
 These are one of these games that can make you really mad if you are not very good at it, if you 
 loose a final game by like maybe 1 to 3 points, good chance you'll probably get really mad. The 
 multiplayer is really bad, there is not much to do multiplayer. Overall, this not a very good game 
 in my opinion, i only recommend renting it, not owning, i wouldnt get it for an emulator either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DynamoFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I like this game with it's interesting control scheme, but multiplayer sucks. 
 In order to play an exhibition game vs. a real life person they have to own the game. No wi-fi. 
 And DS download play is a sad excuse.
  But the unlockable stages and characters will make you try everything to get them, which adds gametime 
 if you're a perfectionist, like mua. Great game, great sound, great unlockables, bad multiplayer. 
 But it's worth a buy if you know somebody close by who has it. Now who's ready for som 3 on 3 basketball, 
 ya hear? So this is what you get, and a good first venture into the world of 3 on 3 basketball 
 for Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The relationship between Nintendo and Square-Enix seems to be getting better lately with many great 
 games coming to Wii and DS. One of the first games to come from this new relationship was Mario 
 Hoops 3 on 3. While a step away from the typical RPG flair of Square it is still a fun game none-the-less.
 
  
  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a basketball game based around the ever lovable cast of the Mario series 
 and some Square characters pop in as well. While this isnt the first time the Mario gang has appeared 
 in a basketball game; they first appeared in the NBA Street series; this is the first time the 
 gang has had a basketball game specially made for them.
  
  Mario Hoops is controlled via the touch screen and d-pad. You use the d-pad to move your character 
 while the touch screen is used for everything else. To dribble the ball you tap the screen, you 
 shoot by making a slash upward, you pass by slashing toward the teammate you want, and more. While 
 the controls do take some getting use to, they work great. Dribbling is especially well done. Where 
 you character dribbles is corresponding to where you tap on the screen giving you full control 
 of the characters movement. This is something you will rejoice for as you try to defend yourself 
 against the opponent who will actively try to steal the ball.
  
  On the defensive side of things the controls are equally well done. All the techniques such as 
 stealing, guarding, and ground pounding are easy to pull of and work well. There is only one thing 
 I dont like about the controls, super shots. Each character has their own super shot that can 
 be done at any time. To activate a super shot you must tap on the touch screen in a certain order, 
 for example for Mario you tap in the pattern of an M twice. I dont really mind this control and 
 the time it takes to pull off helps make it harder to abuse, you are defenseless while trying to 
 attempt this. The thing I dont like about this is that its easier to do for some characters over 
 others making an unbalance in the game. For example Luigi only has to tap the pattern of an L twice, 
 thats four taps less then Marios.
  
  Besides the unique touch screen controls Mario Hoops is far from you average game of 3 on 3. The 
 first time youll notice is the odd courts you play on. Each court is based upon something in the 
 Mario franchise of games, and very well done I might add. Each game adds its own twist to this 
 already wacky game. In the Luigi Mansion court you have ghost flying all over the place that might 
 steal the ball. Or you could go on the DK Cruiser and have to avoid bananas all over the ground. 
 Each court has its own unique twist and theme and helps to keep the game from getting to repetitive. 
 But the biggest difference in Mario Hoops in how you score. Instead of getting points when you 
 score you get coins, lots of coins. To get coins you must dribble on question mark boxes found 
 all over the court. As you dribble as fast as possible over the question mark box you get coins, 
 and when you score a basket the coins you collected are added to your score. But of course you 
 can lose coins before you make a basket. If your opponent steals, ground pound, or uses one of 
 the many destructive and wacky items found in the game, youll lose coins. This creates a fine 
 line of should I shoot and get the points or risk it and try to get some more points? And ultimately 
 it adds to the fun and very wacky nature of the game.
  
  The one thing that outshines the gameplay in Mario Hoops is its graphics. To date it still has 
 some of the best character models in any DS game. For the limited power of the DS the character 
 models and courts look amazing! All of the characters are very colorful and compare to their console 
 counterparts. The game also features some nice affects, especially for super shots, that create 
 a nice atmosphere.
  
  The sound is not bad as well. The sound affects arent the greatest but they fit the theme. And 
 each character sounds like youve come to know them; which is good. The music selection has its 
 ups and downs though. The music at times is very catchy; at others it seems a bit boring. So overall 
 the sound isnt bad.
  
  Mario Hoops has a lot going for it with its great gameplay and graphics. But there is one nagging 
 flaw in the game you just cant overlook and that is it just doesnt have that much replay value. 
 The game doesnt keep you enticed to play it. Once youve unlocked most of the courts and characters, 
 which doesnt take long, there isnt much to keep you coming back. And another big blow to the 
 game was the lack of online. The game was originally going to have online, but it was taken out. 
 Because of this people were disappointed and the game has lived under an impression it would have 
 been so much more if it still had online.
  
  Overall Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a good game. It has some great gameplay and excellent graphics. But 
 it untimely is hurt by the lack of replay value. If you are looking for a good fun game for a quick 
 diversion then Mario Hoops might be your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edmen_Tam
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Mario hoops 3 on 3 isnt a perfect game, but it is certainly a very good and addictive one. Unlike 
 any other maro sports games, this game is controlled totally by the touch screen. However, you 
 do have the option of using the face buttons to control mario and his crew. First of, when i first 
 started the game, i was overjoyed by the music score of the menu. The songs in this game are either 
 orchestraed from the original, or have very original funky music. I found the menu music to be 
 most original and cool. For new players, there is the ''tutorial'' mode where they teah you tricks, 
 controls, special moves, defence, offence etc. This will take you about 5-7 minutes to complete. 
 After you have completed the 'tutorial', you can enter exhibition mode (free match) or, play the 
 tourney mode (tournament) . This game keeps you playing for a very long time without you getting 
 bored. Excellent. Gameplay is awesome, sound is awesome, replay value is also very cool. You will 
 spend most of your time trying to unlock very cool items in this game such as characters (there 
 are more than 20 of them) , ball colors (more than 15) alternative costumes, courts and more. The 
 visuals are also stunning. Well, all good things must come to an end. There are several thingsin 
 the game that aren't so cool. First, later in the game, the matches will be QUITE difficult, the 
 mini games falls flat on its face, there is no WI-FI matches, you cant play hoops with your friends 
 through single download play, and also your team mates are rather, um... stupid (if not controlled 
 by you) For example, if your opponent has the ball and your team mate has a shell/bomb, blue shell 
 whatsoever, your teammate will just stand there and do nothing unless you pass the ball to that 
 person. Its more like playing mario hoops 1 on 3. Nevertheless, this game has an awesome single 
 player mode. There is plenty of replay value, and the special moves are out of this world. This 
 is a mario sports game that you CANNOT miss. This game is still one of the best for the Nintendo 
 DS despite its short comings. This is a definate pick up for any mario sports fan, or anyone looking 
 for a fun and addictive basketball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ecezdawg
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, that's what you'd expect, but that's not really the case. Perhaps borrowing it from a friend 
 would do to experience it, and, most likely, beat it. You really don't need it for anything else 
 after the game's tournament mode is accomplished. It's a shame, too, for there's so many opportunities 
 waiting to be opened in this game.
  
  The gameplay is outstanding, the free style of NBA Street with the fundamentals of an accurate 
 NBA basketball game. You move entirely with the D-Pad, moves and shots are performed with the stylus, 
 no buttons involved whatsoever, which isn't a problem. The tournament mode starts out almost completely 
 beatable in your first try, it's really that easy. But as you progress it gets harder - and quick, 
 too. Many times you'll get frustrated and have to turn off the game for a bit to let out some steam, 
 but after you've played for awhile you'll get used to it and you'll have no need to bicker about 
 difficulty.
  
  The graphics are outstanding on the system. Arguably the best on the system so far. The movements 
 and explosions are fresh, and hardly ever get boring to watch when performed, which is very inspiring 
 to get a nice looking dunk or getting of a long 3-pointer and successfully executing it.
  
  The sound is that of a Mario game, you'll hear the blips from the old games added into the music, 
 and is always quirky and colorful. It hardly gets repetitive, but a lot of the time seems uninspired 
 and rather boring. Overall, it's alright.
  
  It feels great to pull off awesome moves, and usually will get you to play a quick game on easy 
 characters sometimes just to completely obliterate them and feel satisfied, but after awhile that's 
 not enough to keep you playing. The multiplayer is alright, but there is no Wi-Fi whatsoever. And 
 it's a real disappointment, seeing as this game has great gameplay mechanics and graphics to match. 
 The multiplayer was fun for a little while to play with some other friends, but one of the modes 
 doesn't even involve basketball at all, rather gathering coins and reducing the amount of your 
 rival's. This game would have so much potential online, but it doesn't even have online. A sequel 
 is doubtful, but if Square-Enix has an ounce of intelligence, then in a sequel they would most 
 likely put in Wi-Fi.
  
  In short, the game is great and has much potential, but the potential is thrown away and for that, 
 this game barely deserves a buy, unless you have a few friends that have the game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phubbadaman
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  This could have been the game that defined the DS, if only they had given it Wi-Fi capabilities. 
 Without those, this game doesn't offer much unless you know other people who own the game. Luckily 
 I do, so I was able to play some multiplayer games with them. While the computer can offer a decent 
 challenge, there is nothing like beating a friend, or dunking the ball in their face!! Multiplayer 
 also unlocks a few boards and balls for you to use. The game has some pretty difficult controls, 
 and some time needs to be taken to learn all the different moves, although you'll probably only 
 use a few, you need to be prepared for whatever can be thrown your way. Tons of characters to pick 
 from, although there isn't much a difference between a big burly Bowser, or a quick little Diddy 
 Kong. I have had a ton of fun playing this game by myself but I really enjoy it when I can play 
 it with others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  Another Mario sports game. His others were fun and this one is too. You can unlock players from the 
 mario world and the final fantasy world.
  
  THE GOOD: From the get-go this game is fun. although some people say that the controls are nerve 
 racking I think they are just right for this game. the courts all have a creative design (like 
 all Mario sports games) . the characters all have their own special shot which is pretty awesome. 
 there are lots of characters, courts, balls, and outfits to unlock. there is a pretty fun multi player 
 on this game. Some of the best 3-D graphics for the Nintendo DS.
  
  THE BAD: After you beat all the tourney modes, all your left with is Exhibition which is too easy.
 
  
  OVERALL: A fun game worth playing, plus I thin everyone wanted to see Mario dunk a basketball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  wow my friend made me buy this game and i've got to say it only kept my interest for about 1 day. 
 the characters are of a good variety and so are the courses but the gameplay is a good start. on 
 the harder difficultilys it just becomes impossible, ther is no real fun in losing over and over. 
 this game is not worth anything over 20$. multiplayer is solid and players actually have profiles 
 w/ bios and they're favorite characters. dribbling is fun when duking out friends. yeah so get 
 it if it's in your barbain bin it's not very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Patch360
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 21, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I was very excited. Square + Nintendo? In my book, another Mario game means more high scores. This 
 game barely made it. I just wanted to smash this thing on the ground, but hey. MH3O3 is very addicting, 
 and the graphics saved it from... death. But, the problems are inexcusable.
  
  Gameplay: I always thought Mario was the King of gameplay. Surprisingly this is the only section 
 I had problems with. You basically use the stylus for everything. Well, almost. You move the character 
 with the D-pad, and do everything else with the stylus. Its lame at first, but you'll get used 
 to it. Though, its sometimes unresponsive. This game starts out pathetically easy then becomes 
 nearly impossible. What a stretch, especially for Nintendo!! It also doesn't help that your team 
 does ABSOLUTELY NOTHING. They literally sit there watching the ball bounce by. Plus, the never 
 use the items you catch. It felt like it was you against 3 computers ( which is lame ) . Another 
 problem also involves the AI. They never miss. Seriously, when you try to dunk their right there 
 ready to jump and knock ya down. Its nearly impossible for you to perform that. Especially in the 
 later courses. Like the Nintendo Power Review said: Too much to handle . Basketball is about shooting 
 hoops, not avoiding stupid blue shells, and Bob-ombs. This could have been better, but Square obviously 
 made a mistake. For god sakes Square... ( please, Square made most of this, just like Super Mario 
 RPG )
  
  Graphics: Outstanding!!!!! At some parts it look like Gamecube! Very well done. The character models 
 are highly animated and j... just excellent!! Possibly best DS graphics so far. If you like games 
 for visuals MH3O3 is eye candy.
  
  Sound: The sound in Mario Hoops is O. K. The SFX are top-notch. Not enough classic Mario tunes though... 
 the new music suits it very well, but thats not always a good thing. Its pretty repetitive. Whoever 
 did this is a pretty good composer, but should have recycled some classical gems.
  
  Replay: Tons to do, and unlock. Just don't throw your DS at the wall like me. If your friend has 
 this game, you guys will play non-stop. Sadly you need multiple game carts to play REAL basketball. 
 Mini-games are free, but boring and tedious. At least your friends can't cheat...
  
  Buy. Rent, or Leave: You could buy, but rent definitely. Buying is not be a good idea. If your 
 a younger gamer, I suggest playing something else, or playing a low difficulty. Leave it if you 
 are sure, but renting it for a weekend is not a bad option. Despite my bad mouthing, this is a 
 nice experience ( if you enjoy constantly, reseting your DS )
  
  Conclusion: I was expecting this to be a lot better. My reviews aren't really long, but you don't 
 need it so in-depth that it ruins the surprise ( the surprise of mediocrity ) . However, I explained 
 enough; this is lame. Mario games usually have great controls. I guess Square messed up a little 
 ( or a lot ) , seeing they made most of it. A pretty good DS title. Its very addicting, but those 
 damn controls!! Next time Nintendo, have Camelot or Next Level help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NESGuy83
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 21, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Great first effort for a Mario / basketball game. It is kind of difficult to get the hang of playing 
 this game with the stylus at first, but after you get the hang of it, it is pretty good. Getting 
 this game down early when you are playing is obviously better because the final cup is pretty hard 
 with the use of the stylus. Also, dunking is kind of difficult because the AI player likes to block 
 them. Also, special shots are hard to pull off on later cups because most shots require at least 
 four dribbles. If someone is guarding you, it is somewhat easy for them to steal the ball making 
 it difficult to pull off a special shot. These special shots are unblockable. The game is pretty 
 short; shorter than every other mario type game. making this game a little overpriced. All in all 
 the gameplay is pretty good. The sound is excellent because it is Nintendo mario music !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link2193
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Mario Slam Basketball barves the Dual Screen with flying success. The graphics are some of the 
 best on DS, the single player is kond of average and the multiplayer is great! You have to admit, 
 any game that combines the Mushroom Kingdom characters and some great Final Fantasy characters 
 and then puts them on a basketball court, this was destined to sell well. The single player is 
 strange as one minute it's easy, the next it's rock solid. The multiplayer's great and works well 
 as are the race challenges. Overall Mario Slam Basketball is a pretty great with wonderful graphics 
 and a great new type of gameplay if only it has Wi-Fi you wouldn't be able to get me of it! If 
 NBA want to make a B-Ball game on DS they should use this as a template! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Well we have seen our favorite plumber drive go karts, play Tennis, Baseball, Soccer, Golf, and 
 be in a party board game format. Now he takes his shot at Basketball how will it fare with it being 
 on the Ds and not Wii, G cube or N64.
  
  Well if your looking for a NBA style Basketball game this is not that kind of game. It takes some 
 of the things from basketball but totally put a nintendo Twist to it. All your favorite Mario Series 
 characters are back to play some b-ball. But now whats this..... a ninja........ yep Square Enix 
 Developed this game and put in some final Fantasy guys like Ninja, Black Mage, White Mage, Moogle 
 etc. The way you play basketball is very different from the standard way of playing basketball. 
 You collect coins and the number of coins you get after making the basket is how many Points you 
 get. Other then make a shot get 2 or 3 points. There is a three point line but does not do much 
 as far as points. There are also Mario Items like green shell, Banana, Bombs etc... You use them 
 to get the ball. This game also has a special shot where you tap different parts of the screen 
 in order to make a special shot like an m or n for an example and you can't defend it. If you ever 
 play mario sports games you know what i mean. So this kinda is like basketball where you have to 
 make baskets but its totally changed from the standard way of basketball games and that is really 
 nice you want a change from the same old Realistic basketball games out there.
  
  The game has no Wifi that is kinda a bummer but it does have single and double card play but single 
 card play is kinda pathetic where you play like 2 mini games. but i don't have wifi so its not 
 a big deal to me. There are many different modes such as Exhibition mode and Tournament mode. All 
 of the moves such as Passing shooting stealing are all with the stylist. They take some time to 
 get used to but its used very well and it does not feel gimmicky at all. The face buttons are used 
 for moving the character. There is also left handed switch for the Gamers who are left handed. 
 Overall Square and nintendo made a really good sports games and a must own for the people who like 
 mario sports and need a sports ds game. Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: Fun with different modes and the controls are very well made and great to play
  Graphics: 
 This is the best looking DS game ever everything looks amazing and it kinda looks like a low rate 
 g cube game its that good looking. so it does not really miss out that its on handheld and not 
 home system graphically. Sound: Kinda different then your normal mario music some is catchy others 
 get kinda annoying
  Value: wifi would have extended the shelf life of this game but it takes a while to get all the 
 balls and characters plus several different modes
  Overall: You need a mario sport fix on your ds now and it does what all the others do put a twist 
 to a big time sports game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iain-Kinloch
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Well Mario's back and this time hitting the basketball courts all over the Mushroom Kingdom. This 
 is Mario's 4th game to hit the DS already and yet again, Nintendo have taken a sport and completely 
 thrown the rules out the window. (In this review I wont go into any great detail about the control 
 scheme as so many reviews already have it)
  
  First impressions are good as the second you load up the game you can see that a lot of time has 
 gone into presenting it, with it's colourful backgrounds and pumping music. This feeling continues 
 as you go into your first games and you see just how great the 3-D really is, and I'm telling you 
 , it's gorgeous.
  
  So you play through the first few tournaments, just getting used to tapping and swiping with the 
 stylus, everything is ging well. But then things go a little wrong. You see, the first set of tournaments 
 are really easy, so easy you can win games by more than a few hundred points, then all of a sudden 
 you're not allowed to even touch the ball let alone get any where near it. This is because the 
 dificulty goes from too easy to raving phyco maniac. However after a few attemps, you should get 
 it, and become a master of the game in doing so. The only match that had me stumped was the final 
 extra round of the hardest tourney on hard mode.
  
  Also, you begin to see that not all the backgrounds are nearly as good as the in game charcters, 
 but this isn't a major issue.
  
  Another thing is the legth of the game. If you are only interseted in the main chunk of a game, 
 then you have a really big problem. As there are only 8 tourneys to play through, mostly consisting 
 of only 3 matches each. So the main game only last a few hours. However, having beaten all the 
 tourneys I still have 4 extra characters to unlock, over 15 different ball types to unlock, another 
 minigame to unlock and I still havent completed the challenge mode, which gives you a goal to complete 
 whilst teaching you about the more advanced moves in the game. So for the completest it's not all 
 bad.
  
  Now the round-up.
  
  Gameplay : Taps and swipes of the stylus perform different moves and tricks, even throwing classic 
 Mario Power-ups. If you do decide to buy this game, here is a trick that will help you a lot. If 
 a teammate is directly infront of you, instead of not passing or shooting by accident, hold the 
 L button and swipe the stylus in their direction to do a direct pass . The controls work and work 
 well. My only issue is that sometimes it takes umpteem click of the button to change player.
  
  Graphics : In-game characters = beautiful, backgrounds = good. The animations are fluid and 
 the effects are even better. This is easily the best looking game on the DS, that I have seen anyway.
 
  
  Sound: This is the only department in the presentation that was scimped on. Every character has 
 two phrases and an assortment of grunts when trying to steal the ball. For most of the characters 
 it's fine, I mean who doesn't like Diddy Kong screeching like the excited minkey that he is, it's 
 just when you've heard mario say Fantastico the 700th time you start to cringe. Also, although 
 the music is varied and mostly very good, it does tend to loop round a little much whilst you're 
 playing.
  
  Value: If you like to see everything a game has to offer, then you should be able to get over 20 
 hours out of this (providing you have a friend with a copy of the game aswell) . But if you just 
 want the main Tourney mode, you'll be left pretty short handed.
  
  At the end of the day, Mario Slam Basketball offers a new way to play basketball on the DS. It 
 also shows off the graphical capabilities of the console and just how satisfying it is to nail 
 Bowser with a Blue Spiky Shell. Just bear in mind that you'll have to hang the game upside down 
 and shake it, search all of it's pockets and take whatever's in it's backpack to get any real lasting 
 value from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smb333
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  i have played mario hoops 3 on 3 for a while now it has its good points and its bad. bads first 
 .After a while it gets repetitive getting boring even know it has combined characters of final 
 fantasy and mario. i also believe that mario hoops 3 on 3 would be a lot more exciting if it had 
 wifi. enough of the bads now about the goods. it has a wide range of characters like moogle from 
 final fantasy and all the classic mario characters. i would advise you to rent it first as it gets 
 boring eventually but it is a fun game for a short space of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  If you love Mario games then this game is probably for you. But, if your a basketball fan then 
 you probably won't like all the power-ups and stuff that makes it seem like well, not really like 
 basketball. NBA Live is like a really basketball game, for real basketball game fans, this game 
 is for Mario fans who love playing any Mario games, but don't have much desire for sports games. 
 This game is worth a shot, but there is tons of games better. The cool thing about this game is 
 the player card features, where you can select your own icon, and ball for the game (change the 
 color of the ball, texture, and that sorta stuff.) Also, the levels and courts have beautiful design 
 and make the landscape a great experience for all. The only real big dissapointment is no Wi-Fi, 
 and if you want to play vs a friend you both have to have the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallsmartman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  PRE-REVIEW NOTES:
  
  -Just for a bit of advice, this game will be much more fun after you do the tutorials.-
  
  
 -Also, this game is way less fun when you chose easy mode where you can use the arrows. It may 
 sound odd, but the styles control is the way to go-
  
  Gameplay:
  One thing that might turn you off to this game is the idea of styles only control in a sports game. 
 I admit I had my worries but I did not regret buying this game at all. This game is super fun.
 
  
  Pros: Fun Innovative Controls, Unlockable Characters, Good Multiplayer, Just plain fun gameplay.
 
  
  Cons: Because you do use the left trigger, it is hard to play this game without setting it on a 
 a table or your lap. It lacks a franchise mode.
  
  *My single reason for giving the Reviewer's Tilt a 6 is because in my opinion, a sports game without 
 a franchise mode is just not as much fun. The actual gameplay is as good as one could want, but 
 there is still not franchise, it doesn't give the player much of a sense completion or satasfaction.
 
  
  Graphics: I haven't seen a DS game yet with graphics this good (with the possible exception of 
 Nintendogs.) The character models are great for the DS, the animations are very cool (especially 
 on the special shots) . And the flashy effects on the special shots are extremely impressive.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is very appropriate, good effects, good music.
  
  Final Thoughts:
 
  If you like the idea of Mario playing basketball and you don't mind not having a franchise mode, 
 you should buy this game, not doubt about it. If you're not sure about not having the franchise 
 mode, you might want to keep an eye out for this one used.
  
  -MW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yogi1994
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  This is awesome game:
  Great graphics
  great moves
  
  But a let down on the AI for your team. They just stand there like puppets and do nothing. Also 
 the AI for your opponent is challenging depending what level you have it on. Then characters are 
 good like Black Mage, White Mage, Mario, Ninja, DK, Boo, Bowser jr and Bowser. The 3 types of players 
 are:
  Technical
  All Round
  Speedy
  Powerfull
  
  Great players great game. It is a great game worth buying a great basketball game on the DS, not 
 better than 2k7 but better than NBA 07 i can prove that by expericance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Mario Basketball, can get rather annoying at times, I wil be honest, I found the more harder tournaments 
 to be really frustrating. The Stylus controls seems to work sometimes, but they really are too 
 complex and even using the d-pad and other buttons, you can't acheive too much without the stylus,
 
  
  The game is rich in presentation with all the normal funky mario themes that the kart racer and 
 other sport games involve. all the characters you would want are here including some Final Fantasy 
 ones, that were notably refreshing to see. the music and style work and each basketball court shows 
 off some nice little features that help make the game a bit more intresting, choosing 3 characters 
 is stragetically intresting, as well mario kart double dash, each character has a certain trait, 
 for example Bowser is powerful when attacking and Diddy Kong is speedy while Mario is a good all 
 rounder. each character has a signature move, which you have to tap the stylus in a shape of a 
 letter to pull off a move, simiular to the ones in mario soccer. the downside to this game is that 
 sometimes the game feels really cheap, the controls are awkward at times, and pulling of this special 
 move doesnt seem to work when you want it to the most, for the opposition slamming into you and 
 a tendency to have your shots missed, but the AI is so cheap and its hard to beat them. Collecting 
 coins to gain points is fairly ok in practice but getting the ball in the hoop is sometimes impossible 
 as the other team tends to be so good, while playing on easy mode is far too easy. thats why I 
 say this game would be good for multiplayer, as it can be quite addictive at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  O. K so Mario's now found his way onto a Basketball field, a 3-on-3 basketball field and he should 
 maybe be kicked off for his repetitiveness. This game is pretty good, cool graphics, interesting 
 sound, and gameplay is pretty good. At least for the first few hours until you start to realise 
 that EVERY shot is exactly the same but from a different angle, that every pass is exactly the 
 same but from a different position (for each character) . Maybe if they had made a few different 
 dunk shots for each character etc. I might have been more impressed. So overall I'd say: Excellent 
 game but SO repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sun_spirit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  You've played warioware. You've played New Super Mario Bros.
  If you haven't played this you're missing out!
  This is a real game for the DS that really boasts 
 the use of the touch screen.
  An excellent ammount of characters and wonderful colours, and beautiful special shots to keep you 
 going for a good time.
  
  I believe there are only two downfalls to the game..
  It can get old quite quickly onece you've done a few tourneys.
  And the biggest mistake! NO WIFI!!!!
 
  
  But at the end of the day this is clearly a top notch game for any DS owner.
  You won't be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_dm_moore
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Nintendos little plumber has come to the DS once again, but this time Mario and friends decided 
 to give the game of basketball a dose of thier unique mushroom kingdom character. The premise of 
 Mario Slam Basketball is easy: select three characters from a roster of well known Mario characters 
 ranging from Mario himself to Luigi, Yoshi, Princess Peach and even Boo and Paratroopa, then hit 
 various themed courts in tournaments to prove your selections are good enough to win a coverted 
 trophy. Each game consists of two halfs and the aim is simply to score as many points as possible 
 before the game is over.
  
  The scoring system is very different from regular basketball, because, lets face it, a simulation 
 this aint. Dunks and layups score 20 points each, which a special move basket can score 40 or more 
 depending on where you are on the court. Your score can also be increased by bouncing the ball 
 on ? squares dotted about the court, which pop out coins much like the blocks in traditional mario 
 platform games. When you dont have the ball, these squares also produce useful defenive items like 
 blue and green shells or ba-bombs to help make your opponets drop the ball for one of your team 
 to pick and score. As this is a DS game, most of the game is played using the stylus, with the 
 D pad used for moving your character about the court and one of the shoulder buttons used to switch 
 characters. In theory, this is a cool system that lets you really feel like playing BBall, the 
 reality however is somewhat different. While the stylus controls work and work quite well, they 
 certainly arent perfect. Often while you are trying to pass to a team mate with a stroke of the 
 stylus in thier direction, you will instead shoot the ball, giving the oppostion an easy way to 
 grab the ball and score (especially in the later tournaments) .
  
  The game also lets each character perform a 'Special Move' which is a super dunk that pretty much 
 cant be stopped and can be assisted by your teammates. However, in order to perform these moves 
 you have to tap the touch screen at certain points in a certain order twice, which can be ok when 
 it is say Luigi who only has 3 points to tap to form an 'L' shape but maddening when its Mario 
 who has 5 and to form an 'M'. And for some unknown reason, yoshi must also make the same 'M' shape.
 
  
  By far the biggest problem with this game though, is the lack of substance, as there is only 4 
 tournaments in the game, with 3 games each. While this is bolstered by an unlockable hard mode, 
 the main crux of the game is painfully short and can be completed in just a few hours. There are 
 the training sections that show you how to control the game, but again, this is a short distraction. 
 The mini games will provide more options to keep you going, but they just highlight how short and 
 shallow the main game is. The multiplayer is available over wi-fi with other cart users and is 
 really quite entertaining, but again the controls can get in the way. The graphics are your usual 
 mario fair, with sharp character models and detailed, animated courts with various hazards that 
 range from squids that grab the ball, ghosts or giant man eating plants for nets. The sound is 
 also excellent, giving fans all the nosies they need from the cast and giving it that authentic 
 'Mario' feel.
  
  All in all, Mario Slam basketball is a decent, fun game let down by a lack of single player substance 
 and slightly dodgy controls, but mario fans will probably lap this up while they awaiting his next 
 platform adventure, and while that is not a bad thing, they may find themselves wanting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Hello, this Poe Tokoro with the review of Mario Hoops 3 on 3.
  
  Gameplay: MH3 on 3 has some very fun ways of playing B-ball. The stylus controls are the best of 
 the controls and definitely show innovation. The game's taps and strokes of the stylus controls 
 make this hard to play at first but eventually feel natural and will make you want to play it over 
 and over. The game's difficulty will definitely make you want to throw the DS at the wall due to 
 AI that will make you curse Nintendo for months. And this is where the game comes short because 
 while doing your best to defeat the other team you will occasionally wish you could use an analog 
 stick for better control.
  
  Graphics: The game looks beautiful on the DS, and no other game looks as good as this one on the 
 DS.
  
  Sound: The game's music is excellent and is never annoying ( unless your some gothic guy who hates 
 cheery music) . The game's voice acting is great but indescribably repetitive. Every time Mario 
 wins (and I do mean every time) you will hear his annoying Fantastico! line that will make you sick 
 with annoyance.
  
  Multi-player: The game is fun with friends, but actually finding friends is hard due to the fact 
 that it has no wifi. More people would have it if they could take it online which is a disappointment. 
 I would have gladly waited another month so they could add wifi but they didn't do it.
  
  Overall: The game is great and should stay in your DS at least 2 months.
  
  -Poe Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biker_86
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Hello ladies and gentleman, This here is a collection of my thoughts on Mario Slam Basketball (as 
 named here in the sunny UK)
  
  I bought the game today, and have spent about 4 hours with it so far. First impression is very 
 good, the graphics are brilliant, and the controls are great. Your eased in slowly and you'll find 
 out all the controls involve stroking the stylus in different directions. In the practice mode, 
 these are amazing, and work really really well. but... once you hit tourney mode you'll notice how 
 they dont work. The first tourney is great, the controls work, the courses have some nice little 
 obstacles, and its great fun to play. Then all of a sudden the difficulty FLIES up. You click the 
 L button to switch to the player closest to the ball, but it simply does not work. I can't tell 
 you how many times it either A. hasnt worked, after 3 clicks not done anything, or B. swaps you 
 to the wrong player. If the opponent jumps up for a dunk, you can jump as well and block... in theory. 
 for a start you can never ever get to a player and jump up as well. Youl either be given a guy 
 at the other end, or because of the view point, think your in the right place, but aren't. Stealing 
 the ball is totally hit and miss. If they keep the ball, all you can do is run behind them, and 
 you cant steal from behind, so all you can do is run whilst groaning at the thought of another 
 unfair dunk. Its so damn frustrating to be let down by the very thing that attracted you to the 
 game in the first place. But, its not all bad, the game is very good, and you can play exhibition 
 matches at a lower difficulty. I love unlocking things though, and i can tell with this game that'll 
 be a nightmare. Overall a very fun game, but please be aware, it is very unfair in places 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  I do think its fair to say that Mario is the most athletic man in the world. All he has to do now 
 is hockey &amp; football!
  
  This game does alot right, the controls may seem dumb at first but they work, and as you play you 
 get better at them, which is good!
  
  The graphics are good on the DS, like all 3D games on the DS. And the players look great.
  
 
  Theres plenty of playable characters and each have different skills. Speed, technical, tricky, 
 all round, and strength. The levels look great too, plus different levels such as Donkey Kong's, 
 have like barels rolling around or other obstacles. Then the level where Petey Pirahna is the net 
 is kind of annoying, you have to time your shot whilst his mouth is open, and you can't dunk or 
 he knocks you down.
  
  And thats not the most annoying part, Bowser is. Bowser is apparently so strong he can do power 
 shots and you can't knock him back whilst hes preparing it let alone can you get the ball off of 
 him. Hes too strong, hes the final level to play, and you'd probably unlock him, but you'll need 
 luck to win.
  
  Cheap stuff aside this a fun game, and makes sports seem fun. (lol)
  
  Mario fan with a DS? Then look into getting this game. Have a DS but don't need a new game, rent 
 away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girl-Gamer777
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  This game is a Very.. Very great game. Theres allot of things to collect like basketballs , Courts 
 , and characters. Special Shots are also easy, and fun to do. One thing that Definitely makes this 
 game not a 10 , is its controls...
  
  It tells you , that you can block a player from scoring a slam dunk , but its like a 5 out of 10 
 possibility that you can do that. Also , Tackling ( stealing the ball. ) Is also not quite accurate. 
 Once you steal the ball from somebody , after you got the ball , they can automaticly steal the 
 ball right back. ( That mostly happens after you do that to Baby Bowser. ) Another problem is slamming 
 dunk. For some reason if you slam dunk correctly , sometimes ( 6 out of 10 possibility ) you just 
 throw the ball backwards into the hoop , and thats about a 4 out of 10 possibility that you'll 
 make that shot. Pen controls are almost completely useless , only for special shots are when they 
 are most likely usable.
  
  Now time for the peoples problems ( like what other people would think. )
  
  Character selection 
 , Challenge mode And Credits music are most likely to be called RANDOM! 
  
  The special shots are thrown together ( kind of rushed to me ) Example : Waluigi and Baby Bowser's 
 Special Shots.
  
  'Sherbet Land Is the most annoying court besides Pirate Ship and Luigi's Mansion 
  
  Good things 
 about this game is that its easy to learn and Very fun to play. It encouraged my brother to buy 
 a nintendo ds lite and buy that game to it soon! This game is definitely worth buying and is Almost.. But 
 not quite perfect. Yes there is some flaws here and there , but it is going to be one of my all 
 time favorite Ds games i'll ever play. All you need to do is learn how to play correctly , and 
 you'll be able to have a great time with this exciting game. Its worth buying and playing!... well 
 , to me it is. Please , take my advise. - Girl-Gamer777 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Very few games on the ds have made full functionality out of the ds's dual touch screen setup. 
 Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is one of them. A basketball game that uses the stylus for everything. It's 
 really fun. You never played basketball like this. It's not about how many baskets you score, it's 
 about how much style or coins you had before your score. For example, the more coins you collect 
 before dunking, the more points you will get. Games can end up at 400-0 pretty easily. But later 
 you get to harder ai computer and they get pretty tough, and frusturating. Just wanna throw your 
 ds at someone because of them. But eventually, you'll win. One bad part about this game are the 
 minigames. They're stupid. All you do is dribble around and collect coins before the time limits 
 up. I think there's another one, I just forgot what it was. The graphics are very nice because 
 the ds doesn't get games this detailed very much. They are very bright and Mario-y it could almost 
 pass as a gamecube game. And definitely an n64 game. But, you know it's still just the simple looking 
 Mario characters so it's easy to not mess up those graphics. There is some really weird Japanese 
 sounding music that is kinda catchy always playin on the start screen and credits. There are a 
 few different tournaments and you can play them on hard to get more characters, but there needs 
 to be more because there aren't too many game modes. The exhibition mode is fun, but there's no 
 online and the ds download only lets you dribble so you pretty much need two copies of the game 
 for multiplayer. There are many Mario characters in it and some Final Fantasy ones too. I for one, 
 still havn't gotten Cactuar. There's definitely a good amount of characters but they're not quite 
 varied enough. Although they each have a usually unique super move that is pretty fun to use. I 
 think that all the stylus controls work pretty well. You tap it to dribble. You swipe forward to 
 shoot, or dunk, or block, and swipe sideways to spin in the air during a dunk. And to steal. There's 
 a whole bunch of other cool stuff too, like you can actually block out your defender with a shield. 
 And there's koopa shells, and mushrooms and all that good mario stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oakbend
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Hey look kids! It's the Italian balla! Mama mia! Yet another Mario sports game! But this doesn't 
 leave many disappointed. In this game you have Mario, Bowser, Boo, Shyguy, Birdo, Luigi, Wario, 
 Waluigi, Peach, Daisy, baby bowser, Diddy Kong, Donkey Kong, koopa paratroopa, Dixie Kong, and 
 Characters from Final Fantasy. There is a wide variety in this game, which is always nice. But 
 at the same time doesn't over do it. When I first played this game I loved it! (still do) . It was 
 like introducing a whole new world to me, with the controls, graphics, and just the overall concept 
 of Mario actually having his very own basketball game. You get to have 3 people on a team of your 
 own. One in left, right, and center. This game is a lot like mario tennis. Such as the pairing 
 system, you continue your journey, or tourney.. whatever the heck you want to call it. You also 
 have the exhibition just like you did in Mario tennis, where you basically just get to have free 
 play and do what you want. You have matchup and challenges as well. Matchup is where you can play 
 your friends (as in wireless play) , and challenges are just fun little games that you can play, 
 just like in Mario tennis. In the challenges you can practice your skills, do special shot where 
 you can practice dribbling commands of players who've mastered their special shots, and Dribble 
 race time trail which is pretty much self explanatory. I found the controls in the game very easy 
 to get accustomed to. Others may have a harder time though. The graphics in this game are perfect, 
 those equivalent to that of the cube. This game has fantastic music that is always fun to listen 
 to. Perfect sound quality. The difficulty level in this game varies, which is one of the factors 
 to making it perfect. I really can't find anything negative to say about this game. If you want 
 a game to really blow time off of and you don't already have this, then, PICK IT UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjiminat0r
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  NowI like to think that Im not a na&iuml; ve person. I know that most reviewers, when it comes 
 to games at least, cant take a look at the full product that theyre reviewing. With something 
 like a game, its just not feasible or fun to search out every little detail in a piece of software 
 to squeeze out its maximum value. Its up to the reviewer to give a quick and dirty lowdown that 
 will sum up for the reader whether or not the product is worth their time.
  
  Knowing this, I gotta point out that I know, too, that not every game gets its fair shake. For 
 those of you who follow the review circuit, you already know that Mario Hoops for the Nintendo 
 DS has been thrashed. Two biggies, ign. com (this site) and gamespot. com lambasted the game in their 
 reviews and have likely turned many gamers off of a fantastic effort by Square-Enix. Thats right, 
 Square-Enix, the developers behind everyones favorite (maybe not, but humor me) RPG franchise, 
 Final Fantasy, made Nintendo a Basketball game for their wildly selling handheld. Now I write this 
 review from a pretty solid standpoint. That standpoint being: I hate sports games. Cant stand 
 em. Not my thing, probably because the only sport I can say I do is snowboarding, and Hoops 
 didnt really turn my crank when I first popped the cartridge in my DS. Mario Hoops is, on the 
 surface, a light-hearted, easy-to-pick-up basketball game with Mario &amp; crew in which there 
 are all the usual Mushroom Kingdom tie-ins. You can grab coins on the court by dribble on the question 
 mark boxes. You can get red shells that will seek out and knock down the player with the ball. 
 Everyone has a crazy, character inspired dunk that you can pull off by tapping out the first letter 
 of any given characters name on the touch screen. This is all well and good, but its not necessarily 
 any fun, right?
  
  Well, it is. If you were to suck it up and dig into Hoops like I did (for some reason still unbeknownst 
 to me) youd discover that, under the hood, there is an off-putting amount of depth to this tiny 
 title and that the appeal is far broader than that of your average sports game. What Hoops has 
 in spades is style. Because its not real basketball, theres a lot of liberties to be taken, and 
 that cracks the game wide open for audiences. The animation alone makes this game worth picking 
 up. I get the itch to play it just to watch Bowser dunk sometimes. No joke. But when you look at 
 the actual techniques in the game, it becomes obvious that the developers put a lot more care into 
 the complexities than they were given credit for. Because of the great use of stylus control, strokes 
 pretty much take care of everything from passing to dunking and tapping the screen functions as 
 the dribbling mechanic, the pace of the game is quick and the action is fluid. Players can steal, 
 intercept, bat down dunkers, block, deek around defense and even control the exact postion of the 
 ball in the characters hand all through Square-Enixs wonderful implementation of the touch screen 
 control. That said, the AI in the game wont demand that you use all of these techniques to beat 
 it, which is why it wouldnt be hard to merely glance over the depth available to you and write 
 off Hoops as watered-down Mario basketball. Unless you put in the time to earn yourself access 
 to the harder cups further on in the game, or unlock some of the ridiculously difficult AI settings 
 in Exhibition mode, youll only ever scratch the surface of the game. If, however, you can convince 
 a friend of yours that Mario Hoops is as cool as you say it is and not just another Mario sports 
 cash cow for Nintendo (ahem, Mario Baseball) , youll find out within minutes that youve got easily 
 one of the best multiplayer games on the DS. Playing against another interpretive intelligence 
 (hopefully Im not giving your friend too much credit) youll have to use every bit of skill youve 
 mustered up in the tournaments to out-wit and out-play your opponent. Mario Hoops shows off the 
 pearl of a game that it is on the inside through multiplayer once you start bouncing balls off 
 the court walls to other team members and butt-slamming your friends out of their special-dunks 
 and hearing them wail in frustration because of it. Nintendo, you make friendly competition fierce, 
 fast, and fun. Keep it up, because there are players that notice the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game is a mario basketball game ( great! just what I needed!) which is worth playing. The 
 sound is off the hook where theres different sound every frickin level. It features stlyist play 
 which some people consider annoying. I love it because its a new type of basketball gameplay. Beat 
 torunaments to unlock chracters and courts. It features a tutorial which helps alot. Each character 
 has a unique special shot which it's almost impossible to remember all of them. If your playing 
 as mario, for you to do your special move you have to tap the points of an m twice! Think everybody 
 has there letter that begins with there name? Right? WRONG! Most cisuals are on the top screen, 
 and almost all the playing is tapping, holding, and releasing your stylist. It features wi-fi connection 
 with a few multiplayer modes. Overall Mario hoops 3 on 3 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is great... ok you don't care what I about this lets just get to the good stuff.
  
  Gameplay (8) : The gameplay is great and the controls are pretty easy to use but using the stylus 
 gets pretty annoying. If you switch to the buttons you won't be able to do the super shots. Also 
 getting used to the controls is really hard and the CPU is pretty tough. Once you get used to the 
 controls there will be no team you won't be able to beat (Literally!) .
  
  Graphics (9) : The graphics are clean, they run smoothly, and they are great and colorful. 'Nuff 
 said.
  
  Sound (6) : Ugh!!! The sound in this game is bad. The entire time your character says two words, 
 either something good when you score a point or something bad when the other team scores a point. 
 The music is good though.
  
  Value: The game has a decent amount of replay value because of its multiplayer. Otherwise no.
 
  
  Tilt: The game has a lot of characters that you could unlock. The minigames are HORRIBLE. Trying 
 to unlock other characters is a lot of fun and very aggravating. Not only are there other characters 
 to unlock but there are other types of balls that you could unlock. I don't know how balls make 
 the game better but I guess that it just does.
  
  The game is definitely worth getting to play in your spare time but I warn you now. I will capitalize 
 it so do not forget this...
  THIS GAME GETS REALLY ANNOYING AFTER A WHILE IF YOU DO NOT GET FAR ENOUGH!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played games like Fifa street and NBA street then you will know what to expect 
 about the game only instead of real players, you get all your favorite Nintendo characters. The 
 game is a basketball game that features Mario, Luigi, Yoshi and all the other Nintendo characters. 
 The game has many modes including exhabition mode, tournament mode, wireless mode and option mode. 
 The game plays exactly the way you want it to play but the problem is that if you want to change 
 to controlls you can't. You can shoot, pass or dribble by using the stick but there is a special 
 feature with the stick. Lets take Mario for example. His first letter in his name is M so you can 
 write (using the stick) the letter M twice and then Mario uses his special ability which gurentee 
 a shot. This is a cool feature and you can use it with anyone you want. Another thing that is cool 
 about this game is the character selection menu which if you want to choose someone, you drag him 
 into a basket at the bottom of the screen. Although all these good stuff, I had one problem with 
 the game and it is the difficulty in the tournament mode. There are four modes in the tournament 
 mode and after you finish the first mode, you can't pass anymore because the AI is really good. 
 This bugs me a little when I am trying to do my special and then someone blocks it. Although that, 
 the camera angles really follow the action, the upper screen is for the gameplay itself and the 
 bottom screen is for the players that are running around, the controlls are really good and responsive 
 (although you can't change them if you want to) and the frame rate is really good.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game is probaly one of the best graphics I have seen so far on the 
 Nintendo DS. The characters' models look really well done, the environments look awesome (more 
 then 8 courts in the game) and the menus look stunning with the interactive way which I explained 
 before about the characters menu which you take someone you want to play as and then you drag him 
 into the basket.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is really well done. The music is really good, heating up the action 
 and the sound effects of the dribbiling and other actions are good. And because there is no story, 
 there is no sound tracks but that is cool anyway.
  
  Value: You can play this game for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The tournament will 
 take you a long time (with the difficulty) and there are many unlockables like customs for your 
 characters that will keep you busy for a really long time. There is multiplayer in this game up 
 to four players ad-hoc but there is no WIFI which that sucks because it would have been nice to 
 go one on one with another person around the world.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall, Mario hoops 3 on 3 ends up to be one of the best sports game on the Nintendo 
 DS. The gameplay is amazing with the special feature of the stick, the graphics are amazing and 
 with the unlockables, you won't be bored from this game for a really long time. If you have a Nintendo 
 DS, this is a must have one and I promise you that you will have a blast playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZERO201
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  the game is over all good. lots of characters. fun the first time you beat the game. if you dont 
 get gold the first time boring to try and get it later. the mini game isn't that fun. doesn't take 
 long to learn the controls. i didn't like to use the touch screen. it is basicly the same stuff 
 throught out the whole game. some of the levels are diffrent but doesn't make much of a diffrence. 
 it is fun to play on multiplayer. that is fun to play over and over again. i would suggest for 
 people to get this game because it is a fun game and it is another good mario worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  So I finally got to play the game and man I love it. The game is so way out of basketball rules 
 tough. The controls are all with buttons even tough you can shoot balls with the touch screen but 
 I prefer it buttons. However for the power shots you will need the touch screen and to make a power 
 shot you need to tap the screen and create the first letter of that character's name you are using. 
 It sound pretty tricky but there is a practice mode where you can try every character and I already 
 guessed Luigi with the L without even practicing. But to do that you also need a mushroom. Which 
 comes the next element of the game. While you play they will be blocks pasted on the floor moving 
 around that contain items and most of them coins. Items include lightning, red and green shells, 
 bananas pretty much mario kart stuff. Plus they also have coins that the more you collect before 
 shooting the ball the more points you will get. In normal basketball is 2 points for being close 
 and 3 points for more far shot well in here they add a 0. It's 20 points and 30 points. Sounds 
 weird but I really like it at the same time because it made me kick the cpu's butt so badly. 323 
 points me and the cpu 88. But that's just the normal mode so things will probably get tougher in 
 hard mode cups. So is it a buy or rent only? I think that it does indeed worth buying if you really 
 like mario sports titles. It offers a really nice basketball gameplay, big rooster of characters, 
 spectacular graphics some of the best I seen on the DS and is overall a really great package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOSgamer10
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  What could have been a great game that fell flat instead. First of all your two other teammates 
 are completely useless, they do nothing. They run around the court and that is it. They wont block, 
 defend, rebound, pick up loose balls, use items or do anything of actual use except run on fast 
 breaks. Heck I even saw a ball bounce off the head of a teammate once and the ball just sat there 
 right next to him until the enemy AI picked it up. This game should really be called 1 on 3 Hoops. 
 Second the controls are horrible especially if you are left-handed. Its a shame that Square and 
 Nintendo saw fit to force stylus controls onto the player. Yes you can turn on help face buttons 
 but they only give you about 75% of the controls you have with the stylus. Its really a shame. 
 The graphics are nice and some of the gameplay elements are good but the horrible teammate AI and 
 broken controls just left me shaking my head and wishing for what might have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevil68
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Mario Hoops Is topping the Nintendo DS. With Mario, Luigi, Peach, and the rest of the gang, they 
 encounter skills that even Dwayne Wade can't do. But with every Mario game comes a twist. The twist 
 is that Mario and the gang encounter Final Fantasy characters such as Ninja, Black Mage, White 
 Mage, Cactaur, and Moogle! The gameplay isn't that flashy, but with those special shots, Mario 
 Hoops 3 on 3 is a blast. The graphics, in my opinion, looks like the game is on the Xbox 360. The 
 sound could have way better improvements. The music sounds a little bit odd from the other Mario 
 games for the DS, but who cares. I mean you get video games just to play them, not to listen to 
 menu music and then brag about it. If you look at the cheat codes here on gamespot, you will unlock 
 everything in a matter of days. Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nely_nelson
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty fun. Some annoying features reck what could have been a DS classic though. Some 
 of those things are
  - horrible defence
  -to easy to slam dunk
  -to hard to lay up
  - random scoring system
  -lots of unlockables so hard to beet
  
  Some of the things that 
 make it good are
  -random scoring system
  -funky specials
  -nintendo characters (mario)
  -lots of unlockables makes long gameplay
  
  Final verdict is 
 for a light snack this game would be good but if you are looking 4 a game that will keep u occupied 
 and ammused this would not suit your likings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaInikaJaller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is GREAT!!!!!!!! Basketball + Mario + FF= AWESOME
  
  As you get better, the game is addicting! You probably will be like me and start out bad, but as 
 time goes on, you'll get better and once you unlock more characters, i warn you- You will begin 
 to LOVE it with all capital letters. Basketball fans will love this, a nd do NOT listen to the difficult 
 gameplay because most of the controls are on the touch screen, because that is NOT true, you can 
 change the gameplay settings and make only Dribbiling Touch screen use during a game.
  
  Overall, DO get this game, it is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is a great mario sport game, but not the best, even if u are a big bball fan this game 
 doesnt have much to offer, u really should add this game to your persinal collection but it is an 
 easy game to beat, and once you beat it and get all the characters it tends to get kinda boring, on 
 the bright side this game has awesome graphics and great characters to choose from, the 2 player 
 mode is better than the one because its not a challenge, so get ur friends to get one so you can 
 all play in tournements together. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popolopolous
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game immensely - partly because of the graphics, partly because of the sound, partly 
 pecause of the gameplay.
  
  It starts off easy - I won't deny it - but lets you learn how to play using a challenges mode. 
 You can then opt to go for a tournament, or select an exhibition match - difficulty available to 
 choose - and all around fun is guaranteed to ensue.
  
  The graphics are some of the best I've seen on DS, the sound, while not brilliant, is decent and 
 the gameplay shows off what the DS can really do. The only bad thing about this game is the longevity 
 - it tends to get boring after 10-15 hours or so.
  
  A closing comment? Highly recommendable. A game that should rocket high on the charts.
  
  -Popolopolous 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyGuy1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  Mario Hoops is a great baskeball game not only because its the only one. But it features good creativity, 
 touch controls other then a, b, x and y, and amazing graphics. But there are a few flaws in the 
 presentation that make the experience not perfect. GOOD:
  
  Amazing graphics
  Unlockable Mario and Final Fantasy characters
  Touch controls add to the games fun
  Multiplayer 
 is a great experience
  
  BAD:
  
  Touch conrols dont always work
  Single player gets boring after a while
  Team mate A. I sucks!!!!!!!!!! I mean it!!!!!!!!
  Requires 
 two copies of the game for real multiplayer
  
  so if u own a ds, like bball, and mario, dis is a great game, but it could be improved a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellkid56
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  the new sport game for the mario collection has now added the basketball era, the graphics of this 
 game are fenominal and so is the fact that there are 44 unlockable characters including some from 
 final fantasy and other games. the way they made the game and the stylus work is also fenominal 
 and the way the way the character looks and they use that for their attributes is also fenominal 
 so this is hellkid and now i bid u all fare the well
  
  this has been a text by hellkid incorporated and plajorising will result in law suit by: hellkid 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  http://www. n-insanity. com/modules. php? module=reviews&amp; id=328
  
  In this day and age, most young children are involved in some kind of physical extracurricular 
 activity. At the ripe, innocent age of five or six, tee ball tends to be popular. When in elementary 
 or middle school, one's options are a bit more expansive. It's definitely a good thing when people 
 of any age exert themselves to stay in shape, and when I was younger, the case was no different. 
 You could see me playing anything from classic kickball to the always 'risk-of-injury' sport of 
 football. Basketball, however, is the activity that I've always favored most. I'll always love 
 having been the 'tall guy' that could sink 3-pointers nonstop. With that in mind, Mario is usually 
 a kid-friendly gaming franchise, and Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is his latest endeavor into world of water 
 bottles and heavy breathing. Did Square-Enix appeal to my childhood nostalgia or fire off an air 
 ball?
  
  Mario Hoops is the pudgy plumber's fifth excursion on Nintendo's dual screen handheld, as well 
 as his first DS sports title. Previous series like Mario Golf and Tennis were featured on the GBA, 
 but many consider that platform completely dead now. Strikers was Mr. Moustache's last physically 
 intensive venture, featuring him in a truly different limelight. Those that felt that the characters' 
 attitudes were out of place have nothing to fear here, especially since there's no crowd for Waluigi 
 to taunt at with D-Generation X's trademark. This is three-on-three basketball here, with much 
 more thrown into the mix. Unfortunately, that mix creates a treat that players will find sweet 
 and tasty at times, but bland and bitter at others.
  
  The first fact that will blow the minds of many a gamer that haven't followed this title is that 
 the makers of the Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest franchises are directly responsible for this. 
 Yes, you read that correctly. The people behind Kefka, Materia and Thundaga actually approached 
 Nintendo about this idea, and apparently the big wigs over there were convinced. The result is 
 a game that carries a beautiful presentation, but doesn't exactly succeed with its execution.
 
  
  That means Mario Hoops is a beautiful game, and quite possibly the best looking DS title to date. 
 Characters from the Mario, Donkey Kong and even the Final Fantasy universe take part in this ball 
 bouncing frenzy. Each character is impressively modeled to practical perfection and the animation 
 that joins their movement (s) carries the same treatment. There's a nice variety in terms of the 
 courts in which the mayhem takes place, and they're all rather inspiring. Even though your attention 
 most of the time will be paid to the on-going action, taking in the backdrops after scoring can 
 easily please any DS owner. Each character also has their own 'special' shot (like in most other 
 Mario sports titles) , and these are thrilling to witness at the beginning too. The only complaint 
 I'd have here is the lack of different animations when you dunk or use a special move. Seeing the 
 same one over and over causes them to become quick afterthoughts.
  
  Sadly, while the aesthetic attraction is nothing to whine about, the basketball playing mechanics 
 may be. It's nice that both the touch screen and buttons can be used to execute whatever your b-ball 
 heart desires, but the real experience is playing Mario Hoops with the touch interface. Doing otherwise 
 just makes this 'another sports game' with button inputs. With that being said, the game is actually 
 pretty fun, but there seems to be an imbalance with the implementation. It's fine that there's 
 a number of different things that can be done on offense and defense, but the sheer scope of it 
 can definitely confuse the usual Mario fan. There is a learning curve with just knowing what to 
 do and when, but dedicated players will become acclimated with a little patience. The biggest hurdle 
 is probably understanding how to read camera shifts when something undesired happens, like being 
 nailed by an opponent and losing the ball.
  
  It's accommodating that the Challenges featured on the main menu offer tutorials on the game's 
 touch mechanics, but it can prove slightly overwhelming with over 20 different functions available 
 to use. This is coming from someone that usually learns how to play a game pretty well within the 
 first ten minutes. It actually took me a couple hours to really have a grasp on all the offensive 
 and defensive bells 'n whistles. When you actually get to that point though, the experience is 
 pretty rewarding. Executing classic give and goes, posting up for a nice hook or fadeaway or just 
 jamming the air-filled sphere in the bucket do become second nature. The real problems lie in everything 
 else, which includes the Tourneys and match features.
  
  If you've had any previous perceptions about this game being a true-to-sport simulation, forget 
 that immediately. Mario and friends don't play by the rules whatsoever, which is reflected in every 
 other sports game featuring the platforming hero. I still swear that Nintendo's icon was never 
 active in gym class, so he's trying to make up for it all now, which proves testament to his beer 
 belly. He must have fooled his parents into writing a lot of excuses back then or something. Anyway, 
 again this is not a simulation, so don't expect one. The courts are riddled with ? squares, arena-specific 
 hazards and plenty of headache-inducing item weapons. When on offense, the squares hold a random 
 number of coins for you to collect by rapidly tapping the stylus for some quick dribbling. On defense, 
 they spawn item weapons that include banana peels, red koopa shells and invincibility stars. Netted 
 shots range from 20 to 40 points depending on the technique you use. What causes too much imbalance 
 though, is the coins you gather before scoring are added to the value of the type of shot you make. 
 You can easily achieve over 100 points with one shot. This can be entertaining in some cases, but 
 there's only so much fun in completely owning the computer.
  
  There's also something screwy when only a couple of the Tourneys offers anything that could be 
 considered a plausible challenge. The Mushroom, Flower and Star Tourneys all have some of the most 
 god-awfully stupid AI opponents I have EVER seen. While some would find no issue with being able 
 to pulverize their foe in a sport on the leaderboard, I can't help but question Square's knowledge 
 of basketball. Did they just not want this to be a hard game for end users or is their understanding 
 of the ball bouncing sport not the strongest? I really don't know, but whatever the reason, participating 
 in Mario Hoops' tournaments feels just as dull as those featured in Strikers. I could see the Mushroom 
 Tourney acting as the 'break-in' for new players, but having a majority be that cushy with brainless 
 AI just isn't necessary. To make matters even worse, when you actually do encounter a trio that 
 will give you a run for the trophy, they'll prove annoying by having that 'we can do everything 
 right' scenario. Thankfully, this whole issue is combated with the game's enjoyable multiplayer 
 feature. Playing against another human will completely eliminate the feeling that you're playing 
 that one school in your division featuring players that can't sink a shot to save their life, kind 
 of like Shaquille O'Neil. While it's unfortunate that each participant needs their own game so 
 as to make the most out of the head-to-head three-on-three match-up, having access to that is definitely 
 worthwhile. Heck, it hurts my head to think about why this title doesn't support Wi-Fi Connection, 
 because Mario Hoops should easily be considered a viable candidate. I suppose we have to live with 
 what we have though, so if you have a friend with the game, do yourselves a favor and show the 
 Miami Heat's center how to play basketball.
  
  The department that probably received the worst production quality is what passes through your 
 ears. Mario usually has a lot of trademark themes that accompany him in his games. This does hold 
 true in Hoops, but only when actually playing a match. A good majority of it is remixed, making 
 some of the music sound pretty awesome, while causing other scores to really suffer. What's heard 
 in the menu though, is just plain weird. It's been a while since I've played a game that features 
 as much painfully 'happy-go-lucky' music as this does. It's not exactly terrible, but I can't help 
 but feel really abnormal listening to it. It just makes me think of a couple young friends skipping 
 down the neighborhood sidewalk giggling incessantly. Oh, and yeah, the characters' voice work (i. e. 
 one-liners) gets really old after a while, just like the special animations.
  
  Finally, Mario Hoops brings it with some fairly solid value. There's a good amount of unlockable 
 content including playable characters, courts and even costumes. Having some of the trademark Final 
 Fantasy characters eventually join the fray is rather intriguing. Unfortunately, a good deal of 
 the single player aspects are insanely short. In fact, if you have a lot of free time to burn, 
 you can easily run through most of the game's material on the first day. Sports games are usually 
 notorious for having a ton of stuff to do, but it's not so much the same here. The multiplayer 
 is what really drives the game, so again, if you have people to play with, the experience will 
 be worth just a bit more.
  
  Square-Enix's first attempt at making a Mario game didn't fall through the cracks, but it's certainly 
 not one of their best examples of shining quality. It's not so much that using the touch screen 
 to control a basketball game doesn't work, it just didn't come together quite as well as it could 
 have. I don't know, perhaps Mario Baseball would better translate to the handheld since the stylus 
 would be viewed more as a bat than a hand controlling a basketball. Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is definitely 
 entertaining, just only some of the time, which is discouraging. I can't exactly tell you to just 
 go out and buy this, Mario/basketball game fan or not, but what I can say is it's worth a look. 
 Your end reaction will be based solely on your expectations as a whole, and whether or not you 
 find what others consider downfalls to be highlights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PharaohsVizier
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The game Mario Hoops 3 on 3 has been giving a lot of hype. We've probably all seen the many commercials 
 and billboards associated with this game. I have gotten ahold of the Japanese version as well as 
 the American version. Both are alike, which is disappointing when a picture of the American box 
 was released on the internet, with a wifi logo. The American and the Japanese version of this game 
 does not have wifi, which is the major downfall of this game.
  
  The controls for this game are easily put, a Nintendo gimmick to sell the touch screen. The controls 
 are hard to get, and just don't feel right, it is hard to control everything with something as 
 odd as tapping the screen and drawing circles with it. As time passes (a long time) , you get used 
 to it, and it seems to be an ok system. Don't expect to play this with friends right away, they 
 need to take the time to play it out and try it out.
  
  The gameplay itself, other than the controls is fun, you have your usual tournaments, unlockables, 
 and of course Nintendo characters. They specials make the game a joy to play, if not for the controls.
 
  
  The graphics are really nice, the usual Nintendo look and polish has been given to this game. You 
 will feel like you are ina basketball game with Mario.
  
  Overall the game is decent. It would have been an immediate classic if not for the mediocre controls 
 and lack of wifi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  People didn't beleive it when Nintendo said they were gonna make a game with Square Enix that had 
 to do with basketabll especailly when they said it was a game for the DS! In the end it turned 
 out to be pretty good. In the beggining of the game you can only play as Mario and  
 Jr. etc.) then once you progress you'll get to the final tournement which all leads up to your 
 team facing up against some fond Finaly Fantasy charecters (I can't say who because that'll be spoil 
 the fun) . The grapics of the game don't live up to New Super Mario Bros. but they still are pretty 
 decent. Controls are what will get the best of you their some of most annoying controls i've ever 
 saw in a (simple) Nintendo DS game! On the bright side the controls make GREAT use of the stylus 
 im saying if you dont own a stylus dont get this game!
  
  This game could be fun the first few hours then it's gets overly boring and lousy. Overall the gameplay 
 is just plain fun and can be enjoyed until you trade it in next day. Grahics are pretty decent, controls 
 takes some getting used to, and charecters bring back some good memories and also start some new 
 ones. Thats why I give Mario Hoops 3 on 3 for the Nintendo DS 6.2 frustrating controls out of 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyduck11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the best Mario sports games ever made besides Mario Superstar Baseball, 
 which you should also check out. The name Mario Hoops 3 on 3 kind of gives the game away of how 
 you play it. You choose your three characters for a team and play basket ball... but there is of 
 course some added things. When your playing basket ball on the game you well... play. When your 
 playing you of cource have weapons of your own. Koopa Shells, bom-ombs, invincibility stars... etc. 
 On the last level their is a surprise for you, but I don't want to spoil it for you. I recemmend 
 buying this game for people that don't bore of playing the same thing over and over again. If you 
 do bore easily of playing the same thing over and over again I say don' buy it what ever you do. 
 For me, I like playing the same think over and over to get better at it and to win this fun 3 on 
 3 power up and slam basketball game! That's my reveiw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  THE GOOD
  Mario Basketball, Basketball for the DS, good music
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  THE BAD
  No Wi-Fi, Its the only basketball game for DS
  
  Mario Hoops 3 On 3 is the first Mario basketball game and it plays great looks good and even sounds 
 great. Like every other Mario sports game its the sport but with lots of modifications you can 
 use shells, bananas, and fake item boxes to get the ball when your on defense on offense you can 
 get power-up items and break some ankles and score easily. Scoring is very easy you might never 
 need to shoot a three pointer most of the time you can just blow past the defenders and throw down 
 a dunk. Also expect there to be a lot of high scoring games. Instead of going by 2s the game keeps 
 score by 20s and if you get coins you can get even more points. The graphics are okay but no game 
 for the DS has great graphics. The sound is good and not annoying which is what makes it so good. 
 So if you're looking for a Mario Basketball game this is you only choice if you're looking for 
 a basketball game for the DS this your only choice. But I recommend this game because it is a great 
 game
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  I am a humongus Mario fan and love all of his games, but hoops wasn't as fun as I was expecting. 
 First, I would have loved atory to the game. Mario Strikers was a bigger success because of the 
 somewhat story added. It is abasketball reminder of Mario Kart DS. I say this because there are 
 multiple cups you compete in. I also didn't like the controls. It pretty much left out the A, B, 
 X, and Y buttons out. Instead, shooting, stealing, jumping, etc... are used with the stylus, but 
 walking uses the D-Pad. The stylus controls will get funky. If you are going to pass to someone, 
 you might shoot because you dragged the stylus in the wrong direction. Don't get me wrong, I love 
 using the stylus, but when it is used as the only thing in a SPORTS game, then I get irretated. 
 I also hate that the scoring system was kind of messed up. You have 20 coins before each shot so 
 whatever the amount of coins you earn before you make the basket, you add 20. It is kind of odd 
 and you can just keep making multiple shots and beat the opponents to a bloody pulp by just ignoring 
 coins. The last thing that really got to me was they needed to add Wi-Fi. I would love this game 
 way more if there was Wi-Fi.
  
  Despite some of the bad things in this game, it can have positive features. First, you will love 
 that there will be a pretty good variety of characters and unlockable Final Fantasy characters 
 as well. The maps/courts are pretty neat. Sometimes there are surprises about certain courts. Another 
 thing is download play. The download play is neat. Take on an opponent one on one and see who has 
 basketball skills. I still am disappointed that Mario Hoops soes not have Wi-Fi. Anyway one other 
 great thing is graphics, they are pretty clear and you won't have any visual troubles. I really 
 like that there is a tutorial to help you understand the game a bit better.
  
  Well, this game wasn't as good as expected and I found it as a flaw by Nintendo, but it is a good 
 game for just wasting some time and playing agaiinst friends whiel you wait for a new and better 
 game to come out. I wouldn't charge $35 for this game. Instead I would go with $25. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 came out a month or so ago, and well, I being a sports and Mario fan, decided 
 to go over to the local game store and purchase it. To start things off positive, the game is decent, 
 with well constructed courts and outstanding graphics for the Nintendo DS. I was impressed. Also, 
 it turns out the sound is great, so whats not to like? Well, as most games, it does have its set 
 backs. The negatives are decently horrible, I must say. It lacks some almost essential requirements 
 to make it a true Nintendo DS game. The big blow out is no Nintendo Wifi which wouldve been perfect 
 for this game! Itd be awesome to play against strangers in some kind of match. This was the main 
 annoyance, but thats not it There are some other really stupid things that should have been included. 
 Okay, so theres no Wifi, and that makes multiplayer already really tormenting. Well, in order 
 to play true matches in multiplayer, the two opponents must own separate copies of Mario Hoops 
 3 on 3. If one doesnt have the game, all that is offered is some Dribble thing, and some item 
 attack (which has nothing to do with basketball) . So yeah, if you dont have the game, you arent 
 going to have a good time playing near by friends. Despite the multiplayer, tournaments are fun, 
 and great to play. You can score well over 500 points a game, as Ive scored beyond 900. At first, 
 when you begin to unlock more and more players, you start to think it is easy, well youre wrong. 
 The game is challenging when you reach certain points. The addition of Final Fantasy Characters 
 was ingenious. This adds to the fun. However, one may not have a ball when it comes to the skeletal, 
 or less important game modes, as they are all pretty much boring. So that wraps everything up. 
 I recommend this game, if you dont have anybody to play multiplayer with. This game was designed 
 for one player mostly, so thats the most fun achieved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmyers2215
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  A fun game with great graphics but I find it annoying to play with the stylus. Neat and innovative. 
 Good but not great. I think it would have faired alot better if it have an option to utlize the 
 buttons instead of always having to use the stylus. I found it a bit difficult to get use to using 
 the stylus with the d-pad. I have big hands and it seemed to make it a bit frustrating. Very easy 
 to learn to play and a good game for all ages. I recommend if you are a sports person. Good passing 
 the time kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im567
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  thise game gets boring after a while. if you have a friend that has thise game you could play whith 
 them mutyplayer. when toupast the tourny thers not much to do after that just play the computr 
 plus the computer ant that hard it is easy. so i wiile tell you to first rent it and tou still like 
 it well buy it . so if you like the mario games thise is a gmae for you if not well like i said 
 rent it first thne buy it. well the best thing about mario 3on3 is the super shots it ant taht hard 
 to do them to do tem aal suggest you to go to practice mode it will teach u hll to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman00
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The most engaging mode would have to be the tournament mode. After three cups of easy as heck computers 
 the challenge slowly approaches. After you beat the whole tournament, you can replay it in hard 
 mode. And trust me it is hard! There are so many unlockables such as characters, costumes, basketballs 
 and courts. After spending mulitple hours of tournaments you can have some single cart dribble 
 races or you have two copies you can play a bball game. Of course there is exhibition mode if you 
 just want to play one match. Then there is challenge mode where you can practice defending, shooting, 
 special shots and dribbling. This game definitely lives up to mario's wackyish sports games.
  
  Pros-
  - Amazing Graphics
  - Loads of unlockables
  -Great Value
  
  Cons-
  -Need 
 2 games to face a friend
  -Not quite enough modes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomgnade
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  http://gnadegames. blogspot. com/2006/09/mario-hoops-3-on-3-review. html
  
  Mario Hoops is hard to review. Nintendo and Square-Enix put so much production and money into the 
 game, that it is very distracting when trying to review the game on its own merits. This game screams 
 big-budget! It's the equivalent of a summer blockbuster movie... only it's a video game on Nintendo 
 DS. When I first picked up Mario Hoops, played through the tutorial, and started playing I was 
 blown away by the graphics, presentation and even the unique gameplay. It is very impressive in 
 the first couple hours, but as I went on to the second tournament and then the third, I realized 
 that this was the most ridiculously easy game I had ever played. I just lost my first match yesterday 
 and am now being challenged in the Hard Mode Star cup... so the 7th tournament. It has made the 
 game a little more interesting and a little more annoying. The controls, which I had no problems 
 with in the early easy part of the game when I was just dunking nonstop on my competitors, have 
 become problematic. I have tried passing several times to a player on a fast break and have instead 
 jumped up for a mid-court jump-shot... very frustrating. At the same time, I like the increased 
 defense of the computer controlled players. It should be noted that this is not a basketball game... well 
 not really. Though you shoot, slamdunk and dribble, the game is basically a scramble to ? blocks 
 to rack up coins before you attempt to score and put these coins in your bank. It doesn't feel 
 like a basketball game because the strategy is not about protecting the hoop, since letting a character 
 dunk on you only nets 20 pts., but instead about chasing aroudn ? blocks for items and to prevent 
 the offensive player from collecting coins to add to his potential basket (20 pt. dunk + 100 coins 
 = 120 pts!) . It's different, and while I was playing the super easy tournaments I was yearning 
 for the ability to have my brother and friends join in for some multiplayer, which I am sure would 
 be a ton of fun. No Nintendo wifi connection! It's a glaring issue and I can't believe that the 
 developers didn't offer this feature. They poor salts in our wounds too, since you don't have any 
 hoops download play only lame mini-games. They really should've delayed the game to include wifi 
 online play like they did for Metroid Prime Hunters... it would have added a lot of value and fun 
 to the game. That pretty much sums up the game... while fun and amazingly well produced, Mario Hoops 
 lack the extra shine and features that would've made it really great and would've forgiven it for 
 its control and other small gameplay issues. With only local multiplayer and a limited 1player 
 experience, this game's flaws become less forgivable and more frustrating.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Pros: Unique take on basketball, the control and placement of dribbling the ball 
 is really cool, multiplayer would be a blast
  Cons: The control for passing/shooting can be frustrating, the first 5 tournaments are ludicrously 
 easy
  
  Graphics: 10/10 Pros: Best 3D graphics on DS hands down
  Cons: ?
  
  Sound: 9/10 Pros: Clear quality voicework, amazing sounds, catchy theme song
  Cons: Each charater 
 only says a couple things and it can get very repetitive
  
  Lasting Appeal: 5/10 Pros: Mini-games included, multiple tournaments, multiplayer game is fun
 
  Cons: Limited multiplayer support, mini-games are lame, single player is too easy and the only 
 incentive to keep playing is becuase you want to unlock new characters and can't play with a friend 
 or online
  
  Average: 77.5%
  Tilt (+/-) : - 7.5% I
  t is just inexcusable that some of the features weren't included in this game, it only makes it 
 worse that the game has such high production values. All the more reason to take the time and spend 
 the money.
  
  Verdict: 70% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toadster101
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited. Square + Nintendo? In my book, another Mario game means more high scores. This 
 game barely made it. I just wanted to smash this thing on the ground, but hey. MH3O3 is very addicting, 
 and the graphics saved it from... death. But, the problems are inexcusable.
  
  Gameplay: I always thought Mario was the King of gameplay. Surprisingly this is the only section 
 I had problems with. You basically use the stylus for everything. Well, almost. You move the character 
 with the D-pad, and do everything else with the stylus. Its lame at first, but you'll get used 
 to it. Though, its sometimes unresponsive. This game starts out pathetically easy then becomes 
 nearly impossible. What a stretch, especially for Nintendo!! It also doesn't help that your team 
 does ABSOLUTELY NOTHING. They literally sit there watching the ball bounce by. Plus, the never 
 use the items you catch. It felt like it was you against 3 computers ( which is lame ) . Another 
 problem also involves the AI. They never miss. Seriously, when you try to dunk their right there 
 ready to jump and knock ya down. Its nearly impossible for you to perform that. Especially in the 
 later courses. Like the Nintendo Power Review said: Too much to handle . Basketball is about shooting 
 hoops, not avoiding stupid blue shells, and Bob-ombs. This could have been better, but Square obviously 
 made a mistake. For god sakes Square... ( please, Square made most of this, just like Super Mario 
 RPG )
  
  Graphics: Outstanding!!!!! At some parts it look like Gamecube! Very well done. The character models 
 are highly animated and j... just excellent!! Possibly best DS graphics so far. If you like games 
 for visuals MH3O3 is eye candy.
  
  Sound: The sound in Mario Hoops is O. K. The SFX are top-notch. Not enough classic Mario tunes though... 
 the new music suits it very well, but thats not always a good thing. Its pretty repetitive. Whoever 
 did this is a pretty good composer, but should have recycled some classical gems.
  
  Replay: Tons to do, and unlock. Just don't throw your DS at the wall like me. If your friend has 
 this game, you guys will play non-stop. Sadly you need multiple game carts to play REAL basketball. 
 Mini-games are free, but boring and tedious. At least your friends can't cheat...
  
  Buy. Rent, or Leave: You could buy, but rent definitely. Buying is not be a good idea. If your 
 a younger gamer, I suggest playing something else, or playing a low difficulty. Leave it if you 
 are sure, but renting it for a weekend is not a bad option. Despite my bad mouthing, this is a 
 nice experience ( if you enjoy constantly, reseting your DS )
  
  Conclusion: I was expecting this to be a lot better. My reviews aren't really long, but you don't 
 need it so in-depth that it ruins the surprise. However, I explained enough; this is lame. Mario 
 games usually have great controls. I guess Square messed up a little ( or a lot ) , seeing they 
 made most of it. A pretty good DS title. Its very addicting, but those damn controls!! Next time 
 Nintendo, have Camelot or Next Level help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jango1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a fun game, but gets hard too fast. the game has plenty of controls, but 
 no Wi-fi?????? I think that if you are a person who likes a challenge, get it, but if you get frusterated 
 too easily, don't get it. The thing that got me to want it is that it has plenty of unlockables, 
 and lots of characters to choose from. I like to mix up different characters to pick my favorite 
 team. A good thing about it is that you can play levals over and over again, and make it like real 
 basketball with two points a shot, three points behind three point line, and four points for a 
 special shot. a ( unfortunately) bad thing about the game is that ( and I'm sure I'm not the only 
 one who thinks this) I'm tired of hearing my player say the same thing over and over and over again. 
 Thanks for reading my review , hoped you liked it!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoFreak01
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a simple Mario basketball game that lets you use the touch screen to perform 
 every basketball move and trick you could think of. Unfortunately, Mario Hoops lacks a variety 
 of game play modes, and the addition of Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection compatibility would have been 
 nice.
  
  There are 4 different modes in Mario Hoops: Challenges, Tourney, Exhibition, and Match-up. The 
 Challenge mode is basically where you can improve your skills. There is a Practice mode where the 
 game has you perform all the simple moves like shooting, passing, dribbling, and so on. In addition 
 to the Practice mode, there is a Special Shot mode. This mode allows you to practice each character's 
 own Special Shot. To use it, you simply tap the touch screen to make a certain shape (that is specific 
 to the character you are using) . If you are near the basket when you do this, it is a guaranteed 
 shot, but if you are far a way from the basket, another player on your team will perform an alley-oop 
 in which they catch the ball by the hoop and dunk it. This is not always a guaranteed shot because 
 a player on the other team could block the player on your team that is going for the alley-oop. 
 There is also a mini-game called dribble race, in which you must collect 100 coins as quickly as 
 possible.
  The Tourney mode is the main mode of the game. You play through a series of tournaments (Mushroom, 
 Flower, Star, and Rainbow) , each consisting of 3 games. The number of points you score in each 
 game of a tournament will determine whether you get a bronze, silver, or gold cup/medal.
  Exhibition mode is exactly what it sounds like. You can play a single game on any court you have 
 unlocked. You can also change settings like CPU difficulty, ? Block panels on or off, the number 
 of periods, and the time per period.
  The Match-up selection is the multiplayer mode on Mario Hoops. Here you can choose from DS Wireless 
 Play in which both players must have a copy of the game and DS Download Play where the other player 
 must go to the download play on the menu screen of their DS. The catch though is with only one 
 copy of the game, you can only play the mini games Dribble Race (also available in single player) 
 and Coin Hunter (only multiplayer) . The real multiplayer is only available with 2 copies of the 
 game. You can do a 2 player exhibition mode, or the mini games. The 2 player exhibition mode is 
 really fun, and thats why it is a shame that Mario Hoops isnt Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection compatible.
 
  
  Game play - In a game of Mario Hoops 3 on 3 basketball, there is a different point system than 
 a regular basketball game. A regular basket or dunk is worth 20 points, a 3 point shot is worth 
 30 points, and a Special Shot is worth 40 points. On the courts there are panels. When you have 
 the ball, and you dribble over these panels, you get coins. Each coin adds 1 point to you score 
 when you make a basket. For example, if you have 30 coins, and you make a 3 point shot, you will 
 get 60 points. When you do not have the ball and you run over a panel, an item will pop out. These 
 items include every thing you would expect from a Mario game. You can get red shells, green shells, 
 bananas, stars (that make you invincible) , and more. These sort of things make for some really 
 fun game play in Mario Hoops. One issue with the single player game is the artificial intelligence 
 is not so great. It becomes extremely frustrating when you get further in the tourneys, and the 
 CPU difficulty rises. But, the games highly addictive game play keeps having you come back for 
 more (until you have 100% beat the game) .
  Graphics  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is arguably the best looking game on the DS to date. The visuals 
 in this game are absolutely stunning.
  Sound  The characters hoots and hollers are pretty repetitive, but the music and sound effects 
 suit the game perfectly.
  Value  The replay value is decent considering you can choose different difficulty settings and 
 there are a number of things to unlock, like courts, characters, and balls. But the lack of game 
 mode is some what disappointing.
  
  MY SCORE  8.2 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 On 3 brings the Mario sports series to the Nintendo DS. With this in mind, much of 
 the gameplay is focused on touch screen controls. The options have modes for right hand and left 
 hand players. There's even a button help option that allows the player to play more traditionally. 
 Sometimes though, the touch controls can mess up on you when you attempt a slam dunk. The graphics 
 are the best that I've seen with any DS game PERIOD. It's just too bad that the game dosen't support 
 the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, as that would've made this a great multiplayer game. This is the 
 game's biggest downfall. The only modes available on single-card multiplayer are a few minigames. 
 That's right, you'll need two DS's and two copies of Mario Hoops to enjoy the full multiplayer 
 content. Besides Mario characters, Square-Enix also decided to add in five characters from the 
 Final Fantasy series, making the full roster of characters 21. The game starts out easy, but gets 
 really hard once you get to the final tournament on hard mode. Good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronobyte
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  It's a fun 1-on-1 (it claims 3-on-3 but the game feels like a 1-on-1) basketball game with a twist. 
 The game is fairly easy to pick up. And has enough variety to keep it interesting.
  
  Control is pretty solid. I like the idea of tapping the touchscreen to control the rate of dribbles. 
 It's got bright, colorful graphics with nice visual effects (especially the special shots) .
  
  The AI can get frustratingly difficult. I like challenging games and all that but at times 
 I can't help feeling that it's borderline challenging/straight up unfair. You'll have no difficulty 
 early on but the difficulty level ramps up quite steep after.
  
  I'm only around 5 hours into the game so far so I still have a lot to discover yet. But so far 
 it doing a fine job keeping my interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to have, it's just like the GC ones it won't get old for a very very long time. This 
 game is great for boring places and road trips so I recommend you get it. Ok let's start out with 
 the gameplay. The gameplay is great I like how they use the touch screen and cause of the fact that 
 they let you switch controls if your a lefty. The only downfall is that sometimes it's to hard but 
 yet again that is the last level. The graphics are great to, they are very similar to super Mario 
 64 ds but just a bit better. The sound is good but I don't really pay attention to it though. The 
 value is great it's a well spent $35. There's alot of unlockables alot of different specials to 
 use and of course lots of different courts to use all well as players and basketballs. So overall 
 I'd say you'd like it if you get it and take it from me not the Gs score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome. Definitely the best on the DS so far.
  The use of the touch screen is very creative.
  The courses are diverse and very fun.
  
  I 
 don't like:
  - how the difficulty curve is very steep
  - how the AI seems so unfair most of the time
  - not really knowing what nets you a gold trophy 
 or a silver trophy
  - the fact it's not really 3-3 but rather, 1-1. It's disappointing when you think of how amazing 
 true 3-3 would have been.
  
  The fact there's no Wifi doesn't really bug me because I don't play much Wifi. But, I do think 
 it would have been cool to have.
  
  All in all, a very good game that I do recommend. Just brace yourself for some brutal defeats. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMBfan13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  The Good: Elements of the game make it fun to play. After playing it for a few hours, you get used 
 to it and want to play more. Great variety of characters and maps.
  
  The Bad: The lack of wi-fi play makes the game a little down (if you know what I mean) . Having 
 only one cartridge doesn't mean you get to play the actual game with your friends (you have to 
 have another cartridge) . Movement of characters is kind of slow.
  
  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a basketball game for the Nintendo DS featuring the Mario characters and 
 an added bonus: Square Enix characters. Gameplay is about average for a normal ds gamer. You use 
 your stylus to control your actions of the ball, and you use your D Pad to control yourself. There 
 is a tutorial of the game that teaches you the basics. Graphics of the game are normal for the 
 Nintendo DS. Visual effects add an element to the gameplay. The sound (music) of the game can get 
 dull sometimes. Most of the time you're just hearing the same music. Each map of the game has it's 
 own music, but a lot of them are not interesting or entertaining. This game has great replay value. 
 Unlockable items and characters make you want to play the game more. There are other modes of the 
 game that are sort of boring.
  
  If you plan to pick up the game for yourself, then you're making a good choice. It may not have 
 strong elements, but it's still fun to play. I encourage all gamers that have a ds to pick up a 
 copy. It's a great game that makes a good use of the touch screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked up Mario Hoops 3 on 3 and my local EB Games retailer. The Controls at first are 
 very different from most Basket-Ball games so i suggest you do the tutorial. Once you get the hang 
 of the controls it can be really fun. There are about 12 characters -when you first start the game- 
 to choose from which is pretty cool. And you can unlock mario characters from the mario series 
 nad what i find interesting is the you can unlock Final Fantasy characters to which is very cool. 
 The graphics in this game are what turned me on the most. With very colorful 3-D graphics who wouldnt 
 agree. It's just about as good as the graphics on Mariop Strikers wich is a GCN game. Which will 
 proabably appeal to most gamers. All-in-all, Mario Hoops 3 0n 3 is a great game. And I hope this 
 review helps you try this game out. I definatly reccomend it if your a "B-Ball" video game fan 
 and a mraio fan. I hope you like my next review on Star Fox Command but for now see you later! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_asswhooper
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  This game is really cool, the controls are extremely intuitive in a way that you wouldn't really 
 expect to be very good but is actually really cool.
  The graphics are a little messy and the sound is kind of annoying but all around the gameplay completely 
 makes up for that. I definitely reccomend it. My only qualm is that there is NO WIFI. This REALLY 
 annoyed me because it seemed like the perfect game for wifi. The setup of the matches is comparable 
 to Mario Kart in that that there are several tourneys : mushroom tourney, rainbow tourney etc, 
 except that once you enter the tourneys it is set out like a tournament. Very cool game, I highly 
 reccomend it for anyone looking for something to play on the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 21, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3-on-3
  Developed by SquareEnix
  Published by Nintendo
  
  Pros:
  + Game is in a fully 3-D universe and looks incredible for the DS.
  + Plenty of characters to 
 choose from, including a few general Final Fantasy Characters to unlock.
  + Special shots look incredible and are fun to watch.
  + All kinds of different ways to handle 
 the ball and evade the opponent.
  + Different types of levels are interesting and add an extra element to the standard B-ball game. 
 Cons:
  - No Wifi, which this game would have been perfect for...
  - Special shots take too long to punch in and will leave you vulnerable.
  - The AI is so precise 
 and so much faster at doing special shots that in the later stages of the game they just seem simply 
 unfair.
  - The difficulty in this game is so unbalanced that it is unbelievable. From the beginning the 
 AI just sits there to the later difficulty levels where the computer is so advanced and fast that 
 you feel like you might as well not be there. I mean there was no point in the game where I really 
 felt the games were going to come close. It was always I win by 100-200 or the AI beats me by 100-200 
 points.
  - Requirements for unlocking characters and items seemed kind of odd.
  - To play a real multiplayer B-ball game you must both have a copy of the game. Single-card download 
 play is comprised of small coin-collecting mini-games that are mildly entertaining.
  - This game is actually more of a 1-on-1 game with tag-teammates than 3-on-3 because the other 
 characters really wont do much other than run around the court. They never steal, block, or shoot 
 on there own which is dissappointing because it detracts from what could have been a real mariokart-esque 
 crazy-ness which would have made the game much more entertaining.
  
  Final Thoughts: I know I was kind of harsh on this game but I think it warranted it. The thing 
 with SquareEnix lately is that they can make beautiful, gorgeous, games, but they (according to 
 reviews I have read of there other recent games) seem to fall flat when it comes to well-rounded 
 gameplay. Regardless it was nice to see SquareEnix and Nintendo team-up with this one and the game 
 can be quite enjoyable from time-to-time, particularly if you play it in short burst at a time. 
 I think a future sequel is unlikely so I guess if you're really wanting a Mario B-ball game pick 
 this up. You can change the settings around in the Exhibition mode if you want so that you can 
 just play a fairly standard game of B-ball also. SquareEnix appears to be readying quite a list 
 of DS games so I look forward to seeing them improve on there gameplay and hopefully deliever a 
 masterpiece on the DS soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda450
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in Mario Hoops is unlike any other game before it. All the actions, such 
 as shooting, passing, jumping, and stealing are done with simple swipes of the stylus. Occasionally 
 you will shoot when you want to pass and vice versa, but this rarely happens and you have to be 
 pretty uncoordinated to be bad at controlling this game
  
  Graphics: The best on the DS in my opinion. They're really bright and colorful and really add to 
 the overall quality of the game.
  
  Sound: The sound as a whole is great, save for the music that plays during the menus.
  
  Value: 
 Varying difficulty levels, several awesome (read: Final Fantasy) unlockable characters, and loads 
 of unlockable balls give you reason to keep coming back for more.
  
  I would definitely reccomend this game to any Mario fan, or anybody who's looking for a basketball 
 game that doesn't take itself too seriously. People who prefer realistic sports games should probably 
 pass on this one due to it's over the top action and wacky gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elcolto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is surprinsingly fun and good. with all the cool junk to get you have to play it alot. 
 you can even play as final fantasy people. I bought and you can even have cool different basket 
 ball colors or styles i got a pumkin. A ninja playing basket ball now you really have to buy this 
 game. everyone has their own special dunk move where you smak some special marks on the touch screen 
 and your character does some special moves and gets extra points. Quit better than a 7.1 probably 
 the best sports game to ever come to the DS dont mess with that madden crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenpineapple
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario pulls off another great hit, but this time with a little help from Square Enix. SE has made 
 a game worth buying for anyone who has a DS or is just getting one. Mario and his pals (DK, Diddy, 
 Dixie, Luigi, Bowser, Bowser jr, Wario, Waluigi, Peach, Daisy, Yoshi, and a Koopa) are the stars 
 in this fantastic basketball game that takes the use of the Stylus fun. The controls are simple 
 enough for a 5 yr. old, use the stylus to control the way you play; push up to shoot, push down 
 to steal, push left or right to pass, and use he control pad to move around. The game's graphics 
 are awesome and don't take away from the gameplay whatsoever, the gameplay is as fun as can be, 
 the mini games aren't bad, and the whole game is enjoyable. Any Mario fan will have to get this 
 game, and any basketball fan too, or just a game player. This game is a good all around experience 
 and all who play DS games need to pla this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DELTADOG00
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  i dont even know how to start...... games fun at first.. unlocking thing makes it more addicting.. characters 
 are well in place.... the sound is very horrible... the music goes well... but the characters repeat 
 the same crap... repetitive
  
  SPOILER:
  in the last tournament in hard mode is frustrating and very annoying!!!! arrgh!!
  i though i 
 was a master at that game but in that one .. arrgh!!! i still havent passed it.... arrggh!!!
  
  graphics are the best thing ever on the ds
  sound sucks as hell
  gameplay is fun but after 
 a while.... arrgh!
  its definatley worth your 30 bucks
  single player sucks
  have a friend play with u
  not al ot of engaging modes
  difficult
  dont listen to anyone 
 that say its the baest game evr
  illl write a updated review later... check it out ok? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FE411
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is a surprisingly fun and addictive Mario Sports game for the Nintendo DS. It 
 is the first game Ivalice crossed the Mushroom Kingdom. But of course if it was successful with 
 mixing in with Disney, Mario would be no doubt awesome. But besides the whole Final Fantasy w00t! 
 deal, the controls are pretty simple and intuitive. And on another point, this game gets super 
 hard but in a fun way unlike Star Fox Command which gets old if you get stuck at a level (3) very, 
 very fast.
  
  Oh and you can play left or right hand and you can play with the Touch Screen or Manually.
  
 
  Graphics: PERFECT for the DS
  Gameplay: EASY, which is good
  Sound: REAL COOL MUSIC, mixes in with the stages well
  Value: The $37 is worth it
  
  Buy... 
 if you love Mario, Final Fantasy, Basketball, and Non-Repetitiveness.
  
  Rent... if you think it MIGHT be a good game but not sure.
  
  Do not get at all.... if you 
 hate everything Mario, Final Fantasy, Basketball, and Non-Repetitiveness. Rofls n Waffles who hates 
 all of that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futchy_ly
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Hoops 3-on-3 is a new sport title made for DS. The game's controls are really weird but very 
 addicting. The grphics are really good for a DS and Since it's produced or sometin like that by 
 Squae there is just one song that sounds like in Final Fantsy but anyway great sound. There are 
 alot of charcters and courts to choose from (That is if you unlock them) and Special shot's have 
 a unique way of doing also I highly recomend you have a stylus ready. The thing that truned people 
 off was the no wi-fi for the game and you need 2 game cards to play a match. With Download play 
 you only play the mini-games (Which are a bit fun) . So far it's a little challaging which is good 
 but sometimes there is time's where you want to throw the DS into the wall times. Anyway great 
 game and I do recomend it if you have nothing better in your Collection Plus it's Mario and Basketball 
 what more can you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me89me89
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best mario sport ive ever played by far. This is up in line with mariokart maybe 
 even past it!!! Although your teamates do virtually nothing until the ball is on the ground for 
 10 seconds, who uses teamates anyway? I know the controls are strange and difficult to follow at 
 times but theres always the button mode (and can u imagine) actually attemting to learn the touch 
 screen controls instaed of blabbing like a baby about how the controls aren't like nba games (which 
 to tell you the truth usually end up sucking) ! I think that if you can use the controls good then 
 you'll truly enjoy this game without end! So many things to unlock and even final fantasy characters 
 make this game even more enjoyable. Let's not forget that the replay value and gameplay on this 
 game ,what really matters, is very high!!
  I'm a firm believer that gameplay and replay value are the 2 most important things in a game and 
 this game has got both!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quadrafop
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I want to like this game, I really do. It looks great, the controls sound right in theory. They 
 even feel right in practice mode. But, sadly, they become a frustrating hindrance in the heat of 
 battle. Once the cpu AI kicks in halfway through the 2nd tourney, you'll quickly start to notice 
 flaws. The controls on offense are passable (no pun intended) , but on defense they're nothing short 
 of clunky, and unintuitive. Everything feels like its a step behind. You swipe downwards to try 
 and steal, but the move is slow and stops your player's motion. If you switch to the player closest 
 to the ball, the screen doesn't zoom over to them right away, often causing you to get lost in 
 the shuffle.
  
  And while the cpu opponents AI picks up, your teammates "smarts" do not. They don't steal, block, 
 or toss items from "?" squares, they mostly take up space. Their only real benefit is they do speed 
 down the court on offense, making a breakaway shot tangible.
  
  Speaking of passing, I highly recommend skipping the sketchy default passing, where you slide the 
 stylus sideways. Its very unreliable, and will usually have you getting beat up after the 3rd 
 frantic sideways swipe. Instead, hold down the L or R button and swipe upwards, like you do for 
 shooting. This will pass to the teammate farthest ahead, and is much more reliable. In fact, the 
 upward swipe for shooting seems to be the only intuitive and reliable stylus control in the game. 
 I'm not sure if flip-flopping the controls, with the buttons for shooting, passing, switching, 
 jumping, stealing, and the stylus for movement and special moves post-button press, but that's 
 what I keep thinking every time I get robbed by poor controls. Either that or I scream in agony 
 and wonder why I should bother to keep playing.
  
  For now, I do keep playing, picking it back up after a break, so this game does have a fun factor. 
 You know its there. But overcoming the control scheme to find it may be too much to ask. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game is good, but not great. I think that if the game had a bit more variety and moves, it 
 could have been an awesome game, but as is, its a little more than a technical show case.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  You use the screen for almost all controls. Use the Dpad to move around and 
 such. When on offense, draw a line up to shoot. If you tap and hold the bottom of the screen until 
 the ball glows, then draw a line up, the shot will be more accurate, but it takes more time. Where 
 you tap the stylus on the screen also moves where your character is moving the ball. It works well 
 on offense, and can help you score extra points by driving through what would usually get the ball 
 stolen. Passing the ball is as simple as drawing a diagonal line towards an ally. Team mates are 
 useless, and don't do anything. The best thing in the game is the special shots though. By tapping 
 the stylus in a pattern twice, you can do a special shot or dunk that is worth 40 or more points. 
 It also looks cool too, making you want to use it more often. Beware, that long shots can be blocked 
 if the reciever for the dunk is blocked by an opponents.
  
  On defense though, you hold and move the stylus to make a barrier. Where ever the stylus is the 
 barrier will move. If it turns red, that means you can get a hit in to knock the ball loose regardless 
 of where they are bouncing the ball. Only one AI opponent is under control at a time, so defense 
 is a snap.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Best graphics on a DS hands down. This game is meant to show case the DS's power in small areas 
 in my opinion. Courts are detailed, models are high polygon and have good texture resolution. The 
 only thing missing is replays with ALL of the characters showing. Its very disappointing to do 
 a sweet move and only see yourself do the move without the replay showing the opposition. Only 
 complaint though, as graphics are great.
  
  SOUND
  
  I found most of the music good, but nothing memorable. A few tracks kind of sucked, but overall, 
 music was good.
  
  Voices are others were plentiful. The generic yelps and taunts of the Nintendo Characters return 
 for another go around. Its just surprising to see Nintendo fit them all on the DS. Congrats once 
 again to the show case for the DS.
  
  VALUE
  
  Short single player that is easy enough to beat in 3 hours on both difficulties, plus multiplayer 
 requires two carts. Sorry, but Mario Basketball will not entertain most of us for very long. I 
 got maybe a weekend out of this game until it was boring, or annoying.
  
  TILT
  
  The game has no grab at all. After you win a few games, see the special moves you don't want to 
 come back. As people who read my reviews know, I rate Tilt based on story in some games, because 
 it is what grabs us. In this game, it has to use something else due to the lack of story. It doesn't 
 do it, so it ends up being drab. The only part I enjoyed was the final game, because of the way 
 it caught me off guard. Be watching for it...
  
  OVERALL
  
  If you want to show off that the DS is a powerful hand held, your game is here. If you are looking 
 for a weekend romp, your game is here. If you are looking for an engaging game to entertain you 
 long after you beat it, keep waiting for Phantom Hourglass at this point. Though after playing 
 the Tingle game, anything can happen... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Millencolin543
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I just picked this game up on the 11th, and Ive already logged in at least 7-8hrs of gameplay 
 on it. Ive read a few reviews on the net here and Id have to say i agree with some, and disagree 
 with some. But ill get into that later..
  
  First off, the game is obviously basketball portrayed through the Mario universe. So obviously 
 you can assume regular sporting rules will be twisted or completely thrown out all together... mmmm 
 which is the case here. But thats not necessarily a bad thing. The area where users will notice 
 the most difference from a normal basketball game comes in the scoring department. You definitely 
 wont see any shots that are worth 2 points. Every shot in the game thats normally 2, is now 20. 
 Thats right, 20. And users can add to this default 20 by collecting coins before hand. If the 
 user dunks while having 40 coins... well now that dunk just became worth 60 points. Youll end up 
 having games with scores over 500, and even far above that occasionally.
  
  To further explain the coin system, let me start out by saying this is my least favorite part of 
 the game itself. In order to win, or score big, you are reliant on collecting coins. There are 
 question mark boxes along the floor of all the courts, and when the user dribbles on top of them 
 you collect the coins inside them. In order to do this though, the user usually ends up holding 
 onto the ball just mindlessly dribbling around for 20-40 seconds at a time if you want a lot of 
 coins. Needless to say, there are NO shot clock violations in this game. But I feel this need to 
 get coins, and dribble around picking them up really takes the user away from the game of basketball, 
 which is a shame. I personally would rather concentrate more on the sport then seeing how many 
 coins I can collect without having my opponent knock me down only to have me spill the coins all 
 over the court... yea that gets frustrating.
  
  But enough of the down side, cause this is where i disagree with many of the reviews I've seen 
 online. This game is just ridiculously fun. Putting the coin system aside, the game controls amazing. 
 Everything is done with a swipe of the stylus. Passing is done by swiping left to right, and shooting 
 is done by swiping down to up. Now Im just touching the basics. There are SO many moves the dev 
 team crammed into this game. And the game comes with a great tutorial mode that really explains 
 all the tricks and moves very well. I suggest playing the tutorial extensively until you got a 
 knack for moving your players and the ball around the court. Not to mention this is one of the 
 best looking DS games to date. Amazingly vibrant colors, and fast animation with no slowdown are 
 what youll get with this game.
  
  The game also features great multiplayer. Though to really enjoy it youll need multi carts. The 
 single download play does leave a little to be desired in that you dont get a regular basketball 
 match but rather a few select mini games. eh.
  
  Overall, I enjoy this game very much. Theres tons of unlockables which will have you coming back 
 to the game often to play it more to just see what else you can unlock. Its true, dont expect a 
 true to sport basketball sim, because you definitely wont get it. But if you enjoy the other games 
 in the mario sport series, then theres no reason why you wont enjoy this title. Plus donkey kong 
 can dunk like whoa.
  
  -MC543 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredinuyasha
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 13, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  ok so i got this with my onyx black ds lite and the first thing i do is rip open the seal and put 
 the cardtridge in the game when i started playing i went through the tutorial and was suprised 
 at how many things there are you have to learn yes the tutorial is long but its worth it its SO 
 much easyer to play after u go through the tutorial once or twice so i started exhibition and put 
 the difficulty on 5 (the hardest) and i got smoked 236-54 lol i had to say though thoise 5 min were 
 rlly rlly fun gameplay is good the mini games... uhhh could use a lil work i mean if they were 
 a litlle more frantic they wouldnt be bad... but its kinda like working and not playing when u 
 play them the bad thing is that u can only play 3on3 bascketball if BOTH people have hoops and 
 download play only allows the 2 mini games (with arnt bad if u got 3-4 frieds to play with) the 
 tourni slowly builds up difficulty and it starts getting hard on the last stage of flower cup there 
 are 3 stages evry cup depending on your peformence you get bronze silver or gold after completing 
 the cup
  
  the graphics are great (SE graphics+nintendo graphics=PWNAGE) they are very similar to those old 
 days were ur playing mario tennis on ur n64... those were the days....
  
  sound i love all the sounds in the menus there great.. well a lil chessy but good music the gameplay 
 music depends on the court your playing in so.. that could vary
  
  overall this game is great i no it doesnt have wifi but did AWDS need wifi to be a great game??? 
 i dont think so as long as u have some firends this would be rlly fun i have 5 firends with ds 
 and 3 of them are getting mario hoops i pre orderd so i got mine before therers MUWHAHAHAHa lol. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barretX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me break this game down in to five hot pieces
  
  Gameplay : Like most mario games the gameplay will last you al long time im sure the game could 
 have done better with Wifi who knows what Nintendo was thinking. Like all mario games they at new 
 characters to it but to make it better their final fantasy characters no suprise after everyone 
 saw who nintendo made it with (Square Enix) .
  
  Graphics: This is the best looking game for the DS yet and by yet i mean the games i played which 
 isn; t much "EGU" mario 64 DS and this are awsome looking games the people on metroid looked like 
 crap
  
  Sound: not much to say its mario and the music was never better
  
  Value: I got it when it came out cause i didnt reserve it and im still not close to bored of it 
 i love the items minigames and all the other stuff you would see on mario Tilt: Awsome game the 
 areas it could use work on is less pixels needs wifi and Mario is not better than luigi and never 
 will be =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holtke4987
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the games that I couldnt wait to get.... The controls were a little different 
 at first but after I got used to them i slowly fell in love with 3 on 3. It took me an extra day 
 to get ahold of a copy but once i did i havent been able to put it down since. I was ready for 
 this game to come out because I was on an animal crossing kick but i slowly got tired of that game 
 and decided that there really is life outside of animal crossing..... but back onto 3 on 3! I love 
 sports games and i love mario so put those both together and you get one rocking game! Graphics 
 are amazing and gameplay is also amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AManCalledDan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I got addicted to this game right away you should go pick it up from the store right now but first 
 listen to my review
  
  Gameplay-tight controls as fluid as mph, feels just the cube's games.
  Graphics- one of the best 
 aspects of the game bright colorful and refreshing i love playing this game after school.
  Sound-good and classic sounds just like any other mario game-me like.
  Value-besides not having 
 wifi this game is pretty full with tournament and quick game matches. plus this game suppports 
 local multiplayer.
  
  This a great game for your ds, besides the dissapointment of no wifi there is plenty to do in this 
 game. Enjoy your high flying mario dunks!!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
