-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/marioluigisuperstarsaga2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb gameplay.
 Engaging combat system.
 Meaty quest.
 Wonderful graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak battle theme music.
 Occasionally awkward viewing angle makes jumping tricky.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 29, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.5, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 4,303 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Alphadream
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 28, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Partners in Time might not have as strong of a script as the previous Mario & Luigi, but it's still 
 another charming, high quality RPG worth any DS owner's while. 

  Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time is the second entry in Nintendo's fledgling role-playing game 
 franchise starring the brothers Mario. The series began with quite a bang in 2003 with Mario &amp; 
 Luigi: Superstar Saga, a polished action RPG for the Game Boy Advance. For the next entry in the 
 series, Nintendo and developer Alpha Dream have moved the sequel to the DS, have done some tweaking 
 to the winning formula introduced in Superstar Saga, and have taken advantage of some of the bells 
 and whistles offered by the dual-screened hardware. The end result of all this work is a sequel 
 that maintains the same level of quality as its predecessor but falls just a bit short of surpassing 
 it.  

          Mario and Luigi return to save the Mushroom Kingdom's past and present.     

  The game's 
 setup puts a new spin on the typical "kingdom and Peach in danger" scenario that anyone who has 
 played a Mario game knows well. This time out you'll once again take control of Mario and Luigi 
 as they set out to save the Mushroom Kingdom and Princess Peach from danger. The threat to all 
 things Peach-y and mushroom-y comes from the darkest reaches of space. An evil race known as the 
 Shroob has decided to look for greener pastures now that its world is no longer the jumping hot 
 spot for life that it used to be. As luck would have it, the villainous fungoids, led by the villainous 
 Princess Shroob, get a look at the Mushroom Kingdom and reckon it would be the perfect place to 
 hold their stuff, hence the conquering. The twist to this setup is that this all takes place in 
 the past. Over the course of the game you'll wind up going between the past and present to deal 
 with the Shroob as they attempt to wreak havoc on both ends of the time stream.  

  It's a heady challenge to be sure, but you'll get help from a number of different places. You'll 
 find a colorful cast of characters, some of which include the usual Mario suspects, such as Toadsworth 
 and Professor E. Gadd. The good old balding, bespectacled professor also tosses you a bit of extra 
 help in the form of Stuffwell, a sentient suitcase that doubles as a computer and serves as your 
 assistant. You'll find that this luxurious leather companion comes in handy as you find yourself 
 interacting with the past and present versions of the core game cast with astonishing regularity 
 (apparently the Star Trek rules of time travel don't apply here) . One notable aspect of the story 
 is the way it deftly avoids the "cute" pitfall that it seemed destined for by the inclusion of 
 Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. While the toddlers are as cute as can be, they're never overdone, which 
 is good to see. The overall tale is well stocked with the requisite zaniness and twists you would 
 expect, but it doesn't gel quite as well as Superstar Saga. The self-referential humor that gave 
 the original game its bite isn't as prevalent, which leaves a serviceable story that, while still 
 funny, is a bit on the bland side.  

          Who knew child endangerment would pay off so well?     

  Of course there are still 
 plenty of teeth to be found in Partners in Time's gameplay, which takes the core mechanics from 
 Superstar Saga and tweaks them. If you played the original GBA game, then you should feel right 
 at home when you fire up Partners in Time. Your time will be spent exploring different locales 
 in the Mushroom Kingdom (in both the past and the present) , solving puzzles, and uncovering more 
 of the mystery behind the Shroob and their spongy princess. The game uses the basic mechanic of 
 assigning a character to one of the DS's face buttons, with A controlling Mario and B controlling 
 Luigi. The biggest addition to this system is Mario and Luigi's preschool alter egos from the past, 
 who are controllable with the X and Y buttons. While you can control both sets of brothers as a 
 team, with the babies riding piggyback on their adult counterparts, you'll often have to control 
 both pairs independently to overcome the numerous obstacles you'll face. The babies, being considerably 
 smaller, can squeeze into places or even be flung to locales that the older brothers can't reach. 

  You'll find that each set of brothers feature different abilities. For those keeping score, the 
 adult versions of Mario and Luigi feature a scaled-down set of special moves from the first game. 
 In addition to the pair's running and jumping abilities, you'll be able to interlock the two to 
 form a quickly moving ball or to perform a variation on their propeller spin jump. The babies, 
 on the other hand, must make do with Hammer Bros.-provided hammers, which let them hit switches 
 or burrow underground. You'll also be able to make constructive use of child endangerment by using 
 the older brothers to roll over their younger counterparts, temporarily flattening them to wafflelike 
 proportions, which will let them squeeze into even tighter places or ride gusts of wind. Like the 
 previous entry in the series, Partners in Time will feature agreeable RPG-lite elements and will 
 let you earn experience -- from defeating enemies -- that you can use to level up and coins that you 
 can use in the shops to buy items, clothing, and badges. The clothing and badge system remains 
 essentially untouched, except that now you can outfit four adventurers. Though the clothes will 
 come in adult and baby sizes, the badges, which offer different bonuses, can be equipped by all. 
     

   

  Once you get into combat, you'll see some of the other changes that have been made to the battle 
 system. When you initiate combat while controlling the quartet, you'll be able to use the babies 
 as added firepower, which comes in handy. The babies can be used for an additional stomp during 
 a jump attack if you time your button press correctly or for a hammer attack from atop their older 
 counterparts' shoulders. The tots also come in handy during the brothers' attacks, which have undergone 
 an interesting change. The unique sibling attacks are now based on items you collect or buy, rather 
 than being specific attacks you learn, which was the case in the GBA game. As a result, you'll 
 find a wide variety of attacks that make inventive use of different combinations of the brothers. 
 Some items can be used by a pair of sibs in battle and are enhanced when the babies are around. 
 For example, green and red shells that require you to kick a shell off your foe between the two 
 brothers can have their damage augmented when you've got the babies in tow, as one of the brothers 
 will ride the shell and do added damage to your target. Other items will let you use all four brothers 
 and dole out mega damage if your button pressing is on point.  

          Combat is interactive and requires you to stay on your toes.     

  You'll need your 
 wits about you in battles, because your foes will provide a good level of challenge, although they 
 still have individual quirks to clue you in on when and whom they're attacking. As before, you'll 
 find that taking the time to familiarize yourself with each enemy's attack patterns will serve 
 you well. Not only will you be able to dodge attacks, but you'll also be able to counterattack 
 if you're quick. The boss battles are richer this time out and will often force you to use your 
 head and figure out the best way to dole out some hurt.  

  While all of the above is pretty standard engaging fare, there are a number of DS-specific elements 
 thrown into the mix. The top screen will serve double duty as an ever-present map and, when the 
 need arises, as a gameplay screen that chronicles the babies as they head into different areas. 
 During story sequences, the screen even adds some panoramic flair, thanks to sweeping camera angles. 
 The touch screen comes into play a bit as well, although its use feels a bit tacked on as you furiously 
 "clean" a dirty picture to make a discovery. Finally, the game also supports the DS rumble pack 
 that originally came with Metroid Prime Pinball, which offers some tactile feedback throughout 
 your adventure.  

  The visuals stay faithful to the look and feel of the GBA game and bring the familiar locales of 
 the past and present Mushroom Kingdom to life with large sprites that animate well. The adult and 
 baby versions of Mario and Luigi sport some nice, subtle bits of animation that give them unique 
 personalities. The same holds true for many of the non-player characters you'll encounter. The 
 DS allows for some added flair in the special-effects department, which is most noticeable during 
 some of the brothers' attacks and during the assorted time distortions that occur as you make your 
 jaunts between eras. The only blemish on the presentation is that you'll still find the occasional 
 spot where making jumps is trickier than it should be and pulling off some of the counterattacks 
 is rough due to the angled perspective.  

          You'll face off against a mix of familiar foes and all-new menaces eager to stomp you. 
     

  The audio in the game is arguably the weakest link in the experience and is one that may try your 
 patience. The good news is that the voice and sound effects are all spot on. You'll hear a good 
 assortment of speech samples peppered throughout the game for the adult and baby versions of Mario, 
 Luigi, Peach, and Bowser, as well as for other familiar faces. The voices work well, although those 
 with a low tolerance for crying babies may be adjusting the volume control on their DS at times. 
 The game's soundtrack, on the other hand, is a bit uneven. While Partners in Time features the 
 elements of a solid soundtrack, thanks to unique themes for each locale and the familiar themes 
 that come in during story sequences, it's missing a strong battle theme. The battle theme in Partners 
 in Time lacks the bouncy groove that made Superstar Saga's theme catchy regardless of how often 
 you had to hear it. The theme isn't bad; it's just forgettable.  

  At the end of the day, Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time is a perfectly fine sequel that hits 
 just about every point you would want in a follow-up. The visuals are excellent, and the gameplay 
 offers just about the right mix of old and new. However, the game's music and story lack the kick 
 of Superstar Saga, which ultimately keeps it from surpassing its predecessor. Still, it's definitely 
 a game worth checking out for the DS given that there aren't many RPGs out for the system and that 
 this is easily one of the best of the bunch.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (364 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:57 am PT
Review:  Partners in Time features both original characters and those that were introduced before the game. 
 Professor E. Gadd provides the player with advice throughout the game whilst Toadsworth teaches 
 the player new moves and skills to progress through the adventure. Although the older Peach is 
 kidnapped, Baby Peach is retrieved from the past into the present by Toadsworth, where she is nurtured 
 by both the old and young renditions of him. Baby Bowser appeared near the beginning of the game 
 in the past to kidnap Baby Peach, although his plans were halted by an encounter with the Mario 
 bros. and a subsequent attack from the Shroobs. Baby Bowser harasses the quartet frequently during 
 their journey by stealing their crystal shards, and later attacking the group with his older self. [18] 
 Kamek the Magikoopa, Petey Piranha and Fawful, an antagonist from Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, 
 appear in the game as well.
  
  The game begins as Professor E. Gadd completes his newest invention of a time machine powered by 
 a gem called the Cobalt Star, which is presented at Peach's castle. Peach enters the time machine 
 into the past, but fails to return, only leaving a member of an alien species known only as the 
 Shroobs within the damaged time machine. The Mushroom Kingdom of the past had actually been invaded 
 by the Shroobs, with Peach being kidnapped and held hostage at her castle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batman_Vengence
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played Mario and Luigi Superstar Saga for the GBA, you should have no problem at 
 all jumping into this charming game. The basics have remained, but there are a lot of added aspects 
 of the game. You even get to play as baby Mario and Luigi. Tell me that's not awesome. The story is 
 great, as expected, and has a lot of humorous cut scenes. It starts out with evil alien mushrooms 
 called the Shroobs planning to take over the mushroom kingdom. You start out as baby Mario and Luigi 
 not long after, you end up playing in the present. Dr. E. Gadd has developed a time machine and Princess 
 Peach cannot wait to try it out and decides to go on a little adventure to the Mushroom Kingdom's 
 past. But, as you might have expected, this goes terribly wrong and you must go through the game playing 
 as Mario and Luigi, eventually meeting up with you're baby selves and team up to save the Princess 
 and stop the evil Shroob invaders, traveling through time back and forth. It's a lot of fun and you 
 should definitely have this in you're collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoE_Morais
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga was a big hit for the GBA and easily one of the best games for 
 the handheld. It passed the expectarions for a Mario game by a lot and was very well recived both 
 by fans and by critics. Partners in Time isn't much different. It's definitely a game you want to 
 pick up for the DS. Not just because of its great storyline and gameplay, but because you'll have 
 a really good time laughing at Luigi trying to calm his baby self down so they can work together. Besides 
 being a great action-adventure game, Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is really fun and innovative.
 
  The story is the same with al Mario games. Somehow, Princess Peach gets kidnapped and it's up to 
 Mario to save the day. In this game, the princess goes back in time with two toads to visit the 
 Mushroom Kingdom of old on the new time machine prof. E. Gadd invented. Something goes terribly 
 wrong as the time machine comes back with a monster in it and no princess. Suddenly, time holes 
 appear and Mario and Luigi jump in to them to save the princess. They meet there, after being defeated 
 by alien mushrooms called Shroobs, a pair of babies that save them from the alien attack. They team 
 up to try to save the princess and bring order to time.
  The gamplay mechanics stay almost all the same except for the addition of the new baby combo attacks 
 and the dual-screen overworld play. While you find yourself as Mario and Luigi trying to solve a 
 puzzle and ddon't know what to do, you simply press the y or x button to turn into their baby counterparts 
 in the upper screen.
  What I thoought could've been done was the addition of touch screen gameplay. I mean, pressing buttons 
 to play the games is turning kind of old-school for Nintendo games now days with the DS and the 
 Wii. Besides that, I think this game is a great addition to the DS roster and that anybody who 
 loves Nintendo style games should definitely get it. I'm giving it a 9.1 and a readers choice award 
 (I wish I could give editors choice...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jblackbelt29
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I personally just beat the game for the first time a week or two ago, and loved every second of 
 it. Basically, without giving too much away, Mario and Luigi watch as Princess Peach goes on a 
 trip to the past with a Toad. The time machine comes back damaged, and missing a Colbalt Star. 
 A huge Shroob comes out, you fight it as Mario. You play first as Mario and Luigi's adult selves, 
 but you meet up with their past selves and team up with them for the rest of the game, save the 
 few times you split up in some areas and, of coarse, the end. You search around for shards of the 
 broken Cobalt Star, and face the whole Shroob army along the way. Difficult boss fights and tricky 
 puzzles and mazes and platforming make this a perfect little Mario Luigi game worth recognition. 
 You save Peach *gasp!* and Bowzer goes and kidnaps her soon after *even bigger gasp!*. He fails 
 *another gasp*, and after you beat the final bosses in the past, he becomes possessed by the spirit 
 of the dead final boss *GASP!*. You beat him, credits roll. 
  Tips for stuck people/ people just starting: I loved using the fire flower and a few other bros 
 items on the tricky bosses, and I'd never have survived the Princess Shroob fights without the 
 automatic healing badge and the infinite bros items badge, try them. 
  For those thinking you may want this game: 1: what took you so long? and 2: great game, I loved 
 the beginning bosses and the gradual increase of difficulty. Not too long learning curve, really 
 a pick up and play game, but to beat the last bosses, you're going to need some skills behind your 
 fingers. 
  One downfall for this game is that it is on the DS, but doesn't use the touch screen at all for 
 part of the normal game play, there are a few times where you "scratch off the dirt from the drawing," 
 but that is it. 
  Great game, hope you enjoy (ed) it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This Mario and Luigi is much better then the first (which was good.) For I have enjoyed it for... 
 well, a long time. 
  
  Story: The story in this game is that Mario and Luigi must travel back in time to save the present 
 Princess Peach, and the past castle. But as they go on through the story, they meet... themselves! 
 As babies!
  
  Characters:
  Mario: The hero plumber along with himself and the Luigis
  Luigi: The other plumber hero, with the Marios and himself as a baby
  Baby Mario: The baby Mario 
 'nuff said
  Baby Luigi: The baby Luigi
  Toadsworth: Peach's grandfather (somehow) and he's a HUGE worry wart
  Peach: Gets kidnapped, 
 once again
  Baby Peach: Peach as a baby
  Bowser: The big bad boss, but, he isn't the worst bad guy
  Baby Bowser: He's just the baby Bowser, 
 and he's just as bad
  Shroobs: Purple mushroom people, bad guys
  Princess Shroob: The main antagonist in this story, she is a meanie 
  
  Sound/music: Same jumping 
 and attacking noises/Good, and catchy
  
  Boss fights: Usually hard but once you get used to the boss your facing it'll get easier
  
 
  Overall I would say this game is very fun and I would recommend it to the people who enjoyed the 
 last game, and just want a good 'ol laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soar57
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Opinion: A pretty good game. Not as original as the first, but some general improvements keep it 
 fresh.
  
  Story: The game begins in the past, where Baby Mario and Luigi visit the Baby Princess's castle 
 for a playdate. Its interrupted, however, when Baby Bowser swoops in and kidnapps the Princess. 
 Meanwhile, back in the present, the Shroom Princess takes over the castle and Adult Mario and Luigi 
 must go back in the past to save the world.
  
  Gameplay: Instead of just taking over Mario and Luigi, you can now take over their baby selves. 
 These little guys piggyback on their adult counterparts. They can be used to get into small places 
 and other things. The combat takes full advantage of these babies as Mario and Luigi use them to 
 their advantage. Instead of Brothers Attacks, they use special objects such as shells, various 
 flowers and other items. 
  
  Bottom Line: Its not as good a storyteller as the first, as I found myself second-guessing the 
 writing at certain points. The combat is smooth and productive, and the progression system has 
 been improved greatly. The final boss is a letdown sadly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Set0
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Lots of people love the Mario Bros, and lots of people love RPG's, put together is extremely awesome. 
 The story is...... weird. The alien race is looking for a home so they destroy the kingdom? I didn't 
 get it. But the game was still flat great. The battle style was way easier than Superstar Saga, 
 but still confusing the first part. The things I liked about it was, of course, the battle style, 
 the fact that you use baby versions of Mario & Luigi (awesome btw) , and the bosses are unique. 
 The things i didn't like were the boss battles were way too long. The first major boss had over 
 200+ HP and you can be like level 10 or something. Also, the final battle I didn't really enjoy 
 because you have to fight three atagonists in a row with no healing and no item restoring. First 
 form: 2000+ second: 2500+ third: 3000+ it was a very hard game, but very good. Nintendo did good 
 to bring these on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huskerfied
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This will be a quick review;
  
  This is a solid game I can't say much more about it. There is a bit too many demo type things, 
 holding your hand through the controls ect. but once you get into the flow of things its quite 
 a good game and feels balanced and just plain fun.
  
  The style is good, it has a clean look. Great character models, variety in the palate of colors, 
 generally looks fresh. One kind of odd note though, is the way mario and luigi run when facing 
 down, looks strange.
  
  I would easily recommend this game, its fun for anyone, even someone who is a little older who 
 can enjoy a fun little game now and then.
  
  If i had to cite any flaws in the game they would be; Its somewhat recycled gameplay from the original 
 game, the story is rather weak, the characters you will not care about (other than the fact that, 
 they are mario and company) and its writing tries too hard to be funny.
  
  Still highly recommendable. If you find it, and own a DS buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is very, very good. I have Superstar Sega for Gameboy Advance and this game is way, way 
 better. There are a lot of similarities in the game (being it's a sequel) but now there are babies 
 which changes the gameplay completely. You battle the same except now the bros. and babies power 
 is combined to take out enemies even faster. BUT... Nintendo also ramped up the difficulty and there 
 are tons of new puzzles and head-scratchers to boot. The storyline may not be as good as Superstar 
 Sega but I've only recently started playing this game so don't judge me or the game by that. I 
 would suggest this game any day of the year but that's just because I'm a fan of this series and 
 I was almost obsessed with Superstar Sega. There's plenty of material here to be played and that's 
 what drives the value through the roof. I myself couldn't put the game down until I defeated the 
 boss at the end of the level. This game is a "masterpiece" as the review deck said. I love it. 
 Thanks for your time,
  
  Flightofdragon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubivore10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off, it doesn't live up to the first one, but its still really great. It is however 
 hard, but for the wrong reasons. Some enemie's HP are too high, and can be a little tough to get 
 trough. But when you get through the bosses, and hard enemies, the game is over so quick! Its very 
 short. One of the biggest flaws in this game, lies at the end. It's typical for an RPG to have 
 a couple phases of the last boss, but this game crosses the line. (spoilers) When you finally defeat 
 Princess Shroob, you have to fight an elder Shroob Princess, and after that, you have to fight 
 her again, in a mutant form. And that takes for ever. If you recall the final fight with Cackletta 
 in Mario and Luigi, you had to fight the arms and head, to get to the heart, but In M&L 2, you 
 have to fight the hands, the crown, and the feet, and then attack her, and all of them have a good 
 amount of HP. It's fun to go through, if you have leveled up enough, but it can still be a pain 
 in the neck to fight all of those parts, so many times. However, this game has a good story (that 
 is simalar the the War of the Worlds story) , awesome characters, and great graphics, and style. 
 If you liked the first one then, why not get this one too? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  It's Mario and Luigi.. What more could you ask? Baby-Mario and Baby-Luigi! Mario and Luigi back 
 to some RPG action.
  
  The game's a lot of fun. Story is okay, graphics and sound are sweet, controls work, great puzzles, 
 looks like it has it all. But there's minor flaws.
  
  First of all the controls work but are not that awesome. Jumping with two guys at once can be a 
 pain in the butt, and switching on and off of the special moves. On battles there are times when 
 controlling four characters at once is just too much. Mix flower hurtz your eyez.. But of course, 
 the controls are smooth most of the time and as I said, it works.
  
  The game won't get much replay value. Collecting beans, searching badges and stuff, been there 
 done that. But that's okay. Finishing the game once leaves you satisfied.
  
  The story is okay but aliens and Mario c'mon.. Time traveling is great and all but why not just 
 Mario & Luigi & Babies vs. King Bowser / Baby Bowser? Oh well.
  
  The game takes good amount of time, you won't be stuck anywhere for long, battles are fun, there's 
 great items to use, fun special moves and it's a great game overall. With a little bit better story 
 and more fluent controls at the platforming parts it would've been really close to superb. But 
 don't get me wrong, it's still a great game and definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeweapon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  The game offers a great RPG experience with the humour of Paper Mario, quirky and cute.
  
  The fighting can become a tad repetitive with the 'Brother Items' come into play. Instead of the 
 standard attacks which you select in a turn based battle style and button press at the right moment, 
 Brother items require many button presses... which is ok, until you fight the harder enemies with 
 higher HP, you will use them again and again.
  
  The puzzles are relatively basic but fun nonetheless. The controls take some getting used to; Mario, 
 Baby Mario, Luigi and baby luigi each have a button assigned to them to activate or jump once you 
 have control.
  
  THe game could be better, but is still a nice game to play and complete. I imagine this game would 
 have been awesome if it pulled off a Chrono Trigger of the Mario world... that would be epic....
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma12345azz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  dfuift 786 76 76 786 r8 6r t dfy td yd r tr dtrd trd tr d trd tr dr drt dtr tttt tttt ttt tt ttt 
 tttt ttttt ttttt tttt gfghhgf gf gf grt rtrt rteret gfgf ddd ddd ddd ddd dd dddd df f gf gd fd 
 re tdfg df d g fg cvx fdgf g d ty rt f e r dfsdf dgfdtr eftdg fg fy tu yrj yh jgh g hg h g gfrh 
 gt ytr yr y fg df gfd g dfg dfg df dfuift 786 76 76 786 r8 6r t dfy td yd r tr dtrd trd tr d trd 
 tr dr drt dtr tttt tttt ttt tt ttt tttt ttttt ttttt tttt gfghhgf gf gf grt rtrt rteret gfgf ddd 
 ddd ddd ddd dd dddd df f gf gd fd re tdfg df d g fg cvx fdgf g d ty rt f e r dfsdf dgfdtr eftdg 
 fg fy tu yrj yh jgh g hg h g gfrh gt ytr yr y fg df gfd g dfg dfg df dfuift 786 76 76 786 r8 6r 
 t dfy td yd r tr dtrd trd tr d trd tr dr drt dtr tttt tttt ttt tt ttt tttt ttttt ttttt tttt gfghhgf 
 gf gf grt rtrt rteret gfgf ddd ddd ddd ddd dd dddd df f gf gd fd re tdfg df d g fg cvx fdgf g d 
 ty rt f e r dfsdf dgfdtr eftdg fg fy tu yrj yh jgh g hg h g gfrh gt ytr yr y fg df gfd g dfg dfg 
 df dfuift 786 76 76 786 r8 6r t dfy td yd r tr dtrd trd tr d trd tr dr drt dtr tttt tttt ttt tt 
 ttt tttt ttttt ttttt tttt gfghhgf gf gf grt rtrt rteret gfgf ddd ddd ddd ddd dd dddd df f gf gd 
 fd re tdfg df d g fg cvx fdgf g d ty rt f e r dfsdf dgfdtr eftdg fg fy tu yrj yh jgh g hg h g gfrh 
 gt ytr yr y fg df gfd g dfg dfg df 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madrox221
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  THIS Game is fantastic. its actully hard to dscribe whats so good about it. its either the involving 
 combat, the colourful graphics the challenging yet fun level, the bouncy music or just everything 
 in general.
  while its true the original had way better music, everyting in general looks and plays better than 
 the last one. some people complained about the lack of bros attacks. personally i never really got 
 them anyway.
  bros items also use timing, but are easier to learn and really rack up damage quick. i found gamespot 
 a bit off here so i give it a 9.0-9.5
  
  
  
  MADROX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkanary
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Before you begin the review, I am going to make some assumptions about you because you're reading 
 a user review of Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. I am assuming you:
  
  a) are a Mario game fan;
  b) have played Mario RPG games before;
  b) enjoy RPG games in general; 
 and
  c) are looking for something casual.
  
  If none of the above refers to you, you can continue browsing GameSpot and forget about this title. 
 You will have much more fun with something else.
  
  If all of the above refers to you, you can continue browsing GameSpot and then pick up this title 
 when you have a chance. You will enjoy it.
  
  For those of you whom some of the above applies to but not all, read on:
  
  First off, if you've 
 never played a Mario RPG game before, this is not the best introduction to the series. Don't get 
 me wrong, I thoroughly enjoyed it, it's just that Super Mario RPG and Paper Mario are constantly 
 on people's "Best Games of All Time" lists. They are the pinnacle of the "platform RPG" and you 
 would be much better served with one of those. Of those two, I suggest Paper Mario, as it's easily 
 attainable on Wii's Shop Channel. Super Mario RPG for the SNES, on the other hand, is pretty hard 
 to come by (unless you live in a PAL region or in Japan -- those lucky bastards can get it off 
 of Wii Shop Channel) .
  
  Secondly, this game is very straightforward and requires little attention. I have a lot of fun 
 being meticulous and absolutely neurotic with my RPG's, and they certainly cater to that if you 
 want to spend time totally engrossed in M&L's little world. However, if you just need something 
 to play on the bus, or if you're trying to talk on the phone while you play, this game is barely 
 a distraction. You really don't have to pay attention to conversations; you can be strategic in 
 battles, but it's not necessary; you will almost always know where you're supposed to go next; 
 and there is absolutely no level grinding. It's very RPG lite.
  
  Thirdly, this game is fun. There's enough platform elements in it to make it unique from other 
 RPG's and everything from battles to puzzles feel like fun little mini-games.
  
  Lastly, it's Mario. Any game with the 1-up noise, Mario's and Luigi's voices, or a battle with 
 Bowser keeps me interested. If you're like me, you're very easy to please, and all you need is 
 for someone to shake that nostalgia tree to feel sated. This game pulls that off. There's a funny 
 alien plot that makes it seem at times a little out of place in the Mario universe, but there's 
 Mario-isms elsewhere to keep it all tied together nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stickman14
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time involves Mario and Luigi teaming up with Baby Mario and Baby 
 Luigi, so this game is addicting just because of the babies, also because it takes place in the 
 Mushroom Kingdom unlike the first game. In Superstar Saga, The one in the front uses the "A" button 
 while the one in the back uses the "B" button, in Partners in Time, Mario always uses "A" and Luigi 
 always uses "B". However, Baby Mario uses "X" and Baby Luigi uses "Y" to take advantage of the 
 Nintendo DS having four main buttons this time. Like Superstar Saga, Bowser is not the main antagonist, 
 but the true enemy is a female once again. There is only one type of bean which is just a "bean", 
 you don't have to be completely accurate to dig it up. The babies use the hammers this time, but 
 only one type of hammer rather than three. Next time a Mario and Luigi game is made, it should 
 be a super game with a lot more Mario characters, such as Wario and Waluigi or Daisy, and Cackletta 
 should be the enemy again.
  
  Bottom Line: A good game, but not as good as the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niels200683
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are colorful and cheery, the characters wacky and the action a bit jumpy.
  
  It's a mario game, of course.
  
  Although the dialogue in the game can get tedious at time, 
 the humour of the game just feels right.
  
  It doesn't take itself too seriously,
  makes good use of the dual screen,
  and has some memorable new characters.
  
  It is recommended 
 to have played the first game,
  and several other mario games - because a lot of the humour is centered around that.
  
  The 
 audio is what you would expect,
  the action - different from other RPG's - it usually gives you a button-timing mini game, which 
 does make it more involved. The turned based aspect, though - does make the game laid back, and 
 therefore a good fit for a portable.
  
  However, the babies are just annoying - especially when they cry... although it is nice to annoy 
 the people in your direct environment, this will annoy the average player as well.
  
  With a ton of extra stuff to find & pad out the experience, addictive mini-games and genuinly funny 
 dialogue - this game is highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  The first Mario & Luigi game came out a few years ago. It was called Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. 
 It was an rpg that followed a story about Mario and Luigi trying to rescue the Princess. It was 
 lengthy, funny, and was one of the best GBA games. In 2005, there was a sequel...
  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is an RPG that follows a quest of Mario and Luigi to rescue the 
 Princess. But in the storyline, they run into baby versions of themselves (hence the name Partners 
 in Time) . Then Mario and Luigi learn that there is an evil copy of Princess Peach. The copy is 
 Princess Shroob, leader of the Shroob army. So Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi set out 
 to defeat Princess Shroob and find Princess Peach.
  As the title says, you will have to go to and from the past to defeat enemies to find the Cobalt 
 Star Shards. The shards come together to form the Cobalt Star. I won't spoil anything about it.
 
  This game has a storyline that will keep you guessing. It will make you want to complete the game 
 so you can figure out the storyline. The gameplay is fantastic! There is a Turn-Based battle system 
 that some of you may remember from the Paper Mario series. You will use all of the Bros to use 
 team-attacks on your ememies. If you complete all of the extra stuff in the game, it should last 
 you around 30 hours.
  This game is a solid RPG with funny diolougue, funny characters, epic boss battles, and tons of 
 other great stuff to do. I would recommend this game to everyone who has a DS and likes Mario games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  if Mario % Luigi one was awesome then this one is perfect is has everything you would expect from 
 a Mario rpg game: a great story, cool boss battles, humour, stats building special moves name it! 
 this sequel to one of Nintendo's coolest game really make it honor. Lets just see what makes this 
 game so awesome
  
  1- as in the 1st Mario and Luigi there are some puzzle that has to be solved with the powers of 
 the Mario brothers and now that the babies are also part of the game double the power and double 
 the challenge
  
  2- the same good old dodging system from Mario and Luigi one returns giving you the same classic 
 feel
  
  3- what could be more cool that Mario and Luigi teaming up with there baby self? come on aside 
 from Mario teaming up with Bowser i don't see
  
  4-the bro items are just wicked they are the keys to defeating the last bosses in the game and 
 men are they fun to use 
  
  5-the storyline we learn more about the mushroom kingdom's past to peach childhood with baby Mario 
 and baby Luigi already being the heroes they are meant to be to the rise and fall of the shroobs
 
  
  if you liked the 1st one and or paper Mario then this one is a must ad to your collection folks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is the sequel to one of the greatest Game Boy Advance games of 
 all time: Superstar Saga. It's really a shame that this installment strays so far from what made 
 the first one great. That's the main problem here. The main problem with this game is that it lacks 
 everything that made the first one great. And while it has some cool new features that the original 
 lacked, you will be left hanging if you played superstar saga before it.
  
  Now let's go into detail with that statement. First, the story. Superstar Saga had probably the 
 best Mario related story ever, and while that's not saying much, the story was still incredible. 
 The plot twists, the characters, everything seemed to flow perfectly with Superstar Saga. However, 
 with Partners in Time, the story is just like the Paper Mario games. The whole game is once again 
 about collecting something that has to do with stars and you have to collect them all and there's 
 only a plot twist at the very end of the game. Also there are a ton of plot holes! Honestly, I 
 didn't get why there were so many times when the Shroob (alien toads) would come and get the Toads 
 and people next to Mario and Luigi, then would just ignore the 2 or would use a big huge weapon, 
 then when they get to Mario and Luigi, they pull out these shrimpy weapons even though you know 
 they could pull out the big one and blow them away. It's really dumb and makes little sense. It 
 was such a disappointment.
  
  Next up we have the difficulty and length. Now, Superstar Saga is still the hardest Mario RPG and 
 also the longest, and I absolutely love it for that. Partners in Time is the exact opposite. By 
 far the shortest, you could complete this game in 10-15 hours, and there is NO replay value. NONE! 
 After you beat it you're done! Also, the game is extremely easy. The main problem is that the game 
 gives you way too many items in blocks so you can just keep using them and you'll never run out. 
 It's a real shame.
  
  And another big disappointment was the humor. Superstar Saga was one of the funniest games I've 
 ever played and I actually laughed out loud during the play through. With Partners in Time, the 
 game tries too hard to be funny and just ends up being cruel humor that you won't find funny. As 
 a Luigi fan, this game almost made me cry at how mean it is to the Mario bro. There were so so 
 many times when I wasn't laughing at all, I was saying, "What? That's dumb! Why is this game so 
 rude to Luigi!?" And it just made me mad and hate the game. If you're gonna hate on a character, 
 do it on one that no one likes, like Baby Peach or Toadsworth, don't do Luigi, one of the greatest 
 characters ever!? That's downright rude!
  
  Also, I just want to say that this game had a lot of potential. I really liked the whole time traveling 
 thing, but guess what, when you go in the present, you are ALWAYS at Princess Peach's Castle, and 
 it is REAL dumb. I was hoping you'd have to go back and forth back with 2 mirror dimensions like 
 some Zelda games, but no, the present is basically a small base and you'll be in the past the whole 
 time, and I just hated this. This was a huge missed opportunity. 
  
  Although this game isn't all bad. During the 10-15 hours you spend playing this game, you'll have 
 a blast! I really like the idea of bros items, in which items are special attacks, and I think 
 that is real cool and I hope to see it return. Also the addition of the babies were nice in terms 
 of gameplay. The action commands you knew from the original changed a bit and it was a nice expansion. 
 
  
  This game also uses the 2 screens on the DS well. I like the puzzles that revolve around the enemies 
 and having to split up and fight enemies separately. I would've liked to see Mario and Luigi and 
 the babies do 2 separate battles at the same time too, but I don't know if it would've worked. 
 Also, I really hate how this game uses the touch screen. Okay, when a game doesn't use the touch 
 screen, NEVER use it. What I hate is that this game never uses it except for 1 part of the game, 
 that's it! It's like Nintendo was teasing us. I mean, if you're gonna use it, don't use it once 
 and that's it. At least let us use it for the title screen too. This just got on my nerves when 
 I tried using the touch screen on the title screens and it didn't work, then you end up using it 
 once. That made no sense!
  
  The graphics and sound are done very well in this game. The music is real catchy and the graphics 
 look nice, and it's a wonderful improvement over the first. I like them!
  
  To sum things up I'll say it again, DO NOT PLAY MARIO & LUIGI: SUPERSTAR SAGA RIGHT BEFORE YOU 
 PLAY THIS GAME! You will be disappointed so much that you will not like this game at all, like 
 I was when I ran out to by this game with tons of anticipation. The story is boring, the length 
 is short, the difficulty is too easy, the game isn't funny, it's cruel, and it teases you with 
 the touch screen. On the plus the graphics are great, the music is wonderful, the 2 screens are 
 used great and the gamelpay has been made as good as ever with good expansions. Although with this 
 many problems, it's hard to believe this was made by the same people that made that epic masterpiece 
 known as Superstar Saga. If you haven't played the first, you'll want to pick it up. If you have 
 played the first, don't play this game or you'll be disappointed.
  
  Actual score: 7.75 (This is what I wanted to give, but couldn't thanks to GS's review system, so 
 I just rounded down) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Partners in Time is Mario's second go at a handheld RPG with this being the sequel to Superstar 
 Saga on the GBA. Altough there's no links between this game and it's predecessor. Story wise this 
 is pretty original for a Mario title and yes the princess has been kidnapped BUT. In a different 
 you see these aliens called the Shroobs take over the Mushroom Kingdom of the past. But in the 
 present Peach uses a time machine and lands smack and the middle of the Shroob invasion and gets 
 herself kidnapped. You saw that coming didn't you? Yeah I thought so.
  
  Partners in Time is a turn based battle affair but a little different then your standard "click 
 on attack command, watch hero punch villian while you drink tea" thing. Each brother has a button 
 that controls their every move Mario's is A while Luigi's is B. You need the press these with good 
 timing to use items, add extra power to attacks and dodge. So you can't just fall asleep while 
 the game plays for you. The little twist comes when you meet up with your baby selves. Then you 
 have to learn how to use items, how to add power to attacks and how to dodge with the babies. The 
 babies also have their buttons. Baby Mario has X and Baby Luigi has Y. This means that there will 
 times where you'll have to pull of some finger gymnastics while using some of the more complex 
 items.
  
  The battle system has it's advantages llike if your skilled enough you will never have to grind 
 if you can dodge like a pro. How many RPG's have you hit a brick wall on beacuse your party isn't 
 leveled up enough? There are downsides to this though you will have to master some impossibly small 
 niggles to figure what bro the enemy is going to whack. The game is also really short being only 
 20 hours long. The game is also easy if you fight your battles along the way you won't have to 
 worry much. I made it through the whole game without dying AT ALL. Success in this game relies 
 completely on how many attack and healing items you have, run out of attack items during a boss? 
 You're stuck you NEED items to kill the bosses.
  
  Aside form a few minor niggles Partners in Time is a solid, excellent action RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  In the game you are Mario and Luigi and Prof. E Gadd made a teleporter and you go inside it and 
 you found Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. So they all team up to save the mushroom kingdom. Of course 
 Bowser founds his baby form of him. The games story is amazing it is the best in the series. The 
 game play is amazing as well. Also Princess Peach's castle is under attack. The good of the game 
 is that the story and Gameplay is amazing the graphics and the battles are amazing.
  
  The bad is that there is not that much things to do after you beat the story.
  
  Overall I 
 rate this game 9.5 outta 10 if you are going to buy this game I would it is amazing. Also the game 
 diffulculty is just right. And it might take you up to 7 hours to beat it and it is the best in 
 the series.
  
  So I think you should buy this game because it is amazing and it is the best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has held on to the Mario franchise for over 18 years and its easy to see why, especially 
 with the latest installment into the Mario RPG series.
  
  By now, you can probably guess that the game is going to be centred around rescuing princess peach 
 from the clutches of evil, this time its is an alien race known as the shroobs, who are trying 
 to take over the earth. You play as Mario and Luigi and you will spend your time travelling through 
 time in an attempt to find princess peaxch and thwart the shroobs plans of world domination. Along 
 the way you will meet many of the characters from previous mario games and also a few new ones.
 
  
  The game itself is around 20 hours long and becomes progressively more challenging as you make 
 your way through the game. Along the way you will find yourself battling evil minions, solving 
 puzzles with your new baby friends, collecting items and fighting some of the most challenging 
 bosses ever to have appeared in a nintendo game to date.
  
  This package is topped off with clean, crisp animations, a smooth frame rate and great sound (especially 
 relating to the superb soundtrack we've all come to expect from nintendo games) .
  
  The game also makes good use of the dual screen facility, although the game can be completed without 
 the use of the stylus (which in my opinion doesn't matter") .
  
  The only thing you may find is that the battle mechanic (although involving and a lot of fun) , 
 may become repetetive after a while, but not so much so that you won't want to play this highly 
 addictive and enjoyable game to the very end
  You
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in time is the excellent sequel to Superstar Sega, for GBA. And in my 
 opinion, a whole lot better.
  
  The basics of the game Princess Peach goes into a time machine to see the past, and get's captured 
 by shroobs, evil purple mushroom things. It's your job as Mario and Luigi to save her, again. In 
 the past, you meet up with your baby selves, and join forces to save Peach.
  
  The Good:
  
  Great Grapics, Engaging Combat, Fun levels, Shroobs are awesome (xD) , excecuted perfectly.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  No Mutilplayer, may be to hard for the average platformer.
  
  Yes, this game goes take forever to play. This game has very hard bosses, and some parts are hard 
 to pass. But it only makes it more intruiging! The gameplay is amazing, and you'll never want to 
 put it down! I would reccomend this game to anyone who loves great games and wants a challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamer400
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and challenging in some parts making it no too hard and not too easy. This game 
 is pretty good and close to getting a 10 but there's some things that keep it from getting a 10. 
 -- - -- - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - -- -- -- -- - -- - - 
 - -- - -- --- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - -- -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - --- 
 -- -- -- - - - - -- - -- - - -- - - --- - - - -- - - -- -- --- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - ---- 
 - - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - -- - - - - -- - -- - - - -- - -- - - -- - - - - -- 
 - - - --- - --- - - -- - -- -- -- - - --- - - -- -- - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- -- - -- - -- - 
 - -- - -- - -- -- - - -- -- - - -- --- ------ - -- ---- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - - - -- -- -- 
 - -- - - - -- - - --- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - -- -- - -- - - -- - 
 -- - - --- - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - - - -- - - -- - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moebrothers
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in time is a fun and enjoyable game to play. It has a really great story 
 mode and you get to play with four characters together and that was really cool. It was fun playing 
 with baby Mario and baby Luigi on Mario and Luigi back. They made a lot of people to see and talk 
 to so you can finish the game easier such as the suit case person who teaches you about the items 
 and it also teaches you how to fight. I like how its hard because most of the Mario games are way 
 to easy to beat but this one is a challenge. Every time I try to beat a level, it at least takes 
 me two hours because of it being so hard but it is worth it because there are cut scenes that were 
 great and i enjoyed how Mario and Luigi talked in a funny way. so i recommend every Mario fan to 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time made me really excited when I first heard of it. I loved the first 
 game in the series and was ready for another comical adventure and lots of fun. Thankfully, that's 
 mostly what I got, but the first game is definitely better. The gameplay is similar to Superstar 
 Saga (SS) , but now you play as four characters: Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi. Each 
 character has its own button to use during battle and the four person battles are great. The biggest 
 disappointment of the game is easily the lack of Bros. Attacks and introduction of Bros. Items. 
 These items aren't as fun to pull of as the Bros. Attacks but still do their job in making the 
 game what it is. I would have loved to do big four button Bros. Attacks with the dynamic quartet, 
 but I guess I'll just have to hope I get some of those in a third game. The story is great, aliens 
 trying to take over the Mushroom Kingdom and M&L going through time to save the world is cool. 
 The script isn't as clever and hilarious as the original, though. Overall, M&L: PiT is a really 
 great game worthwhile for those who loved SS, but it doesn't quite live up to its predecessor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_unknown11
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This was a very fun sequal to the original Superstar Saga. The story is evil mushrooms incade Peach's 
 Castle on their quest to take over the world. You get play as Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and Baby 
 Luigi. You can combine your attacks to do more damage to your enemies. You can also use Bro. Items 
 to attack your enemies which you use by pressing certain buttons. There are also different mini-games 
 to earn different items such as beans. Beans are things you can use to purchase different rare 
 badges that can get you different skills. There are many different enemies and different abilities. 
 Depending on how high your level is is when you get to attack. There are also items that restore 
 a groups health instead of just one person's. This is a highly recommended game to those who like 
 RPGs and are looking for a Mario game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadstar_666_7
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Through decades of being one of the largest gaming icons in history, the Mario franchise has seen 
 its fair share of genres. Ranging from 2D platforming games to the legendary Mario Kart, there 
 aren't too many Mario games that haven't been thoroughly enjoyable. 
  
  Partners in Time is another of the Mario RPG's, following on from the highly acclaimed Superstar 
 Saga released for the GBA. This time around the Mario Bro's are using time hole's to go back and 
 forth through time, to protect the mushroom kingdom from the evil 'Shroobs', and of course; save 
 Princess Peach.
  
  The gameplay isn't a great step forwards from Superstar Saga, with the same reaction based battle 
 system as last time, allowing you to dodge attacks or deal extra damage by pressing certain buttons 
 at the right time. The main addition to the battle system are the Bro's Items, though these work 
 in the same way, pressing either A or B to perform various attacks. The reaction based battles 
 are a great idea, with every enemy offering a different set of moves to dodge, though this does 
 make the game a little less challenging. I found it easy enough to dodge the majority of attacks 
 and even toward the final part of the game I was sailing through. Nevertheless, it's fun and original 
 to the Mario series.
  
  As well as keeping to the same gameplay as Superstar Saga, Partners in Time does quite little in 
 making use of the DS's stylus, unlike a lot of other games. To my memory there is only one point 
 in the entire game where the stylus comes into use, and it's pretty pointless. In a way this is 
 relieving though, showing that whilst Nintendo are concentrating hard on appealing to a casual 
 crowd, they still know how to make a good button basher. 
  
  It's not so much new ideas and revolutionary gameplay that make Partners in Time a good game though, 
 but more the trademark Mario charm. The script is funny as ever, the gameplay simple and addictive. 
 This game is very much a case of 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it'. It looks great, plays great, 
 and is a definite must buy for Mario and RPG fans alike.
  
  The Good: Well told story and funny script  Fun and friendly gameplay, much like other Mario titles 
  Quite lengthy 
  
  The Bad  Perhaps a bit too easy for hardcore RPGers  No real replay motive - Doesn't play differently 
 from Superstar Saga... at all...
  
  VERDICT  Final Fantasy for casual gamers; it's definitely worth getting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoradude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  The Mario RPG games have always been known to deliver some of great games with a mix of turn-based 
 fighting with platforming elements and a great sense of humor. Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time 
 does not deviate from this formula much. The game is basically a sequel to the Gameboy Advance 
 Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga released in 2003 and shares many of the same traits as it's big brother.
 
  
  As the title of the game hints Partners in Time has a strong emphasis on time travel (specifically 
 the past) to drive the main plot along. An evil alien race known as the Shroobs have taken over 
 Mushroom Kingdom of the past where Mario, Luigi, and Princess Peach are just babies, throwing the 
 land into turmoil. In he future however, things are much different as retired ghost-buster Professor 
 E. Gadd has invented a time machine and an adult Princess Peach wants to test it out. She unfortunately 
 lands in the Mushroom Kingdom of the past and when a broken empty time machine (save one of the 
 Shroob aliens being inside) lands in the past Mario and Luigi know it is that time again to save 
 Princess Peach. The story is nothing new and very predictable save one large plot twist but most 
 of the slap-stick humor from the first game has found it's way back here meaning you will certainly 
 crack a smile every now and then which manages to keep the game entertaining.
  
  Of course Mario video games have never been big on the story, instead, focusing on fun gameplay 
 that has been built upon over the years. Partners in Time is no exception to this as it takes what 
 Superstar Saga before it made and molds it into a new game. The original battle system remains 
 intact, fast-paced turned based battles dependent on timed button presses for the best damage. 
 If you have played any of the other Mario RPGs over the years you will be right at home with this 
 as it is not very complicated. 
  
  The biggest change to the battle system is the use of Bro. Items which are essentially short quick-time 
 events through the use of an item that deals damage to the foe. These are a nice addition since 
 the vast amount of different items give battles some variety which has been missing from past Mario 
 RPG titles. However, they sometimes make the game to easy. Since the items can be bought at a store 
 and money is fairly easy to acquire throughout the short 15 hour adventure you can use nothing 
 else but these items each and every turn. As long as you pull off the correct button combination 
 the items later in the game will do massive damage, allowing you to breeze through most battles, 
 bosses included.
  
  Much like the battle system, the field gameplay is the same as Superstar Saga with more added elements 
 to keep the experience fresh. The big focus this time around is micromanaging two groups of Mario 
 Brothers. Young versions of Mario and Luigi ride on the older brothers back's most of the game 
 doing nothing until they are needed to solve a puzzle. This is where field gameplay picks up, many 
 times you have to split the two groups up as some areas only the babies can enter. This usually 
 leads to a long row of puzzles allowing the two groups to move forward. The babies opening a path 
 so the older siblings can progress, then those two open a path for the babies to move on and so 
 on. While not entirely challenging at times and it feels a bit repetitive near the end of the game 
 it still mixes the formula up enough each time to be fun.
  
  On the production side of things Partners in Time is full of absolutely wonderful music. The game 
 has a nice balance of new music and remixed older tunes Mario fans will be familiar with. Oddly 
 though, being on the Nintendo DS the game barely makes use of any of the functions the system can 
 do. The graphics are still 2D and in the same style of Superstar Saga only much more rich looking. 
 The game makes no attempt to use the microphone and only uses the stylus on one occasion for a 
 few short seconds.
  
  Still, minor flaws aside Mario & Luigi: Partners in time is good but not great. It is rather short 
 with no extra content to keep you busy so after one play through there is little reason to beat 
 it again. However, if you are a fan of the Mario RPG games don't worry this one is the same quality 
 you have came to expect so rest assured you will have a fun time stomping on Goombas for the billionth 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  This game is so great. If you loved SuperStar Saga for the GBA, then you'll love this one without 
 a doubt! The RPG elements in this game are very unique and creative. The graphics are pretty good, 
 they could be better but are definitely good. The gameplay is spot on and has a lot of depth to 
 it. The sound is just as good as before. Trust me, you'll love this title.
  
  This game features Mario, Luigi, and what? They both have kids!? Oh my. The babies have higher 
 health, stach, and speed, but lower defence and attack so they can be very useful at at times and 
 make a great addition to this game. There are also many minigames to be found in this game which 
 are pleanty of fun. The story could be better but it's still great.
  
  This game is of high value and has can be played over and over again. Like I said earlier, if you're 
 a fan of the earlier Mario RPG games, then you'll love this one. Highly reccomended. Happy Gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  For at this type, this game wasn't as bad at all but the baby controls are kind of hard to do. 
 Not like the other version but the baby attacks are fine but the Mario and Luigi are a bit distrubing 
 than the superstar saga version but its really cool!
  
  My sister is like stuck on a level where destroying Princess shroob or something so I helped her 
 and she never couldn't get past I got past that game but that's odd that my sister has bad controls 
 so we took it to the fixing shop and said it cost $50 to get it fixed and our grandma had to pay 
 so I don't have to pay all of my money.
  
  But I don't really like how the enemies cheats and a bit waste of time so I only play this game 
 for sometimes now...
  END REVIEW
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendoguy325
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  For those that have played Superstar Saga, you will feel right at home with Partners in Time.
 
  The story starts out with Princess Peach boarding a time machine built by Prof. E. Gadd (who also 
 played a guest appearance in Superstar Saga) , and goes back in time to see the past Mushroom Kingdom. 
 Mario and Luigi go to the castle to greet the Princess when she returns, only to find a battered-and-bandaged 
 time machine with a purple alien inside! To save the Princess, Mario and brother Luigi jump into 
 a timehole and into the past, soon meeting their baby versions. Thus they head out into an incredible 
 "Back to the Past then Future then Past again" quest!
  The graphics in this game are a touch smoother and glossier than Saga. Everything is a 2D-3D look 
 like Saga was, as well. Not much has changed beyond that.
  Combat is also reminescent of Saga, with the addition of the Baby Bros. using the X and Y buttons. 
 Plus, when the Adults make an attack, if you press the respective Baby's button at the right time, 
 they join in and deal additional damage. 
  Another change to combat is the way combo attacks work. Instead of using Bros. Points, you use 
 special items (for example a cannon, just like in the funny commercial) , which starts the attack. 
 But just like Bros. Attacks, you have to use button sequences.
  In Saga, if you recall, you could also team up on the field. The Adults get their Spin and High 
 jumps, plus the ability to roll into a ball. The babies, on the other hand, get the hammers in 
 the game (makes you wonder what's going on in Japan's household) , which they use to pound eachother 
 with, going into the ground or into a pancake (???) . What a way to solve puzzles.
  This is a must buy if you have a DS and enjoyed Superstar Saga. Just remember to turn the volume 
 down when Baby Peach comes onscreen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is a sequel to the Game Boy Advance's Mario and Luigi: Superstar 
 Saga. Partners in Time is a turn-based role-playing game based in the Mushroom Kingdom.
  
  This time around, Mario and Luigi go back and forth through time with their baby selves to save 
 the adult Princess Peach from the Shroobs. Beginning with a cameo from E. Gadd from Luigi's Mansion, 
 the story is full of comedic moments and story twists that keep the player interested throughout 
 the game's duration. The quirky moments from Superstar Saga are back, but with the added baby versions 
 of Mario and Luigi, the laughs only last longer.
  
  The game features remixed versions of classic Mario universe themes, as well as new music for the 
 areas in the plumber's past. These new compositions give the areas a perfect ambient mood to suit 
 the environment as well as the action. The classic sound effects are also present for the feel 
 of playing Mario on the retro consoles. 
  
  Partners in Time plays just like the original. Just before every attack you can hit the button 
 corresponding to the adult Mario brother to do full damage. If you do not hit the button, you do 
 only minimal damage. The only catch is the addition of the babies adds another level of depth to 
 the action commands of each attack. For example, instead of hitting the A button for Mario's jump 
 attack, you can press X instead to hit the enemy with Baby Mario, then hit the A button to hit 
 with Mario, dealing net extra damage to the enemy if just Mario attacked. This complexity crosses 
 over to Bros. Items, which generally use at least two of the members to do an attack that deals 
 major damage. You can also counterattack, giving you some control over defense. By jumping on a 
 Goomba while it attacks one of the brothers, it deals a fraction of the damage of a normal hit.
 
  
  Overall, Partners in Time is a great representation of what a sequel should be. Fans of the original 
 will be satisfied by it, and newcomers to the series will be thoroughly impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTimmy36
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game was a great hard experince, It was very funny. The battles and gamework was super!!!! 
 I was very impressed about the time hole thing!!! That yes, you needed to rescue princess peach 
 again, by from the shroobs. Thankyou Alphadream And Nintendo! The colbat star, the battles, the shroobs, bowser's 
 castle, Toad Town...... What a great superb game!!! And What just a great, great game that this is. 
 i love the game script about everything including that idea of time traveling from the present 
 day princess peach kingdom (or Mushroom Kingdom) to the past. That the shroobs transformed the castle 
 to ... purple and the hard bosses this game offers and own. I've heared from other people that the 
 boss battles are just so hard to them and they were to me specailly princess shroob and shrowser 
 battles. they seemed the hardest of all to get past them. which i played night until i had to stop. this 
 was the greatest of all games that i had played :)
  
  
  -Mtimmy36 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgfytr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Another Italian plumber classic, Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time features a perfect storyline 
 and a great adventure. This sequel to Superstar Sega is a great hit, and surprisingly, it's difficulty 
 is just right. Trust me, if this game was any easier, it wouldn't be fun. 
  As surprising as this may be, the graphics aren't perfectly 'great'. Sure, it's not horrible, but 
 the graphics could be way better and the game's features would be better too. However, everything 
 is still a great view, but they should use more of the touch-pad for enhanced game play and more 
 use of the DS. I'm sorta glad they didn't though, as it would just make the game more complicated.
 
  Music in this game is great and new, but also can get annoying during boss fights, as they tend 
 to take a long time to finish. This game's use of the 4 bros. are great and they have great voicing. 
 Their voicing are funny and cute, as well as a little annoying sometimes because the babies tend 
 to cry a lot, but don't let this stop you from buying the game.
  I think this is another great keeper and if you get to play it, it'll grow on you and everything 
 will pick up. Sometimes, it's a little confusing, but you can always trust GameSpot to have a guide 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallen-Emanuel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: partners in time (DS)
  
  Welcome once more to the wonderful world of Mario in this the sequel of the unique Mario and Luigi 
 series, being the successor of Mario and Luigi: Super Star Saga.
  
  For those who are not familiar with the Mario and Luigi games, this series is based in our favourite 
 characters and settings from Nintendo's number one character Mario and his brother Luigi. Although 
 this game is different from most game where the protagonist is Mario, the goal of the game is still 
 the same, to save the over kidnapped damsel in distress, Princess Peach. During these series you 
 will encounter all kinds of characters and places that may be familiar to you if you are a Mario 
 fan. 
  
  
  Anyway let's get back to the game itself. Partners in time starts with a very gloomy scene displaying 
 some "scary" pictures of a dark species in a planet far away which has been watching the world 
 where Mario is in for some time, and plans to evade it (yes a bit like war of the worlds) . Meanwhile 
 in Princess Peach's Castle, Professor E. Gabb (yes the same one from Luigi's mansion) has invented 
 a time machine which is powered by this crystal star gem called the Cobalt Star. The professor 
 gives this machine as a present to princess peach and careless as she is Princess peach and two 
 of her toad friends depart on a trip through time back to the past. After that sequence we are 
 introduced to baby Mario and baby Luigi along with the young princess Peach, who were under attack 
 by the naughty little baby Bowser. Here you are introduced to your first fight and a tutorial (more 
 on the battle system later) after which the castle gets under attack and the younger folk evacuate 
 to prince baby Bowser's ship. Then alas, Princess Peach (of the present) arrives too late and gets 
 captured by the awful shroobs, alien creatures from another planet. When the time machine gets 
 back to the present no princess Peach can be found inside it, only a fierce alien creature, which 
 Mario has to defeat. After that Professor Gabb realises that the Cobalt Star is gone. Not only 
 that but time hole (which let's you travel to the past and back) opens up. After using the time 
 portal Mario and Luigi bump into the "mini them" and together the four of them unite forces to 
 save princess peach and retrieve the Cobalt Star pieces.
  
  
  The gameplay of the game is very simple you walk around in this 3D platform world and once more 
 hit boxes with your head to get rewards, you interact with NPCs and experience all kinds of places 
 filled with puzzles and games. There are many abilities which you learn throughout the game used 
 to unlock new time holes or just reach places so you can bang your head against some hidden boxes. 
 For example at one point Mario and Luigi learn how to roll as a ball which is the only way to go 
 up a long stair case in time to open a game to a time whole which is close if you don't get there 
 before time runs out. Another interesting this is the levelling in the game. When you level up 
 in this game you get your normal points and then you get to add some extra points to one of your 
 buffing elements which include strength (increases attack power) , defence (increases the immunity 
 against attack) , HP (increases your life) , Speed (makes the character have his turn faster) , and 
 tash (makes it so you can purchase items for cheaper prices) . The amount of bonus points you get 
 is a matter of luck as it is set as a kind of slot system. However if you don't boost one of the 
 status elements for a while you will be more likely to get a higher number on your bonus (goes 
 from 1-6 points) , so it incentive you to be a little moderate. The experience gain is usually little, 
 but that is not important as it is possible to beat the game at level 30, but if you are a power 
 grinder (like me) there are some items you can use to increase your experience gain. Another great 
 element of character customization in this game is the equipment. There are two pieces of equipment 
 you can change, the clothes and the badges. Clothes usually are just there to increase your defence 
 (but sometimes they also increase HP and strength) amulets have lots of different handy effects.
 
  
  
  Now, on to the battle system. This is one of may favourite parts of the game. The battle system 
 is not your basic Turned based system. The system Consists mainly of timing and precision. Each 
 character has their button, baby Mario has "x" baby Luigi has "y" Mario has "A" and Luigi has "B". 
 During a battle you may press these buttons to increase the efficiency of the attacks and the damage 
 they deal, and to dodge and/or counter enemy attacks, so if you are good enough as a matter of 
 theory you can get through the game without getting hit once, although the game makes that very 
 unlikely as it sometimes pulls some tricks on the player. In super star saga there were many different 
 bro's abilities you could learn, in this game you get to use bro. items, which i must say are better 
 than the abilities on the previous game. There is a very wide range of items you can use, for example 
 the green turtles, the red and blue flowers, the smash eggs, the cannons, and so on. Most boss 
 fights have puzzles which you will need to solve so you can inflict a normal amount of damage to 
 your enemy. But overall these are very simple.
  
  
  The graphics of the game are just slightly more improved than the Super star saga graphics other 
 than some minor changes. For example, in superstar saga everyone seemed a bit static and looked 
 like a block with a picture whacked on the front. Now the NPCs and characters move fluently which 
 almost looks like they are cartoons of very good quality with a thick black outline. The sceneries 
 of the game are beautifully done and will be familiar to those who have played other Mario games 
 (pr anything related) for example, at one point you will find yourself in yoshi's island. The game 
 is rich in detail and a treat for the eyes. The graphics shouldn't be a problem you are picky about 
 that.
  
  
  Over all the game is just astonishing. It is probably one of the best RPG's Nintendo has ever released 
 and almost good enough to stand as tall as Super Mario RPG. This game is fun and the storyline 
 will keep you entertained for hours and hours. This is definitely a must have for the DS. 8/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RustyScrew
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  After 2003's Mario & Luigi Superstar Saga, I didn't really know what to expect from 2005's sequel, 
 Mario & Luigi Partners in Time. I wasn't sure that they could top off my favorite game of 2003, 
 they didn't exactly do that in this sequel, but they did make a really fun and interesting RPG 
 for the DS.
  
  The game starts off introducing you to the main bad guys of this game, the Shroobs. The Shroobs 
 are a weird spin off of the Toads. They are small purple beings, with mushroom hats colored purple 
 with white dots. The game introduction takes place in the Mushroom Kingdom past. The Shroobs sought 
 a new home, and they set their gaze on the Mushroom Kingdom. For the first 5  10 minutes of the 
 game, you take control of Baby Mario and Luigi, as you get taught how to battle. The first battle 
 in the game pits you against Baby Bowser, who is set to kidnap the Baby Princess Peach. After you 
 defeat him, the Shroobs start attacking the castle. You are then taken to current day Mushroom 
 Kingdom, where you learn that Professor E. Gadd has invented a time machine to run on the Cobalt 
 Star, and Princess Peach being the dummy she that she is, jumps into the time machine and travels 
 to the past. A few moments later, the time machine returns, only to be broken up and instead of 
 containing Princess Peach, it contains a Shroob. So Princess Peach is missing, and you being Mario 
 have to go rescue her.
  
  After traveling through the first time hole to the past, you will find Baby Mario and Baby Luigi, 
 and you will become a team of 4 to rescue the princess. The script was well written, but I do not 
 think that it was as good and funny as the previous game in the series. But its still a good and 
 engaging story that makes you want to keep on going until the final 3 boss battles (ZOMG SPOILAR?)
 
  
  The Mario and Luigi sprites seem recycled from the last game, but all the other sprites look very 
 good. There are a lot of characters in the game, and if they are NPCs, they will not have a repeating 
 look to them. The enemies you fight are repetitive to one area. The backgrounds are done very nice, 
 and suit the environment that they are in. They do repeat themselves throughout the environment 
 that you are in, so it might start to feel stale after a while. The overall look of the game is 
 very nice. The colors are vibrant and no one level feels very dark and Gothic, even the ones that 
 try to look so.
  
  The game sounds like a Mario game, which is really great. It doesn't veer off the series sound 
 course, which is the regular happy jingles you've come to know and expect. It can get a bit repetitive 
 in some spots, as it keeps on looping. Its no big deal, you will get used to it.
  
  This game is a turn-based RPG, but it is not one one of those, "press and watch" games. There is 
 1 set of attacks for Mario and Luigi, and there are 2 sets of attacks for Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. 
 Mario and Luigi can jump attack, and Baby Mario and Baby Luigi can jump attack, and hammer attack. 
 There also is another attack they can do, and to do it, they need to have a Bros. Item. These items 
 replaced the Bros. Points from the last game. Bros. Items are items that you can find while playing 
 the game, that make your team of 4 do an attack together. These attacks do more damage than the 
 single attacks, so they are really good when you have hard enemies around you. They start easy, 
 but as you combo up a higher damage rate, they get harder and harder. An easy example of this is 
 the first Bros. Item you get, the Green Shell. Mario and Luigi both kick the shell back and forth, 
 racking up the damage, and the shell gets progressively faster.
  
  As with every RPG, your characters progress levels, and they get points to distribute to attributes. 
 The categories available to receive points are Health Points, Power, Speed, Defense, and Stache, 
 which raises your ability to get Lucky hits. After you get your points distributed, you will receive 
 a bonus point raise. You choose the category you want to raise higher, the spinner starts spinning, 
 you stop it on a number, and you get that much bonus.
  
  All in all, I really enjoyed this sequel to Mario and Luigi Superstar Saga. The story could use 
 a little bit of work, but it's still a memorable experience. If you have a DS, I recommend you 
 to pick it up, and if you haven't played Superstar Saga, pick that up too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennisman101010
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  great rpg, the graphics are pure rpg, great storyline, the acual battleing is awesome its not like 
 some rpgs that have you battleing and battleing to lvl up, this one its fun there is so many different 
 enimies and characters to meet and battle. thers okay use of the touch screen, although if you 
 played the first one you may like that there was no change. plus who dosent like going back in 
 time and seeing the little babys and baby bowser, its so much fun. i belive that the first one 
 is better, so if you havent played the first one go play it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewmaster93
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  The first game was nice and funny. This game is funnier but the gameplay slightly lacks a bit. This 
 game has you playing as Mario Luigi and their baby selves in the Mushroom Kingdom's past.
  
  E. Gadd made a time machine and Peach tested it out, but ended up captured by the Shroobs, Alien 
 Mushroom's bent on taking over the planet with their UFOs and alien technology.
  
  The gameplay is kinda bland. You can't go one step in this game (Literally) 
  Without activating 
 a cutscene, battle, or dialouge. Not only that but the battle's are ridiculous the enemy's deal alot 
 of damage no matter what your defense is, and the only way to deal any real damage is to use the 
 Bros. Items, which have replaced Bros. Attacks.
  
  The Bros. Moves are still in, and they are used for basically every platforming in the game.
  
 
  All in all the game is still quite fun. with it's slapstick humor and it's original plot.
  
  Get it only if you've played the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke141eels
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi partners in time is a great ds game like paper Mario in a way.
  the characters in the game are Mario and Luigi and Baby Mario and Baby Luigi how does this all 
 work when the professor makes a time machine she makes a disturbance in the past so this is when 
 our heroes come in the game thats right Mario and Luigi. 
  
  the graphics are good and so is the game play which makes the game work how simple because with 
 good game play you need good graphics. how do the babies come in the game the princess is attacked 
 by an alien race called the shroobs. the shroobs have spotted baby Mario and Luigi can they win 
 who will save them and how come there is a baby bowser in the game
  
  i suggest you buy this game if you liked the first 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horgrathi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The first time I saw this game at GameStop I was very hesitant to buying it. The main reason was 
 because the sequels never seem to be as pleasant as the original game (Except of course with Advanced 
 Wars, Zelda, and Metroid) . How I was wrong! I absolutely love this game, yes the story line seems 
 a bit weird but yet it is full of humor. The idea of bringing the young version of the bros together 
 with the older bros is just brilliant. Also the specials moves are just stunning in concept. My 
 favorite one being the trampoline and cannonball. I think overall they did a brilliant job for 
 this game, I personally was never able to put the DS down and stop playing. The story was compelling 
 and the moves they added was a good twist. Personally they could have added a bit more story line 
 and new moves, but it worked well in the first one and it sure worked like a charm in this one. 
 
  
  The only regret I have is not the use of the stylus, and no multiplayer option. Also the controls 
 were kind of hard to get used too because personally I dont use X and Y as much.
  
  8.5 / 10 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalampbamboo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time
  At the end of 2005, I found out Nintendo were planning to release the sequel to Mario & Luigi: 
 Superstar Saga on the DS, I was sick with anticipation. Not literally that would have been weird. 
 Superstar Saga was one of, if not most, favourite game on the GBA, and was expect a fantastic follow 
 up on the DS. I couldn't wait to see what use the touch screen would be put to and the new Bros. 
 Attacks that the four brothers would use together. I was also expecting more platform puzzling, 
 with time travel involved to make it even more complex. 
  However, when it came out in the UK, it was like Nintendo had kicked me in the face then smashed 
 my copy of Superstar Saga in front of my eyes. "Partners in Time" was the biggest disappointment 
 ever. It was almost like Alpha Dream had looked at all the features in the first game then messed 
 around with them, taken out the good bits, replaced them with boring bits, and then broke it and 
 half and glued it together again. With a dry Pritt-Stik.
  So why is it bad? Well, for a start, the battles are boring. Whereas the original had some fun 
 boss battles, and slightly repetitive regular encounters, the sequel had this bizarre idea of every 
 boss battle having something else going at the same time. You'll be fighting a giant worm, and 
 be ready to kill him, but then he'll have seven things happen to him and suddenly he's seven foot 
 longer and at full health. Or you'll be fighting a boss Shroob, and you have to look at the crowd 
 to know who he is attacking next, and then what random item he gets. There's just too much going 
 on for the game to be enjoyed. It's a kind of game where you'd spend a whole day on a section then 
 leave it for a week because it's gone stale.
  Another annoyance in this game is that half the time you'll have no idea what the hell is going 
 on. So e Mushroom Kingdom gets attacked by aliens in the past, who then take over the castle and 
 turn it into their headquarters. BUT THEN NOTHING HAPPENS IN THE FUTURE! Either the aliens are 
 definitely defeated, which would be mentioned in history annals you'd of thought, or there is some 
 weird paradox going on. This gets you confused. Then you get annoyed. Then you turn the game off 
 because it doesn't make any sense. Another downer was that the aim of the game is pretty much a 
 copy-and-paste job of the originals story, with Cobalt in place of Bean. The enemies don't even 
 speak in English, it's just some garbled nonsense which allowed the designers to leave most of 
 story empty. Some say that this story was superior to the original, because it was more serious, 
 as it didn't feature witches and talking snails. I say shut up, witches are better than aliens.
 
  If you don't get bored half way through you'll notice that the game is as linear as a ruler. There 
 isn't a single side quest, and the world isn't even free-roaming, you actually have to return to 
 the castle to get to a new area. Not that you'd really want to, with the area's each being good 
 for their story arc, then being discarded, not to be mentioned again, never to be used, not even 
 again mini-games to mention. That was another blow to this already severely dented game. Where 
 Superstar Saga had almost 10 mini-games that actually had a reason behind them, Partners In Time 
 has... nothing. There are no mini-games , no side quests. Nothing. Having said that, Fawful, the 
 demi-boss from Superstar Saga, shows up in the bean collecting "quest", which is simply a dumbed 
 down version of the same quest from the previous game.
  In the defence of Partners In Time, the puzzling sections are well-designed, and some even beat 
 the puzzle sections from the previous game. The different forms the two older brothers can take 
 on are all innovative, such as the make-shift Morph Ball they form. This is then used to create 
 one of the younger sibling's forms, when they are flattened by the "Morph Ball" and become thin 
 enough to slip through small gaps and float on air currents. These new forms are all fun to use 
 and actually add some fun sections to the repetitive encounters with monsters. 
  However, you feel Alpha Dream missed out on a brilliant opportunity of puzzle that involved flicking 
 back and forth between both time periods, manipulating events in the past to change things in the 
 future. But no, there's known of that. In fact, there is absolutely NO action in the future. The 
 only sections in the future or the present (or whatever...) are the sections that take place in 
 the castle, which seems to act as the hub of the game. Yeah, that right, a hub in an RPG. Hmmm.
 
  And finally, the touch screen. It's an innovative piece of kit, and you'd have thought that Nintendo 
 would have wanted to put it into the sequel of a very popular GBA game. I pictured using the touch 
 screen to perform massive Bros. Attacks, like tapping enemies to bring the hurt. But not only are 
 the Bros. Attacks gone (which I'd get into, but it just annoys so much I'd be ranting) , the touch 
 screen is only used once. It's not in the mini-games (obviously) , it's not used to navigate anything. 
 I hate to ruin it for you, but it involves rubbing mud off a picture. That's it. It's just not 
 worth it...
  Overall, it's not a good game. It's a mixture of over-ambitious battles and under-developed story 
 lines. If you have played the first game and want to pick up the sequel for more of the same, don't, 
 you will be so disappointed. However, if you'd never played the fantastic Superstar Saga, play 
 it, then play the original, and see how fantastic it is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the rpg elements, they work very well in this game. Also, the battles 
 are really good and very action packed. The fact that you can get mario and luigi's younger selves 
 as partners is really nice add-in to the game. The items in this game are now actually attacks, 
 not all healing items, they have special commands to help the attack power. There are many areas 
 to explore in this game. There are many mini-bosses in this game to fight and most of them take 
 some deep thinking to defeat. The story is pretty good, but i think its not as good as the first 
 one. The characters are really familiar and you can recognize. The bad parts of this game is that 
 there is no main overworld to travel around, all you do is you go into a portal and you get teleported 
 into a new world. Controlling all of the characters at once can get very annoying because you could 
 forget the buttons and that can screw you up so bad. Overall, this is a really good game, its a 
 must buy for a nintendo ds owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Yoshi_Man89
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the previous Mario and Luigi adventure, then you'll love Mario and Luigi: Partners 
 in Time. When Princess Peach travels back in time to the Mushroom Kingdom of the past, she gets 
 snached up by the evil ailen race known as the Shroobs. Mario, along with Luigi, travel back in 
 time and team up with their younger selves to rescue Peach and undo all the chaos and destruction 
 made by the evil Shroobs. The gameplay is very simple and easy to catch on. The controls in battle 
 are the same as the ones in Superstar Saga. The only difference is that you now have both Baby 
 Mario and Baby Luigi to control using the X and Y buttons respectivly. The enemy battles are much 
 more different than the previous Mario and Luigi game. When you have the baby bros. on your back, 
 you can do extra dammage to your enemies. Also, Bros. items makes the battles much more interesting. 
 Overall, this is a game that is fun to play if your interested in the Mario RPG's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in Tiem is an RPG game which is surprising for a Mario fan if you played 
 the Gameboy advance version you'll know that this is the sequel to it. For those who have not played 
 it including me, I thought this game was worth playing but it is funny and the music and the battle 
 tactics that you will learn in the Game. Main Story is these Mushroom aliens called The Shroobs 
 who have kiddnapped Princess Peach and taking over the world by Time Travel so Mario and Luigi 
 are on anathor quest to save the world and the princess, also you get to play as the babies of 
 Mari and Luigi becuase you'll know why during the story. You play as baby and adult during the 
 game. Gameplay works easy to get the hang of in an RPG game like Jump or throw turtle shells or 
 fire flowers agasints enimies and you can level up your charcters as well just like in FF series 
 or DQ sereis. The game has great graphics and soundtrack in the game and the Manga emotions from 
 the chacrters including Luigi which made me laugh while playing this game. The game is abit short 
 you should be able to get this game done within 15 hours or less depending on how long you play 
 it during your time it is a Highly addictice game because of the Manga Art graphics and it's an 
 RPG a great game to play if you didn't like New Super Mario Bros on your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoob22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  When i first turned on this game, i was rather impressed by how the graphics of the DS had greatly 
 improved over the first in the series (Mario&amp; Luigi Superstar Saga) and how colourful and bright 
 they were.
  So no complaints about the graphics.
  The sound effects are typical of a mario game, cheery and catchy and the talking animations are 
 rather funny but they get annoying after a while.
  Now the storyline of this game is rather good, the usual kipnap Princess Peach theme, but with 
 an alien mushroom twist.
  The gameplay is good, with the mixture of platform and RPG elements,
  with the abilty to dodge 
 and counterattack enemy's attacks, use combos for high damage, and if your experienced enough, 
 hypothetically you can make it through the game without being damaged once (close to impossible 
 though) .
  
  And that's where the only problem about this game is.
  It's easy.
  The tutorial hold's your hand throughout the game, a lot of boss attack's are predictable and easily 
 evaded, and the puzzles are never provide much of a challenge.
  
  Some bosses (like The Last Boss, Princess Shroob) provide a rather hard challenge, most fall short 
 of this mark, and even without leveling very high, still provide not much of a challenge.
  
  Also they have removed some features (like the use of beans to make stat
  raising coffee) 
 which i feel is bad judgement on Alpha Dream's part.
  
  This game recycles many of the features that made it's predecessor Mario&amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga 
 such a endearing title, while failing to add many new ones.
  
  I Recommend this too the Mario fan, the young or inexperienced gamer, but other gamer's searching 
 for a good RPG title and a challenge should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torres_unix
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that a first sight I wasn't too keen on this Mario game. I had played the original 
 Mario RPG years back and was really too impressed, specially due to my Final-Fantasy-Biased nature.
 
  
  I must say that although I didn't play the original installment of this game in the GBA that this 
 version is amazing. The game's puzzles are challenging and entertaining but not too difficult, 
 the gameplay mechanics are solid, and the classic-yet-innovative RPG elements are a welcome feature.
 
  
  The game graphics don't necessarily exhibit the DS's capabilities but are colorful and entertaining, 
 definite eye-candy for the ole'2d nostalgia. The one area that I must criticize is the sound - 
 the music could've been more engaging, specially in the battle sequences, but it's nothing that 
 should keep fans and non-fans alike away from this game.
  
  I'm a fan of Mario games, I grew up with Donkey Kong and the classic SMB trilogy on the NES and 
 I must say that this is a great game for Mario fans and RPG fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmntw27
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I loved the first Mario &amp; Luigi game: SuperStar Saga. It was one of the most hilarious 
 and fun RPGs I ever played. Partners in Time is no different. It has a great storyline, unique 
 battling system, and enough funny moments to make you fully appreciate this game.
  
  First Impression:
  I bought this game from a friend who didn't like it for $10. I planned on 
 getting it for the full $30, but this was a nice little discount. I was real anxious to get it 
 because I loved the first game to pieces. The story in this one once again follows the traditional 
 Mario story: Princess Peach gets kidnaped and it's up to Mario &amp; Luigi to save her. As per 
 Mario &amp; Luigi series, though, it's not Bowser that kidnaps her, but an alien race called Shroobs. 
 Mario and Luigi have to go back in time after the Princess went back in time with a time machine. 
 There they meet their younger, baby selves, and you can use them to do more attacks and chain a 
 few more combos on your enemies. It's a fun little mix to the battling system, and it's loads of 
 fun.
  
  Lasting Impression:
  
  I'm still playing this game to date, and it's loads of fun to just do the battles and the puzzles. 
 It's really a great game that anyone could pick up and just have a good time thorugh. the only 
 real problems I had with the game was that the music could've been updated a bit, there should've 
 been more use of the DS's features, and there was this annoying pause after you win battles that 
 I'm still not used too. It's like the DS has to load a bit.
  
  Last Words:
  I seriously recommend this one. It's highly addictive and will keep you preoccupied for hours upon 
 hours. You won't be disappointed.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  The battles and puzzles were very well thought out and loads of fun to do.
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10
 
  It looks like an updated version of the GBA one. I'm personally happy that it wasn't made to be 
 3D.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  While the sound effects were great, I still wish that the music was a bit better.
  
  Fun: 10/10
 
  This game is loads of fun and has many hilarious moments. A great game to go through.
  
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellimist314
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Mario and Lugi: Partners in Time is a wonderful RPG for the Nintendo DS. It is the sequel to Superstar 
 Saga for the Gameboy Advance. If you haven't played either of them yet, then you are missing out.
 
  
  The gameplay in this game is very solid. You explore various areas in the game, and almost each 
 one has a boss at the end. There are four characters to control: Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and 
 Baby Luigi. Each of them is controlled by one of the face buttons and has special actions that 
 they can perform by pressing their corresponding button. In a lot of RPGs, battles occur randomly 
 while you're walking around, which can get annoying if you are trying to explore or you are about 
 to die and you have not saved in a long time. In this game, however, the enemies are visible outside 
 of battle and you can even choose to avoid them if you wish. To fight them, just get close and 
 touch them, which takes you to the battle screen. From there you can battle it out in turns using 
 items, hammers, or by simply jumping on the enemy. What's great about the battle system is that 
 you have a chance to dodge or even counter any enemy attack. It all comes down to timed button 
 presses. For example, if a Goomba tries to tackle you, by jumping at the right time you can land 
 on his head and hurt it while taking no damage at all. Also, many of the attack items you use gain 
 power depending on what buttons you press at what time. Because of this, the battles become very 
 challenging and very fun when you meet a new enemy since you must learn its attack pattern in order 
 to beat it without taking too much damage.
  
  The graphics in this game are great. The characters are colorful and you're never confused about 
 what you're looking at, no matter what brightness setting you're playing on. Cutscenes are well 
 animated and fun to watch. Overall the game looks good.
  
  The sound is fine, it is not terrible but at the same time it's not memorable. Basically, most 
 of the familiar tunes from previous mario games are here as well. As for value, Partners in Time 
 has a lot of it. It's one of those games that is perfect for playing over and over again, and there's 
 always the option of maxing out you characters' levels. There are hidden beans to find in most 
 levels which can be used to buy special equipment. Unfortunately, there are no side missions or 
 unlockables, and there is a complete lack of any kind of multiplayer. Overall, this is a fantastic 
 game that any Mario or RPG fan will enjoy. I will even say that it is one of the best games on 
 the DS. I would recommend this game to anyone that is looking for a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The 1337 Hammer Bros. scene is probably the funniest moment in any video game ever created.
  
  Okay, the puzzles, were very easy to solve. Which is good. It keeps the game moving. Also, 
 the combat system is improved. The battles tend to last a lot longer, especially the boss battles. 
 I remember that in the first game, I was able to defeat one of the koopa kids in one bros. combo. 
 That should just not happen, which they made sure would not in this game, which is good, which 
 is why this game gets a ten for gameplay. Yes there isn't much as far as touch screen interaction 
 goes, but the first one didn't need that and it was great as well.
  
  Graphics are phenominal. Like many Mario RPGs, the visuals aren't very impressive, but everything 
 runs smoothly.
  
  Music is catchy and fun to listen to. When music gets a perfect ten, that means that I've turned 
 on the game just to listen to the music at least once. That will not happen with this game.
  
  Now we come to a major problem which should not have occurred and shouldn't occur in any Mario 
 RPG whatsoever. It's length is about 16 hours. WHAT!? The shortest Mario RPG that I've played is 
 24 hours. That was Paper Mario, and, actually I think the original Mario RPG was also that length.
 
  
  Well, with all that said, I'm hoping that there will be another installment in the Mario &amp; 
 Luigi series because it is still one of my favorite series ever made. And hopefully Super Paper 
 Mario isn't as short as I think it's going to end up being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good mario game but it gets boring FAST i mean i played it for the first week 
 and the next week i sold it!!!! its a easy game ecept the last boss the levals are cool but fells 
 like there were already in a mario game before i hate mario and especaliy this game!!!! stick with 
 a better and longer game like Legend of Zelda or halo2 i would rent this before you buy it you 
 will probaly like it if your a mario fan if you are not stay away from this game its boring!!!!!!! There 
 finaly a different boss in the game not like gay bowser bowser is a **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tai588
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I bought this game in nov. of 05 in hopes that it could at least be even half as good as its predecessor 
 but it wasn't. This game takes everything about the last game 1 step forward and 2 steps back except 
 in the graphics department. The storyline wasn't as well written as the the first one so that means 
 less laughs and more ??? as to how you can even begin to try and enjoy the crap they wrote this 
 time around. I would like to say the problem is comprehending what is going on but in the first 
 game you didn't try so much to make sense of the story it just had a natural flow and well thought 
 out jokes. The battle system in this game pales in comparison to the first game's system because 
 it relies less on strategy/timing and more on mashing buttons. When you travel through the game 
 you do it through portals which doesn't sound that bad at first but in reality its fairly bland 
 when comparing it to the HUGE world you had to explore in the first game to reach your destinations. 
 The music is very forgettable and not enjoyable at all. While it seems that i'm trying to say this 
 game is only bad because stacked up to its predecessor its complete and utter crap thats.... BECAUSE 
 IT IS! Even if I didn't compare it to the first this game still is a poor excuse for a mario rpg 
 or rpg in general. To anyone who is reading if you didn't play Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga 
 find that it, play it and enjoy. As for this one its best to just try and act like it never happened. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Link_77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh... the clasic mario and luigi games. Although nothing will compare to Superstar Saga, this 
 game comes close.
  
  First off, i found the gameplay pretty much the same in the two. A simple quest, gotta go collect 
 stuff.... same old same old. But this time around you get some babies. Thats good. Now the quest 
 should be simple. this game kept me playing until the end. Im currently running through again,
 
  
  I thought the graphics were an improvment from the first one. They were pretty good and i enjoyed 
 them. The graphics are what you expect from a mario game. that sums it up.
  
  For some reason, I LOVED THE SOUNd. i dont know why, but i did. I especially loved all the boss 
 music. I know some people didnt like it, but i did.
  
  Value=a worthy pickup.
  Not for action people.
  For the RPG type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  I deffinately did not expect this.
  
  The game is way too easy and short. Another rpg adventure cannot go wrong... but when compared to 
 superstar saga... it probally can.
  
  The dialouge is less humorous, along with annoying and boring cut-scenes. Mario and Luigi as baby's 
 are barely helpful and just go the wrong way with the feel of a ds game.
  
  You must again set out to save Peach and defeat i believe it was Cackletta's sister. You end up 
 only having like 4 - 7 hours to beat this, while Saga had at least 18 - 20 hours. You'll be hooked 
 for awhile but end up dissapointed.
  
  Why Mario... why have you dissapointed me : [
  
  This game needed to be all around improved
  
  But for the most part, this game just made the 
 standards of being good. Buy it if you enjoyed SS... so you can relive some of the adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepsychox247
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  no one is ammune to its amazing charm. as soon as you see this game in the shelves, buy it. it 
 takes about 20 minutes to get used to the controls, and then an average person will spend most 
 likely over 2 hours before looking away from the screens. with tons of equipment and weapons this 
 game is even better then the first game of the series. this game will have something in store for 
 everybody, from jokes, to gameplay, to story line, this game will get people completely addicted 
 to it. if you have run out of games to play for your ds and have some spare money, buy this game 
 it is worth it. my score 8.9/10. believe me, play it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  its been a while since i played it but great game. Gameplay rocks graphics not the best but not 
 bad sound great the battle music was good. Adding the babys put some much to it. Nice length keeps 
 you in. the bosses were really enjoyable they werent hard or easy but kept you in. The last boss 
 is really fun There is a good strategy with the badges and clothes and stuff had a lot to it lasted 
 a decent amount of time amazing game mario luigi super star saga was good but this blows it away 
 i would recommend this to anyone that has a ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandybadlands
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt aware that Mario and Luigi had teamed up in any previous RPGs, but after playing this 
 version, Im planning to check out its predecessor as well. Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is 
 charming, funny, and innovativeI found I could pick it up anytime, and I usually had trouble putting 
 it down.
  
  The Mario Bros. franchise makes for such successful RPGs, Im surprised there arent more of them. 
 Partners in Time follows Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi as they (predictably enough) 
 try to save the princess. The unique gameplay derived from the babies piggybacking on the older 
 bros. is disconcerting at first, since you have to wrap your mind (and fingers) around a counterintuitive 
 button scheme, but after a little practice and a tutorial or two, the system is fun and challenging, 
 in a good way. This gameplay system works both within and outside of battles, and there are plenty 
 of obstacles and special items requiring the use of all four bros.
  
  The story in this game is simple, but it serves its purpose. As is customary these days, Bowser 
 is only the minor villain here, and the overall goal of stomping the weird purple aliens feels 
 like a better motivation than stomping on Baby Bowser. All the creatures from the Mario universe 
 are heresome as enemies and some as friendsand so is the bizarre brand of humor from the series. 
 Luigi bears the responsibility for most of the slapstick comedy, but seeing Mario and Luigi try 
 to prevent their younger selves from getting into mischief can be pretty funny. This brings up 
 a bunch of questions that the game doesnt address, but the jokes about time travel make it seem 
 less weird that the four are working together so much.
  
  I thought the music in this game was pretty good, too. Rather than merely setting the mood and 
 repeating endlessly, the tunes were catchy and inventive, and I didnt mind when they got stuck 
 in my head for a day or two. The sound clips and bits of dialogue (Lets go! Babies! etc.) 
 added to the cartoony feel of the graphics and also served as a welcome source of humor (except 
 when the baby princess cries, an event that will probably make you want to skip through the dialogue 
 as quickly as possible) .
  
  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is not a deep, immersive RPG. But from the battle system to the 
 puzzles in each level, this game is just plain fun. I wish I knew a kid I could lend it to, because 
 its one of the best DS games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbomb2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I played the first Mario and Luigi from borrowing it from my friend. Boy, did I love it! Once I 
 heard about a sequel, I was thrilled. When I got a DS for my birthday, i waited the three days 
 until Christmas and got the game. I played the game so much I beat in less than 5 days. (I think) 
 This is a quality game which brought some new, innovative features. Positive- Decently long adventure, 
 some good humor, a good battle system, good storyline, nice graphics, good replay value, catchy 
 tunes.
  
  Negative- battles can get a bit repetitive, script is decent but not as good as its predecessor, 
 not as good as the original.
  
  Even though it isn't as good as the original, it's still a fun adventure that any DS owner should 
 defiantly pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliott1010
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  i think its a really good mario game. the bosess are hard but when you start again there quite 
 easy for you. Except the princess shroob bosses the normal princess shroob gets a bit easier and 
 the elder princess shroob first form gets a little bit easier but the elder princess shroob second 
 form stays the same it is one of the hardest boss ever. plus its got just enough bosses for my 
 taste. petey parahna is my favouurite boss in all the mario games. the story line is good but some 
 things dont make sense like how the future isni effected at all. the bros items are good some of 
 them take a while to get the hang of, there the best for defeating bosses. its good to play mario, 
 luigi, baby mario and baby luigi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners In Time is the sequal to the hit DS game Mario And Luigi Superstar Saga. 
 This game takes the Paper Mario like formula that the original did and puts it on the DS for a 
 game that Mario fans and RPG fans alike will enjoy. The graphics in this game look about the same 
 as they did on the Gameboy Advance version, but it seems to look just a little bit crisper than 
 before. Not that the GBA version was a bad looking game, but nothing has been changed here, but 
 it keeps the feel that the original game had. The sounds in this game are normal Mario type sounds. 
 The music sounds like something out of a Mario game which you know it should since this is one. 
 There is the occasional Mario noises that he makes, and you can make it out into actual words sometimes. 
 The story in this game is pretty good. The princess has been kidnapped again and brought back through 
 time, so Mario and Luigi have to go save her, with the help of their younger selves. Baby mario 
 and baby luigi. One group gets the top screen and another gets the bottom. The battles are too 
 slow however. They can go on for two to three minutes if your not at a high enough level because 
 your attacks do little to know damage. However if you know Paper Mario, Super Mario RPG, and the 
 other Mario and Luigi game you know that you can avoid attacks by doing things such as jumping 
 and blocking. This is the RPG game to have on the DS right now, as it is the only good one. Fans 
 of Mario should pick this game up too for its lengthy adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorkkiTH
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners In Time is adventure rpg. Pretty good in fact but something is missing. 
 Story is that you have to travel in time (like name says) and try to save princess peach and find 
 crystals. Strange aliens has invaded mushroom kingdom and you have to save everyone (again!)
  
  Gameplay is pretty solid and easy to learn. This game doesn't use touch screen but that doesn't 
 make the gaming experience worse. You use all other buttons except touch screen. You have about 
 20 hours of gameplay which is pretty good for DS game and for rpg.
  
  Graphics are pretty good for DS games, but there are much better looking games at the DS at this 
 time. (FF III, AC: WW, Super Mario 64 DS etc) Graphics are very colorful like mario games always 
 are. Lots of candy color... Good or bad thing... you decide.
  Sounds of the game are pretty bad... no anything special. Some piip poop sounds. And you hear mario 
 say mamma mia of course. Sounds are the biggest disappointment of the game.
  
  In the end, if you like Mario games you should play this game. It has many hours of gameplay and 
 it has some re play value too. And of course... It's Mario! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabomb691
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  A game that I call barely good and barely worth playing, Mario and Luigi Partners in Time is an 
 RPG for the DS that I believed would expand on the amazing original, which it did in some aspects, 
 but at the same time cut down the funness of the game and drove it down into mediocrity. #1, this 
 is a very, very easy game. If you are someone who expects any sort of challenge whatsoever, this 
 is not the game for you. Even if you don't mind the ridiculously easy difficulty, the story is 
 also very lacking for an RPG, and the different puzzles in the game are recycled over and over 
 and are something a 3 year old could solve without much effort. I've been playing RPGs since I 
 was a kid, and can call this one probably the weakest its in class. I believe Super mario rpg was 
 a classic, and so was the first game in this series and the paper mario series, but something about 
 this dumb downed sequel makes me kinda sad there wasnt much though put into the bland levels and 
 mazes of this game. By the end of it you will probably have 200 of every item, and the concept 
 of money and buying stuff was poorly thought out too because you will be a billionaire and be able 
 to use all the items you want. This is probably the only DS game I have that I regret buying. For 
 a better RPG, get FF3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  I haven't played the original M&amp; L game for the GBA yet, but I didn't think I would need to, 
 to enjoy this game. The game was extremely short and there really wasn't any worthwhile sidequests 
 in the game, but for the meat of the game I really enjoyed it, although I would say the replay 
 value was pretty love, since I had it the week it came out and never once thought to played it 
 since. The puzzles were simple but the boss fights could be hard. Overall it was a great game, 
 just way to short.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time is a turn-based RPG. The character with the highest speed should 
 go first. You can battle with all four at at time, but when you do that the babies are tossed on 
 Mario and Luigi's backs only used for special moves, or in case Mario or Luigi dies, they sub in 
 for them. The babies are obviously weak, so when you toss a baby into their little area that only 
 they can enter, they will fight really weak monsters. The battle system is really really fun though, 
 slightly different than Mario RPG or Paper Mario but still kinda similar at the same time. While 
 the game is turn-based, it doesn't mean you can just sit back and not pay attention. The action 
 is quick and you will need to time your moves almost perfectly. The game requires alot of timing 
 on your part, this is mostly to backfire the enemies attacks back to them. While this might sound 
 a little tough, it actually made the game really easy. Other than that, there's not a whole lot 
 to be said about the battle system because it's the same thing over and over again. It never really 
 got old for me, but it was still the same thing. The boss battles got tough in some spots though. 
 I had to level up about 6 levels before the final boss because she destroyed me the first time 
 I tackled her. Mario &amp; Luigi and the babies gain experience and levels like any RPG, and can 
 buy armor and weapons too. This is pretty much a straight forward basic RPG at the heart of it, 
 but still different enough to seperate itself from the mess. After each level you and distribute 
 points to any attribute you want, kinda like an WRPG. ----------Characters / Story ----------
  The story is actually good, not quite on par with Mario RPG or Paper Mario, but I still enjoyed 
 it quite a bit. Basically you play as Mario and Luigi (duh) and you go into the time to save the 
 Princess and yourselves from an Alien Invasion. It's about as simple as that.
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  The graphics are bright and colorful. The enemies looked great, 
 the dungeons are also great looking. The monsters are huge at times, and can take up both screens 
 which is a much better effect than what Lunar: Dragon Song tried to do. ----------Sound ----------
 
  The music is very good, light hearted stuff you would expect from a Mario game. The sound effects 
 are awesome aswell. Overall the sound is great.
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map is interesting enough, everything is kept within the castle, and you have to find 
 warp pipes inside of it, once you unlock a new move or skill, which will make you able to reach 
 a new pipe (or a new pipe opens within the story) you then go into a new world and walk from there. 
 So everything is connected within the castle.
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  21:37 I got to the final boss at the 19h mark, but 
 I left to level up and to look for secrets, so the game is about 19 hours long overall, but I wasted 
 alot time running around towards the end. After you beat it, you are warped back to your last save 
 and I don't think anything was unlocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadyNinjaMan1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Well, like all of the other mario rpg's, this one has you collecting some sort of star or star 
 shard, and in this case you're collecting Cobalt Star Shards.
  
  The story is easy to follow, and makes.... enough sense. The only problem is that at the end of 
 the game you'll say to yourself Wait.... how did this all start again? It's not a real complicated 
 story, though.
  
  As you walk around the dungeons in the game, you'll solve puzzles that are pretty easy. For 1/10 
 of the puzzle, you'll be thinking to yourself, Okay, I have to do x to y , but then 15 seconds 
 later you'll realize that you're doing it wrong and then you'll do it the right way, and you'll 
 realize how easy it was.
  
  In the puzzles, you use your abilities that you unlocked in the game to solve them, so for instance 
 you could see this huge gap, you'll say Yeah, and I'm supposed to JUMP across that? Then you'll 
 learn the Spin ability and then you'll just tornado across the gap.
  
  The combat is perfect. You don't have a lot of moves to do, and unlike the console RPG's, you'll 
 be using A LOT of items, so don't be afraid to spend all your money on them. When you first use 
 an item, you'll look like a foolish moron as you try to do damage with them. After a while, you'll 
 get the hang of it and take some names, but after a half an hour is where you really kick some 
 butt.
  
  Some examples of the items are the fire flower, where you press Mario's button repeatedly, then 
 you'll press Luigi's button repeatedly, and switch back and force until the fire flower's out of 
 juice. Another one is some crazy egg thing where Mario and Luigi will do cool backflips to smack 
 them at the enemy.
  
  Timing is everything in combat. When enemies attack, you have to know how they're going to hit 
 you and when to hit them and with who. Same as I've been describing. First time you see an enemy, 
 you'll stink, after awhile YES BLAH BLAH BLAH WE GET IT!
  
  The sound and graphics are charming and cute, and they make the game a lot easier and more enjoyable. 
 Nothing to rant about.
  
  What also makes this game such a piece of art is how hilarious it is! Luigi's always the clumsy 
 dope who is always accidentally making his baby form cry and then he cheers him up by doing ridiculous 
 things, and Mario's always smooth and cool about everything. It gets me everytime.
  
  The only thing that breaks this game is how short it is! It'll take you from 16-24 hours to beat 
 it, and there really isn't any fun left when you go back and play it again, but this game is still 
 a must-buy.
  
  There is also no use of the stylus or the touch screen, but it really doesn't matter.
  
  There 
 are almost no flaws in this game, except it's length (comparing it to other RPG's) . I recommend 
 it to anybody who owns a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Ive been palying this game sence late 05 and there are a few things to say about this gmae. 1 is 
 that I like it, it's a very solid rpg. 2 is it's not as great as the first game but stil very good. 
 The storey revolves around the mario bros once again. olny this time they have thier younger selfs. 
 They must go into the past to help save the past kingdom. Along the way you run into charicters 
 you know only it's thier younger selfs, like Peach, Bowser, and peaches assistant. The thing is 
 this game goes on a more mission base then a free roaming rpg. This means you'l lgo into the past 
 do something then go into the present, learn something, then go back. Thease missions are packed 
 with puzzels, more sotrey elments, and a big boss at the end. The puzzels often go a great job 
 useing the 2nd screen usely with the other set of brothers on one screen at a time. battles use 
 the top screen for, well the top of the battel feild poften used for aireal foes or super jumps. 
 Battles still use time button presses only with 4 bors this time makeing the battles more lively 
 than ever before. Sadly the puzzles arn't as charming or as head scraching as in the first game. 
 But this is a solid squeal and worth the waite he had to waote. If your looknig for a great rpg 
 for the ds look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners In Time is a sequel to GBA&acute; s Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga 
 released in 2003. Luckily you don&acute; t need to know anything about it to fully enjoy Partners 
 In Time and its great RPG action.
  
  Partners In Time contains many interesting characters and the story in general is more complex 
 than what you&acute; ve probably use to see in Mario games, for example New Super Mario Bros. Story 
 goes that once again the Mushroom Kingdom is in peril when Professor E. Gadd invents a time machine 
 and accidentally sends Princess Peach to past, which is threatened by an evil Shroob planet, land 
 of utter creepiness. The main villain is Princess Shroob, but that old Bowser also plays a part 
 in the story. Mario and Luigi will receive help from an interesting suitcase called Stuffwell. 
 It takes awhile for the story to really get going, but in the end it&acute; s an interesting experience 
 to save the Mushroom Kingdom once again.
  
  Graphics are that familiar and colorful Nintendo style, which is to say that the game a pleasure 
 to look at. Unfortunately the character models are a bit stiff and they dont move quite as well 
 you would expect. It&acute; s also noteworthy that there are a lot of sound effects, but the story 
 itself is told with text running across your two screens. Music is like the graphics: typical Nintendo 
 quality and it works quite well.
  
  Nintendo DS&acute; s two screens are used well and most of the time you control different characters 
 on the touch screen and on the upper screen is a map displayed. In this respect the two screens 
 is used in a similar way like in DS&acute; s Castlevania games, but in Parters In Time the two screens 
 are used much more extensively and more innovative way. On the other hand the stylus is used only 
 once during the whole 25 hour experience. That&acute; s right: only once (1) and on top of that 
 there is no wireless or Wi-Fi mode what so ever. Gameplay is very similar of what you might remember 
 from Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. This time you get to control four characters at once: 
 adult Mario &amp; Luigi from the present and baby Mario &amp; baby Luigi from the past. It takes 
 awhile to get use to all the controls, but luckily the tutorial is quite extensive and long. In 
 the end you&acute; ll notice that the controls are good and accurate.
  
  Turn-based battles are also similar to Paper Mario in that you get to choose between a set of options 
 and items to perform your attack. When it&acute; s time for your enemy to attack it can be dodged 
 with a proper movement just like in Paper Mario. Usually dodging means jumping in the right moment. 
 Boss battles are epic, but they last way too long: an average boss fight takes anywhere between 
 5 to 20 minutes to complete depending on how fast you realize the right tactics to victory. Worthy 
 of a special mention is the last boss battle sequence in the game, since for me it took 3 full 
 HOURS to get through! I&acute; ve played games for 20 years and I have to say that the Grande Finale 
 in Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners In Time was a horrible test of patience.
  
  Game stays interesting and varied the whole way through and all in all Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners 
 In Time is a solid RPG worthy to take its place in any DS owners library. Just be prepared to spend 
 A LOT of time in those epic boss battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  The first saga of this game inspired me to buy the second one, also because I loved the adventure 
 and the hilarious acts of the Mario brothers... Mario &amp; LUIGI P. I. T. was a very good game from 
 the start, (beggining of the game was ALMOST the same as the first one) , but after the babies met 
 the adults and formed the Super Mario brothers Team, everything else was THE SAME!!! Go to the 
 past, find the cobalt star shard, go to the present, talk to E. Gadd, go to the past again, find 
 the cobalt star shard.... also I was dissapointed that they took out the brothers special moves 
 and replaced them with stupid items you buy from shops, find from blocks or that enemies dropped 
 them (although I liked the Copy Flower and the Super Flower Fireball (the last bros. item you get) . 
 The final bosses were hard, but you'll get the hang of it once you battled them a lot of times... 
 This game was not that entertaining, but is passable, I recommend it to all Mario fans!! MARIO 
  ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4n6science
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  An outstanding game! This is one of my very favorite games for the ds. If you like mario and enjoy 
 playing games that you can't beat in just a couple of hours, then this is the game for you! I highly 
 recommend it! I really love how you get to use the baby Mario and Luigi to do seperate moves to 
 make it through the game! The game play is great and it has a high replay value! I've played it 
 several times through and love everytime. All in all this game is excellent and a must have for 
 all nintendo ds owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Creative story, gameplay mechanics, and the colorful environments.
  The Bad: Nothing too new over the last game, not a thrilling story that surprises you or throws 
 something new at you.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Mario &amp; Luigi Partners in Time is a great RPG game for the DS. The game of course is stared 
 by Mario and Luigi. The partners though as to do with that you will be able to plays as baby Mario 
 and baby Luigi in this game. The story opens with Professor E. Gadd unavailing his new time machine. 
 We then find out that Princess Peach, herself so excited about the invention has went into Mushroom 
 Kingdom's past. When the time machine returns, Peach does not come out other then some alien creature, 
 you immediately fight. Once you defeat the creature you discover a time hole that you jump into 
 to go to the past.
  
  The game uses the touch screen very little. Actually you can get through the entire game never 
 picking up your stylus. The game plays very much like the GBA game. You control Mario and Luigi 
 with a different button. A controls Mario and B controls Luigi. For Baby Mario and Luigi, you use 
 X for Mario and Y for Luigi. Your attacks consist of your jumping attacks and your Bros. attacks. 
 All familiar if you played the original game. You can also get items and your characters will level 
 up when you have enough points to level up. With the DS's two screens the game play tacks place 
 on the bottom screen and a map of where you are and other items, such as save books are located. 
 This feature comes in handy to know where you are and where to go, that way you do not have to 
 switch back and fourth. Overall if you are a fan of Mario and loved the first game you will feel 
 right at home playing this game. It is fun and not to hard to fall in love with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Core gameplay is still great; adding two more characters makes things interesting; visuals 
 are good.
  
  The Bad: No variety in gameplay; some of the most boring and drawn-out boss battles ever; little 
 to no challenge; extremely linear adventure with no replay value; no sidequests to speak of; soundtrack 
 is AWFUL.
  
  Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga was one of the best games on the Game Boy Advance. In fact, it was 
 one of the best role-playing games ever made, as it had a highly unique battle system, a hilarious 
 story, and great production values. Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is a sequel that, sadly, doesn't 
 even come close to living up to its predecessor.
  
  The core gameplay is identical to the GBA game. The battles involve lots of dodging on the player's 
 part, and also require good timing for attacks to be effective. There's not a lot that's done differently 
 this time around, though, and some elements have been made a LOT easier due to timed unlimited 
 items that wipe out enemies very quickly. The babies add an interesting new element to the game, 
 but it's just not as addictive as the original.
  
  The music and sound effects are terribly annoying. The battle theme is less exciting than toenails, 
 and the babies' wails are more irritating than in Yoshi's Island. Not good.
  
  There are exactly zero side quests or extra things to do in this game. It's incredibly linear, 
 and it makes no effort to mask this. It's very disappointing, because the original involved a lot 
 of exploration and funny side quests. Also, PiT isn't particularly long, nor is there much incentive 
 to go back and play it again.
  
  PiT is almost completely a letdown. There is some of the trademark humor, and the graphics are 
 bright and colorful, but it's just lacking in so many ways. This is easily one of the most overrated 
 games on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightRacer811
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best mario games i have ever played. It starts of as usuall with princess 
 Peach being kidnapped. It would have been a better story if they added a new enemy because mario 
 games always go with the old enemies like Boswer. But, i am glad they made baby Boswer cause he 
 has been good in new recent Mario games. I liked this game mostly because it had a fun story line 
 and i liked how they added baby Mario and baby Luigi. They played a big role right next to their 
 older selves. I think it would have been a little better if they found a way to use the ds touch 
 screen a litlle more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  The type of Mario games that we barely see him in are the RPG's. He has only done three and this 
 (partners in time) being his third. However the last two Mario RPG's have deal with the concept 
 button mashing meaning that you can jump to avoid an attack or you can use your hammer to send 
 back projectiles used by the enemy. So it's an RPG that doesn't make you stay there choose actions 
 and then wait for the next turn to do it again, which to me make for an very interesting gameplay. 
 You play as Mario, Luigi and their baby versions. The A button is Mario, B is for Luigi, X is for 
 Baby Mario and Y is for Baby Luigi. The Babies will be on their grown up version so it battle the 
 grown up version recieves the damage and not the babies that is until the grown up faint then the 
 baby take over. It will be dificult at first but once you get the hang of it 's a bit fun. Then 
 there the item attack which each one has it own rhythm the shells that who ever starts kick to 
 the enemy and then to the next person with there baby version on the shell so when it goes to the 
 enemy it can spin to cause a little extra damage. The story goes that Princess Peach experimented 
 with an time machine and choose to go back in time but when time machine came back a moster came 
 out and Peach was missing. She was kidnap but an alien Princess who wanted to take over the past 
 Mushroom Kingdom. Now Mario and Luigi go back in time to rescue the princess and later on they 
 meet the Baby version of themselves and now all four of them are in the mission to rescue the grown 
 up Princess Peach. It is actually an interseting story line that you will sooner or later get into. 
 There are also minigames like you have to get to one point and hit an block before time runs out. 
 The sad thing is you can't play these minigames outside of the gamemode which I think could of 
 possibly made this game better than what it is. Overall this game is a must get for Mario and RPG 
 gamers a like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louie16
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  mario rocks and very in this game luigi is very cool and a idiot the babys are funny and cute the 
 shroobs are irritating the bosses are very very very very very funny but not mrs twhomp shes is 
 a another idiot een liedje mario and the babys are very funny luigi is a idiot and a crazy green 
 man babys hebben hammers en punch luigi on his head that is painfull but he laugh refrein mario 
 mario baby baby mario mario luigi luigi baby baby luigi luigi mario and babbys are funny and the 
 idiot luigi makes this funny refrien this the end of the music jojo this is the music of the shroobs 
  
 and luigi say woehoe and santa hohoho 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolflink001
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Alphdream and Nintendo got together for the direct sequel to Mario Luigi SuperStar Saga, only this 
 time it's on the Ds! Well, after killing Cackletta and saving the Beanstar, the Mario Bros. run 
 into some trouble! This time however, in the mushroom kingdom. (Not surprised) But the evil they 
 have to face is not from there planet! One day... Far out in space.... In a dark corner shunned 
 by starlight... There was this creepy planet floating alone! You can guess the rest! Aliens from 
 the Shroob Planet are in search of a new home. Well, they set there gazez on a distant planet which 
 the Mushroom Kingdom is found on! Target Sighted! Just in case you don't know what a shroob is, 
 they look like toads but purple and more scary and hidious! Any way the game begins in the Mushroom 
 Kingdom's past. You get to meet young toadsworth and control baby mario and luigi to meet baby 
 peach. When get to her thrown room, toads are laying out cold on floor and baby bowser appears 
 with baby peach! Now the fighting begins!!!! The fighting music is more catchy this time! And the 
 Graphics are very detailed in a Mario related style! Anyway, fighting controls are the same except 
 X and Y buttons are involvled! After you defeat the baby bowser ( he looses when he is a baby still) 
 Hip Hip HOORAY! Then the whole castle starts to shake and again all hell breaks loose!!!! It's 
 are Alien Shroob friends from before! Invading and lauching an invasion on the castle! Now the 
 future.... Professor E. Gad. (Luigi's Mansion) has invented a time machine. The Power Source? The 
 Cobalt Star! Princess Peach eagarly wanted to visit the Mushroom Kingdom's past so she went to 
 test out E. Gadds invention! (Ohhhh boy... not a smart move) Anyway, Mario and Luigi, Professor 
 E. Gadd, and Toadsworth (old this time) Are waiting for her to return. She brings the time machine 
 back but what.... SHE S GONE! And in her spot is a Shrooboid and it introduces you to the game! 
 The boss music is very catchy for the fight! I won't say anymore because I'm getting carried away. 
 Just get the game! It's pretty good. A little short I thought, but good! I would recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmansimpson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The first Mario and Luigi RPG was a major hit throughout the world, and the sequel is even better. 
 Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is the sequel to Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga, and it is just 
 as good if not better than its predecessor. It begins with a hilarious and slightly creepy cutscene, 
 and the humor does not slack off until the game is over. The gameplay is superb, especially the 
 RPG battles encountered throughout the game. The addition of multiple Bros. Items is a plus, but 
 some people including myself might miss the Bros. Attacks from the previous game. The battles are 
 slightly more fluid than the first game, and gamers will appreciate the inclusion of Shroob versions 
 of enemies from Superstar Saga.
  Another bonus is the younger versions of Mario and Luigi, who make the game substantially cuter 
 and more fun to battle with. Partners in Time is solidly scripted as well, with many laugh out 
 loud moments that continue throughout the game.
  The sound effects and music are good, although the slightly Christmasy tracks can get annoying 
 after a while.
  All in all, Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is a worthy collection to Nintendo and RPG fans alike, 
 and will keep you playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in Time is a charming and hillarious rpg for the nintendo ds, and may 
 have a somewhat weird story, but the dialogue is the best ever. Lollypop. Dragon. Beefstew. Laundry 
 dog. This game is fun to play. This game is fun to play. Best rpg on the ds. Best rpg on the ds. 
 You get to play babies. Yay, how cool is that? The gameplay is twice as good as the first game. 
 Woohoo, that's how all sequels should be! Woohooo! The graphics are hillarious too and very nice 
 looking. You can play it over and over again. Buy this game! Buy this game! Yeah my review is pretty 
 terrible, but I just get tired of writing about a game sometimes and rating is overrated so......... love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance_C
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  'Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time' is an RPG on the Nintendo Dual Screen and the sequel to the 
 very popular and high rated 'Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga'. The game has been appreciated 
 by many GameBoy Advance owners and RPG fans and now has set ground on the DS area. The game starts 
 off as any other Mario game: save the princess! But of course the story has been tweaked here and 
 there, so no comparison can be made with any other Mario game. And once again, Bowser is involved, 
 but also another odd creature which we have never met before. And it is your mission to find out 
 what they have done with princess Peach. Peach has namely travelled in time with the help of a 
 time machine created by the professor, but never returned home safely. And you guessed it: it's 
 Mario and Luigi's job to take her back to Mushroom Kingdom safe and sound. As you begin, you notice 
 nothing has changed in comparison with its prequel. You still use the a and b button to control 
 the two brothers. The inhabitants of Mushroom Kingdom test your jumping and then you're off to 
 save the princess. But hold on! You'll also go through some tutorials as you advance. The further 
 you get, the more you will learn. It is great how they've done this, so that the details of the 
 tricks can be processed one by one, instead of everything in a matter of minutes. Don't worry, 
 some of the tricks shown may be the same as in 'Superstar Saga', but some new moves have been added 
 as well. These moves can either only be used while exploring the worlds, like the spin move, or 
 only in combat, for example tapping the a button when Mario nearly lands on his enemy with his 
 jump attack, causing extra damage. These tricks are essential in this game, because otherwise you 
 aren't able to advance in the game, or beat opponents in battle. As you advance in the game you'll 
 notice that everything's the same as in the prequel. This may sound somewhat repetitive, but it 
 is far from the mentioned conclusion. The story is very original and new gameplay has arised. Not 
 to mention the dual screens. The stylus however hasn't been put to use though. It would seem nice 
 to have it involve gameplay as well, but it could have made the solid gameplay less solid, which 
 may be one of the reasons they haven't processed it in the game. But enough about what they haven't 
 added in the game, and get on to what they have added: the use of the two screens:
  The top screen is used for the map of the world you are in. This is very useful, since you don't 
 have to click on start and get out the map, to see where you are. You just look up and see where 
 you should be heading, since the developers used a handy trick to show you where to head. Of course, 
 the problems remains how to get there. But the puzzles here are not very difficult, so you should 
 be able to get through it very quickly. The bottom screen is of course used for the advance of 
 the two plumbers.
  When you are in combat the map on the top screen disappears and instead, it combines the top screen 
 with the bottom screen, making it one big battlefield. Well, more like vertically rather than horizontally. 
 The only disadvantage you get is that the white barrier between the two screens prevents you from 
 seeing the bros when you jump on an enemy. This shouldn't be a major problem, since you rather 
 jump on timing and feeling rather than on focusing on either of the two Mario brothers. This is 
 not the only unique thing they added to this game: it also allows you to play with the baby Mario 
 brothers. Of course the title already revealed it: it is about time travelling. They encounter 
 their baby predecessors and decide to join up with them. And that's where you also will learn new 
 moves and not to mention: they make the battles more difficult, but also make you a lot stronger 
 and inflict more damage. The advantage is though, that you will be able to control four characters. 
 So if two faint, you still have two left, awesome, isn't it? It is quite a challenge in the beginning, 
 but you'll get the hang of it after a short while.
  After teaming up with the babies you&acute; ll encounter bosses, which are difficult to defeat, 
 because they are so much stronger than you. In theory though, you can inflict damage without taking 
 any, by dodging. In practice it&acute; s much more difficult though. As though, the story may seem 
 clich&eacute;, but its content is shows otherwise. Lots of Mario humor, entertaining to most people, 
 and of course, the &acute; how it develops&acute; to the ending. We all know it&acute; s: Princess 
 kidnapped, Mario &amp; Luigi go to adventure and save the princess. But how? That is the most interesing 
 part and worth the time and effort.
  
  The graphics are the same as in the prequel: But as a Nintendo DS game, the game hasn't been focusing 
 itself on the graphics, but on the gameplay, and that is what most people like to see. Still the 
 same cartoony graphics and you see the action from aside. The sound has stayed the same as well: 
 You see most conversations in balloons, while Mario and Luigi speak in their native language. It 
 really fits the game and makes the game even better.
  
  With the questions answered: it is worth the time and effort other questions remain. Is the game 
 worth the money? I finished the game in about 25 hours following the main quest. You be the judge 
 of whether it has any replay value or not, but I say: money well spent! Then another question pops 
 up (for gamers who don't own a DS) Is the game worth for getting a DS? My real answer: I don't 
 know, but if you have played and liked 'Superstar Saga', I think it will be worth it. Also, if 
 you haven't played Superstar Saga it is worthwhile, because they aren't connected to each other, 
 when it comes to the stories.
  
  And the final conclusion: Solid gameplay, good use of the DS's abilities and for being a great 
 overall game, this adventure of the two Mario brothers cannot be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dark_Jester
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time is an excellent stand alone game, but when compared to Mario 
 &amp; Luigi: Super Star Saga it just falls short. It left me with a kind of been there done that 
 type of feeling. It also lacked in the humor department, wherein the first one had moments that 
 were just side splitting this one had just a few chuckle worthy points. GAMEPLAY: Mario &amp; Luigi 
 2 has very solid gameplay that doesn't let you down. In terms of an RPG it has everything you would 
 be looking for, leveling up, new items, and new armor. The battle system makes great use of the 
 DS and all of it's buttons, yet only uses the touch screen only briefly, which isn't as big a letdown 
 as I thought it would be. The world is fairly large although your hand is held while you explore 
 it. You will meet a few interesting characters along your journey. GRAPHICS: The graphics are right 
 on par with the first Mario &amp; Luigi game, which is not a bad thing. They took a tried and true 
 formula and didn't muck it up. They are colorful, vibrant and very pleasing to the eye. A lot of 
 the actions made by the characters are very cartoon like and it only adds to the game. SOUND: Sound 
 is what you would expect from a DS game it's very crisp, clean, and adds to the overall experience 
 of the game. The music changes from place to place and usually never gets boring or stale. VALUE: 
 In this reviewer's humble opinion this game was well worth it and is highly addicting as it's portable. 
 Your first run through will take you around 20 hours 30 if you take your time to get everything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteFlame-XIII
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in time is a game that just barely lives up to nintendo pedigree. Read 
 this and find out why. STORY (reviewers tilt) : Princess peach is stolen AGAIN (no gasp) but, it's 
 not bowser (gasp!) . Well, the main kidnapper isn't bowser... So you, Mario and Luigi, have to go 
 find her. At the beginning, You run into the baby versions of you. Now, you are 4 people (scary!) 
 trying to find Princess peach and Baby peach. You run into many New and old characters throughout 
 your quest so be ready for some character frenzies. Though the story isn't as engaging as anticipated, 
 there are enough characters in there to keep it interesting. GAMEPLAY: This is just a simple turn-based, 
 walk-around rpg with action commands to attack your enemy. It's actually pretty good for the DS. 
 There are many attack items also that can be a challenge to master when it comes to their action 
 commands. The out of battle world, the 3D world, is full of explorable ledges, corners, and areas 
 that are not so secret but are explorable. You can also see the enemies before battling instead 
 of random battles. This makes the possibilities of you attacking before the battle starts, and 
 dodging enemies entirely. I found the gameplay fun for a little while. But at the end, it got a 
 little draggy, and slow. The short time it was fun though, redeems the dragginess. GRAPHICS: The 
 graphics are worth looking at for the DS. There is enough legible detail to pick out things that 
 made the game look better. However, the graphics can be a little bland and less gratifying because 
 of the overuse or underuse of color at some rare points in the game. Not much else can be said 
 about the graphics but the fact that it is good enough to get by higher than average on a DS. SOUND: 
 The game has a pretty good soundtrack. There's just a few stupid songs in there that can tick you 
 off. I didn't personally enjoy any of the songs in the game. In truth, I found the generic battle 
 music cumbersome and annoying. The only songs I could stand is some the many final boss themes 
 that aren't too cheesy. The sound effects are fine and well recorded. You can basically tell that 
 the sound effects were meant to be strong for the DS. VALUE: This is where this game gets on the 
 line of Normal and good. I played for 5 hours then I got bored of doing the same thing over again. 
 So this game has not as much lasting appeal DURING the story mode. But the game is kind of fun 
 if you really think about it and I did finish the game nonetheless. There is nothing to do after 
 beating the game though. So don't expect anything after the storyline. You could go back in time 
 before you rescue peach, but it's as if you didn't beat the game when you do that. So I don't recommend 
 this game for time consumption and time wasting but for a short easy game that you can beat quickly.
 
  
  Breakdown:
  
  Story: 8- for colorful characters but less engaging story.
  
  Gameplay: 9- for pure sense of fun but sense of slowness at end.
  
  Graphics: 8- for good quality 
 on a DS but occasional blandness.
  
  Sound: 9- for great sound effects, and okay music, with some leniency. Value: 5- for low sense 
 of interest and replayablilty.
  
  Final: 8.0 out of average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ped101
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  This is a great follow up on the M&amp; L series and is by no means a letdown. The game starts off 
 with a big surprise, the mushroom kingdom has been attacked by a horde of mushroom-shaped monsters, 
 the Shroobs. All this wouldn't be news if not for one thing: this all took place in the past. So 
 Mario and Luigi go back in time to save the kingdom once again. The difference between this game 
 and Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga is that your superpowers have been removed, which to some people 
 may seem like a sin, but the game makes up for it. You have the help of M&amp; L's younger selves, 
 the babies. The babies have their own special abilities and can be thrown into higher places by 
 the big brothers. The special attacks also become different; they are done with the help of items, 
 all of which have a special button-pressing sequence so that the item can go back and forth and 
 so max damage. Also, the dodging of enemy attacks is still present nd the battle systems stay basically 
 the same. The graphic are very equal to its predecessor and the battle music is very repetitive 
 after a while playing. The controllers take a bit of time getting used to, since now the X jumps 
 with baby Mario and the Y with baby Luigi. Since in Mario games there isn't any difficulty selections, 
 the game can get pretty tough at times, making one take some time off to cool their heads due to 
 the impossibility of some parts.
  All in one, one of the best DS games released so far, and DS owners should buy it whenever they 
 get the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  This is the sequel to Mario and Luigi Superstar Saga. It uses the touch screen very well and the 
 story is a good story. Mario and Luigi have to save Peach and the past to stop the Shroobs from 
 taking over. They need more help and their younger selfs help them. There are differences between 
 this and the previous one. There are four characters working together and there are no brothers 
 points which I did like in Superstar Saga. You go back to the past and and restore Peachs castle 
 and stop the Princess Shroob from getting the crystal star shards. Bowsers younger self grabs the 
 star after you beat the Princess Shroob and you face her twin who is more powerful. The final boss 
 is Shrowser who you can not attack you just can avoid him from beating youn so you can't use heal 
 items Shrowser is the present Bowser with the mix of Princess Shroobs twin just like Bowletta was 
 Cackletta and Bowser. The babies take more more damage if hit by an attack but thats only if Mario 
 and Luigi are beaten. Some power ups like Mix, Flower, Copy flower, Cannonball bros and trampoline 
 are vey good power items to use against enemies. Not as good as Superstar Saga and not as challenging. 
 It's a good Mario title thoough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend_Killa619
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game i would reccomend to any fans of the Mario games as this game is fairly easy to play. 
 It may take a while for people who are new to playing the DS to get used to the controls but when 
 you get used to it, the game will get easier. the game play/storyline is is based on this alien 
 race called the Shroobs trying to take over the Mushroom Kingdom. So eventually after going through 
 the small movie and talking and all that stuff you get to control Mario &amp; Luigi and when you 
 go to the Past you end up meeting Baby Mario &amp; Baby Luigi who in turn help you to stop the 
 Shroobs from taking over Present-time Mushroom Kingdom and don't forget you still occasionally 
 run into Kamek, Bowser, and Bowser Jr.. So, overall this game would be perfect for the people who 
 are new to Mario Bros. and Nintendo and to people who just love Nintendo and Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfighter86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time is the sequel to the previous Superstar Saga (released in 2003 
 for GBA) . Mario &amp; Luigi must revisit the past and meet up with their baby selves to rescue 
 Princess Peach and save the Mushroom Kingdom from the evil alien Shroobs.
  
  The Gameplay is much like the first M&amp; L where Players must explore strange and bizarre regions 
 of the Mushroom Kingdom (Only this time, it's in the past and you have help from baby M&amp; L) 
 with challenging puzzles, hilarious storyline, memorable moments, and a battle system that will 
 keep you on you toes. Game Time spent for complete progression may average from 15 to 20 hours.
 
  
  Weather you're a fan of Mario RPGs, an RPG fan in general, or just a casual gamer looking for an 
 edition to your DS Library, look no further than Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time!! ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmier
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time had large shoes to fill. Let me say that it filled them quite 
 well. Though the touch screen is not used, Partners in Time shows how great it is to have two screens, 
 touch screen or not. This is easily the best use of a second screen I have seen thus far, allowing 
 you to control two characters before quickly and easily switching to the other two to perform complex 
 puzzles. The combat system is great, also. Though it may seem a bit simplistic to Final Fantasy 
 fans (as it did to me) , it makes it so you are neve simply waiting your turn: you are always doing 
 something. However, gameplay praise aside, this game's real pull is in its charm. I struggle to 
 think of any movies that gave me more laughs than this game. The pairing of the adaults and babies 
 is a perfect recipe for pure hilarity (not to mention the young and old Toadsworths fighting over 
 the baby princess) . These scriptwriters really should be more recognised. Overall, this game's 
 charm (as well as its sheer quality) , has placed it in the rankings as not only one of the best 
 games of the year, but ealisy one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in Time is an excellent game. The battles are fun and very interactive 
 and the dialogue is hilarious. The main part of this humorous RPG is of course, the battles, and 
 boy, are the battles fun! There's always a chance to counter or dodge attacks, and there are tons 
 of Bros. Items that can be used to mix up the battles. The only draw here is that the battle music 
 isn't as good as the original. The game is long, clocking in at about 20 hours. The art style is 
 similar to the original's, but more detailed. The animations are generally hilarious, as is the 
 dialogue and slight voice overs. Best Feature: Great, long, engaging Single player game with lots 
 of style. Worst Feature: Not as good as the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox2892
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  It was 2003 when Nintendo's Mario Bros. changed their positions from platforming stars to RPG heroes. 
 Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga for the Game Boy Advance put Mario and Luigi's first adventure 
 into the role-playing genre. The game did extraordinarily well, and left many fans begging for 
 a sequel. The sequel has arrived, although on another platform, in the form of Mario &amp; Luigi: 
 Partners in Time. Attracting a similar formula, Partners in Time obviously tries to build on the 
 things that made Superstar Saga great. And to a certain degree, it does, thanks to the exclusive 
 idea that forms the source of this game - babies. The plot of the game doesn't spiral any surprises 
 - the Mushroom Kingdom is taken over, Princess Peach is captured, and the plumbing pair has to 
 form in an adventure to save the day. This is the principle that many Mario Bros. games are based 
 upon and Nintendo isnt going to mess with it. The villain this time is a certain Princess Shroob, 
 ruler of a world known as the, er. The shroobs conquer the Mushroom Kingdom; Princess Shroob leads 
 her army of Shroobs into an all-out assault, and did her work. The only thing that she didn't count 
 on is the intrusion of the Mario Brothers. The thing that sets this unique routine apart from past 
 Mario games is that Shroob's invasion didn't actually happen in the present. Instead, the events 
 were unfolded from years past. The present day Mario and Luigi will therefore have to voyage between 
 present and past to stop the Shroobs' brutal tactics. The time traveling scheme is not something 
 that is totally new to Nintendo. They designed these kind of effects for many of there big franchises 
 (Zelda) . The highlights of Partners in Time, however, are the appearances of the two baby heroes. 
 Princess Shroob's invasion has expediently happened at a time when Mario and Luigi were just toddlers, 
 and it's no surprise that the brothers have to come face to face with their former selves. The 
 game play of Partners in Time is clearly the thing that makes it pleasurable. Like a distinctive 
 platformer, Mario and Luigi will spend a lot of time exploring different locations on the Mushroom 
 Kingdom's map, which includes many familiar locations from other Mario and Luigi games. The impression 
 of having different sizes of the brothers also makes the common puzzle solving a little more creative. 
 In example, the smaller brothers can reach areas that the older ones can't. Also the babies can 
 ride on their older selves to cross larger gaps that they can't jump over. The controls are nice 
 and simple. The four buttons of the DS (A, B, X and Y) are used to perform the jumping action for 
 the four characters, so you'll get to manage Mario using A, Luigi using B. The combat system also 
 uses these relevant buttons expansively. Like conventional RPGs, the fights are turn-based, and 
 the first move is always given to the character, or enemy. Combat actions are issued in the form 
 of commands. The first move that all four brothers begin with is jump. There's a twist to the rather 
 easy jump attack though. When you jump at an enemy, you can jump again, and when you're about to 
 reach him you do additional damage. Mario and Luigi will learn new skills as the game moves on, 
 including the use of Brother Items. These items are very useful strategies that can cause a large 
 amount of damage to your enemies. For example, you use a shell on an enemy while piggybacking the 
 babies. You can unleash a four-character combo that dishes out some major damage to the enemies. 
 Even though the game is Mario and sounds easy it does present some tough challenges along the way. 
 At times boss matches can get very frustrating. Most of the enemies have their individual attacking 
 patterns, and if you get used to how they attack, you should find yourself defending your characters 
 and blocking these attacks comfortably. And if you time it right after dodging an attack successfully, 
 you can even dish out a counter-attack, which makes the match a little easier. Of course, as a 
 RPG, you'll also earn experience points when you fight, and you'll get to level up when you hit 
 the required points for upgrading. Apart from this, you can also upgrade your gear with the use 
 of clothings and badges. Like armory items in most Rags, these help to build up your defense, 
 or increase your attack prowess. The game exploits some features of the DS for the gameplay as 
 well. The dual screen is used to show the map. If you happen to get the babies characters into 
 an area where the older brothers can't access, the top screen will switch to show the babies exploring 
 this area. If you're learning a move, the top screen will even show you, in a step by step tutorial 
 on how to do it. The use of the dual screens is definitely interesting, making the experience more 
 comfortable and satisfied. You'll also use the touch screen on certain occasions, usually to wipe 
 a dirty portrait to find out what's on it. Rather then game play, the presentation of Partners 
 in Time is also pretty good. People keep saying why is Nintendo still using GBA-style graphics 
 for a DS game, but the answer is obvious: they still look great. The characters have some nice 
 animated movement apart from the usual jumping action, like Mario catching his breath after a boss 
 fight. This could be how you are feeling at that moment so it appears to fit in pretty nicely. 
 The voice-overs, if minimal, are also pretty spot on. It doesn't fail to amuse me when Mario shouts 
 some Italian gibberish to Luigi. Partners in Time defiantly lives up to a great sequel being the 
 greatest DS RPG we have seen so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuskLord
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  So, the princess is once again in trouble, eh? Well I'll be damned. And it's the plumber bros who 
 need to save her? Wow, now this is a completely different plot compared to all the other Mario 
 games out there... Nah, seriously talking, I don't mind. It's always fun. No other game would propably 
 enjoy fame with so many sequels with the exact same plot.
  
  As a relatively new DS owner, I expected the game to use the DS technology more , for example the 
 touch screen is barely touched at all. Once? Hmm. Mic? Never. Nintendo could've found some mini 
 games or something to use those features and make the game more replayable. That's the game's biggest 
 concern : There is practically no replay value. My first completion took only 14 hours, it disappointed 
 me and I don't find any interest in playing through it another time, since M&amp; L doesn't offer 
 me any challenge. All the way through up until the last boss fight, the battles are very easy. 
 While not battling, the level of challenge raises by just a tiny notch with puzzling found in the 
 earlier M&amp; L on the GBA. You might wonder about your next move for a minute or two, but it'll 
 come clear in an instant.
  
  As with every RPG's, you gain money for beating your opponents in battle. I would've wanted more 
 diversity in the items available for purchase : Some new gear just sucks compared to the older 
 ones. Unless there's some secret features which I'm unaware of.
  
  Well heck, I had some good laughs with the game, and I did cIt's entertaining, sure. But it looks 
 and sounds almost exactly like the earlier M&amp; L game, giving you that dated feeling... Still 
 I can recommend the game to everyone, Nintendo hasn't screwed Mario RPG's over at least yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  ML2: PIT is a relatively enjoyable and fun game for the complete playthrough. it really brings out 
 the essence of it being a Mario game and all the usual Mario antics and humour is gladly intact.
 
  however, it does seem faulty in quite a few areas esp in the gameplay department.
  a whole set of moves are available to you but you'll only find 2 or 3 of them truly useful, the 
 rest are just to challenge yourself and to mix and match around to give a sense of variety and 
 choice.
  also, some of the cutscenes in between the action are very irritating due to the poor voicework 
 and the worse part is that you are not able to fast forward past them and into the real battle 
 sequence following that.
  but all in all, it is still a game i would recommend DS owners to pick up.
  it may lack the extra 
 features that makes a game truly great, but that does not mean it isnt a good game nonetheless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asif911
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  A lovely game that made me enjoy as much as Mario Kart: DS and Trace Memory.
  It was one of those games that told me that you hadn't at all wasted money on your DS , but made 
 a great investment.
  From engaging and interesting battles ( thanks to lovely fight mechanisms) to various varying locations, 
 and to dialogues that'll give you giggles, this RPG'll keep all entertained.
  
  The Graphics are very colourful and have a sweetish look. The art has been done beautifully here.
 
  The voice work of the main characters both good and evil have been done very well, making them 
 enjoyable to listen to. So, sound is great too.
  Gameplay is awesome and really fun, but could have been given a bit more attention to.
  The fights 
 are entertaining, challenging and fun becauses of the very well made battle system, but the fights 
 sometime tend to get repetetive. That's why I was saying prior in the gameplay department that 
 some improvement could be made into this field.
  
  I'm very soon gonna play Paper Mario, ... hope its as entertaining as this, if not better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkrokk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi return to the big screen; along with their younger selves! Will they score it big? 
 Or acheive shame? I've seen games starring Mario and Luigi; even games like Paper Mario or Luigi's 
 Mansion which is based on just one of mustached brothers. I've even seen games like Yoshi's Island 
 where Mario and Luigi are nothing but young siblings. Nintendo and Alphadream were really thinking 
 big when they put Mario and Luigi together; along with Mario and Luigi! When I first heard this 
 I was thinking, Wow, I have to check this out! And I bet you a lot of people were thinking the 
 same thing. So the game was a hit, and everyone was having fun. Now, don't get me wrong but, I 
 think that most of the Mario and Luigi games (especially if the developer is Alphadream; which 
 is a good thing) have weird storylines. Regardless, I still get a good laugh out of all of them; 
 this one especially! I always love the animation in these games without fail. The way they bring 
 Mario and Luigi's younger selves to life still amazes me. They look exactly alike, except for the 
 fact that they lack some height and weight. The way Mario and Luigi meet up with younger Mario 
 and Luigi is still unclear to me. They explained it well, though, but somehow I feel like something's 
 missing. Strangely a lot of things in this game doesn't make sense to me. For example; if younger 
 Mario and Luigi are fighting side-by-side with older Mario and Luigi, isn't that going to change 
 the future? Or how if everyone in the past is in the present, wouldn't the future turn out to be 
 different than expected? Well I guess this game proves that there is no such thing as impossible, 
 and that there's no point in thinking of any of these things because you're going to be too busy 
 playing the game to think of anything mentioned in this review, and when you do; you'd aleady finish 
 the game! All I'm trying to say is that if you like classic Mario and Luigi games with lots of 
 adventures; then this one is a must. To all you eager readers out there reading this review, I 
 thank you; for taking the time to read this. I hope I have helped you in some weird way that provides 
 this review useful. Always remember; becoming a good gamer is a skill, not something that you can 
 get from reading strategy guides or reviews, so hurry up and buy/play the game already!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerGirlPwnz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I've seen games starring Mario and Luigi; even games like Paper Mario or Luigi's Mansion which 
 is based on just one of mustached brothers. I've even seen games like Yoshi's Island where Mario 
 and Luigi are nothing but young siblings. Nintendo and Alphadream were really thinking big when 
 they put Mario and Luigi together; along with Mario and Luigi! When I first heard this I was thinking, 
 Wow, I have to check this out! And I bet you a lot of people were thinking the same thing. So the 
 game was a hit, and everyone was having fun. Now, don't get me wrong but, I think that most of 
 the Mario and Luigi games (especially if the developer is Alphadream; which is a good thing) have 
 weird storylines. Regardless, I still get a good laugh out of all of them; this one especially! 
 I always love the animation in these games without fail. The way they bring Mario and Luigi's younger 
 selves to life still amazes me. They look exactly alike, except for the fact that they lack some 
 height and weight. The way Mario and Luigi meet up with younger Mario and Luigi is still unclear 
 to me. They explained it well, though, but somehow I feel like something's missing. Strangely a 
 lot of things in this game doesn't make sense to me. For example; if younger Mario and Luigi are 
 fighting side-by-side with older Mario and Luigi, isn't that going to change the future? Or how 
 if everyone in the past is in the present, wouldn't the future turn out to be different than expected? 
 Well I guess this game proves that there is no such thing as impossible, and that there's no point 
 in thinking of any of these things because you're going to be too busy playing the game to think 
 of anything mentioned in this review, and when you do; you'd aleady finish the game! All I'm trying 
 to say is that if you like classic Mario and Luigi games with lots of adventures; then this one 
 is a must. To all you eager readers out there reading this review, I thank you; for taking the 
 time to read this. I hope I have helped you in some weird way that provides this review useful. 
 Always remember; becoming a good gamer is a skill, not something that you can get from reading 
 strategy guides or reviews, so hurry up and buy/play the game already!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  loads to pick from immersive and intense weapons to choose in battle while the shroobs attack the 
 good and evil.
  
  The good thing: Good battle attacks, funny and awesome story themes, immersive action, diffierent 
 battles come beteween the price of 2 and 4 italian boys.
  
  the bad: Boring music as usual to my opinion.
  
  Gameplay: It has loads of battles you can 
 lure to jump on or get attacked on and there is nothing but special ablitlies like the hammer bros 
 hammers, whirl jumps etc and a few bosses can take over to collect the cobalt shards to stop the 
 shroobs once and for all.
  
  Graphics: Awesome with RPG and it was absolutly amazing than any pokemon RPG games like the dungeon 
 ones, and designs are well perfectly fixed.
  
  Sound: Lame music but the sounds are hilarious with all bros and everyone as well but the music 
 is not worth it, i wish they can turn it off for once in a mario game.
  
  Value: Perfect conrtols and some weapons like the cannon ball need some practice but actually you 
 can trick your foe by making them dizzy with the hammer or jump on there head for a counter damage.
 
  
  Tilt: I love it, you all fans should biy this game and this game should be the top for the DS as 
 Yoshi's island DS is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside-Carlos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in time is simply fantastic. You'd be pretty darn stupid not to like such 
 an excellent game. Play as Mario, Luigi, AND of course Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. Yep. Each character 
 has different controls, but its very quick to get used to the controls of each character. To make 
 Mario jump you press A. Luigi, press B, Baby mario press X and baby LUigi press Y. You carry round 
 this suitcase which gives you hints and tips throughout the game. The game is pretty easy to get 
 used to, and quite short, but donot be put off. It is an excellent game. A MUST-HAVE game.
  
  Sorry, this is my first review so sorry if its not very good. Basically. JUST GET THIS GAME 
 IF YOU HAVNT GOT IT! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jump_Man7
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is an RPG game, but also has alot of puzzles to solve. The RPG 
 part of the game is actually quite good. Useing different types of items, or attacks, and dodging 
 characters at precise times are all key parts to winning. Useing Bro. Items is great. A little 
 mini-game in each one. Also equipment effects the outcome of a battle.
  
  The puzzle solving is the weak point of the game. It's all too repetitive. Roll with the baby Mario 
 bors to do this, or hove with Mario and Luigi to do that. If you want a puzzle game go look somewhere 
 else. To wrap this game up in a nutshell I'd say this: This game is meh. Check it out some time. 
 Don't buy it though. Just rent it. Even if you are a hardcore Mario fan, you probably won't get 
 much of a kick out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The game is just a classic mario game with a twist, not only will you be playing as mario and luigi 
 you also play as baby mario and baby luigi. The controll sceme works very well to let you easly 
 switch beetween pairs (the adults and the babies) Every level has its own soundtrack that gives 
 you a feel of what kind of place your in. There are a wide varrity of levels , everything from 
 bowsers castle to a monsters stomach. The fighting is relativly the same eccept for a couple of 
 things wont make you think youve done this before. Overall Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time 
 is not changed so dirasticly that fans wont be reminded of the previous games, but it will also 
 be different enough that you wont be bored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun playing Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time, but in the end it just proved to 
 be too damn hard. Overall, there are more pros than cons but it's a close call.
  
  Pros: Very cute, quite funny, gameplay is easy to get to grips with, nice graphics.
  
  Cons: 
 Too hard, loads of very, very long cut-scenes, not much to differentiate it from every other hand-held 
 RPG out there, power-ups not so powerful, can get a bit repetitive, did I mention those cut-scenes?
 
  
  I really must continue this gripe. It's something that is increasingly common in RPGs. I am sick 
 to death of sitting through endless dialogue bubbles of generic dialogue. There should be a button 
 that you can choose to press to skip by it all. But there's not. Even when you lose against a boss 
 and have to try again you have to suffer the same crap over and over. I got completely sick of 
 it. The worst part was when I spent 45 minutes killing a near-impossible boss only to be tortured 
 with 15 minutes of unskippable dialogue crap. I was fighting against the clock as my DS was almost 
 out of power. In the end I could not save it in time and I lost my game. If there was a way to 
 skip the stupid dialogue I could have. It's at this point I gave up on M&amp; L: PIT and I had to 
 resist the urge of throwing my DS against a wall.
  
  Man, writing this review has gotten me so angry again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAKandDAX123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time not only features Mario and Luigi as playable characters, but 
 Baby Mario and Baby Luigi! The gameplay is fun, but frustrating at times. During some of the harder 
 boss fights, pushing the wrong button for the wrong Mario Bro. can get annoying. Learning to play 
 the game doesnt take long. You use the A button for Mario, the B button for Luigi, the X button 
 for Baby Mario, and the Y button for Baby Luigi. There are moves you learn throughout the game, 
 and you get a tutorial to learn them. As far as a DS game goes, they graphics were good. I personally 
 like the cartoonist look. The sound went well for the game, and [for me, at least] was nice to 
 listen to. Weather or not your a fan of Mario, this game is a must have for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Hi this Poe Tokoro again, giving you the review of Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time!
  
  Gameplay: The controls are really easy understand. You just move around on a big 2-D map. The game 
 mixes three genres into one, RPG, action, and platformer. The games battles are especially exciting. 
 Instead of taking turns and getting your butt kicked, you can dodge and counter moves with the 
 right moves thus making it part action. The platforming part isn't the best but that's because 
 it's mainly RPG. But it still is fun and challenging.
  
  Graphics: This game isn't 3-D. It has some battle effects that are but not a lot. The character 
 sprites are really well done though, the characters can do much more than they could in the predecessor.
 
  
  Sound: The game is way more orchestrated than Superstar Saga. The music is brilliant and the voice 
 overs are hilarious. And all the little things that you didn't expect were done. The game is great.
 
  
  Value: For $30, the game is totally worth buying the only problem is, it is a really short game 
 compared to Superstar. It only takes 15 hours to complete the game. But I still say buy it because 
 even when it's beaten you'll want ot play through it again.
  
  Overall: Buy it no questions asked.
  
  -Poe Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  before buying this game i was wondering if it would be as good as superstar saga...... and guess 
 what it was even better !!!!
  the gameplay was good although i did finish it pretty quickly. the graphics were awesome.... one 
 of the best on the ds... they couldn't have been better. the sound was also great... it was corresponding 
 with each surrounding and different every time. the value was great, there was a lot to do but 
 not enough.....
  to sum it up this game is great, great graphics, great sound even though it is not as long as should 
 have been its still worth getting!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  this is a realy good game graphics are good for a rpg game better than the rpg games of rpg maker 
 2003 (as a example) its realy good the sounds the game dont born you sometimes you must think realy 
 good other you going died as a example but i love the way it sounds whith mario, luigi, mini luigi, mario 
 its realy creative but the colours are sometimes little bit borring
  and then i mean it as you ar ein the castal every time the same things and copys it have a good 
 story to ive not play the game out a ready but there is a
  little bit humor to and i love that in a RPG Good Job Nintendo!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Preese24AP
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. with the same style like Superstar Saga but now with diaper filled, crying 
 babies. the new babies make the game a lot more fun because you can do a lot more moves and they 
 make moves a lot more powerful. why i said this game can be frusterating is because there are some 
 puzzles you have to do with the babies that game take forever! it toke me a hour and a half to 
 complete one little puzzle. VERY FRUSTERATING!!!!!! i also like the concept of going back in time 
 to the past places like yoshis island. the enemy the shroobs are kinda rediculous i odnt no why 
 but they look purple toads with red eyes pretty much. boss battles can be pretty easy. but some 
 puzzles can be gay as hell!!!!! but this game is a good pick-up. time well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Mario has always been the kind of game that you know how it gets its charm. Either via the dialogue, 
 storyline or even enemies that appear. Its all familiar. The last Mario RPG on the GBA wasn't quite 
 the same, and felt slightly alien in respect. So with Partners in Time for the DS, its nice to 
 see that it has returned to Mushroom Kingdom, to some extent.
  
  The general storyline is good. There is an alien race called the Shroobs. Think the Mushroom people, 
 but purple and quite twisted. They have decided to invade Mushroom Kingdom, however, its in the 
 past. Princess Peach of the present day took a newly invented Time Machine to look at the Past, 
 only to find it in ruins. Meanwhile, Mario and Luigi are summoned to the time machine, and to go 
 back and rescue the princess, along with the baby forms of themselves.
  
  What is unusual about the way the plot goes is that at certain points it does what you'd think 
 would happen if time was altered, create a paradox. Unfortunately, you'd think that the baby versions 
 of themselves would be more useful, since the adult forms would have seen all of it before, but 
 in the baby perspective. In that sense, the story is slightly broken, but the good thing is that 
 they have the actions and charms that make the characters themselves believable.
  
  In terms of the overworld, its pretty much an updated version of the original GBA one. You control 
 each pair using certain buttons, Mario (A) , Luigi (B) , Baby Mario (Y) and Baby Luigi (X) . They're 
 mostly divided into pairs, which you can switch by pressing one of the other pair's buttons. You 
 can also use the adults to carry the babies, therefore using all four in battle. This is a neat 
 addition. The abilities that the brothers had in the last game are divided between adult and babies, 
 which makes it easier to remember who can do what.
  
  In battles, you can use either the babies, adults or both sets together. Its advisible to use both 
 at the same time, since that is when you're strongest and can do the most. Only the babies can 
 use the hammers, which are necessary to beat some of the enemies (spiked ones) , which unless you 
 have them alone or with the adults, (in other words if you come across a spiny with just the adults) 
 then you have to either run or use Bros Items. Bros Items are the games version of magic, and are 
 initiated by pressing certain buttons. If you keep a chain going long enough, you can do stupid 
 amounts of damage. This is a unique way of playing an RPG and keeps battles feeling fresh. The 
 enemies themselves can be dodged or countered using certain buttons, so no matter what you're up 
 against, you're always going to be on your toes.
  
  The only problem is the difficulty and the predictability. Mario RPG's have always been slightly 
 easier than RPG's like Dragon Quest or Final Fantasy, which is fair enough, since they're catering 
 for a younger audience. The problem is as a mature gamer, the battles are the only thing that could 
 confuse me. The puzzles are predictable, and you could quite easily get to the final boss battles 
 (there are three of them...) , in around three days. The lack of multiplayer options is also apparent, 
 but the mini-games (such as the gem collecting one) give for welcome distraction. The usual Mario 
 charm is a mixed blessing, as you know what to do if you face a goomba, koopa troopa, etc.
  
  So while the game achieves a lot of things and is incredibly fun to play, the lack of replay 
 value and the sheer predictability kind of stem that enjoyment. That said, it is a game that you 
 shouldn't miss, due to the interesting plot, if anything, since that is unusual for a Mario game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaInikaJaller
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  What can i say about Partners in time besides Fantastic? This RPG might not have any Touch screen 
 use AT ALL, but who cares? Not me, because i'm lovin it. (Mcdonalds, don't sue me.. XD) This shows 
 you that a game doesn't need to have big Fancy 3D Graphics to be considered good graphics. The 
 Nice 2-D style is very good for an RPG, while thankfully remaining clean and looking very good. 
 I especially enjoy the small cutscenes with Humor in them, some that i doubt younger kids would 
 understand. On TV all the time.
  
  I also enjoy the Bros Items, mainly when the babies are with you. Don't think The Babies are just 
 there to make the game funny. No no no. You WILL need them to complete missions and reach areas 
 the adults can't.
  
  I love the music in the game, and the gameplay sounds.. I'm dissapointed Mario and Luigi never 
 talk... Just weird random noises. Overall, this game is fantastic, and I urge you to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Very fun! The levels start out very easy, allowing you to get use to the controls and style of 
 the Puzzles. Reminds me of Paper Mario and the Thousand Year Door. It is rather refreshing to play 
 a light game rather then one that is constantly intense. I often fine that I am not as tired playing 
 this game as I sometimes get with other titles. The babies (Mario and Lugi) crying at certain points 
 is a little annoying though. If I have any criticisms, it is the long seg-ways. sometimes I need 
 to save and shutdown fast, but at times during the game, you cannot do this. You need to let the 
 scene play out. This is a small issue, the rest of the game is a nice adventure. The graphics are 
 not spectacular, but are well suited for a Mario type adventure. The user of DS controls are very 
 light, it is mostly old style AB/XY buttons for jumping and striking.
  
  I look foward to the next Mario Title... This one did not disappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ducky99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  This is the forth game I got for my DS and it is very good.
  I enjoyed the fact that it was sooo long!
  The way you do combat is great, each person has there 
 own button.
  Mario has the A button, Luigi has the B button,
  Baby Mario has the X button and Baby Luigi has the Y button. It took me a very long time to get 
 to the end and I am still to finish it.
  I recommend this game if you have a DS .
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  9.1
  I recommend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOA_Syndrome67F
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in time is a game that just barely lives up to nintendo pedigree. Read 
 this and find out why. STORY (reviewers tilt) : Princess peach is stolen AGAIN (no gasp) but, it's 
 not bowser (gasp!) . Well, the main kidnapper isn't bowser... So you, Mario and Luigi, have to go 
 find her. At the beginning, You run into the baby versions of you. Now, you are 4 people (scary!) 
 trying to find Princess peach and Baby peach. You run into many New and old characters throughout 
 your quest so be ready for some character frenzies. Though the story isn't as engaging as anticipated, 
 there are enough characters in there to keep it interesting. GAMEPLAY: This is just a simple turn-based, 
 walk-around rpg with action commands to attack your enemy. It's actually pretty good for the DS. 
 There are many attack items also that can be a challenge to master when it comes to their action 
 commands. The out of battle world, the 3D world, is full of explorable ledges, corners, and areas 
 that are not so secret but are explorable. You can also see the enemies before battling instead 
 of random battles. This makes the possibilities of you attacking before the battle starts, and 
 dodging enemies entirely. I found the gameplay fun for a little while. But at the end, it got a 
 little draggy, and slow. The short time it was fun though, redeems the dragginess. GRAPHICS: The 
 graphics are worth looking at for the DS. There is enough legible detail to pick out things that 
 made the game look better. However, the graphics can be a little bland and less gratifying because 
 of the overuse or underuse of color at some rare points in the game. Not much else can be said 
 about the graphics but the fact that it is good enough to get by higher than average on a DS. SOUND: 
 The game has a pretty good soundtrack. There's just a few stupid songs in there that can tick you 
 off. I didn't personally enjoy any of the songs in the game. In truth, I found the generic battle 
 music cumbersome and annoying. The only songs I could stand is some the many final boss themes 
 that aren't too cheesy. The sound effects are fine and well recorded. You can basically tell that 
 the sound effects were meant to be strong for the DS. VALUE: This is where this game gets on the 
 line of Normal and good. I played for 5 hours then I got bored of doing the same thing over again. 
 So this game has not as much lasting appeal DURING the story mode. But the game is kind of fun 
 if you really think about it and I did finish the game nonetheless. There is nothing to do after 
 beating the game though. So don't expect anything after the storyline. You could go back in time 
 before you rescue peach, but it's as if you didn't beat the game when you do that. So I don't recommend 
 this game for time consumption and time wasting but for a short easy game that you can beat quickly.
 
  
  Breakdown:
  
  Story: 8- for colorful characters but less engaging story.
  
  Gameplay: 9- for pure sense of fun but sense of slowness at end.
  
  Graphics: 8- for good quality 
 on a DS but occasional blandness.
  
  Sound: 9- for great sound effects, and okay music, with some leniency. Value: 5- for low sense 
 of interest and replayablilty.
  
  Final: 8.0 out of average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcm444
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I purchased Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners In Time hoping to find a new style in roleplaying games. 
 What I got was somewhat close to what I expected. I enjoyed the games creative battle system, which 
 allows you to control almost every aspect of the battle. Besides that, I felt the game was very 
 dull and was dragged down by many flaws in the story and game play.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  The game puts you in control of four main heros: Mario, Baby Mario, Luigi and Baby Luigi. Throughout 
 the game you battle enemies, gain experience points and become higher levels. So, the game has 
 the normal aspect of a good roleplaying game. What is different about Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners 
 In Time is that you can control how much damage you inflict on an opponent and, you can dodge enemy 
 attacks while counterattacking them at the same time. I found this to be very enjoyable. The battles 
 are very fun, since you can come in and have full health and leave just losing five to six hit 
 points. This is significant because in other roleplaying games when the enemy attacks you usually 
 cannot do anything to dodge their attacks. But this game allows you to play flawlessly if you have 
 good reflexes. So during a boss battle I could have five hit points remaining and say, Well I 
 could heal myself now, or I could try to land another hit on it and then cure myself. While in 
 regular role playing game I would be pressing the command button to heal my characters like there 
 was no tomorrow. THE BAD
  
  I dont want to same the game was dragged down by many problems, but there really is not any other 
 way for me to put it. The story was very dull and did not get me sucked into the game, like a good 
 role playing game should. I would keep in mind however that Mario and Luigi games are not known 
 for their amazing stories. Personally I would have loved to see a few more enemies. I loved when 
 I got to fight a new enemy and figure out all its new attacks, but after fighting the same enemy 
 for over an hour, I cant say that it stays fresh. The difficulty of the game ranges from easy 
 to very easy. Seriously, the game rarely offers a new challenge in difficulty. The only boss that 
 I had trouble on was the last boss, who I beat on my second try. Surprisingly, I did not find myself 
 missing random battles; however, there seemed to be a lack of enemies to battle. Hopefully this 
 review didnt tarnish your thoughts on buying this game. It offers solid game play and if your 
 looking for a game to pass time this is for you. Be warned, I felt the game became very repetitive 
 half way through the story. If you can wait till November when Final Fantasy III and Children of 
 Mana come, you could find yourself very pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKage
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  A very funny game that will keep you playing for hours!
  The controls are really easy and when you learn all the moves and have mastered them all, you can 
 do a great deal of damage to your opponent!
  
  Kinda follows the story to the first one -Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga, which I do own- But 
 this time, it has even better graphics than before!
  
  A whole lot of new moves and a great new storyline! Combine forces with the babies and do a TEAM 
 MOVE! Which does a BIG amount of damage, but only if you have kept the move going!
  
  A pleasure to play and I hope everyone buys it because it is one of the best games in 2006 that 
 has been released on the DS!
  
  Super Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi is a new Mario RPG series for Nintendo's handhelds. The first was on the GBA and 
 now a second one has spawned on the DS, taking use of the DS's two extra buttons (x, y) and its 
 two screens (and briefly the touch screen) . In the M&amp; L: PIT, Mario and Luigi team up with their 
 baby selves to save the princess from the evil shroobs (alien mushrooms) and collect the shattered 
 pieces of the colbat star, BY TRAVELING THROUGH TIME!!!. Now onto the review....
  
  The gameplay in M&amp; L: PIT is just like the first M&amp; L's gameplay, you get into battles when 
 you touch an enemy or when a boss battle is intiated and then it plays like a standered RPG, where 
 you and the enemy take turns attacking. However unlike most RPGs, whether or not you get hit by 
 and attack is up to you. When an enemy attacks, you have a chance to dodge it by using your hammer 
 or by jumping (depends on the sitiuation) and by using the A button for Mario, the Y button for 
 Baby Mario, the B button for Luigi, and the X button for Baby Luigi. These dodging controls also 
 stick for the overworld map (i wouldn't really call it it that but its close) , except the babies 
 are usually mounted on their respected adults backs unless you want to control the babies, in that 
 case you press X or Y and the babies are hurled off their adults backs. Now unlike the first game, 
 Mario and Luigi don't get hammers, the babies do. Another unique thing about the game is that on 
 the overworld, each character can execute a special move, by pressing the L button you can initiate 
 these special moves and insed of having the A, B, X and Y buttons be jump, they do something else. 
 For example, lets say you have hurled the babies of you backs and pressed the L button, now when 
 you are controlling Mario and Luigi, the A button transforms the current time Brothers into a ball 
 where they can roll around and interact with the invironment and the babies (you can run over the 
 babies to turn them into baby pancakes!) . These are usually used to solve puzzles in the game. 
 However, unlike M&amp; L 1s puzzles, M&amp; L: PIT's puzzles are fairly simple and can be taken care 
 of using only your common sense. They also took away bros. attacks and replaced them with Bros. 
 Items (essentially the same thing, except without MP or BP) , but regardless battles are still fun, 
 unlike the puzzles, they can be challenging. The humor in the game is the same as the first, humor 
 you may chuckle at but rarley ever actually literally LOL.
  
  The graphics in the game are still sprites, but they are alot clearer than the first and you can 
 tell the differance.
  
  The game has a great soundtrack that suites the game perfectly, but then again, most mario games 
 do. The sound effects are good to but certain sound effects can get annoying, such as the text 
 talk (if you know what i mean) . There are no voices in the game but that is a good things, voices 
 would have made the games expriance be bad.
  
  The game is a decent length, there are several worlds to go to ( believe there are 10) and each 
 world takes at the most 1-5 hours so this could be the game to keep you occupied for the month. The 
 game is worth buying, it is a pretty fun game, however, if you loved the first game and think you 
 could beat it in a month, i would try renting it, borrowing it from a friend would be the best. 
 Mario and Luigi Partners in Time keeps the same aspects of the first that made it fun but has a 
 less exciting script (a new part of the mario world&gt; traveling through time) and repetitive worlds 
 (just something about them gives u a case of deja vu) and just doesnt feel like the first. I would 
 have liked to see some more with the touch screen (but thats ok) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinones22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok if you liked Mario and Luigi Superstar Saga for Game Boy Advance even a tiny bit, you'll love 
 this game a lot!!! Even if you just like Mario and Luigi, or even one of them, its a great game!!!! 
 The better thing about this one, is a little better graphics the M&amp; L: SS (Superstar Saga, now 
 SS) Partners in Time (PiT) has good graphics. The game play, of course is a RPG, probably the best 
 ever that will be for the DS, maybe. It isn't a super short game, or really really long either. 
 It is really easy to learn how to play. And the better thing about PiT than SS, is that, if both 
 Mario and Luigi, the adults, the babys who you get from almost the beginning, are still there, 
 so you could use yours turns with them to revive and heal big Mario and Luigi. This game also has 
 more humor, the babys cry a lot, and Luigi ends up getting hert, taken away and more to get them 
 to stop. Occasionaly he crys to, and Mario has to stop Big Luigi and the babies to stop, this game 
 is a must have for the DS no matter what!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brybry
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  I think this game is the best Mario game ever! I got this as one of my first DS games and i'm almost 
 at the end! The coolest part is that there's a Mario and a baby Mario, a Luigi and a baby Luigi! 
 the only disappointment is that after you beat the game there's nothing to do. I really think though 
 that this is a great game! Hopefully they will make a remake with a teen Mario and Luigi. If they 
 do i'll buy it! Overall to get to the point I recommend this game. Just one thing to remember this 
 is for the DS only! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verdugoRE4
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This sequel to superstar saga is a relitively good one. You play as mario and luigi again in an 
 attempt to create a tottaly new adventure involving new surprises and characters including a race 
 of alien cretures known as the shroobs. The game is acually pretty damn hard if you think about 
 it. The last boss is a lot harder than cackletta was in the first game. And the bosses have Hp 
 ranging in the 2000 range. The game is pretty good. It is recommended if you played the first one. 
 But it may not be as fruitful or fun as the others. So I recommend you buy it, it is harder than 
 expected, but it is a great RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metal-Sonic-V4
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  This is one great game and it is a good **** g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g g g ggg g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g t g g g g 
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g 
 gg g g g g g g g g ggg g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g gg g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g ggg g g g good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viberooni
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS, at the time of this writing, is hard pressed for quality RPG's. There's many promising 
 titles on the horizon and if you really need your fix today then Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time 
 is the best of the lot. However that's not saying much, and this is coming from a huge fan of the 
 Paper Mario games and the original Mario & Luigi title for the Game Boy Advance. 
  
  Adding baby versions of Mario, Luigi and co. to the plot was a bad idea in my opinion. The cast 
 has a disproportionate amount of annoying characters and there's far too many cutscenes between 
 the four main ones that set out to be funny or cute but go on too long and try your patience. You 
 aren't going to find a heavy story here, the time traveling plot is pretty linear and not as enchanting 
 as I was hoping for. There is plenty of well written dialogue and it's a great localization, although 
 I stopped caring long before the game finished. Too often scenes feel needlessly drawn out, and 
 I found myself wanting to skip through a lot more of the game than I was allowed to.
  
  On the surface, the gameplay has many similarities with previous Mario RPG's. There's timed attacks 
 during the battles, emblems to collect/wear and puzzles to solve with an expanding arsenal of actions. 
 Unfortunately it's a less satisfying experience than before due to the fact that controlling four 
 characters at once grows tiresome and makes puzzling and navigating feel like a chore. The more 
 skills your team learns along the way the more convoluted it gets to control, which may be a plus 
 to some but came off as unnecessary to me. Battles grow repetitive but the timed button pressing 
 still keeps things interesting and it's probably the most fun part of the game. Boss encounters 
 are especially inventive. You can customize your characters with a few emblems and after gaining 
 levels, but it's not too deep of a system.
  
  Graphics are a mixed bag. The game has a wonderful Nintendo polish to it, with lots of familiar 
 Mario touches. However despite a few nice effects, most everything on display could have been faithfully 
 created on the GBA with power to spare. The game is plain looking and borderline ugly for a DS 
 title. Character sprites exhibit personality but lack detail, the environments are varied but most 
 aren't that interesting to explore. The pacing never feels quite right as you move around the various 
 worlds either, and you must warp to reach the different levels - there is no overworld in the game. 
 
  
  It's worth noting that Partners in Time doesn't use the touch screen, even when it would have greatly 
 improved navigating battle menus, inventories, and exploration. The dual screens are used frequently 
 in cut scenes and partner switching, although the constant shifting back and forth got on my nerves 
 much more than it immersed me in the gameplay. The game misuses the features of the DS in my opinion, 
 hopefully future RPG's for the system fare better. 
  
  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is not an overly memorable experience but it is a long one and 
 can be addicting, as is the case with most competent RPG's. It's a game that does some things well 
 and others poorly, and the fact that Partners in Time is simply a capable title and not an excellent 
 one is amplified in the shadow of it's more entertaining older siblings. If you're looking for 
 a Mario RPG on the go, stick with the GBA original. This isn't the AAA DS roleplaying experience 
 we've been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysour
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing, if I may say, it was better then the first game in many aspects, however 
 the gameplay was based of the first, it still was fun to play with many new additions, such as 
 the Mario and Luigi babys, that you can carry around on adult Mario and Luigi's backs, they help 
 solve puzzles and help your progress in the game. The rpg element of MALPIT is what particularly 
 makes this game attractive, the same old turn-based stratagy that we've all come to know and love, 
 has gained a very welcome twist, you can choose through the many super attacks that Mario, Luigi, 
 Baby Luigi, and Baby Mario can perform together to create spectacular attacks, by pressing buttons 
 at the right time during battle can increase your attacks total damage, without seeming to have 
 a limit, these attacks can go on for a while, as you repeat the button combinations, you can build 
 up your final damage.
  
  The story was pretty neat, mabye not quite original, but still has incredible twists. Professor 
 E. Gadds's new invention happens to be a shiny new time machine, showing it off before Peach and 
 her royal subjects, Peach decides to try it out, and blasts off to the past, however, when the 
 Time Machine returns it looks the worse for ware, and worse of all, Peach is not inside, but instead 
 an alien monster. After beating this creature, Mario and Luigi find themself forced to fight there 
 way through time portals that had appeared in the space time continuum, fighting the evil alien 
 Shroobs who have kidnapped for there dastardly plans, and eventually meeting up with there younger 
 infant selves, working together they must journey to save Peach and the hopeless Mushroom Kingdom.
 
  
  The game is quite long and intriguing, having the exception of the use of the touch screen, this 
 game is quite fun, and enjoyable, for not only kids but adults too. I recommend this game it is 
 truly a great game.
  
  After reading this, there should be no reason that you should not want this game. If you want an 
 action rpg with Mario and gang for the DS and you happen to have an extra $35 that your just dying 
 to spend on a worthwhile DS game, this game is the game for you, go ahead try it out, you'll probably 
 like it.
  
  Bless you for reading, and thank you for your time.
  
  -Mysour- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ass-shager
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  This is coulerfull, fun to play, great sounding , funny, great story but ocasionally repetative. 
 the story is that in the past mushroom kingdom, evil things called shroobs have come and taken 
 over. in the futer princess peach has just went back into the past in a time machine, and got captured. 
 because of this, mario and luigi have gone back to rescue her, and in the process, met up with 
 there younger selfs. the story has some suprising twists in it that you don't see coming. the gamplay 
 is great. the fighting isn't just jumping. you can use hammers with the babies as well. you can 
 also use things called bros. items, which some require all four character, and others reguire two 
 characters. the leveling up is basic, gain experience from defeating badguys. and you can also 
 buy better clothes and can equip things called badges, with can help you a lot. this game has a 
 lot of funny moments, and the sound is excelent. yet they did not really put good use towords the 
 touch pad. you inly get to use it once, and thats it. its value is excelent and the controls are 
 fairly easy to master. i would definatly buy this game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastkilrx
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time (DS)
  By: Calvin Kemph Taking two world-famous plumbers and plotting them in a confused Role Playing 
 Game, AlphaDream attempts to follow a SNES SquareSoft title, Super Mario RPG. Although the GBA 
 Superstar Saga went off almost without a hitch, the DS-copy doesnt seem entirely capable of translating 
 the formula. Licensing such lively characters as Mario and Luigi is obviously a huge risk, but 
 the hit-and-miss storyline of Partners in Time isnt so over-bearing that it ruins the experience. 
 Thankfully the enjoyable process of quick turn-based battles, mixed with often over-the-top humor 
 is enough to save the title from its own platforming perils. As the brothers Mario discover time 
 holes opening up all over Peachs Castle, After Prof. Elvin Gadd sends Princess Peach back into 
 Past-Mushroom Kingdom and she returns with a swarm of the alien race, known as the Shroobs. Shroobs 
 burrow their look from Toad, although they are of a purple tint. Mario &amp; Luigi take a dip into 
 one of the time holes which have spread about Princess Peachs castle, leading them to an interesting 
 encounter with their younger selves. Portrayed as a clumsy and nerving younger-sibling, Luigi is 
 often in tears, or terrified of the Shroobs; this makes for humorous situations aplenty. With the 
 comic suitcase known as Stuffwell along for the ride, Mario &amp; Luigi get to hear quips pretentious 
 in scale, large words littering the large suitcases vocabulary, BACK TO ADVENTURE, being his 
 personal favorite. Centering the gameplay around four plumbers makes for interesting gameplay. 
 Action buttons are used to gain access to new areas, for the elder bros. these actions include 
 the Spin Jump and Bros. Ball. The younger siblings can use the Baby Drill, to drill themselves 
 underground. Once conjoined, the Baby brothers Mario take to ridding piggyback on Mario &amp; Luigi. 
 The four partners are required to activate some 4-person panels. The babies can be thrown onto 
 trampolines, to discover areas above-ground, and drop down in other locations, sometimes opening 
 up further parts of the levels. In the midst of combat Mario &amp; Luigi can only jump or use Bros. 
 Items to overcome enemies, while their younger selves can jump, use hammers, or use Bros. Items. 
 After each battle, combatants left standing are awarded with undivided experience points which 
 leads to speedy Level-farming. One area of expertise the Bros. can add attributes to, once Leveling 
 up, is their Stache, which gives them discounts in the Shroom Shop and much like real life, anyone 
 with a good mustache deals out massive damage in battle. Only a few glitches litter the Mushroom 
 Kingdom this time around, though with the increase in technology, it wouldve been refreshing to 
 see more of an increase in visual display. Although sharper and maybe a little easier on the eyes, 
 the second screen only conflicts with the in-battle gameplay. The top screen is usually getting 
 in the way when youre trying to time a jump in defense, or are trying to land a jump-attack, on 
 a large enemy. Perhaps the touch-screen couldve been used more effectively than it has been here; 
 one instance of touch-screen control, late in the game, doesnt really justify the move from GBA-to-DS, 
 the visuals look only a little cleaner than most GBA games anyway. Aside from technical shortcomings 
 (some poor hit detection) , the game doesnt often enough challenge gamers. There are only a few 
 points where youll need to restart and throughout the rest of the game, as long as you defeat 
 each enemy which is actively pacing in their waypoint kind of way and stock up on numerous useful 
 offensive and defensive items, Mario &amp; Luigi is a breeze. Attaching different kinds of pants 
 to the plumbers can boost their stats to a fairly high degree. Each character can wield a badge 
 of awesomeness. Somehow whatever pants and badges youre wearing changes performance in battle. 
 If only my life were half as gratifying as that of Mario &amp; Luigis. But of course, every few 
 days, when I feel the time is right for a shower, Ill eventually change into new clothing, which 
 are essentially over-worn jeans and shirts with cigarette burns all over them. Perhaps if I applied 
 a badge, life would be more enjoyable. At times, Mario &amp; Luigi actually does feel like a Nintendo 
 game. Other times however, it feels loose and like a number of disenchanting NES-era RPGs, which 
 will remain unnamed. Theres only a single player mode and not a whole lot to do there, even once 
 you jump in feet first, youll likely end up exploring any part of the sub-world that has been 
 opened to you through late expeditions. An addictive formula for a short romp, wouldve screamed 
 failure, if it werent for the name Mario. Without making any real note of Superstar Saga whatever, 
 the action picks up in linear fashion, dragging itself through the mud of numerous occasions. Why 
 the GameCube Paper Mario: The Thousand Year door was able to stay lively, while Partners in Time 
 seems somewhat dead, is beyond me. My first guess would be that the source material has run itself 
 dry and AlphaDream had to resort to humorous writing to pull me along through. My second guess 
 would be based upon the fact that Mario doesnt translate well to double-screened RPG action. Factors 
 like difficulty seem subtle up until some of the late battles in the game, somewhat buried in everything 
 else thats going on. Youll cruise right through every level and then crash right on the last 
 one, realizing that youve breezed past an entire game without being challenged. Every concept 
 is tired (aside from a few lame diversion mini-games.) It mustve taken me more time to perform 
 some of the platforming tasks in this title, than it had taken me to beat most of the bosses. Items 
 feel cheap, and the types of enemies in the game seem kind of drained of personality and devoid 
 of intellect. They choose the wrong moves, at the wrong time. About the worst AI Ive seen in an 
 RPG, in a long time. At the very least, Partners in Time really nails its comical portions, lacking 
 in other, more important areas. Its unfortunate that most of the creatures dwelling in Mushroom 
 Kingdom seem to be relapsed Shroom-obsessed prototypes of some of our favorite Nintendo characters. 
 Though it has its moments, the dashes of personality arent quite worth fighting for. Its better 
 that Princess Peach is left to her own devices, Im tired of saving her sorry ass. 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZACK860
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This game starts off well and ends quite well. This is a game you would went to rent for 2 weeks. 
 It is an excellent game but if your looking for a good rpg just go out and buy any Pokemon game. 
 if you want one with Mario and Luigi then rent this. Im extremely upset with the way the game ends
 
  The moves the you can do for Mario, Luigi and there baby forms cool and the way that you can get 
 a headstart before a battle is real cool to. there are about 50 diffrent creatures to battle to 
 from goombas to the evil twin sisters sister. I like every thing about this game but its ending, 
 and if I were to change it thats all i would change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickexile
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, great, or absolutely horrible. Well, many people who played it, 
 that is including me, say this game is great, or excellent even. It is certainly different than 
 the first, but let me tell you, that is not meant in a bad way. It is shorter than the first and 
 it may have less adventure to it but it does have some great qualities to it. Its graphics are 
 better, the selection of moves is larger, and it has the same funny, quirky attitude. But it is 
 definitely more fun.
  I wont spoil anything for you guys but when you start the game, you play with both baby and adult 
 Mario and Luigi. This new twist to the game certainly makes the game look brighter and livelier. 
 Looking at the two sides of the past and present makes the game more wondrous and sucks you in 
 much deeper into the game than in the first game. So this is great 15  20 hours of fun. As you 
 learn new four person moves, collect star pieces every part of the game is interesting and pleasing.
 
  The battle system of the game works pretty much the same as the first game just that this time 
 there are no bros. moves but now there are bros. items. Which give you more choices of ways to 
 smash, hit, squash, and make your enemy go kablooey. It is still based on the same timed button 
 pressing. The story is more basic than the first as everything revolves around one focal point 
 place, hint, hint, where peach lives. You go to different world but you still always come back 
 to that place. Overall this is a great game that is definitely worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  9/10 Game play: This game has great game play in battles and aside from battles. The battles are 
 always fun and never get repetitive. Though this game is on the easy side. Aside from battles you 
 can do cool things like roll up into a ball and many other things. The Specials in battles are 
 different than the first. Instead of special attacks, you use items. I tend to like items better 
 though.
  
  8/10 Sound: Like any other Mario game, the sound is good.
  
  8/10 Music: There are some catchy tunes in this game but the battle music is weak among from the 
 first.
  
  9/10 Graphics: This game like the first one, is a very colourful game with nice graphics for the 
 DS and really uses the Dual Screen well.
  
  8.8/10 Overall
  
  Pros:
  Great colourful graphics
  Fun game play
  Catchy tunes
  Has good humour
  around 20 hours 
 of greatness
  
  Cons:
  Weak battle music
  Doesn't use the touch screens usage at all
  Not a lot of replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman_500
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario: The legendary mario from mushroom kingdom that has been in various adventures to save princess 
 peach from the evildoer bowser and his crew of evilies. He is the older brother of the family and 
 he is the short and tubby one of the bros. and he is also the tough one.
  Luigi: The well known Luigi?? In beanbean kingdom, nobody knew him and now in the past, nobody 
 knows him either and he is the younger bros. of the bros. crew and he is the fraidy cat of the 
 two. Luigi is the tall one and he is very skinny and his favorite clothes are his green shirt with 
 overalls over them. Mario is definitely the dominant brother of the two because he bosses Luigi 
 around most of the game but they both have brother love for eachother. Luigi is the brother that 
 mostly everybody likes b/c he is funny.
  Princess Toadstool: She is the famed princess from mushroom kingdom and pretty much, everyone in 
 their world knows her because she is the famous princess. Toadsworth is her assistant and is very 
 protective over her. (he's probably in there when she goes to the bathroom!) Peach is very fond 
 of Mario and Luigi because they are all childhood family really. Mario is the one who goes out 
 with Peach and Luigi and Daisy are the ones that go off and on with their relationship.
  Summary: E. Gadd made a time machine and Peach is gonna test it out and when the time machine comes 
 back, it is all broken and torn up really bad. Guess who comes out? A foreign monster does and 
 he attacks the kingdom and as always Mario has to defend them while Luigi watches and cheers on 
 Mario as he fights. After the fight, E. Gadd puts the monster in a container and studys the monster 
 and then an earthquake strikes and there is a time hole in the park of the castle. Luigi accidentally 
 trips in and Mario goes in and saves him from trouble and the whole saga starts for the bros. when 
 they have too save peach and the past and future of the mushroom kingdom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaMAN1121
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first play the origial (Mario And Luigi Superstar Saga) I had to get this one cause it was 
 a sequl. This was a fun game. It combines Mario (who doesn't love mario) RPG (My favorite genes 
 of games) and humor ( not as good as Crash Twinsantity but it still funny) All in one game smotie 
 (get it game smoilte LOL) The only thing I diddn't like is that when you beat the game. There nothing 
 left to do. Overall it has better graphics, better moves, it just plan better. buy this game NOW. 
 And trust me. It will be worth the DS and the money. It very good. Get it Now at your nearest games 
 store 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistergalaxy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Double bros. Double fun! Mario and Luigi 2 is awsome! Only one thin is bad, like the first... its 
 too short. But besides its a great RPG, if u hav a DS buy it caus if u dont hav it ur a loser! 
 This and Paper Mario 1 ar my favourit mario RPGs. Babies make it a little bit too easy but still 
 its just great. Bosses ar easy, enemies too but plot is fun! Mario and Luigi go to the past and 
 find lil master mario and lil master luigi who join them to fight an alien menace. An endin a little 
 bit f**ked with Princess Shroob havin a twin sister and the star u collected was really a bad guy. 
 They should have made more places instead of makin u get 2 star pieces in the shrine. Also, they 
 should have let u go to the places in the future and walk to get to other places instead of teleportin. 
 Still as I said befor, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  The game is long enough to keep you busy for some time and you don't get bored because of the fun 
 storyline. The two flaws in this game is that it's too easy for experienced gamers and the game 
 has no replay value whatsoever. The game's incoporation of the Baby Mario and Luigi are also extremely 
 fluid and don't cause much of a hassle in battle when you get used to it. Another fun aspect of 
 the game are the battle items you can use, they are extremely effective and their usefulness depend 
 on how well you can control them. I recommend the game to anyone who owns a nintendo ds because 
 it's an enjoyable game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freeglader
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Partners in time is the second game in the series of mario RPGS for the gameboy advance / DS, the 
 first one being on the advance. The original game, for those who havent played it, had an immersive 
 storyline and gameplay, a good soundtrack, and a fair amount of replay value. so how does the sequel 
 hold up?
  Well, as usual in a mario game, the scenario is that peach is once again in trouble, as is the 
 whole mushroom kingdom. a nasty bunch of aliens known as the "shroobs" are trying to take over 
 the mushroom kingdom. the twist is that they are trying to do it in the past, so that the future 
 mushroom kingdom will end up as shroob kingdom, therefore, you have to time travel to thwart their 
 evil plans! of course, time travel is never so straightforward, and wouldnt you know it, you happen 
 to run into your younger selfs! woah, paradox!
  The game sees you traversing a number of interesting places, including yoshis island and thwomp 
 moutain. the locations are all interesting, and there is never really a dull moment, as you get 
 swept along from one place to another, its all very exciting stuff. of course, the trademark humour 
 from the original remains intact, with often hilarious little cxutscenes, most of which involve 
 poor luigi getting injured or scared.
  There is still a big puzzle solving element to the game too, which is good. the puzzles are never 
 too difficult, but never so easy as to be insulting. You will have to use the bros, both senior 
 and junior to solve them, as each pair can do special team moves, such as rolling into a ball, 
 or becoming a miniature twister and floating through the air for a short while. and of course the 
 battling is the same as it always was, turn based / levelling up affair. however, you will need 
 to stay sharp for the battles, as the enemies attacks can be avoided, and most often hit right 
 back at them. this makes for engaging rather than boring and repetitive battling.
  the clothing system makes a big comeback too! throughout the game you will be able to buy new slack 
 and badges for each bro, with every new item giving a special ability. one set of slack for example 
 will boost attack but lower defence, while a badge will up defence and lower speed. its all about 
 getting the balance right.
  The soundtrack to the game is pretty good. each different location has its own quirky and unique 
 music. The only minor niggle is the battle music. its like final fantasy music, after the 400th 
 or so battle it tends to get a bit tedious. but you could always turn the volume down i guess...
 
  Graphics are also impressive, really showing how good the DS is. but again there is one small 
 niggle here, and the is the viewpoint sometimes can obstruct a view for a particularly difficult 
 jump, and there ARE some tricky ones.
  So all in all, a damn good sequel. it's fun to play, sounds good, looks great, and it has FOUR 
 mario brothers in it! what more could you ask for? well, maybe another great sequel...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisisMurderous
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The second Mario &amp; Luigi has a lot going for it. It has funny dialogue, an original battle 
 system and pretty graphics. The main story has been a hundred times as the plot is to save Peach 
 but it has a lot of humor in it's characters and dialogue. This game doesn't use the stylus but 
 it does use both it's screens well as many times the adult bros. and the bay bros. will have to 
 split up and explore different areas. Partners in Time improves over Super Star Saga in it's battle 
 system by bringing baby Mario &amp; Luigi and adding more variety. For the most part the battles 
 never seem to get repetitive. The only annoyance in the battle system is that most of the game 
 is too easy and some of the boss battles drag on for too long. The only thing that's hard sometimes 
 is remembering which button goes to which character when using attack items. Mario &amp; Luigi: 
 Partners in Time does feel a lot like the first but that isn't a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi get's to go back in time, meet up with thier younger selfs, and get to kick some 
 aliens ass. I wont tell you more of the story, buy the game and find out! And you know what? It's 
 worth the money.
  
  The Graphics are even better then on the GBA, looking better shaded and ... better then on the 
 GBA. You will see ingame. Also, Mario and Luigi has some smashing animation's inbattle that I just 
 love. Love love love. Just look at 'em! The babies aren't that inspiering, but those two I love 
 more then ever. More of this kind of animation's in games, please!
  
  Music is real good. Too. And I may be the only one that likes the Battle theme, but so be it. It's 
 good! Still humming to it =)
  
  Oh yeah, the rest of the games music is good too!
  
  The Gameplay inbattle are as fun as they are in any other Mario RPG game. Press diffrent buttons 
 to controll diffrent brothers, like in the first M&L. I never get bored with this kind of battles. 
 But on the overworld, they aren't that orginall. Not even hard. Activate switches. let the small 
 brothers go into small pasages to use a Warp block (find out ingame what that is) and keep going, 
 basic stuff. Well, the humor in the game keeps you going anyways.
  
  The bad stuff in the game is repetive overworld gameplay, but also that it is so short! And some 
 details that still gives me a thougt. Is Bowser still "Prince" Bowser when he grows up? Why would 
 E. Gadd get that water pump idea right in that moment? Where's Mario and Luigi's parents? And Peach's 
 parents too? Does she just rule the entire kingdom? THAT baby? Unexplainable.
  
  Oh, and the game's too short. Make a sequal with just Mario And Luigi next time, please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconCA
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  An enjoyable guilty pleasure to keep your thumbs busy. Storyline is inventive and entertaining. 
 Crying baby Princess Peach gets annoying, but it works. Mario and Luigi babbling is hilarious, 
 and time paradoxes galore!
  
  If you like to think just a little bit, to get your mind juices flowing, this is a fun game for 
 that. Not TOO much thought involved, a 7 year old can play.
  
  It can get boring after a while, but they keep you interested with new moves and abilities as any 
 RPG would, but these are so new and innovative, it's fun.
  
  Playing as 4 different characters, w/ their individual buttons is quite the marvel. Have I typed 
 100 words yet? Not much else to say. 
  
  The game does not support any touch screen capabilities, which sucks, but take it for what it is. 
 Good rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is the second part in the Mario & Luigi series which started on 
 the GBA with Superstar Saga. If you played the first one, you'll know what to expect with this 
 follow up. It's a hilarious game with great puzzles and interest locals and strange enemies. The 
 game makes great use of the two screens, displaying the maps when you're exploring the game world 
 and expanding the size of the battle screen with a high ceiling. Although there is little to no 
 use of the touch screen, it is not a big deal. The graphics are very crisp and the colors are nicely 
 balanced. In terms of audio, the music was fairly good and there's even a little voice acting for 
 Mario and Luigi, although it is usually one or two word.
  
  The story in the game is pretty interesting. I especially loved the whole time travel idea. It 
 made for a unique story. I won't give away any of the plot, other than to say that the Princess 
 is kidnapped by Browser yet again and Mario must save her. This time around there are also an alien 
 race called the Shrooms who have invaded the Mushroom Kingdom in the past. Mario and Luigi meet 
 up with themselves as babies and this makes for some great puzzles. Since you can slip up the pair 
 and play with the babies on the top screen and the grown-ups on the bottom. This leads to puzzles 
 where you need to accomplish multiple goals at the same time with both screens.
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a good laugh and need an rpg game for the Nintendo DS, Mario & Luigi: 
 Partners in Time is a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mecha_Koops
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best mario rpg around but just one thing is missing. diffulculty. peach comes 
 and treis out the new time machine professor egadd built but after a while peach dosent come back 
 so hroobs and smario and luigi go on a quest again to get the princess. on there way in the past 
 they find the younger versions of them self and team up. mario then gets attacks by the evil space 
 mushrooms the shroobs so mario and the babys team up to beat the shroobs and to save peach. the 
 controls are pretty good. the battle is interesting cause there is many differnt combos you can 
 do with the babys and the grown ups. thblere are many worlds to explore. the biggest letdown is 
 that its to short. way too short. you could probally beat it in 18 hours. thats not long for an 
 rpg. and the final boss is the only hard boss in the game and takes about an hour to beat. so if 
 you want a quick, enjoyable and funny rpg this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toadman411
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Lets start this review with the difficulty it is half easy half hard game but if you beat the game 
 about 2 times it feels vary easy. Another thing is that the puzzles are so easy that a first grader 
 could do it in a vary short time. And the game only uses the touch screen once the mic 0 times and 
 boring cutsenes. And in the game you team up with tour baby self WOW YOUR BABY SELF that must be 
 cool! It's not, the babies cry and thats annoying but thay do help through your quest a little because 
 if mario or luigi die the babies take there place in battle and then the babies die after that. well 
 the gameplay and storyline is not that difficult to understand or control, the grapics look the 
 same as superstar sega, the sound is great the value ok and Tilt i dont know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prankinyou
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I have to addmit that was realy hard at first then fun! You get to play as the origanal plumer 
 brothers but you also get to play as Baby Mario and Baby Luigi (my personal favorite on MK: DD, 
 but that has nothing to do with this game.) WARNING: I'm going to tell you a little about spoilers 
 and gameplay... in a short story, Peach goes through time, doesn't come back, Mario and Luigi try 
 to save her, meet baby selves, everyone helps out, they grab the fake peach, go to evil shroom 
 castle, deafeat the old hag, and then everyone's safe from harm... or are they? That pretty much 
 not spoiler-ness. I really loved this game so much, me-sa give it 5 stars / 5 stars.
  
  
  
  -AAA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer_4_lyfe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario & luigi: partners in time, is the best Mario RPG to date, its fun, its strategic and all 
 around good. the graphic are way beyond my expectations for a paper mario-like game, for the ds, 
 and when so much is going on, its pretty amazing. now the story line is pretty good too, finding 
 and rescuing the princess (hmm whaat else would it be?) and with all the new attacks, and bros items, 
 its bound to be good. with the back tracking, and getting to areas with new skills u acquire through 
 the game is also a plus. i also think this game is a little comic. with mario and luigi's voices (badageebaddaba) 
 its good for a good chuckle once and a while. so my reccomendation is that you try this game out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asassinmario
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  LOVE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! It is awesome. It's one of the best games I have ever ever played. I'm 
 sure anyone would who loves DS games would love this one. Trust me, I loved it. I have beat it and 
 still love playing that one game!!!! I love Mario games and this one for DS is my absolute favorite 
 Mario game. Probably my favorate anything game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I have always been a big Mario fan. If 
 you can find me in a topic you could tell from my username, avatar, signature, and sig pic. I think 
 this is an awesome game that I think anyone would love and enjoy. My username is asassinmario. I 
 take all friend requests by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishamuffypuppy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Mario and Luigi; two of the most famous plumbers alive have done justice to making 
 Nintendo's well renowned history as famous and successful as it is. With plenty of games, the Mario 
 Brothers have made history from best sellers, AAA Titles, and just games that attracts ages of 
 all kinds. But just like the gamers who play them, old and young, Mario and Luigi were young once 
 too- they all began as babies, also known as the adorable and lovable Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. 
 Cute, and cuddly they may appear, but they are well renowned fighters and tough to cope with at 
 times, but they are great characters. Well Mario Brothers, starring on the Nintendo DS in sequel 
 to 2003's Mario and Luigi Superstar Saga for the Game Boy Advance, have appeared on the Nintendo 
 DS with their infant counterparts in Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time. The game sports the same 
 gameplay style of its predecessor, which in comparison made the game such a hit, with platforming 
 and role playing elements. With a style that blends the feel of Paper Mario and Super Mario RPG, 
 the Mario and Luigi series were amazing achievements by Nintendo for successful hand held RPG franchises. 
 And now the second game in the series arrives on the Nintendo DS- taking advantage of the system's 
 well known features in expanding the gameplay even further for gamers to hone their skills to take 
 on whatever foes stand in there path. Mario and Luigi is a successful RPG on the Nintendo DS- so 
 read on to see what makes this game such a compelling and exciting sequel.
  
  Story: Just like the other successful Mario games that have hit the shores, Mario and Luigi is 
 an adventure game that sports a story- a rather interesting one to boot when put in comparison 
 to its predecessor, but the Story later becomes very expansive and an interesting tale. The story 
 begins as the highly renowned Professor E. Gadd finishes his first successful Time Machine, which 
 is powered by an artifact known as the Cobalt Star. Princess Peach being the eccentric type, immediately 
 sets off into the past with the capsule. After waiting for quite some time, the Time Machine returns, 
 but instead it is occupied by an alien of an unknown origin. Professor E. Gadd soon discovers that 
 Peach is seemingly lost in the past, and that something is troubling the world. Time portals have 
 appeared mysteriously across the Mushroom Kingdom, and their is a strange aura to the world. Mario 
 and Luigi being the saviors of Peach from time again, head to the past to rescue her. Whilst arriving, 
 they soon run into their infant counterparts, and all four of them decide to pair up so that they 
 may rescue the beloved Princess, and stop whatever mysterious force is troubling the Mushroom Kingdom 
 - and the mystery behind it.
  
  Presentation: Mario and Luigi Partners in Time sports the same style that made Superstar Saga such 
 a success. Sporting the same interactive battle system, RPG elements, and plenty of platforming, 
 this game is just as successful as the last. The music fits the Mushroom Kingdom well, and you'll 
 see some familiar creatures from the Mario Universe as well. With some great time elements, some 
 inventive use of the DS's Dual Screens, and some interesting team action with our four heroes, 
 Partners in Time sports the same ingenious design that the made the original as amazing as it is 
 - and this version may be just as compelling as its predecessor.
  
  Graphics: Now some gamers have noticed and complained about the graphics in Partners in Time, some 
 saying they look exactly like Superstar Saga with no updates whatsoever. However, this is far from 
 the truth. Partners in Time for the DS is absolutely gorgeous. The worlds span plenty of color 
 and imagination, and each of the 2-Dimensional sprites and backgrounds are detailed with such clarity 
 that is almost mind blowing. A great feature about this is that a large number of these objects 
 in the environment are interactive, which is an extremely exuberant feature of the game. From mountains 
 to oceans, caverns and spectacular battle ships, the environments are amazing in every way, and 
 there are plenty of them to satisfy any graphical geek's cravings. But one of the best features 
 about Partners in Time is the game's battle animations- they are absolutely stunning. Mario, Luigi, 
 and the infants all move with beautiful, smooth animation that is mind blowing, and the developers 
 did an awesome job of capturing the feel of movement in a classic Mario title. As well, the game 
 does sport its share of 3D elements as well, but these are less apparent than its 2D counterparts. 
 All in all, this game looks great and is an amazing looking game for the Nintendo DS. Even with 
 graphics from the old school world, a game like Partners in Time proves that sometimes, 2-Dimensional 
 can be better
  
  Sound: Now the sound in Partners in Time is great as well, and is does a great job of using the 
 DS's Stereo Speakers quite nicely. Each of the game's environments span plenty of different catchy 
 tunes that feel suiting in the Mario world, and they are all great to listen too. The in game battle 
 music is great too, however it is kind of disappointing when compared to catchy battle theme of 
 Superstar Saga. However, let me tell you, this game does have its fair share of annoyances with 
 the sound. In particular, this is the sound of crying babies throughout the game - whether it be 
 Baby Peach, Mario, or Luigi, they all can get quite irritating from time to time and will sometimes 
 encourage you to turn down the speakers. However, it is bearable enough and is a feature expected 
 in a game like this, so its great that the developers were able to catch the same Mario spirit 
 as the others.
  
  Gameplay: Now as for the gameplay elements of Partners in Time, Mario and Luigi plays just as well, 
 and in comparison is just as fun as its predecessor. The classic gameplay style of battling and 
 platforming is back, and their are plenty of new additions that take place - with some taking great 
 advantage of the DS's hardware. So what are these features that are so highly discussed in a successful 
 fashion? Well first, lets explain some of the game's platforming elements, with the battling and 
 RPG elements to follow suit. The game is an awesome plat forme that is well worth holding the Mario 
 name. Partners in Time introduces plenty of new features, and by which, each of the Mario brothers 
 (infants included) will be able to perform different tasks that are individual to each of them, 
 which is a great feature that adds to some clever puzzle solving for when the brothers need to 
 gain access to there next area. For starters, lets explain how it is in comparison to Mario's classic 
 side scrollers. Well the game takes place in 2-Dimensional environments, however the worlds are 
 free roaming however you may wish and their is access to plenty of different areas in the game. 
 But of course, some of these areas cannot be be accessed with just your standard arsenal of moves, 
 and that's where the Mario and Luigi elements take place. You have your standard jump moves available, 
 however it is organized in a way that is interesting and does add a degree of fun to the gameplay. 
 Well first off, the Older Mario Brothers, being the gentlemen they are, carry their Babies on their 
 backs throughout the most of the game, which means that whatever actions Mario or Luigi performs, 
 the Babies will be with them at all times. However, there are times when they need to separate 
 to solve certain puzzles or gain access to different areas, and this leads to a different button 
 layout for the characters. As well, they will be able to perform different actions in when they 
 are separated then when they are apart. Each Mario brother is assigned a button on the DS's Button 
 Pad, by which they may perform there action. Jump for example, can be performed by Mario by pressing 
 the A Button, wheras Luigi can jump using the B Button. The babies on the other hand, are organized 
 in the same fashion, however are assigned to the X (Baby Mario) and Y Buttons (Baby Luigi) . This 
 is a great feature, as in which, the brothers will not separate entirely (i. e., Mario will not 
 separate from Luigi, Baby Mario from Baby Luigi) , so gamers will need to press both buttons to 
 make the Mario brothers jump accordingly (with or without the babies on their back) . However, when 
 the babies would like to hop off of Mario's back, you can either press the X or Y Button to toss 
 both the babies into the air into either the ground, or to a higher platform that the Mario Brothers 
 cannot reach. The babies themselves have their own arsenal of limitations and advantages. For starters, 
 they cannot jump as high as Mario or Luigi, but they can crawl through small spaces, or perform 
 special tasks along with their adult counterparts. These special tasks however, I will not disclose, 
 however let me tell you that they are important actions to be done in which the brothers will do 
 in combination together and not apart (i. e., Mario and Luigi, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi) . Just 
 like in Superstar Saga, gamers were able to perform special moves at Mario and Luigi's arsenal 
 such as fly or jump higher, but Partners in Time introduces new actions available for gamers which 
 not only expands the platform and exploration elements of the game, but adds a great deal of depth 
 to them as well. So you have your basic plat former elements available for you, but Mario wouldn't 
 be Mario if it didn't have its classic foes and enemies at is disposal would it? Well, obviously 
 not, and Partners in Time combines the elements of Paper Mario and Super Mario RPG to create a 
 battle system that is addictive, entertaining, and fun - and the best part is, is that it works 
 perfectly. The interactive battle system works in a way that is expected, however this game has 
 plenty of different options available by how you would want it to work. So lets explain this battle 
 system. The battle system at first glance works just like any other traditional turn based role 
 playing game, and in a way, it is; however Mario and Luigi introduces elements that makes the battle 
 system fresh and fun. For starters, you have your standard Hit Points, POW, DEF, Speed, and Stache. 
 No one really knows what Stache means, however, the higher your character's Stache, the better. 
 A great feature is that each of the Mario Bros. excels in a different area: Mario has great POW, 
 Luigi DEF, and the Babies have greater Speed as well as varying POW and DEF. By so, you increase 
 you stats by leveling up and winning battles, or by gaining EXP. Once you level up, you'll also 
 have the option to bonus level up one of your stats, which is an interesting feature nothing less. 
 So these sound pretty standard right? Well in terms, yes, it is, but here is where the game differs 
 from other RPGs: Well first off, you have five available options for you in battle, and they will 
 be discussed as following. You have Jump, Hammer, Items, Bros Items, and Run. So far they seem 
 pretty self explanatory so I will explain them briefly. Jump, basically is when you decide to have 
 either Mario or Luigi jump (with the babies on their back; note that each character can fight without 
 babies/adults, however their will be disadvantages) . Mario will do his commands using the A Button, 
 with Baby Mario with the X. This is also the same with Luigi and Baby Luigi. So how does the interactivity 
 take place. Well first off, you can perform a standard jump, basically; right before Mario lands 
 on his enemy, you press the A Button, and it will deal greater damage then by missing the target. 
 Or you can do it in combination, by pressing the X Button, in which Baby Mario will Jump, and then 
 Mario will Jump Attack and you will need to press the A Button following suit. Its a very simple 
 system to learn and its intuitive as well, so its a great fresh feeling to the gameplay the makes 
 battling feel less linear. Next you have the Hammer ability, which is similar to the Jump option, 
 however, the babies are the ones who perform the strike with the hammer so the combination of which 
 is directly opposite. Next, you have your Items. This is pretty self-explanatory, as you'll have 
 your standard Mushrooms which can heal Hit Points, Refreshing Herbs to heal status effects, Peppers 
 which power up, and of course, the ever famous 1-Up Mushroom, which will revive a character. However, 
 once a character loses in battle, the baby, if riding on Mario or Luigi's back, will replace him 
 and have the option of recovering him. As well, Babies do not take damage whilst on Mario and Luigi's 
 back, which is an interesting feature, however the game would be much harder without that option. 
 Next is probably one of the most important features in Battling, and definitely the key to winning 
 some really tough fights. These are Bros Items. Remember how characters had Bros. Points in the 
 original Superstar Saga? Well Bros Items are the same however you will not need to recover points 
 in order to do so. These Bros. Items are very entertaining to use, and can deal a great deal of 
 damage to your opponents if used correctly and quickly. You have many different varieties, such 
 as Green Shells which bounce off your opponent and to your next teammate, and vice versa; and you 
 have other options such Fire Flowers, or you can even pile all four Mario Brothers into a Cannonball 
 to pummel into the enemy. They are great additions to the series, however, the game itself does 
 provide too many at your disposal which does make portions easier, however the difficulty is pretty 
 standard by itself. And lastly, Run lets you escape from battle as one would expect, but you'll 
 lost coins in the process. Well what about customization? This is role playing isn't it? Yes, Partners 
 in Time does include some good customization, but it is rather simple. You can update the brothers 
 clothing to increase stats (even if it doesn't change the appearance) or you can equip Badges which 
 will add different effects to the character. These are all great additions to the game that were 
 present in to the previous adventure, however, they have been expanded in a great way to add to 
 the game's gameplay. The battling itself is pulse-pounding and heart stopping, and there are plenty 
 of surprises waiting for you that sure will give you quite the surprise. Mario and Luigi Partners 
 in Time is amazing in terms of gameplay aspects, and each of them have taken a small or large portion 
 of its predecessor, and made it its own on the Nintendo DS. By which, the system has its fair share 
 of capabilities with the two screens. For example, battles themselves last on two screens, so characters 
 now have to watch out for whatever their foe may be planning twice as alertly- and as well, exploration 
 can also range to the top screen when the brothers are separated. However, when they are not, the 
 top screen just incorporates a simple, yet detailed map that really helps the gameplay aspects. 
 As well, throughout the game you will experience a fair share of minigames that are quite fun to 
 do, some of them original or reminiscent of the past game. Mario and Luigi is astounding due to 
 the large number of elements available in the game; there are plenty of gameplay aspects that are 
 sure to wow a gamer, and each and every one of them take a wonderful portion from its predecessor.
 
  
  Value: Mario and Luigi Partners in Time is one of the longer last Nintendo DS games. The RPG adventure 
 itself will take you around 15 hours to beat, not including all the extra exploration events available. 
 On its own merits, its a large portable game that will be sure to last you quite some time, and 
 its a great RPG with plenty of lasting value. Their are plenty bosses and villains in the game 
 that are sure to get you thinking and brawling with the game's heart stopping action. The large 
 overworld of Mushroom Kingdom needs to be saved again, and this time, you will be able to view 
 its differences from the past and the future in a way that's never seen before. The game exhibits 
 plenty of humor that leads to a laughing good time (as did its predecessor) , and the brothers will 
 leave you with a good Nintendo taste that you're sure to remember. Mario and Luigi Partners in 
 Time is a fantastic achievement by Nintendo and Alphadream, surely more games in the Mario and 
 Luigi series will be expected to be on the way. The game is highly recommended and one of the better 
 Nintendo DS games on the market. A heart pounding thrill ride, Partners in Time combines interactive 
 battling and platforming into a portable RPG that you're sure to remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammerman316
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game yesterday and i love it it's a bit like final fantasy but i enjoy it more as 
 it's more cheery and lovable (thanks too baby mario and luigi) there's not much too the game apart 
 from mushroom kingdom of the past has been taken over by shroobs and princess peach was transported 
 there so mario and luigi went too save her and found there younger selves who needed help battling 
 the shroobs. this game is your lord of the rings battle for middle earth of command and conquer 
 if you like having thechange of people and theme then youll love this as its a mario and luigi 
 final fantasy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega-sonic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  If you thought superstar saga was funny well Mario's back to save the Mushroom Kingdom from peril 
 once again but him and Luigi have got extra help in the form of Baby Mario and Luigi to save the 
 Kingdom. If you haven't played superstar saga the game will give you an easy training session to 
 get you up the speed. The downside about this game is the amount of time you have to defeat the 
 final boss because after the first part of the final boss battle you cannot save the game but after 
 that bad point i'm still going to give the game a mark of 9.3 and my best series award 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCWhiz1012
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  If you enjoyed Superstar Sage for the GBA, then you'll love the sequel. Mario and Luigi: Partners 
 in Time is the great DS version, and it makes use of two screens in a good way. Although the touch 
 screen doesn't need to be "touched", the screen is used in a variety of other ways. The top screen 
 is mostly reserved for the map screen, but when in battle, it's used for some bros. moves like 
 the "Cannonballers" technique. The top screen is also used when you send the babies in to a secret 
 area, in which they can change controls to help the older selves across pits and spikes, or to 
 open doors.
  In conclusion, it's an exceedingly good game, with improvement on the original. 96%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Never heard of this game i just bought it because i wanted another game.
  I LOVE THIS GAME. only i'm stuck at the boss by the valcano he's mad because he think's i water 
 he's valcano. can someone help me and send me a mail wich moves i should make and stuff?
  But the gameplay is just wow i love it..
  The graphics aren't great but it's like your playing 
 your old mario games on the new ds. It's just great! And the sound is also wonderful when you go 
 to the sewers your realy hear the sound that you hear on the old mario series.
  It's OLD SCHOOl
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lothis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Mario & Luigi Superstar Saga then you were probably anticipating this title. In 
 this new adventure, Mario & Luigi team up once again to save Princess Peach and in doing so they 
 team up with Mario & Luigi, only the baby versions. The four of them together set off on an adventure 
 to save the Mushroom Kingdom of the past from an invasion by the Shroobs, evil fungus men from 
 outer space.
  
  The graphics in this game are more or less the same as they were in Superstar Saga. But, that's 
 not necesarrily a bad thing as they do look good and vibrantly colorful. 
  
  The top screen will display a map, or the babies if the brothers are separated, and the bottom 
 screen will show adult Mario & Luigi. In battle, the bottom screen will show the ground while the 
 top screen will show the sky, used rarely by enemies and by a couple of Bros. Items. In this game, 
 Bros. Points have been eliminated and instead Bros. Items are used, and can be used as long as 
 both brothers are up and active (i. e. not stunned) and the various types of items create a new 
 twist on game play that the original did not have. Also, each bro is controlled by a certain button, 
 A for adult Mario, X for Baby Mario, Y for Baby Luigi, and B for adult Luigi. Only the babies have 
 hammers and hammers are always done with X and Y. Players of the original will be glad to know 
 that it retains the humor of the original as well as some updated gags, such as 1337 speakin Hammer 
 Bros.
  
  The sound is about the same as every other Mario Bros. game except that Mario and Luigi talk in 
 gibberish most of the time like they did in Superstar Saga.
  
  This game is fun for all, definately worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowheartless
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Partners in Time for a family trip to Las Vegas a few weeks back and it kept me entertained 
 on the 8-hour trip to there and in the hotel room when i had nothing else to do. Playing this really 
 brought back memories of the SNES title Super Mario Bros. RPG. That was a true masterpiece from 
 the Mario game series. Partners in Time is as close to a port of SMB RPG to the DS as it could 
 get. The game is much easier than SMB RPG, however, but is just as fine. Playing as Mario, Baby 
 Mario, Luigi, and Baby Luigi is really a change from Mario, Bowser, Peach, Geno, and others from 
 SMB RPG. I really enjoyed playing Partners in Time and I recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecontrol13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I thought the music was great. It may not be as catchy, but it sounds cooler. I absolutely loved 
 the music when you face the bigger princess shroob when she is transformed. The music in that battle 
 is my favorite of both games. I also liked how they brought back Fawful from the dead to sell badges. 
 The only problem I had with the game is that it wasnt quite as long as I hoped it was. I think 
 it could have been a little longer. Plus I really liked the babies. I didnt use to like them at 
 all, but playing this game made them grow on me. Now I love them and I always want to be them in 
 any other game they are in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  Back from their first turn in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, the bros. are jumping into a time-traveling, 
 role-playing adventure with a lot of help from their younger selves. 
  
  Professor E. Gadd has just completed his time machine! So excited was Princess Peach about the 
 new invention, that she decided to go on a joy ride with a few of her courtiers. But when the time 
 machine returns, no Princess, just an ugly Junior Shrooboid with a taste for Italian plumbers. 
 That's where Mario and Luigi come in. Bidden by Toadsworth, Peach's father, to find his daughter, 
 the bros. travel to the Mushroom Kingdom of yesteryear by jumping through mysterious time holes 
 which suddenly appear. 
  
  When Mario and Luigi find themselves in the past, they discover their home been invaded by the 
 creepy Shroobs, an evil alien race jealous of the Mushroom Kingdom's riches. It's up to the bros, 
 child and adult, to save the Mushroom Kingdom, rescue Peach, and return the Crystal Star shards 
 to Prof. E. Gadd.
  
  Basically its just trying to save the Princess again. But the story is Really solid and pure awesomeness
 
  
  
  
  Story - 8.9/10
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is also solid
  
  Instead of all 4 characters moving seperately and basically the other 3 controlling themselves, 
 there is a button for each character. Mario=A, Luigi=B, Baby Mario=X, and Baby Luigi=Y.
  Mario and Luigi give the babies Piggyback rides in order to avoid frustration of moving 2 characters 
 to a spot, then moving the other 2. You know how annoying that would get.
  
  If Mario and Luigi, can't reach a certain height, then you can hit the X button to make Baby Mario 
 and Baby Luigi get to that place and they sort of go off into their own little adventure. Their 
 job is to hit secret blocks and switches in places Mario and Luigi can't get to.
  
  All 4 characters get secret powers but it'll take a really long time to explain so you'll just 
 have to get the game and figure it out for yourself.
  
  The battling can get a little frustrating. Yes it is the usual "Take turns to attack" so be prepared 
 to say "WTF IT WAS MY TURN TO ATTACK, THIS ISNT FAIR". Because that does happen sometimes. Especially 
 when enemies heal other enemies, then attack you.
  There are plenty of item usages to. Like the shells where you have to kick shells back and forth 
 till you miss, the enemy dies, or the shell goes away on it's own
  Some of the other items allow you to poress the button of the character when you land on the enemies 
 head which is a very unique and useful idea.
  Items like the flower decrease your enemies stats which comes in handy. Especially when the enemy 
 is weak against those types of items.
  
  One last thing is that you can dodge attacks. HOOORAY. But sometimes it seems like the enemies 
 arent being fair and you get hit even though you dodged the attacks. You can also deflect attacks 
 with hammers. This also sometimes cheats you.
  
  
  
  Gameplay - 8.5/10
  
  Graphics
  
  Not to much to say about Graphics
  
  Colorful animations bring this game to 
 life. The little sprite (little animated people) characters move smoothly. Every detail that they 
 could have is in there. Even Baby Mario and Baby Luigi's hats bounce on their heads, resembling 
 how big the hats are for them.
  
  All the battles run smoothly and are gorgeous to watch and look at. Again all the animations on 
 the characters are realistic and they show the real facial expressions. Like Mario and Luigi look 
 weak and tired when they run low on health. Sadly this doesnt do it for the enemies. You never 
 even know when theyre aout to die.
  
  The environments and backgrounds are pretty and gorgeous to look at. They are really detailed
 
  
  The only real flaw is that this game doesnt take advantage of the DS's graphical capabilities. 
 But then again, it isnt really supposed to.
  
  
  
  Graphics - 9.0
  
  Audio
  
  The Music in this game is really Nice. Every piece of music blends in with the environments and 
 battles nicely
  
  Now the sound effects also blend in real nice. Every little sound effect goes with just about every 
 animation. Like the spaceships and the yoshi's
  
  Sadly, there is hardly any voiceovers. Sure mario and Luigi talk but all they say is stuff in Italian 
 and You actually hear the babies laugh and cry but that really is about it. Mario does often say 
 "Babies" and "Luigi"when he's talkin to the babies or angry at Luigi.
  Basically the game is heavily text drievn but Mario and Luigi dont even have lines. They just say 
 some italian stuff and that's it.
  
  What makes up for that flaw is that the game's text is very funny. Especially when people get mad 
 and say funny things. The hammer bros. also use alot of computer talk. Like Pwned, Noobs, Rotfl.
 
  
  Yes. Very funny game
  
  Audio - 8.2
  
  Review Summary
  
  Story - 8.9: Basically just the same saving Peach but the story is awesome
  Gameplay - 8.5: Easy 
 control and nice battling but stuff is hard and can cheat you
  Graphics - 9.0: Gorgeously detailed but not alot of 3-D goin on
  Audio - 8.2: Nice music and 
 sound effects but what happenned to voice overs?
  
  Bottom Line: If you have a DS and like RPG's then you should definitelly try this game out
  
 
  Averaged - 8.7
  My Overall - 8.9 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in time is another one of those games that is fun at first then rapidly 
 decends into the most boring thing ever. Now I will admit I'm not the biggest RPG fan out there, 
 but I do like some, and this one is not one of them. I got a couple hours into the game when I 
 jsut realized that I had no mvotive to go on. I found myself wanting to play it, then as soon as 
 the game started, I just shut it off. There are a few puzzels in the game that could be solved 
 by a monkey on crack, and battles that could be won with a toothpick. Overall I wouldn't get this 
 game is my life depended on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashbroz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game filled with a very good storyline and is a wonderful rpg. i dont see why any 
 one with a ds would not have this game. i know the ds does not have a ton of great games but this 
 is one of them. the sound for this game is not the greatest but the graphics are. gameplay is the 
 main focus here and its great. you have to go back in time to save princess peach from bowser who 
 is now baby bowser. mario, luigi and the babies get to battle many different enemies and bosses. 
 this is probably the 3rd best ds game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supermario2800
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is a pretty good game. The graphics are ok and the fighting style is pretty fun. First 
 you can play jump on your enemies or you can use something called Bros. Items. These item consider 
 of Fire Flowers, Ice Flowers, Green Shells, etc.
  The meaning of this game is to fight off an alien menace know as shroobs. Shroobs can take over 
 people and use their powers to destroy everything. This game takes place mostly in the past of Mario 
 and Luigi. The final bosses of this game are Princess Shroob, Elder Princess Shroob, Elder Princess 
 Shroob: Transformed and Shrowser. Shrowser is Bowser and the Elder Princess Shroob fused together.
 
  Before you fight off the final few bosses, try to level up to level 100 and get Copy Flowers and 
 Mix flowers. They do the most damage. Try to get the 1-Chance Badge for both the adults and the babies.
 
  If you get this game it might be confusing at first but after a while you will uncover some valuble 
 information on your journey. Use this information wisely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakygamer555
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  This game is for the DS (no duh  . ) , this game is just like its counterpart. The counterpart is 
 Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, for the GBA. The game is very difficult to describe, so I'll do 
 my best. Alright, here we go.
  
  You begin with a story, but I'm not gonna ruin it for ya :P. Then you start out in the past of 
 the Mushroom Kingdom, you play as Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi. You're asked by Toadsworth (Younger 
 self) to play with young Princess Peach (listen to me, I'm talking just like Toadsworth now) . You 
 go to Peach, but when you get to main hall you find a Toad on the floor and, you guessed it, Prince 
 (not King since we're back in time) Bowser is holding Peach and wants to kidnap her again (nothing 
 special here) . So then he talks about how he's gonna get away with it, then you enter a fight with 
 him as Baby Mario. There you learn how to use the action commands and dodge attacks. After you 
 defeat Prince Bowser, you're attacked again. But by aliens! Then once that happens you go into 
 the future where something's happening there. E. Gadd made a time machine and the Princess traveled 
 back in time to visit the Past Mushroom Kingdom, Toadsworth is worried about the Princess Peach 
 (again) he has a heart attack (or what ever) and falls to the floor. You (Mario) have to go to 
 his room and get a "Refreashshroom" and give it to him. You do that and once you give it to him 
 the Time Machine returns. Only, somethings wrong with it. It's messed up and broken. What happened? 
 When Mario, Luigi, E. Gadd, and Toadsworth check it out, something weird pops out of it and attacks 
 every one. You enter a battle scene with Mario (Ring any bells?) You learn the Action Commands 
 (again?) and once you defeat the thing. You continue the story. Now for the confusing part.
  
  Mostly all the attacks happened in the past right? Well in the future, they have no clue that 
 this happened. And another thing, the Future Mario & Luigi meets their younger selves and travel 
 to every where. I find that weird, wouldn't a Time Paradox happen if they meet? And also, wouldn't 
 the Fabric of time be messed up if all of this happened? 
  
  So all in all, this is a really good game. If you have alot, and I mean ALOT of time. You could 
 probably beat this game in like maybe 2 or 3 days. If you play it for that long are you're addicted 
 to it. Now here's the controls.
  
  Controls for Mario: ...... A.... that's it, just the A button.
  Controls for Luigi:.......... B... 
 That's it, just the B button.
  Controls for Baby Mario: ........ X... that's it.
  Controls for Baby Luigi:........ Y ... that's it.
  
  You can also do Bro. Moves. Some of them 
 Include Only 2 of them, sometimes 3. And most of them include all 4 of them. 
  
  So that's it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OniPlague
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting something briliant that would measure up to the first Mario & Luigi 
 game, one of the better games on the GameBoy Advance. With the same team that made the first one, 
 and the DS' capabilities of dual screens, a touch pad, and the X and Y buttons, it seemed like 
 it would be a fantastic addition to my collection. Unfortunately, none of that is true, and this 
 is hardly worth playing, and not worth 35 dollars at all.
  
  Let's start with the good things about the game. The battles are, for the most part, the same quality 
 as the fights on SuperStar Saga. The enemy designs are clever, and like in its predecessor, all 
 attacks can be dodged if you can see them coming. However, that seems to be where the similarities 
 end. As the game description indicates, you use Baby Mario and Baby Luigi now. In battle this allows 
 you to add to the power of your jump attacks and have the babies swing hammers at the enemies. 
 Additionally, if Mario or Luigi falls in battle, their past counterpart will move them aside and 
 cover for them. This makes battles somewhat easier, as in the original when one brother falls, 
 the other has to defend his unconcious body against attacks, but now it's simply a matter of having 
 Baby Mario or Luigi use a 1-Up Mushroom to bring back the adult on the next turn.
  
  Outside of battle, you use the four buttons to control your four brothers, X and Y for the babies, 
 A and B for the adults. Along the way, you get many of the same abilities from M&L: SSS, just allocated 
 to the babies now. Mario and Luigi no longer use hammers, since Baby Mario and Luigi hold these 
 now. Similarly, you won't be sending elder brothers underground or shortening them with a hammer, 
 since this role is fulfilled by the babies. Although the fire and thunder gloves are absent now, 
 Mario and Luigi have the new Brothers Ball ability, allowing them to roll around quickly. With 
 the old Brothers Spin ability, they can propel the babies into the air to fly over the highest 
 boundaries.
  
  That said, the enemies and puzzles remain solid, and shouldn't dissapoint too much. There's a negative 
 side to fights though, which I'll cover later. For now, I'll talk about this game's sorry excuse 
 for a story. In the past, about 20 years before the Mario games, sometime after Yoshi's Island 
 took place, alien mushrooms called Shroobs invaded and took over the Mushroom Kingdom. The main 
 objective in this game is to travel back in time, defeat the Shroobs and return Princess Peach 
 home safely, as she was captured by the Shroobs when testing Professor E. Gadd's time machine. 
 It doesn't sound too bad on paper, but as the story unfolds it's loaded with unexplained questions 
 (How come nobody remembered this invasion?) , deus ex machinas, and rather pointless ventures. I 
 won't spoil anything, but it's blatant that the only reason you travel through time is so Baby 
 Mario and Baby Luigi can be in this game. It's just a Mario game, not Chrono Cross or Metal Gear 
 Solid, and the plot isn't everything. Even so, this story sounds like it was written in 15 minutes 
 without being edited, and doesn't come anywhere close to the enjoyable scenarios portrayed in Super 
 Mario RPG, Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door, or Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. Nintendo has 
 definitely done better.
  
  Even if you ignore all the oddities and weaknesses in the plot, the characters are still a downfall. 
 None of them are very intriguing at all, with the exception of Baby Bowser. It's not like he steals 
 the show ala Kefka in Final Fantasy Vi; he's just not as irritating or one-sided as every single 
 other boring face in this game. The villains do nothing but evil things, and don't even speak in 
 English... unless it's convenient. The allies aren't much better. There's some mushroom attendant 
 who doesn't go any deeper than saying "I have amnesia and nightmares, by boogity!" and a Koopa 
 reporter who I wanted to kick into a spiked wall. Her lines were all delivered like she came straight 
 out of New York, and she came off as obnoxious and needlessly irritating. Also, she gave out way 
 too much exposition... aren't we allowed to figure out anything by ourselves? Please.
  
  That said, the game is far too linear. Believe me, after going somewhere once you'll never go there 
 again, save for the Present Day Castle, which merely serves as a central area to buy items and 
 clothes, then move on into time portals which lead to the past Mushroom Kingdom. Also, despite 
 the fact you travel back in time, you effectively alter the present twice. I'm not kidding either, 
 if you took Super Mario 64's castle, combined it with Superstar Saga and turned the portraits into 
 time warps, you'd have the setting for Partners in Time. There are no sidequests either, so after 
 you finish the game, that's it, you're done. You can play it again if you like, but don't expect 
 any extra hidden items or bosses.
  
  The most dull part about the game are the boss fights. Essentially, you figure out how to avoid 
 attacks from the boss, then start using Bros. Items to do as much damage as possible. Bros Items 
 are simple to use, tend to do damage in the hundreds (Compared to physical attacks which do 50 
 damage later on in the game) , can be used as long as you have enough Bros in good condition (i. e. 
 not dazed or fallen) , are found in many treasure boxes, dropped by many enemies, and can be purchased 
 cheaply. You'll need them too; most bosses have incredibly high amounts of HP. The higher level 
 you've reached, the more HP the boss will have. It sort of defeats the purpose of leveling up, 
 as does the fact that you can skip most, if not all, minor battles.
  
  This game is only worth playing once, and even then it doesn't leave a good impression. It could 
 have been better accomplished on the GBA, since the graphics are the same quality and the game 
 utilizes the touch screen once. Buy any Mario RPG except this one, I hope the DS gets a better 
 one to represent it, since the last 4 games were so fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atofu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 1, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  Well this is a very good RPG even though it is EXTREMELY SHORT! Completed it within 3 days. ( But 
 i didn't make then level 100) The graphics are really cool and the music is excellent! The basic 
 point of this game is rescuing peach (like every other mario game) You go to a time traveller and 
 me wiht your former selves ( baby mario and luigi) all the characters have a baby version lol (well 
 not all of them then) i was very addicted but then the ending wasn't as good as i expected. It 
 was fun fighting all the monsters and it wasn't too hard so it was really good. the cut scenes 
 were brilliant. It was very funny, this game is suitable for all ages, even adults!
  You wouldn't want to spend too muich money on this game because once you complete it you don't 
 really play this game again.
  enjoy!
  atofu
  p. s i haven't played it in 3 months... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  GBA's version of Mario and Luigi was fun, had good gameplay, had some awesome jokes and nice sound 
 effects, and it isn't different with this version but what Mario and Luigi had of revolutionary, 
 Partners in time lack. 
  
  In Mario and Luigi: Partners in time Peach's castle is being attacked by Alliens and need help, 
 but all of this drama happens in the past, so you will need to travel through time using some time 
 holes that will appear on Peach's castle, and while you travel tou will meet Mario and Luigi's 
 past versions, they will pair up to try to save both castles, the future one and the past one.
 
  
  In Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga it was already slightly complicated to control Mario and Luigi's 
 different moves and abilities out of battle, in this game things get a little bit harder because 
 you will have to deal with 4 characters instead of 2.
  
  There's another problem, the whole game is all about battles and bosses, battles and bosses, there 
 aren't enough puzzles to trick you as you need on an average RPG, there isn't anything that will 
 make you play it again, and there aren't many secrets or unlockables. 
  
  The best part of the game is the humor, like the last version, the jokes are all about Nintendo 
 itself, the babies are awesome funny specially Baby Luigi who is always making Luigi crazy and 
 scared. The battle system is the same, you can Jump, use items, special double attacks or runaway. 
 
  
  Overall it is a good game, but surpass the first version is almost an impossible job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  i got this game for $13 from a friend, so i cant really be dissapointed, but its a FUN GAME! i 
 never thought mario could go all RPG-ish.... barely got into it though... but so far, its fun!
 
  
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A 
 Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A 
 Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A 
 Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  One Hundred Words In A Review!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Housapan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  This game starts off great. Then, like Paper Mario games and the original Mario & Luigi, it kicks 
 it into a new gear and I'm totally hooked. I can't put down my DS. The new Bros weapons are fantastic. 
 You can use some of them to continiously beat the snot out of your enemies, and the button controls 
 get faster and more complicated until you get a bit dizzy. The difficulty of the game ramps up 
 appropriately so that you WILL get your butt wooped sometimes. I highly recommended it. I don't 
 know why gamespot's review sits under a 9.0 for this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  ah yes mario lugi the second in command of nintendo, rock on link. anyways this game is just like 
 tudu superstar saga for the gba. and it doesent quit advance from there except it does it just 
 find. the gameplay is different from most turnbased rpgs you can dodge by pressing A for mario 
 and B lugi. plus you also control thier younger selves they can go of and do stuff that the older 
 ones cant, momma meuh. like they get to use a hammer go into to places the others cant fit like 
 trees with holes. the thing is that i dont like is that there is no random enemies poop. every 
 time you level up you choose what you want a bounus on like if you go down to power you spin a 
 wheel and press the button and you cna randomly choose the bonus from one to usally 5. the controls 
 are really iffy when trying to dodge and peform special combo jumps and combo hits. the noise is 
 annoying and aggravating. but really funny. thats about it great game to add to collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifanboy_4life
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners In Time
  
  
  
  Here in my bedroom I have Mario & Luigi: Partners In Time for the Nintendo DS, the sequel to Mario 
 & Luigi: Superstar Saga. Now before I start I will tell you right here and now, that I have not 
 played Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, so I might go over some things that have been in the last 
 one that make this game less fun. If this happens (and I am pretty sure it will) I am sorry.
  
  So anyway the story in a nutshell is Peach went back in time, got kidnaped and Mario and Luigi 
 have to go back in time to save her. To save her you need to gather the star shards that have been 
 scattered around the Mushroom Kingdoms past, which is basically the same as the future Mushroom 
 Kingdom, except for the evil Shroob race that now inhabit the past. Only now, the Brothers have 
 been doubled now that they have their baby selves. This adds refreshing, innovative game-play, 
 which has always been present in a Mario title. Since there are more brothers, there are more Bros. 
 items like the Cannonballer, which blast all the brothers out of a cannon to fall on a designated 
 enemy. This also means new field moves like the baby-cakes, which turns Baby Mario and Baby Luigi 
 into pancakes that can go under tight spaces.
  
  There are many enemies, so every battle is fresh, because every single enemy has a different way 
 to get on your nerves. Another awesome thing about this game, is that though it may be turn-based 
 RPG, you never sit and wait for an enemy attack. This turn-based RPG is different, because even 
 when the enemy is attacking, you can dodge their attacks, and maybe even deal some damage to them 
 on their attack as well. For many enemies dodging is the only way to win because they deal a lot 
 and you do not have that much health points, so just letting them hit you is out of the question. 
 
  
  For every boss there is specific strategy to beating them. For example, when you have to fight 
 Swiggler, you must put poisonous mushrooms in his drink to do damage to him. If you put regular 
 mushrooms in his drink though, he will become stronger and deal a lot of damage to you. This will 
 keep your mind at work during every boss fight, instead of the monotonous attack then let your 
 enemy attack routine. Though there are hardly any voice-overs you can actually understand in this 
 game, the movements and actions are always hilarious, especially when Luigi cries. (Luigi, not 
 Baby Luigi) 
  
  This game is one of the greatest games I have played on the Nintendo DS, because the adventure 
 is so enjoyable. But the adventure is all you get out of this game. There are no Easter eggs, no 
 cheat codes, no extras. This game has little to none replay value. The field moves also get a little 
 dull after a while. After throwing the babies on cliffs over and over again, it will feel more 
 than a little repetitive. 
  
  Any who this is a solid DS game and will give you plenty of enjoyment to offer. Just remember to 
 rent it and see if you find it worth keeping, because once you are done with the adventure there 
 is nothing more to do with this game.- Traymon 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I've owned Mario and Luigi: PiT for a while now, and I've enjoyed playing in the entire way through.
 
  
  The concept of baby Mario and Luigi teaming up with grown-up Mario and Luigi is great. Their helping 
 on another is seamlessly play out, using unique ways to utilize both sets' abilities.
  
  You basically travel from place to place defeating different enemies to get closr to your goal. Although 
 it seems as if battling the same kind of enemies over and over is boring, it's far from that. As 
 the game progresses, so do the baby's and adult's skills. They level-up after defeating many different 
 enemies, giving you more control and a different kind of experience almost each time.
  
  The games story and gameplay are perfect. It provides a not too complicated plot yielding a not 
 too complicated game.
  
  I recommend it. It's a must for DS owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampire_lord00
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Well after the succes of Mario Super Saga for the GBA Nintendo decided to make a sequal out of 
 Partners in Time, and what a great game they made out of it! This game is filled with a sense of 
 style and humor no game with the exception of it's predecessor has accomplished before. This game 
 is just a joy from start to finish. The graphics are absolutely fantastic! they are super clean 
 and stay at a rock solid frame-rate the entire time. It shows that 2D is still alive and well. 
 All the areas you explore are also detailed and imaginitive. The combat is this game is what makes 
 it so fun! It takes turn based combat to a whole different level using the Paper Mario stylecombat. 
 It's very fun and since it's in the palm of your hands makes it even better. The boss fights are 
 also extremely well done and some are also very difficult. The game's sound is also extremely good 
 providing you with remixed Mario sounds but also has some of it's own tracks. If I had to say something 
 bad about the game though it would be it's length. It's definetly short for an RPG but since it's 
 so fun you'll play through it a countless number of times. Also you could go back and max out your 
 characters and giving them the best equipment which could take awhile. So what can I say except 
 that this is one of the best DS games out there at the moment. I absolutely love this game and 
 I'm sure you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  They're bAAack! And they're better than ever when you team up with Baby Mario and Luigi to save 
 Princess peach from the hands of the Shroobs. With a combination of attacks using Mario, Luigi, 
 Baby Mario and Baby Luigi you travel through the very fabric of time and space, jumping on a lot 
 of heads along the way.
  
  THE GOOD: Like any great RPG there is a great storyline. ML: PiT is no exception. A time traveling 
 experiment has gone awry amd our brave heroes must risk life and limb to save the Princess. The 
 GBA mario and luigi game was great but now its double the fun with the younger brothers. team up 
 to deal extra damage on jump attacks or excercise your reflexes with tricky-but rewarding bros. 
 items that either pass around the punishment on a silver platter or do diddly squat. But as always, 
 practive makes perfectt and you will soon leave those shroobs in a heap-o-hurt.
  
  THE BAD: There is really not much to say for this. The graphics on this game are nice but they 
 look just like the GBA version. I would have liked to see maybe 3-D bros items or something along 
 those lines to snazz it up a bit. The only other complaint I have is the time it takes to master 
 techniques. Throughout the game, you are able to use new and different bros items. As I got new 
 ones, it took me half a dozen tries and a few wasted turns to deal decent damage.
  
  THE VERDICT: As you should be able to to tell by the 9.1 score I gave this game, I highly recommend 
 it. If you get frustrateds be patient and you will be just fine. The game is very fun and has as 
 long lasting value. it took me 25 hours of gameplay to beat it. 
  
  Thanks for reading and God bless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideogamer
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  For once I can honestly say that I don't know what to say. Mario And Luigi: Superstar Saga may 
 be one of the greatest RPGs, nay, one of the best GAMES of all time. Fun gameplay that everyone 
 can enjoy, a quirky and funny plot with characters that are out of this world ridiculous and all-in-all 
 just a great, GREAT game. And now, and now THIS?! Nintendo, this is unforgivable, seriously, you're 
 not getting off the hook for this crime against nature they called a SEQUEL. You're telling me 
 the people who made the awesome M&L: SS made THIS?! There's no way, there's just really no way...
 
  
  Everything that the first Mario And Luigi did great is completely turned around with a bad plot, 
 STUPID characters and gameplay that really doesn't quite cut it. And did I mention that the first 
 time you beat this game you'll never want to play it again? Well let's just call that one of those 
 things that pretty much goes without really saying.
  
  So let's see, first thing the game screws up, hmm... ah, that's right, the horrible sin against 
 all justice that is the plot. Some weird guys from a weird planet are conspiring to do something. 
 That obvious something, destroying whatever doesn't look like them, you're gonna have to figure 
 out on you're own as these villains never actually talk which means that the whole "villains that 
 succeed at both being evil and having some laugh-worthy shenanigans" thing has pretty much been 
 thrown out the window. So yeah, you get these "Cobalt Star" shards that are in no way some kind 
 of generic plot device and you need to go back in time with your kid selves and rescue Princess 
 Peach again. Did I already forget the *yawn* or is it just too late to note about how lame the 
 plot is here? So I guess I *yawn* won't bother detailing it for you.
  
  Gameplay? Yeah it's kind of fun, just the fact that they didn't even try to use the touch-screen 
 for anything except for exactly ONE 30-second part is very lame indeed. Sure, the use of all four 
 face buttons (A, B, X and Y) for controlling ALL four of your characters can lead to some challenge 
 especially with the simultaneous use of both screens for knowing what your enemies are about to 
 throw at you in addition to using the new "Bros. Items" to unleash mad combos but it's all kind 
 of repetitive after a while, especially with how annoying the game's out of battle puzzles can 
 get. It really doesn't live up to the awesomely fun gameplay of the first game.
  
  Graphics look kind of nice, but are definitely repetitive with the constant use of the same facial 
 expressions. Audio is just annoying, especially the battle them which nowhere near delivers like 
 the first Mario And Luigi did with some tunes that were irresistibly catchy. Here, it's just pretty 
 irritating with music which doesn't really sound like anything. Just stupid.
  
  I don't have a thing else to say about this game other than the fact that Nintendo just messed 
 up completely by not focusing on the game that everyone was truly excited about. Instead they just 
 cranked out a generic RPG with no real redeeming qualities other than the fact that it shares the 
 same name a a game so great that this game shouldn't have any right to be a part of the same series. 
 If there's anything I'd like to say it's that I'm really disappointed with Nintendo for letting 
 me down so badly on this one. Sometimes, things can never be as good as you want them to be, no 
 matter how much you want them to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  Okay, I have a few comments about this game: some good, and some bad. First off, Partners in Time 
 is a fun game filled with great ideas, and unique moves to use in and out of battle. But, it also 
 is the game that I bestow the MOST TALKING AWARD TO! The game is simple with all of this in between 
 talking. I was fighting my third battle, and then that backpack guy comes out and gives me a full 
 explanation! Who needs it? Another annoying thing is the control ideas. I dont like dodging all 
 of these outrageous attacks each enemy hurls at you by pressing the characters button! It gets 
 really hard sometimes, but hey, at least it makes good use of every button. Now lets look at another 
 positive, like the fact that it tends to be funny. Luigi is a riot! Yeah, and the creativity, as 
 mentioned earlier is great! The bosses are all very unique. At one point you fight a bad egg, and 
 at another you fight Mrs. Thwomp. So as a wrap, Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is a good game 
 with the exception of long chat, and the pressing of many buttons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamataDragon
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is an ok DS game. It is an RPG. I bought, played it, and i am amazed. 
 But sometimes it is confusing with the controls. Sometimes, i wind up switching to the adult Mario 
 & Luigi instead of using the baby Mario & Luigi. I have made that mistake lots of times. It may 
 take a while for me to get used to the controls, but overall, it is an amazing RPG game for the 
 Nintendo DS. It is just the controls i am having a hard time with. I hope i get better as time 
 goes on. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  if you enjoy mario and lugi superstar saga than you will enjoy this game it plays exactaly the 
 same sorta but this time it has baby mario and baby lugi with you the game is ok and tons of items 
 to use the problems i have with it is somtimes the boss battles are wayyyyy to long one boss took 
 me over an hour and i was used to the controls and took out major damage on them also it takes 
 awhile to get used to and the timeing so like if you enjoyed super star saga or any fun RPG than 
 get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Prince
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is a great RPG and also a follow up to the original Mario and 
 Luigi: Superstar Saga.
  
  The game is a cross between Paper Mario, Mario RPG and Super Mario bros.
  
  There's platforming, 
 puzzle solving, lots of battles and it's just a whole lot of fun.
  
  The beginning of the game starts out with Peach, once again being stolen by these vile, purple 
 shroom people, if I remember correctly. The evil people start taking over the world and start to 
 infect it, and it's up to you, Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi to rescue princess peach.
 
  
  Throughout the game, you will have to visit different areas via time portals. Time portals are 
 hidden throughout the Mushroom Castle and they are warps to new areas.
  
  The same humour and laughter is in the game with the interaction of Mario and Luigi and the babies. 
 The behavioral aspects between the characters adds lots of depth and warmth to the game.
  
  The battle system is very interactive and creative because instead of just selecting your commands 
 and stuff, your characters need to time your jumps correctly and when you use items or special 
 powers, you need to get correct timing to use the items to its full potential.
  
  An example would be for a fireball attack. Fire Flowers are used by mashing one of the face buttons 
 and the needed button will switch and you need to keep up with the speed until the process ends.
 
  
  The music and sound are just phenominal outside of the battle screen that is. 
  
  The only flaw I saw with Mario and Luigi: PiT that I thought was much better during the first game 
 was that it was more creative and it felt more complete.
  
  It also felt a hell of a lot longer to. But as I was saying, later on during the game, battles 
 feel like a chour when your fighting really long bosses because when you only do so much damage 
 to a boss who has XXXX amount of life, you need to solely rely on you power up items, and it drains 
 the feeling of technique and strategy from the battle, none the less, it's still a whole lotta 
 fun.
  
  I got about 20 hours out of this game, but I got tired of it by the time I reached the annoying 
 dungeon in the end.
  
  I think the replay value isn't strong in this game, but if you find it for a decent price and you 
 loved the original, go for it! You will completely enjoy it.
  
  But I just feel this was a step backwards in some ways and some steps forward for this game.
 
  
  Hopefully this review helped!
  
  Until next time! Stay tuned for these upcoming game reviews!
  
  Advance Wars DS
  
  Kirby 
 Canvas Curse.
  
  Coming sometime in the future:
  
  Chrono Trigger
  
  Lunar II
  
  Recent PSP games
  
  and more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners In Time is the sequel to Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga. Since that 
 game was on the GBA, you have a second screen as a map. The touch screen is barely used. You start 
 off a while ago with the babies as Bowser Jr. tries to use his simplest plan. Fight him and then 
 go on with the story. The fighting in this game is great as the top screen usually shows "up above" 
 stuff or "voting". You only know jumping on your enemies, but later you will learn hammers, bro 
 items and more. Bro items are items that you can use to hit your opponents but with more damage 
 and tougher way. Example the green shell. If you have grown-ups and babies then a baby will hop 
 on and start when you are ready. You hit each characters buttons and they kick (except for the 
 baby that will spin) . There's also one that cannonballs you onto your enemy. Each character has 
 they button. This is just how to make your character do something than walk. Also more actions 
 while walking and shops too. Some actions are the Toad Twirl and the tubby baby (I just made that 
 name up) . If you think Bowser Jr. is behind all this then you're wrong. It's the Shroobs. They're 
 just evil mushroom people that are purple and blue and have eaten up Peach before. Anyway, I recommend 
 this game to any Mario fan or even one of the GBA pokemon games because it is the same style and 
 is really great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyGameFr34k
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas and I loved it. Didn't play super star saga but I might consider 
 it after I played partners in time.
  
  While playing this game the first thing that got my attention was the music it seems they got it 
 off a xylophone or a steel drum, but hey how do I know Im only 13, a very empty minded 13 year 
 old. I was relieved when I saw the curing mushroom because I don't like when RPGs put all these 
 items for all these illnesses, so the curing mushroom can cure all you illnesses you have.
  
  Also the fact you can see your enemy just incase you want to avoid him. And that the hp and 
 attack and all those other numbers are pretty small. What I found boring was that boss fights are 
 pretty long, and I only use items to fight them off, I wish I could depend on the basic attacks 
 more, and that this game was longer.
  
  There are lots of cool puzzles in this game; they are pretty funny at times, and there a lots of 
 obstacles in
  This game you can go through with all the inventive moves the Mario bros can do past and present.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 25, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  Bien antes de nada debo deciros que este es mi primer "repaso" en castellano. He bautizado el nombre 
 de "repaso" por decir algo parecido al "review" ingls, me gusta la palabra "analisi" que se utiliza 
 en todas las publicaciones de habla hispana, pero he querido utilizar esta por su parecido al ingls.
 
  
  Los que habis ledo algun "repaso" mo anteriormente, ya sabris que no suelo hacer "repasos" 
 si no me acabo el juego, como mnimo la parte mono-jugador del juego. Por tanto no hace falta decir 
 que este que tenemos aqu, el Mario & Luigi 2, lo he acabado.
  
  Empezaremos hablando de los grficos. De ellos no tengo mucho que decir, solo que creo que el 99% 
 del juego est hecho en 2D, si hay algo en 3D, yo no lo he visto. Los grficos son extraordinarios, 
 repito extraordinarios, los "sprites" son fabulosos como en la primera versin para GBA, los detalles 
 son muchos, los colores son los mejores para el tipo de juego, el diseo de los escenarios y los 
 personajes en general son perfectos. Lo nico malo quizs es la poca evolucin respecto al primer 
 juego, es decir, ya s que no se puede mejorar todo lo que he dicho, pero s que se puede variar, 
 es decir visualmente a veces no sabria diferenciar el primer juego del segundo, a no ser por que 
 aqu llevas 4 personajes y tienes 2 pantallas. Espero que me entendis, la sensacin de jugar a 
 algo fresco y nuevo que tuve con el primero aqu no la he tenido, y esto me ha pasado tanto con 
 los grficos como con los otros aspectos del juego que luego os explico.
  
  Hablemos del sonido, es un apartado que hoy en dia para m no tiene valor, la verdad. Aprovecho 
 para criticar el alto valor que le dan en muchas publicaciones al sonido. La verdad es que si un 
 juego aprovecha bien la potencia sonora de una consola, la que sea, ya es suficiente, es decir, 
 en este caso, lo unico reprochable es que no tenga el efecto envolvente disponible en el men tal 
 y como tiene el Metroid Prime Hunters, pero aparte de esto, si tiene las musiquitas y los saltitos 
 y estas cosas creo que es correcto y suficiente, no creo que deba tener todas las voces grabadas 
 o que tenga.... no s la verdad, es que no se que decir, porque a veces no puedes jugar ni con el 
 sonido, en casa molestas a todos, en la calle con el ruido ni lo oyes, la salvacin son los auriculares, 
 pero entonces no oyes si te hablan o no oyes si viene un coche....
  
  Basta ya, hablemos de la dificultad y jugabilidad ya que ambas cosas van casi juntas. Me ha faltado 
 algo de dificultad, creo que el primero me cost ms. S que es verdad que hay algun momento dificil, 
 pero en general es ms fcil que el primero. La jugabilidad es EXQUISITA, la verdad que quizs 
 se ha mejorado respecto al primero, pero muy poco porque era casi perfecto ya.
  
  Como ya sabis no suelo meterme mucho en las tramas de los juegos o con lo que te vas a encontrar, 
 ya sabis que es un RPG muy particular y que si habis visto o jugado al primero aqu te encuentras 
 con lo mismo con alguna novedad lgica. Ya sabeis que suelo valorar mucho el aspecto tcnico, y 
 sobre todo la sensacin que te queda, esa palabra que nadie a encontrado y muchos han buscado, 
 la sensacin final del jugador, bien quizs la palabra sea....."SENSACIONES" (o quizs no) , bien 
 las sensaciones que me ha dejado seran forzosamente diferentes a alguien que no haya jugado a la 
 primera parte, por tanto y teniendo en cuenta que de la primera parte a la segunda yo no dej demasiado 
 espacio de tiempo para reciclar las sensaciones del primero, dir que me ha parecido el tpico 
 "ms de lo mismo", que no es malo.... pero tal y como he dicho antes me han faltado algunas variaciones, 
 no me preguntis cules pero noto que es as. Bien, os puedo decir que al final me cost acabarlo, 
 pero no por dificultad sin por falta de emociones, me...... aburria???!!!... quizs es la edad.... (espero 
 que no) , pero es as adems me pareci muy previsible, no solo en lo que me iba a encontrar ya, 
 sin en lo que me iba a encontrar ms adelante. Por tanto, no creo que lo vuelva a jugar, como 
 mnimo en un futuro prximo...... Como vereis la puntuacin no es mala, ni mucho menos, ya que como 
 tipo de juego que es, es perfecto en todo, pero para no todas las experiencia.
  
  No s si me dejo algo, me parece que no, como vis me cuesta mucho ser objetivo, pero a veces es 
 mejor adentrarse en algo ms que en las calificaciones superficiales que se hacen..... aunque creo 
 que son necesarias tambin.
  
  Hay por cierto, me pareci bastante ms corto que el otro..... bueno al ser ms fcil... se me ha 
 hecho ms corto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  When mario and luigi: superstar saga came out, it was a blessing for the GBA. It was fun, the story 
 was great, it was a free roaming beanbean kingdom and best of all it had a lot of mario characters 
 in it. Due to the big success that superstar saga was, partners in time has quite a bit to live 
 up to and in some parts it's great while others not so.
  
  Let me first start off with the good things. Story, it's original with all new original mario badguys. 
 These alien mushroom monsters called the shroob have invaded the past to kidnap princess peach, 
 cause destruction and take over the mushroom kingdom. You begin with the baby bros. and then later 
 take control of the adults. What's good is the babies can hop on the adults back so you're only 
 controlling 2 characters so it's kept simple. But you can take control of the babies to solve puzzles.
 
  
  There's a lot of humour in this game. The way mario and luigi talk is quite funny and rediculous 
 such as the way they say 'babies'. There's good music in all parts of the game in each level. Graphics 
 are still the same as its predecessor so it's not all too different. Instead of bros. attacks which 
 can be quite confusing there's instead bros. items that are really useful in dealing a walloping 
 to the badguys. 
  
  Now I want to talk about the things I didn't really like. First off the game is just too linear. 
 Alpha dream got rid of that free roaming aspect that made the first one good and just had it as 
 a simple path that leads off into different screens. Free roaming was good because it gave the 
 player a chance to explore the whole land, to go in different directions in search of quests. This 
 linearaspect kind of drains the replay value of the game.
  
  This game in terms of how it looks and sounds and plays feels too much like a GBA experience. The 
 game doesn't use the stylus to even solve puzzles, the graphics are the same aswell as sound effects 
 and character models. This game could have been made for the GBA, not the DS. Sure the top screen 
 increases the height of the battlefield and offers a map but those weren't really needed. The DS 
 is a much more powerful handheld than the GBA but this game doesn't use it.
  
  There wasn't really much bosses in the game. And what was there was easy to beat and wasn't challenging. 
 In supestar saga, there was a heap of bosses that would kick my ass to a new dimension. This game 
 is too easy. The puzzles aren't challenging, bosses aren't hard and walking a linear path just 
 makes things too easy to proceed on in the game.
  
  Mario and luigi: partners in time is a good rpg for the DS and it can keep you entertained. But 
 superstar saga will always be better and it's sad because there was a lot of hope that I had in 
 the sequal of the best mario rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  it's not often that a game makes you laugh. and by that i mean really laugh. you know, the kind 
 of laughter that gets funny looks from anyone unlucky enough to be sat next to you on the bus or 
 on the train, at least that's what happened to me. the kind that, with each little chuckie, makes 
 people think you're, you know, a bit crazy. simple and clear are the graphics. it's perfect for 
 a mario game and just what you'd expect. its a truly hilarious story and the best use of the ds's 
 double screens yet. pretty much short and sweet, it's not very long and very easy to complete. 
 the sounds still have the mario charm all over. its as good as a mario adventure as you could hope 
 for and a cracking rpg on its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abe200x
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The new 4 brothers system keeps things very fresh yet challenging. Often times the brothers 
 are seperated causing you to only have the babies or the older brothers. This makes the game more 
 challenging and definitely alot more fun.
  
  Graphics: I could never see this series in full 3D so I am glad they only slightly enhanced the 
 GBA graphics engine to make this graphics engine which looks great. The cutscenes are fantastic 
 and always filled with classic Mario & Luigi humor.
  
  Sound: People come to Mario games expecting wonders from the sound department. The music was usually 
 really good but at times the sound effects seemed lacking. Not to say that they were bad, I just 
 expected more from this game in this department. 
  
  Value: Playing through several times really has no benefit but the first time through will definately 
 take you long enough and give you a rich mario RPG experience so I am setting the value as rather 
 high.
  
  Tilt: I love the series and there isn't much more I could ask for. This game delivered on great 
 levels and thats why the game gets a perfect tilt.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGerlach
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 19, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  same old same old mario game. princess is captured. wooptydoo. ohhh the excitement.
  
  but in all seriousness this game is alright untill you get to the final bosses. its like it never 
 ends. i totaly gave up on the game because i kept on thinking i beat it and what do you know.... 
 theres another boss. 
  
  this game has too much bosses in it and its jus tooooo drawned out. this game made me iritated 
 and bored at the same time. i even think i yawned a few times. 
  
  but if your good at mario and your hooked on mario then try it out. But if your a newcomer... FORGET 
 about it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6595
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 18, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in Time is the sequal to the Mario and Luigi series. With the DS double 
 screen feature it makes the game one of those games that is hard to get lost in. You play as Mario 
 and Luigi with the babies carried on their backs. By pressing X or Y you can control the babies. 
 After all that, overall, this game is really good and needs to be the next best seller.
  
  Gameplay- If you look at my other reviews I normally write alot about gameplay. I don't need to 
 write alot because the gameplay is fun and addictive. However, I will write more. There are various 
 bosses with certain strengths and weanesses. Also, the babies and adults can change levels increasing 
 there stats. Things like Defense, Offense, well, you get the picture. This started from the hit, 
 Mario and Luigi Superstar Sega. After the success of both these games, Mario and Luigi will go 
 on to be a long, high ranked series. It also includes people like the thwomps, Pety Pirhhana, Baby 
 Bowser. And a new race called the shroobs.
  
  Graphics- The top notch graphics come to the DS. They are colorful and bright so you can see the 
 comeidic action in this game. They are cool and really colorful.
  
  Sound- Without the sound this game wouldn't be a comedic ad it should be. All the hilarios sounds 
 from superstar sega are back and better then ever. Bonks on the head. Crying from the babies. This 
 game has got everything.
  
  Value- The bosses make this game really hard so good luck trying to beat it. The only replay value 
 is probably the bosses as the puzzles will be something you remember how to beat and that will 
 be no challenge.
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY 
 THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS 
 GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY 
 THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  Even though I've never played the first Mario and Luigi, I really enjoyed this game. It's basics 
 are similar to that of Paper Mario, that is, it is basically an RPG game, but the difference is 
 that you play it with Mario an Luigi at the same time. And in this case, with baby Mario and baby 
 Luigi as well.
  It has a very interesting story, with great gameplay and graphics.
  As you progress through the game, you learn new moves and which is the best character to face each 
 task.
  This game supports the Nintendo DS Rumble Pack, so if you have it, it's another good point to take 
 into account.
  To sum up, this is one of the greatest games for the DS... It is very long and interesting. Definitely 
 a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpblu
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 10, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is great... but it didn't seem too right for me. It didn't have the same feel as the 
 original, which was downright genius! The babies make an excellent additiong to the Mario RPG universe, 
 and they certainly show their stuff in battle, showing they can do more than poop in their diapers.
 
  
  The game is actually shorter than the original M&L, and the script wasn't as strong either. However, 
 it still held up pretty well, by chasing the Cobalt Star pieces to free Princess Peach. The game 
 has it's very surprising plot twists, which holds the plot together. You won't believe half the 
 things that actually happen. Oh, and of course, the humor was excellent! Very funny moments in 
 the game, you'll laugh quite a bit.
  
  Now, onto the gameplay, which seemed to lack a little. Don't get me wrong, it's very well done, 
 but it's always easy to mix up the buttons when inputing commands. I swear, when the commands come 
 quick, I ALWAYS mix up the X and Y buttons, even though I know where they're at. However, the new 
 Bros. Items and the fact that simpler attacks only require the A & X or B & Y buttons makes it 
 a little less irritating. Still, though, the length of the game made me a little mad. They should've 
 made it somewhat longer, but then again, it would mess up the plot in this game. Although I'm a 
 fan of using this badge, there's one badge that'll let you use as many items as you like. Um, yeah... 
 that makes the final boss SO easy.
  
  I don't know what makes me think it deserves a little less credit than it deserves. It didn't appeal 
 to me as much as I thought. Still, it's a great game. You should definitely play it. The only main 
 problem with this game is that it lacks replayability due to very little side quests and a shorter 
 plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in time takes place in both Present and past of the mushroom kingdom, Princess 
 peach is kidnapped by an Alien race known as Shroobs, and Mario & Luigi team up with there cute 
 selfs in this wicked RPG Game.
  
  GOOD: The babies are so cute and funny, i cant take my eyes of Luigi dacing in a fight, Great combat 
 system, An RPG, Great Duel Screen works)
  
  BAD: Not a good story, No use of Stylus (Thats all)
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  Unlike other RPG games, 
 Partners in time is all about relexes, you must hit your Corosponding charectures botton befor 
 he hits an emermy to so more damage, you also need to be fast on your fingers to dodge there attacks, 
 smart yeh?, the Duel Screen works well in this game, for when Baby Mario And Luigi goes of on there 
 own.
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The graphics are bright, colourfull and gazing, the graphics are just pure and great looking level 
 desgins.
  
  SOUND- 
  Funny sound effects and minor voice acting, brilliant, tho i cant say the same thing about the 
 background music.
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY IT: 
  Either if your an RPG fan or a Mario fan, you love this game to bits due to its great gameplay 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Hello people,
  
  This is my 3th review on GS, containing Mario&Luigi Partners in time, a combat/humor oriented RPG 
 in a Mario like setting.
  
  First of all, if you like RPG's, humor, and in overall a solid game, don't read the rest of this 
 review, but buy this game:) If you don't like those things, read my review and buy it after that: D
 
  
  Story:
  Without giving spoilers; Mario&Luigi will have to save the princess. Again. And you will feel the 
 need to do so. Again. And I love it!
  You will travel through time, back and forth, fight along side your baby selves and save the baby 
 and grown up princess Peach. The evil alien race, wich are a mean mushroom species are really bad 
 guys. This in a good way. They are well created, in a way you want to defeat them.
  I won't spoil anymore, because the story of this game, with the cutscenes, is so frickin funny!
 
  
  Graphics:
  Yes, this game is set in the Mario like setting. And yes it has bright colours again. Those aren't 
 bad things, but you might not like the visual style from this game, and seeing it in a RPG. I do 
 like it, because I got sick of the RPG's with only elves and orcs in them: P
  The attacks are nicely animated and the dual screen is used in a nice way. The levels and the games 
 map are fun to look at, and 'the map really has it; s use.
  
  Gameplay:
  Yeah baby! This isn't your typical RPG where you have to press attack and watch the action. You 
 will have to perfom time based button smashed to do the most damage, block attacks, etc. This makes 
 the gameplay interesting and sometimes really challenging
  
  Sound:
  The soundtracks are the nice Mario tunes and don't bother you while playing. The soundeffects are 
 properly done, and sometimes let you know when to block in battle (for example) .
  
  Conclusion: If you haven't bought this game allready, do it now^^ If you like a funny story with 
 amazingly funny cutscenes, role playing aspects, good and addictive combat, great graphics.... am 
 I still going on? Sorry^^
  Just try it out, you won't be let down, and you will most probably buy it.
  
  Thanks for reading.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played the previous game on the gameboy advance then you will probaly know what 
 to expect from this game. At first, you going in like a tourtle which explaining you what each 
 button do and how do play the game basiclly. After there is the story which is of course saving 
 the princess. One day, an army of aliens are coming and want to destroy the planet. Your job is 
 to (of course) it is to save the princess. The guys that worked on this game added some amazing 
 new features. For example: you can play now as baby Mario and baby Luigi which gives you extra 
 gameplay. I just wish that they added interhoc mode which could be a blast.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are pretty great for a Nintendo DS game. The characters, areas 
 and enemies are pretty the same as the gameboy advance version but they added some new tactics 
 and new animation which are great. 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game will be very familiar to the previous version game. The music is 
 great and the soundtracks are really good. But if the battle music will stay the same as previous 
 game then it will be awsome.
  
  Value: You can play this game for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The storymode is really 
 long and the leveling up feature will keep you busy in this game for a long time. Still, I wish 
 that there was maybe some bonus levels or hidden characters that you could play with. That would 
 be awsome.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is one of the best RPG games on any handheld consoles and you 
 should definitely want to go and try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beast450
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  One of the beamazing how addictive a game boy graphiced game can be if you like mario and luigi 
 games youve found a new addiction folks 30 dollars for an amazing gameplay experiance once you 
 start playing this dream come true you will be in the mushroomkingdom for hours on end this unforgettable 
 gameplay experiance is st games ive ever played in my life simply exquisite its definately earns 
 a 9.6 out of ten and yes its an awesome thing that the baby bros get to piggy back ride on their 
 older selves and its also pretty sweet when bowser and baby bowser team up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi pair up with Mario and Luigi for a fun, funny and clever RPG outing.
  
  The timing based attacks add more depth to the standard RPG battles; it's pretty darn funny; there's 
 a lot of good teamwork puzzles involved between the brothers and the babies.
  
  Partners In Time once again, er, partners up Mario and Luigi and sets them off on an adventure 
 to... guess what? Rescue Princess Peach! And once again, while perennial enemy Bowser is around 
 and causing trouble, he's not the primary source of the mischief. This time a race of purple alien 
 mushroom creatures called Shroobs have captured the pink princess and taken her... back in time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwchip2002
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  when I got my DS, I really did no want to be like everyone else and be different (so in other word 
 I did not get Sonic Rush, I will get that later) . For the first set of game I decided to get is 
 Mario & Luigi: Partners in time. For people that just bought the DS I suggest you to get this game. 
 It will also help you to know the basic controls of the Nintendo DS. When I started with the game 
 I was messing up big time because of the fact that I never had a game for the DS that was so complex. 
 A & B was in one spot and who knows where X & Y was, but then after words I got to know the controls 
 and got use to the game complexity. The story is really funny. who-ever wrote the story for the 
 game must of been high or something. And where is the love for Luigi. what, Mario was too cool 
 in sunshine that is why he was in that horror game and then in this game he gets his ass kicked. 
 As usual look at the score. I am not done with it yet I have to fight Bowers and kid Bowers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is a surprisingly good addition to the DS library and a happy 
 contribution to the Mario universe. I'd hesitated to purchase the game for sometime, fearing that 
 it's 30 dollar price tag would translate into 5 dollars of fun. Principally it was the childish, 
 cartoonish humour that turned me off -- and, admittedly, this is to my mind the biggest drawback 
 of the game. The story aside, gameplay is fun and quickly addictive. With experience to be gained, 
 coins to be found, and upgrades to purchase there's a certain amount of motivation inherent in 
 the game that keeps you playing. But, unlike say Spyro for the DS, which combines the same elements 
 of platformer, puzzler and RPG, Partners in Time mixes up gameplay and doesn't painfully repeat 
 itself from world to world. A sometimes frustrating, but still interesting and even fun part of 
 the game is the importance of one's button reflexes -- more damage can be done by pushing the right 
 buttons at the right time -- and timing is everything! Even at the most basic level, as you travel 
 around the Mushroom world, because you control both characters at once, and because Luigi always 
 follows Mario, hitting the buttons right makes a difference. It's a interesting element of gameplay. 
 
  
  Surprisingly, the game doesn't at all take advantage of the touch screen feature -- the two screens 
 of the DS allow at times for larger, combined fields of play, and the interaction of adult Mario 
 and Luigi on the bottom with their younger counterparts on the top, but your stylus always remained 
 holstered. It's simply not active in Partners in Time. Especially given the puzzel-element of the 
 game, it feels as though a certain vacuum of gameplay is created. 
  
  Without a doubt, this is the best game in the series and the best game of its type available for 
 play on the DS. New or used, it's worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmariofan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game where you have to save Princess Peach from Princess Shroob. Im just glad its 
 not Bowser for once taking Princess Peach. In the first one Peachs voice gets all out of whack, 
 but in this one she gets taken. Its up to Mario, Luigi..... Baby Mario and Baby Luigi to get her 
 back. There are a lot of enemys and as the game goes on it gets so much tougher. Believe me, I 
 thought throughout all the bosses and enemys it would lead somewhere and yet I still suck in this 
 game. When I played it again in a different file I died on the Wiggler (boss) . 
  Anyway, this game has great looking characters and awsome music. The music in this game has deffinatly 
 changed to better music. I think that this is a must buy and should be played in your hands rigth 
 now. So please go and get this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebop89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is definately the best RPG you can find at the moment for your 
 Nintendo DS. Now before I continue with this review, let me say that I never got a chance to play 
 Superstar Saga, so I will not be making any comparisons to a game I haven't played. That being 
 said, this is a great game and worth your time playing. Graphically this game is nice, colorful, 
 and sharp. The graphics don't really push the DS, but they are still very nice none the less. The 
 sound is good too, although it would have been nice to have actual dialogue instead of having to 
 read everything. As far as the gameplay goes, it is very fun, and even if you are not a fan of 
 RPGs I recommend giving this game a try. the battle system is very unique in that it not only requires 
 strategy, but also a great deal of timing with your moves and dodged and such. Its only fault is 
 that after 25-30 hours it gets repetitive, but that's not too big of a fault because you should 
 finish the game right around there. All in all this game is worth your money. This game will keep 
 you going for a while and is a whole lot of fun, even if you don't like RPG's. I recommend this 
 game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romanator
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  Let me just take a breather here, I must be dreaming!
  No game has ever been this good. God must of made it himself!
  
  Once again Mario and Luigi 
 are back to save Princess Peach
  from the dreaded Shroobs who have made home on their planet.
  Because of Prof. Gadds newest invention, 
 Princess Peach has been teleported back in time, where the shoobs are keeping here hostage. 
  Its up to Mario and Luigi to save the day and go back through a time portal and team up with their 
 younger selves and save Princess Peach!
  You will find yourself in alot of battles and will want eventually want to buy items to help you 
 along your way.
  I LOVE THE BOSS BATTLES!
  
  Pure Bliss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  It's one of the best games I've ever played in my life. It's one and only problem is that it was 
 shorter than the first one. I like great long games but this one failed to do the long part (I finished 
 it in less than 2 weeks) . But my favorite thing about it is the humor I'm a person that laughs alot 
 and needs a laugh once in a while and this gave me alot of laughter. The second best thing is the 
 four characters and their specials. It's fun controlling the four cause they all have different 
 abilities and power. The specials are crazy like the Cannonballers in which the four go into a cannon 
 and come out and then attack the enemy so thats why it's my favorite. The sound of the game is good, I 
 really like the tunes of it like in the last part they had a tune that sounded like the world was 
 about to end which was good. The value is great it was definetly worth my $35. So basically get the 
 game and you'll have fun ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sticxstat
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Some time ago, the world first saw the brothers Mario rescue the princess of the Mushroom Kingdom. 
 Twenty years later, the tried and true duo are still trying to ward off kidnappers. Unlike the 
 days of yesteryear, the brothers are now faced with not only a kidnapping, but time holes, invading 
 aliens, and a multitude of adversaries and enemies more diverse than the standard Goomba and Koopa.
 
  
  After successfully creating a time traveling machine, Professor E. Gadd lets Princess Peach take 
 it for a spin. Some time later, the machine returns bearing a monster, but no Peach. Rips in time, 
 or time holes, also begin appearing inside the castle. The time machine's energy source, the Cobalt 
 Star, is missing. A mess like this is one best handled by the courageous Mario and his supportive 
 brother Luigi.
  
  Short-way through the adventure, the brothers team up with their baby selves, creating an interesting 
 use of the DS's features. The A, B, X, and Y buttons are each dedicated to a character in both 
 battle and travel. At any time when traveling, Baby Mario and Luigi can separate from the group, 
 allowing two separate areas to be explored at the same time. When the group is together, the top 
 screen displays a map, and the bottom screen displays the game screen. When the brothers go separate 
 ways, the top screen displays the babies, and the bottom screen displays the older brothers. Interesting 
 as it is, the game has entirely no use of the touch capabilities of the DS.
  
  Random battles are not present here, replaced instead by a much-appreciated view of enemies on-screen. 
 This means that players can start the battle at an advantage by attacking the enemy on-screen or 
 just avoid battling altogether. Another interesting twist is the battle system itself, which allows 
 the players to cause more damage or avoid enemy attacks by pressing a certain button with correct 
 timing.
  
  The bright and cheery presentation is done well. Each new area seems unique, and is accompanied 
 by a well-done score. The game is text-based, but is witty and humorous enough to make it seem 
 right as such. Sadly, once the game is over, it's over. There is hardly anything to make anyone 
 want to come back and play it again.
  
  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is an enjoyable RPG. With it's unique gameplay, lengthy adventure, 
 and witty humor, any fan of Mario or of RPGs should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga for GBA was an RPG game where the player got control of Mario and 
 Luigi. You could not get other teammates, which would've been better, but it had a great storyline 
 and fun gameplay gimmicks, and just a fun style of play period. Even when you were outside of a 
 battle, you still took control of both. 
  
  Partners In Time, the sequel for Nintendo DS takes the style and adds to it. For example, in addition 
 to controlling Mario and Luigi, you go back in time and control 4 people. Mario, Luigi and the 
 baby versions of themselves all at the same time. Mario and Luigi can simply lift the babies on 
 their shoulders on tricky parts because there are a lot of puzzles in the game.
  
  The battles are similar to the original except now you are fighting a whole new cast of enemies 
 along with the ones from the original. You are fighting things that look like evil black and purple 
 Toads, except they are called Shroobs. You still battle about the same way, it is turn-based with 
 all of the action commands, etc. Shroob's aren't the only bosses that you'll fight either, you'll 
 fight characters from past Mario games, such as Petey Pirahna along with entirely new bosses. There 
 is also a new way to attack called "Bros. Items" where all four participate.
  
  You can tell an improvement with the graphics, no doubt about it. They are a lot more detailed 
 and a lot more colorful this time, but i can't really say that Mario and Luigi look different than 
 before. The enemies do look better and the backgrounds isn't repetitive like it sometimes was before.
 
  
  The musical score is wonderful, it sounds better than Superstar Saga. The sound effects are you 
 know, Mario sound effects. The game is longer than the origianl too, and a bit harder but it's 
 still pretty easy.
  
  Overall a better game than Superstar Saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi bring alot of Memorys and i should know but this game left me another memory this 
 game is one of the best RPG"s ive seen in a LONG time i like this game because its gets deep into 
 the story this game can make you want to come back for more every time you play it!! If you have 
 a DS buy this game no matter what you dont have to rent it first like some other DS titles its 
 got a good cartooney feeling to it and the battles are super fun i didnt like that it was a little 
 to predictable like you knew what what would happen next but thats not a reason to hate the game 
 i recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  This game is very FUN ! Worth buying even if you dont like the mario seiries. Great rpg.
  
  The gameplay ROCKS ! Great story but sometimes a little bit predictable. Lasts long and its GREAT 
 fun! Very addicting aswell. The 1 bad point is that u dont really ise the touch screen . but thats 
 ok with me coz the game rocks ! It took me about .......................... lets say 25 hours to 
 complete, which is good coz im usally fast at beating games.
  
  The graphics aint the best but they are still good. There colourfull and fun to look at.
  
 
  The sound is quite good. With loads of traditional mario tracks and even has new 1ns!
  
  This game ROCKS ! I would suggest ou get this game even if your not a fand of the mario seiries 
 coz it's GREAT fun !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llsesq88
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This is game is the best of the best Mario game I have ever played in my video game life!!!!! It 
 is very very very very (etc.) exiting for kids and adults. Every one who has a DS should get this 
 game. In my opinion. plez but this game it is great for kids 10 and up. this game is a perfect 
 10 and i mean it. for all the years i have played video games this game is the best of the best 
 i jusy  it. mario is so cute when he was young. same with Lugi. 
 
 
  need to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChromeGrill212
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and enjoyable to play. It could get addicting when u do role playing battles. 
 And it also is the type of roleplaying game that has something to do with strategy, like when u 
 could dodge an opponents attacks. It aint like most role playing games where u just dodge wit luck 
 and let the opponent attack u most of the time. I used to get sick of role playing games when u 
 just stand there and let the opponent attack u. But this game is more than just a role playing 
 game. It's a big inspiration to any type of final fantasy game. Mario & Luigi Partners in Time 
 sure does brighten up the generation of role playing games with moves that lets u dodge other opponents 
 attacks. If ur a fan of Super Mario games and also enjoy role playing games then u should just 
 get this game right away without renting it to know how good it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  One of the last great games on the Gameboy Advance was Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga. Its gameplay 
 was relatively unique, as well as very solid; it was backed up with some great audio and visuals. 
 Now, Nintendo have released a sequel, named Mario and Luigi: Partners in time. Partners in Time 
 has big shoes to fill, as the original was one of the best games ever released on the Gameboy Advance, 
 and for the most part, fans of the original won't be disappointed here.
  
  As the title of the game implies, there is a fair bit of time travel featured in the game. In fact, 
 you'll be traveling through time on several occasions, and for most of the game, you'll be traveling 
 with Baby Mario and Luigi. You'll only be able to control either Mario and Luigi, or Baby Mario 
 and Luigi once at a time, but you can switch the control anytime you like (for most of the portion 
 of the game) . Fortunately though, you'll be able to just simply carry the babies on Mario and Luigi's 
 back (piggy back!) .
  
  Although there are some new characters, and there is a lot of time traveling going on, the core 
 story is still somewhat the same. Princess Peach has been kidnapped, and now you have to go save 
 her. But an alien race gets caught up in the mix, and all sorts of things happen. Its a typical 
 Mario story line, but still interesting enough.
  
  Eventually, both young and old Mario Bros. learn new abilities. You'll need to utilize all of these 
 abilities to get through the game. Above all, these features add a good amount of depth to the 
 game, as they can be used for things that they were not initially designed for e. g Baby Mario's 
 hammer can be used to stun enemies. In true RPG tradition, the Mario Bros. will be able to level 
 up after they have gained the proper amount of experience from winning battles. You'll also be 
 able to attach them with badges and different clothes to enhance some of their stats. By gaining 
 levels and attaching badges and clothes, you'll be able to enhance stats like attack, speed, defense 
 and ect. You'll be able to notice the difference a lot of the time after you level up ect.
  
  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is a fantastic looking game. The 2D graphics are very colorful 
 and vibrant. This just proves that a game doesn't have to be 3D to look good. The games visual 
 effects look great, and the animation is very smooth. The sound is also compliments the graphics 
 well. The tunes mainly consist of the regular upbeat Mario beat found in most Mario games, but 
 if the sound gets a little annoying, you can always just switch it off.
  
  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is just an overall rock solid package. The original game was 
 great, and in many respects, this game is just as good, if not better. Although the sense of humor 
 (although still funny) isn't as fresh as it was in the original, Partners in Time is still has 
 a great sense of humor, and helps to make this game a joy to play. Anyone with a DS should certainly 
 check this game out, and its another great reason for those still deciding if they want a DS to 
 get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixDS
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game i was bit apprehensive, i mean, how is Nintendo supposed to 
 one up' their previous efforts of the GBA game? They now have two screens to work with.... but is 
 that really going to improve the gameplay all that much? How are they going to implement touch 
 screen aspects into the game, if at all? Well my fellow friends, Im happy to report that this game 
 turned out to be quite the magical little gem it was hyped to be.
  
  The dual screen aspects weren't the only things i was worried about with this game... to mean having 
 Mario and Luigi lug around a couple of babies on their back for some reason just didnt look visually 
 appealing to me. When i booted up the game my phobia's of little icky sticky babies was washed 
 away, and filled with happy Nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sufcmax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario and luigi partners in time is a great rpg but not as good as the last one superstar saga. 
 it just feels like a very guided game and linear with no other side quest like it should of had 
 + doesn't really use the touch screen. enough of the bad points lets be positive. the game has 
 one of the best uses of the duel screens always somthing to see and the it has the classic gameplay 
 of the old ones and its is very easy to control the babies and adults!!
  
  about the story now the shroobs which are basically purple mushrooms invade the past and capture 
 peach (again) so the brothers go and find her to do that they need to find seven shards of a star. 
 a little way through you meet the babies and team up with then. you go through about 20 worlds 
 to find her in total but you can go back and fid secrets hidden in that level.
  
  Over all a great rpg that doesn't let the series down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmorey01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi are back in one of there best games to date. The graphics are colorful and fun 
 to look at. The gameplay gives you a great sense of interactivity letting you either dodge attacks, 
 or even counterattack all together. And the babies are so cute when they cry =D. The attacks are 
 flashy and the itmes are very helpful. Even more so later in the game. The sound is good for the 
 most part and the story is kinda predictable. The value is great because there are alot of nintendo 
 characters cramed into this game. Overall, this game is a must buy if you like mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impex
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time starts you off with the Professor having a new invention, to 
 go back in time. Peach gets so excited and wants to try it out, so she does, and of course, disaster 
 occurs. It is then up to the heroic men of mustaches to go back in time with newly created "portals" 
 to save Princess Peach, and the castle from invasion. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  I, myself, found the gameplay to be a tad repetitive, meaning the battles sometimes get a little 
 tedious. Though, with the bright colors and funny dialogue, its hard to put the game down. Partners 
 in Time once again illustrates why Mario has been the number one man all these years, and this 
 time brings his brother along with him. For those of you who have played Superstar Saga, you'll 
 be right at home with this game. 
  
  With the battles you can team up with your younger Mario and younger Luigi to perform stronger 
 attacks, and attack with each other. You find "Bros. Items" which allow you to do so. Though, if 
 there was one thing I could change about Partners in TIme, it would be the difficulty. It's just 
 too easy. The bosses are just down right simple, and sometimes I find the random battles to be 
 on par with the difficulty of a boss. Odd. Anyway, the majority of the gameplay is rock solid, 
 and it's great to play.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Colorful, 2D rendering which fits the atmosphere perfectly. Landscape looks great, and the backgrounds 
 are appealing. No issues there. 
  
  Sound: Good music. Some traditional Mario music in the background, and it's great to just sit back 
 and listen to it once in awhile. 
  
  Value: Well, it's a fairly long RPG for a handheld (18 hours or so) , but I felt no drive to play 
 through it again. Awesome story line, and the dialogue helps you get into the silly atmosphere. 
 
  
  So... if any of you guys have desperately been looking for a good RPG on the DS, you found one. 
 It's colorful, bright, silly, and the dialogue is fantastic. It's quite lengthy for a handheld 
 RPG, and you should not miss out on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyGoomba
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Difficulty - Very very very easy... And linear! But it's fun when you play... But you're going 
 to play only for 3 days!
  
  Time Spent Playing - I bought it in X-mas and I finished it next day...
  
  Learning Curve - 
 Really simple to learn as M&L: SS it's like a normal RPG with battle elements of Paper Mario...
 
  
  Classification -  short... I want more! To simple and easy!
 
  
  Gameplay - It's short, but the short time spent it's going to be a great time! It's really really 
 fun! Why? Because: "AREA RESTRICTED. ALL NOOB INTRUDERS 2 B HAXORED BY US L33T HAMM3R BROZ.!"
 
  
  Graphics - Really cute, but recycled graphics from the last M&L
  
  Sound - Great music to some boss and some stages, but others...
  
  Value - 7... Yeah a big 
 7... 
  
  Tilt - 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameshark5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is the sequel to Superstar Saga. One of the only flaws in this 
 game, is it doesnt capture some of the humour and originality or superstar saga. Anywho, on to 
 my simple, and basic review.
  
  Gameplay: Good gameplay, same fun action and combat system. Good use of dual screen, new moves 
 and seperation method is fun and original. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Mario and luigi have never looked better, levels look good, new different baddies and 
 bosses. 9/10
  
  Sound: Good new music, still that classic "wew" jumping noise, slightly different voices between 
 babies and adults. Character voice's get a little annoying. 7/10
  
  Value: Not much to do after beating this game, lengthy story mode with interesting twists, and 
 the game will make you have fun throughout. 8/10
  
  Tilt: This game is fun, and good for all ages, bosses are lengthy and not to easy; or hard, reccomend 
 it expecially if you played Superstar Saga. 9/10
  
  Difficulty: Easy
  Time: 10-20
  Curve: 0-30 mins
  Class.: Just Plain Fun
  
  8.7 Great
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tycerion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  First off.... I've been a Paper Mario fan since the N64 days.
  
  So when they decided to throw a similarly played game for the DS... I jumped on it!
  
  Picked 
 this one up day after Christmas, and within a very short period of time, I was hooked. The badges 
 are back with a vengence, and NOW... you get to equip them on all four of the characters.... which 
 is good, and, at the same time, slightly sad, cause when you're playing with all four of them, 
 the babies' badges don't really come into that much play (unless you find the proper ones... and 
 that takes a little more diligence than most people are used to... but I promise if you look hard 
 enough, you'll find the right ones =)
  
  Now, as far as the game play goes, it's smooth... VERY smooth, and playable by even the most inexperienced 
 RPG gamers. The battles are easy to prepare for and if you're determined, it's easy to begin battles 
 with an upperhand on your enemies. The only thing that I'd say is bad about the game, is the fact 
 that there's not too many side-quests to pre-occupy the avid RPGer. Therefore causing a vacuum-like 
 linearity to take ahold of the stroyline. There are some cool little mini-games that at first seem 
 pointless but later pay off pretty well, but again, not enough to keep you preoccupied. Other than 
 that, you get to play as peach a little and Boswer as well, but their little cameoed play-as parts 
 are strickly storyline fodder and nothing really that exciting.
  
  The battle system and item usage are, page for page, :lol: Paper Mario, and it stays true to the 
 fore father almost religously! I mean that in no way as a put down, but if you didn't like that 
 battle system, then you'll be disappointed by this game.
  
  The graphics are cutesy at best, and they do a sweet job at making everything feel unique and different 
 each time you set foot onto new turf. So as a whole, I think they're good enough and definately 
 get the job done!
  
  Sounds.... I've never been the biggest fan of hand-held soundtracking. So, I'd say if you can deal 
 with decent sounding tracks and a few semi interesting scores .... than you'll like the way this 
 one plays out.
  
  I think the only thing I would have asked for, if anything really, would be the ability to rely 
 on more of a weapon based battle as opposed to an item based battle... BUT that's me. Besides, the 
 item usage is just so dang cool that you really forget about the physical attacking by the time 
 you're halfway through the game anyway.
  
  So truthfully, if you've ever played Paper Mario for either the N64 and/or the GC and you liked 
 them, you'll LOVE this game.
  
  It's a tiny bit on the short and sweet side for me, but it does do the job and it does it well, 
 so I can not take away from it at all!
  
  Peace and Mercy!
  
  Ty
  
  P. S. - Oh a final thought for you... THE LAST LAST Bowser match was a bit on the we need a FINAL 
 FINAL boss... and we haven't used Bowser at all really thus far.... let's throw him a bone real quick 
 side... but don't worry... they had to get him something substantial to do somewhere along the line. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostku1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Hi. Right now I am going to tell you about the sequel to Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. Now Partners 
 in Time is a great rpg. The game plays well and the the battle system is very interactive. The concept 
 of the game is to rescue Peach, but not from Bowser. She was taken from the Shroob Empire. But anyway 
 you'll find details in the game. So the game battle system is the same as Superstar Saga. It sill 
 lets you dodge and counter-attack enemies moves on your own will. But Nintendo doubled the fun by 
 adding the baby versions of Mario and Luigi as main players. Also with certain attack items allows 
 the babies to have special parts with the actions. Which allows double damage. Well I guees that's 
 all I can say so try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InvaderBlue
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  As we have learned from Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Mario is more than just a platforming-plumber. 
 This release, a sequel to that title, is worthy of the Mario & Luigi name.
  Story:
  Not much here, sadly. Basically, an alien race known as the "Shroobs" take over Mushroom Kingdom 
 in the past. Through an invention, Mario and Luigi notice how their kingdom has been destroyed. 
 They team up with baby versions of themselves to destroy the kingdom and Princess Shroob, who has 
 kidnapped Princess Peach. The writing in this game is not as strong as it was in the previous game, 
 but it is still decent enough.
  Gameplay:
  Since you have four brothers to control, things had to be changed. One is that you can interact 
 with the babies with your actions. The older Brothers no longer have the ability to hammer, as 
 that has been passed on to their younger selves. And the hi-jump has been removed and replaced 
 with a move that propels the babies from the backs of their older selves onto a high ledge. It's 
 a little hard to explain but it works well.
  In battle, things have changed a bit as well. Bros. Attacks no longer exist; they have been replaced 
 with Bros. Items. Surprisingly, the change works very well. You can use a variety of items with 
 two to four of the brothers, including green/red shells, and several flowers. There is a fair bit 
 of button mashing involved here, but it isn't at all annoying in most battles. When the babies 
 battle alone they also have access to the Bros. items, but not all of them because some require 
 all four brothers. The regular attacks can also be enhanced when the babies are with their older 
 selves, like a double jump or a super-powered hammer.
  Graphics:
  A nice improvement to the graphics from the first game, but they are of the same style, and some 
 of the designs are a little ugly. But the graphics are never distracting, confusing or annoying 
 at any point in time. Since the movements are fluid and the animations are strong, you'll probably 
 like them. Also, I have never experienced any slowdown in game.
  Sound:
  Relatively strong music all around, except where it really counts - the main battle theme. It's 
 not bad, but it's not as good as the theme from the first game. Might annoy you sometimes. The 
 boss theme is a little better, but the best battle theme is unfortunately the final battle theme.
 
  The voices for the babies and the older Bros are very strong, however. They talk a lot, and even 
 though most of it is gibberish, it's funny gibberish. The sound of the babies crying is a little 
 annoying, but it doesn't happen so often.
  
  Other:
  Since this is the second real RPG for the DS, you don't have that much to choose on this platform 
 for an RPG. But nevertheless, this is still the best RPG for the platform, and a strong RPG in 
 general. My only real complaint is that the game was very easy in general. I went back after I 
 completed everything in the game except the final boss to level up, but I don't think I really 
 needed to do that, as I actually died the least amount against the final boss. You don't need to 
 really stop and level up at any point in the game, just attack all the enemies in your path, which 
 to me, since I am not an RPG fan (first RPG I finished was this game) , is great because I like 
 getting on with the game instead of just leveling up. Looking through the GameFAQs, it seems that 
 people had a hard time with the game. I don't see how, as this game is just easy all around the 
 board.
  
  Replay value:
  Well, you can go back and play it again. There is one mini-game that you can go back and play as 
 well, but it is not very entertaining and you'll play it in the actual game as much as you probably 
 want to (once) . Other than that, this game has zero replay value. Once you've finished, it's over. 
 The game is pretty short as well. I finished it in 21:07, but I took the time to level up (it's 
 pretty unnecessary) so it should take you around 14-16 hours. But even though it's short and easy, 
 it's just a lot of fun.
  
  Overall, this is a pretty good RPG for Mario and Co., and it should delight fans of the first game 
 and newcomers alike (there is nary a reference to the first game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  mario and luigi partners in time is in my opinion the best DS game so far, this game has things 
 other games didnt, one thing is mario and luigi and the other thing is the general games system 
 and the basics, how theyre executed.
  
  The graphics look nice and bright and the game makes good use of the 2 screens. You are playing 
 95% of this game with the baby mario and luigi and the adult versions of them together, the adults 
 carry the babies, and you can split them up, that makes use of the 2 screens and allows the story 
 to have a lengthier touch as you have to sometimes make the babies and adults to go separate ways.
 
  
  The sound in my opinion could've been better, the music isnt as catchy as it used to be in pervious 
 mario games, but this gmae still has some good music and has smoe phrases the characters actually 
 say, most of it being in gibberish in an italian accent but the rest being small words in english, 
 which is cute and is fun hearing the babies talk.
  
  This game isnt very long, i got this game and played it for 2 weeks and i finished it, i played 
 for 15 hours in 2 weeks and the games over, this game wont last you very long, and there are no 
 side quests unless you want to collect beans which arent all that fun.
  
  This game has plenty of moves which you learn as you progress through the game, and adds to the 
 strategy sort of element in this game, there are some minor puzzles scattered through this game, 
 and are all very fun to solve but when you finish the game, youll be left thinking, what!? IS THAT 
 IT!? because the reviews leave you expecting more from the game in terms of puzzles and comedy, 
 which there is quite a bit of.
  
  The battle system is great, how you can counter moves and do different bros. attacks, and the levelling 
 up is addictive, youll want to battle over and over again just to make your bro. stronger, and 
 also the clothes you can find and the badges increase your stats and give your bro little powers 
 which is very rewarding in the end.
  
  This game should be bought, ive had many people play this game and some found it harder than me, 
 so i can imagine them taking 4-5 more hours to complete this than me, i found this game incredibly 
 easy but i really liked this game, im going to come back to this game in the future and play it 
 again just to remind me of this time of life. You need this game if youre a mario fan, just dont 
 expect to play it for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kipi19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game i was a a bit suprsised at how good it was, although i hadn't played 
 Superstar Saga it seems that this game has lived up to its expectations, i've played this game 
 for a decent amount of time to give this game a review, the way that games language was dealt with 
 very well, and the battle system between Mario & Luigi and their younger counterparts was also 
 very well done. the story is also very funny, interesting and very enjoyable all at the same time. 
 i hope to enjoy more of this game. and if there is a sequel, i will know i will be interested. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bettsy1987
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok i hate to be the one to say this but Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is average at best. Lets 
 look at the positives. The graphics have a unique style that i really like, the whole game just 
 feels so mario and i must admit i think its one of the best looking DS games. Then theres the music 
 which, when in battles, is incredibly weak, there just doesn't seem to be any of the catchy, head 
 nodding tunes which Nintendo is famous for. The music outside of battle is better but still far 
 of Nintendo's brilliant standards. The gameplay is good but i just kept getting a feeling that 
 something special was around the corner but never appeared, which is a shame as the basic gameplay 
 is handled very well. Finally the length is, for me, an important issue and i was rather diappointed 
 with the length of this game.
  
  All in all Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time handles the basics very well and is fun in short bursts. 
 However, considering its predecessors, i was very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenyuki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Hi. Right now I am going to tell you about the sequel to Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. Now Partners 
 in Time is a great rpg. The game plays well and the the battle system is very interactive. The concept 
 of the game is to rescue Peach, but not from Bowser. She was taken from the Shroob Empire. But anyway 
 you'll find details in the game. So the game battle system is the same as Superstar Saga. It sill 
 lets you dodge and counter-attack enemies moves on your own will. But Nintendo doubled the fun by 
 adding the baby versions of Mario and Luigi as main players. Also with certain attack items allows 
 the babies to have special parts with the actions. Which allows double damage. Well I guees that's 
 all I can say so try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanielEntwistle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  --Overview --
  
  When the original was released on the GBA, I overlooked it, not because I believed it to be a bad 
 game, but because my GBA was not my preferred system, and saw little point. Eventually, however, 
 I found it second-hand for a cheap price, and decided to buy it. I was glued to my small GBA screen 
 for weeks, and I am happy to say that not only does Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time (PiT) expand 
 upon the M&L universe, but proivides the impetus for a long run in this already breathtaking series. 
 
  
  The story kicks off in 'Past' Mushroom Kingdom, where Yoshi's Island stars Baby Mario and Luigi 
 find the castle under seige from a prepubescent Prince Bowser. After quickly disposing of their 
 future arch enemy, a new threat rears its ugly head, namely the alien Shroom race. We are then 
 catapulted into the 'future', or present or... well, whatever, and join the Mario and Luigi we 
 all know and love celebrating the latest achievement of Professor E. Gadd - a Time Machine. Needless 
 to say, not everything goes to plan, and the trip Princess Peach undertook fails miserably. The 
 two iconic brothers go off in search of the Princess in the past, and inevitably meet up with their 
 past selves, and the adventure begins.
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  Working on the 'If it ain't broke - don't fix it' attitude, PiT recalls the battle and overworld 
 gameplay that Superstar Saga fans will be familiar with. However, first time players are gently 
 lowered into the gameplay mechanics with a handy and informative tutorial (comically done twice, 
 to echo the timeline) . But unlike the first game, where many of the first enemies are easy to beat, 
 PiT quickly pits you against harder enemies that may throw off many players. 
  The controls for PiT are reletively simple, with the A, X, Y, and B buttons corresponding to a 
 certain character. The A button controls Mario, the X button controls Baby Mario and so on. In 
 the overworld section of the game, these buttons are used to perform simple actions like jumping 
 or using hammers, but as the game progresses you find new abilities that require two or more characters 
 to utilise correctly. Once again, AlphaDream have included tutorials mainly delievered by Peach's 
 overbearing carer, Toadsworth and his past counterpart. 
  However, its when the battles start, that the controls really take on a new dimension. Unlike many 
 other turn-based RPG's, that simply allow the player to press a single button and watch a move 
 play out, PiT requires extra management on your part. For example, when performing a 'jump' move, 
 you can press the corresponding button again to do extra damage. This gameplay mechanic is, however, 
 displayed best with the 'Bros. Items'.
  The 'Bros. Items' are a different take on the Bros. Attacks that were so prominent in the first 
 game. Instead of using up a seperate BP (Bros. Point - see Superstar Saga) meter, Bros. Items are 
 collectable items that require two - or sometimes all - of the characters. One of my particular 
 favourites is the 'Copy Flower', which when initiated, copies your four characters into a potentially 
 infinate amounts of Mario's, Luigi's etc. When the move begins, the player is required to press 
 the buttons that correspond to the certain character. Some of the moves - such as the Copy Flower 
 - can last as long as you can keep the rhythm, others have only a limted use. 
  The gameplay mechanics are brilliant, and really shows what great developers AlphaDream are. 
 
  
  --Graphics --
  
  Like nearly all of Nintendo's Mario spin-offs, PiT really shines in the visual department. Despite 
 the Ninendo DS's 3D capabilites, AlphaDream decided to stick with Superstar Saga's 2D graphics. 
 By no means is this a bad thing. The animations for the enemies and sub-characters are above par, 
 let alone the main chatacters, and each of them have been lovingly crafted. The developers have 
 used the DS's technical capabilities to add more animation frames to the characters, and the updates 
 look much, much better. 
  The transition effects connecting the overworld to the battles are technically superior to the 
 GBA's efforts and look better than the previous efforts, and do not interfere in the visual deptartment 
 enough to annoy. However, it is slightly dissapointing that the DS wasn't used to its full potential.
 
  Alongside the visuals, the presentation is also very good. The item menu is well designed and 
 easy to navigate, and the addition of the 'Magnifying glass' gives the menu an overall polished 
 feel.
  
  --Sound --
  
  As with the content and visuals of PiT, the sound effects and music stay true to the Mario universe. 
 The music uses remixes and original soundtracks that all Mario fans will recognise, and the sound 
 effects are spot on. However, there are some annoyances. One of them is the 'crying' sound effect, 
 which while occassionally funny, are in some intances grating. Despite this, the overall sound 
 effects are very good - and good quality - but arn't without their problems.
  
  --Lasting Appeal --
  
  One of the many criticisms that are levelled at PiT is its 'short gameplay 
 time', however, I do not think that the fifteen hours it took me to complete, is a short time for 
 a handheld video game. Even though the game has a very linear nature, there is a lot of content 
 such as badges, clothes and items. With the addition of sidequests, the game could easily last 
 twenty-plus hours. I do think that because of the game structure, the overworld map doesn't appear 
 as open-ended as Superstar Saga. Don't let the lack of typical RPG design deter you however, as 
 the story is well told, and more importantly funny. It isn't as good as Superstar Saga, but it 
 is a world away from the majority of RPG's that follow the epic storylines and instead try to entertain.
 
  
  --Closing Comments --
  
  The Nintendo DS isn't devoid of good games, but PiT really stands heads and shoulders above the 
 majority. The simple, yet engaging gameplay, a very self-referencial comedic script, and great 
 music make PiT a worthy addition to any DS owner's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moored41
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Peach has been captured. Shock horror.
  
  Mario has to recue her. With Luigi in tow.
  
  Again.
  
  But no! wait a minute! whats this? it turns out that shes gone back in time, and... 
 baby mario and luigi have to help out! Everythings been turned on its head here! 
  
  The idea is you have to go back and forth through time trying to collect shards of a star (havnt 
 i heard this somewhere before? paper mario anyone?) to rescue princess peach. ok. not the best 
 storyline in the world but it plays it out SO well. with references to dozens of previous mario 
 games (I love the way the super mario 64 hub world music is in the hub of M&L) and notably, the 
 hammer bros from Super Mario Bros 3 are HILARIOUS they really are. 
  
  This game is how every RPG should be-the fights are NOT random. As is the mario tradition, the 
 enemies walk about, and if u get hit, then the battle is initiated, but you can dodge the enemies 
 (not wise but possible) . Also, whilst executing the attacks and defence if you button press correctly 
 more damage can be added or avoided. 
  
  Let us take an example. The humble shell you can purchase for about 10 coins. get Mario to select 
 it (jumping and headbutting. ah back references, youve got to love them) and mario tosses it into 
 the air, and it falls infront of him. baby Mario climbs aboard and mario kicks it toward the enemy. 
 if you now press baby Mario's button (x) he spins, making the damage increase. the shell now bounces 
 towards Luigi and he kicks it if you press his button (b) the shell heads back towards the enemy 
 and if you press (x) again, baby Mario spins again, and the pattern repeats. For each hit the enemy 
 takes, the cumulative hit point toatal gets knocked up, but gets faster, and if Mario or Luigi 
 miss a hit, the shell goes straight past them, spinning them silly in the process. simple, but 
 so so effective, and it makes the game SO much more fun.
  
  There are other items you can purchase, using both the brothers of both time spans to thier full 
 abilities, using jumps, hammers, shells (both green and red) , yoshi eggs, chain chomps, those springs 
 from Super Mario World, fireflowers of various types etc. This keeps the game fresh and exciting, 
 as well as the brothers ability to learn new.... well.... abilities. (i wont explain how you learn 
 these as it would spoil the fun ;-) ) 
  
  The only niggle with the game is that it is a little bit short. i completed it in just over 20 
 hours after collecting everything. Also it makes very little use of the touch screen-im rather 
 disappointed-dont get me wrong, i love the touchscreen but the game runs beautifully without it. 
 It doesnt need the touchscreen. The one time it is used it feels..... tacky. If it doesnt have touchscreen, 
 dont force it in somewhere. But other than those couple of niggles, lets get back onto good features.
 
  
  From a used storyline to a great game (as, wel all know the mario game always takes the same storyline 
 of peach getting kidnapped by someone or the other) once again a truly great Mario game is born, 
 and Kudos to Nintendo for making such a great game.
  
  Who says an old dog cant learn new tricks? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juancorazon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is absolutely brilliant. But considering the platform it could have been perfect, it may 
 sound like unfair judgment but you should definitely check it out.
  To begin with, a brief synopsis of the story. So, it's Mario and Luigi again in another game. The 
 catch??? Rescue the princess. It may sound like your normal Mario clich but it's not. This time 
 around the game involves time travel which means the Bros. will be doing stuff that will affect 
 different timelines. This takes us to the ultimate addition to the Mario RPG series "the babies". 
 Baby Mario and Baby Luigi support their elder counter parts and give new game play elements that 
 really rock on. The game story includes finding the pieces of the cobalt stars and the purple shroom 
 invasion and of course the appearance of Bowser and his younger self, Yoshi Island and different 
 koopas for a bit of nostalgia fanfare.
  The graphics are nothing spectacular, but they do the job. While there should be an honorable mention 
 to some of the special effects of the Bosses. And the animation is really really good the Bros. 
 are beautifully animated and their expressions add a lot of humor to the game. Just don't expect 
 any bump mapped, ray traced, 3 million polygon stuff, this is Nintendo DS.
  The sound is really good, the typical classic Mario game sounds. Coins, jumps, 1-ups everything 
 is there untouched add on the funniest voice sounds and you'll get the idea. Even though the Bros. 
 don't speak a real language it sounds like the something Italian. It really adds fun to the mix. 
 The music isn't Nobuo Uematsu's Black Mages or even Orchestrated Final Fantasy, but it is really 
 nice almost every Mario classic tune is there remixed to fill in the game and the new tunes keep 
 the style up. The music is always accurate and of nice quality.
  Game play, now this is the game's real asset. The controls are fantastic simple button presses 
 solve every situation just a bit of timing one button for each Brother. X and Y for the babies 
 and B, A for the elders. Multiple combinations and timings for different items used in battle, 
 and the possibility to dodge or counter every attack give total dynamism to a turn based battle 
 RPG. The use of the two screens is excellent. Playing on the top screen with the babies and pushing 
 a switch to open the way for Big Mario and Luigi to lots of combined strategies that would be a 
 waste to spoil in this review. Replay value is well fed by the need to finish every mini game and 
 get all the item and beans. Nintendo really played with power in this one once again.
  So the game is that cool, where's the ten? It can't be the graphics?? You're right it's not. It 
 wouldn't be fair to give that treatment to this game just because the handheld doesn't have a GeForce 
 8000000 in it. The game is easy to play, it even a gorilla can learn to play it. It's fun as hell 
 and has excellent story. My personal opinion is 9.5 because it should've had more replay value 
 elements, jumping was sometimes annoying falling down and having to climb back all the way to the 
 top was not fun and it should use the stylus for something . Again this is a personal demand not 
 the ultimate rule so go ahead and play it no matter how old you are you're going to' have a great 
 time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kierbrady
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  
  If you ask anyone in Newfoundland what one of the most recognizable landmarks in the province was, 
 they'd probably tell you Signal Hill, Canada's second largest historic park. Visitors to St. John's 
 always seem to find their way to Signal Hill. With its century-old Cabot Tower and the wonderful 
 presentation of the Signal Hill Tattoo, it is probably the province's most familiar landmark. The 
 hill dominates the narrow entrance to the city's harbour, and has been an important factor in Newfoundland's 
 history. In one direction you can see the broad expanse of the Atlantic Ocean with North America's 
 most easterly point, Cape Spear, 11 km to the southeast, and the city and its harbour spread on 
 lower slopes to the west and south. The hill has been a lookout in war and peace for centuries. 
 It has also played a significant role in communications by flags, cannon blasts and, more recently, 
 radio. Signal Hill, Cabot Tower and the Tattoo have come to symbolize St. John's historic past.
 
  
  SIGNAL HILL
  
  Signal Hill is more than Cabot Tower and the Tattoo as on the slopes is the Queen's Battery Barracks, 
 a remnant of the Napoleonic period. During the summers in that area a re-enactment of the 19th 
 Century military exercises takes place known as the Signal Hill Tattoo. 
  Signal Hill became the site of harbour defences from the 18th century through to the Second World 
 War. The final battle of the Seven Years War in North America was fought in 1762 at the Battle 
 of Signal Hill, in which the French surrendered St. John's to the British under the command of 
 Colonel William Amherst. In 1762, French forces attacked St. Johns, Newfoundland. If successful, 
 the expedition would have strengthened France's hand at the negotiating table. Though they took 
 St. John's and raided nearby settlements, the French forces were eventually defeated by British 
 troops in the Battle of Signal Hill. The battle was the final battle of the war in North America 
 and forced the French to surrender St. John's to the British under the command of Colonel William 
 Amherst.
  The war ended with the Treaty of Paris, signed in 1763. It contained important clauses including 
 the cession to France of the islands of St. Pierre and Miquelon.
  Signal Hill was also the site of three hospitals, all destroyed by a terrible fire, between 1870 
 and 1920. One of these, The Diphtheria and Fever Hospital, served as Marconi's base when he received 
 his history-making signal in 1901. 
  The hill is laced with hiking trails winding up the steep slopes from near the water's edge at 
 the Battery to Ladies' Lookout at the very peak of Signal Hill itself. For ship watchers or simply 
 lovers of seascapes, the hill is a fine place to scan the cliffs up close or the far horizon to 
 capture the essence of St. John's maritime character. With walking trails, and an interpretation 
 centre where the visitor can hear very interesting stories about the area. Hikers will be rewarded 
 with spectacular views of the city, the harbour, and the ocean. A nature trail exists behind Signal 
 Hill, granting an impressive view of the Atlantic Ocean and a number of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabianmo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  This a great game that any DS owner should have, if you liked Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga you 
 will also liked this one. This an RPG game wich takes you to the mushroom kingdoms past and present 
 so you can (guess what) rescue Peach. In this game you will each of the DS buttons to control each 
 caracther wich are Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. Like ecery Rpg you take turns to atack 
 and every caracther has is own abilities and points. Like every Mario game it has some classic 
 music and stories although some new things like every Mario game. This game its kind of short compared 
 to its predeccesor but it is stillo highly enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homiejoe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a pretty good game i like and the Mario and Luigi and theyre baby selves was a pretty 
 cool and new story line and the new and old areas like Star hill and Yoshi island that was cool 
 i didn't know they were going to go there and the time sequence thing was cool to like how that 
 Dr. Gladd guy got that idea from the past and finished it in the future was cool to but i want 
 Nintendo to make Super Mario RPG The legend of the Seven stars again that game was awesome but 
 still that thing that sucked was that you weren't able to go ever where in the future you mostly 
 stayed in the castle. So yeah that all i guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Intro: Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is the long awaited sequal to the GBA game Mario & Luigi 
 Superstar Saga. ML: PT features the baby versions of Mario and Luigi as they travel back in time 
 to save the mushroom kingdom! But does it live up to the prequel? Read on and find out...
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are cute and fun and really suit the environment and game style, 
 but aren't amazing or ground breaking. They are also much the same as the ones on GBA and it would 
 have been nice to see a bit of a step up. However, the graphics still work nicely and all the characters 
 look great. Scenery is also done very well and each area you travel to really does have its own 
 unique feel!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Following the traditional style of Mario RPG gameplay you travel around the wordl and will run 
 into monsters that are visible in the field. You will then verse them in battle. In battle, you 
 have access to a number of different commands such as the jump, hammer, item and bro items. You 
 also have the added extra of carrying the badies around and if Mario or Luigi die the baby can 
 take their place! The battle has a really nice flow and feel to it and the new Bros. Items bring 
 an extra level of depth.
  In the field the game runs very smoothly and there are plenty of puzzles to figure out, however 
 most of them are not very difficult and require little thought for seasoned gamers. There is a 
 wide variety of enemies to engage which keeps things interesting.
  The two issues with the gameplay are the fact that up until about three quaters of the way through 
 the game basically tells you exactly where to go and what to do. The second problem is the lack 
 of mini-games, more on this in the replay value section.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Your typical sort of Mario music with some nice new tracks that accompany the battle and suit the 
 environments really well. The music for the final battle is especially nice. Sound effects are 
 where this game really shines in terms of sound though. The sounds of the babies crying, mario 
 and luigi calling and jumping around are all awesome!
  
  Replay Value 7/10:
  This is where the game really lets itself down. Playing the game through the first time is great 
 and you'll feel like it all works really nice, but after it is all done there is little need to 
 come back and do it again! You could attempt to get all the equipment, badges or beans, but there 
 are no mini-games like in the previous game to come and set new records on. The game also doesn't 
 take that long to beat (it took me just under 16 hours to beat on my first play) and thereis no 
 real challenge to return to.
  
  Conclusion 8.7/10:
  Partners in Time is a great game and definetly worth a pick-up for your DS. However if you are 
 looking for the fantastic experience that the first game gave you, you may be a bit dissapointed. 
 Nevertheless the gaem is great, cute, charming and a lot of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destiny_blade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  mario and luigi partners in time is an innovative early title for the ds
  im going to start of with the negatives,
  right well the game simply isnt as funny as the last 
 mario and luigi but still made me giggle a few time throughout the game
  some of the camera angles are plain awful making it very difficult to jump from ledge to ledge 
 and some of the battle music is repetative and at times irratating.
  right now that ive talked about the bad i can talk about the good to start of with what i find 
 oddly to be the highlight of partners in time is the innovative use of the buttons with items and 
 just genrally in the battle system i think this is best used with the items, for example when using 
 the trampoline the four characters will jump on the trampoline and bounce up to the heavens (exaggeration) 
 when falling back down to earth you must press their button and they will live to jump and bounce 
 again.
  The graphichs so nothing special retain their form from the first mario and luigi which i though 
 was a good bonus.
  the game lasted me roughly 21 hours which is pretty long by ds standards although one of my friends 
 completed it in about 17 and probably could have completed it sooner but i just enjoy leveling 
 up =P +i couldnt beat the final boss on my level.
  the plot isnt very orginal by traditional mario games of course peach gets captured again and yes 
 you and luigi set off on you long time travelling journey to rescue her and at the same time defeat 
 the meancing new enemie the SHROOBS.
  but i did enjoy the ending it offerd a unique twist which i can assure you, you wont see it coming.
 
  overall mario and luigi is a nice adventure game with great gameplay, lacking sound, good value 
 and i enjoyed it this a good game for any ds owner to have verdict: 8.8 great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  A really good game but it was a sort of short.
  The gameplay was awesome could have had a better variety of bros items. The way you battled was 
 fun. They could have used L to do something else besides just cancel like giving Mario and Luigi 
 and the babies more outside of battle abilities. They could have made another hammer weapon like 
 a boomerang throw.
  The sound could have been better. Bowser's voice sucked. The babies crying got annoying after a 
 while. When someone was talking the noise it made got extremly annoying.
  The graphics were really good exept little things like the babies could eat a lot, I remember this 
 one part where together ate more than twice their body mass.
  They made Luigi really weak.
  Overall it is a really good game. I think it is the best game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawmanrevolutio
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  well when i first heard of this i fought it looked well a bit rubbish but dont let that fool u 
 this is one hell of a RPG.
  
  Graphics 6/10
  there 2D which is a bit of a shame but its very pretty 2D the Art work on the charecters is good 
 & when u go through a Time warp it has brilliant Detail.
  
  Sound 9/10
  Great sound quality the music is really smooth & addictive but there are no voiceovers but Mario 
 & Luigi speak Jiberish which is just as good.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  The combat system is the best thing about this RPG it is really innovational.
  the puzzles are 
 great fun to very unique.
  
  Innovation 5/10
  its a shame PIT dosent use the touch screen (it does once) or the microphone
  the only innovation 
 is the combat system.
  
  Value
  M&L: PIT will keep u playing for a while a month on average. once youve finished the game there 
 arent many extras which is a shame
  
  All in all this is a must for any DS owner even if u dislike RPG's you may enjoy this
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigidey
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This sequel to Mario and Luigi is an O. K. game, but not as good as the second. The game is very 
 easy. There is no hard part in it. The game is fine other than that part it is a great game. I 
 would not buy it. You could rent it and beat it in the first day. If you liked the first, then 
 you should get this game, if you thought the other one was only O. K. stay away from this game. 
 The only other complant that I would give is that it is not much like a Mario game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSageCola
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Now I remember when the first Mario and Luigi game came out for the gameboy advance, it was probably 
 one of the best games for that system at the time. The then come out with a second one, and well 
 its a good game, but honestly doesn't live up to its predacessor. The game has good gameplay and 
 probably would be better on the game boy. The touch screen, mic, or two screens one is a map one 
 isnt. The bro items are much more convinient than the specials in the previous game. The characters 
 don't seem as interesting as they were in the previous gam, and it isnt as funny. It seems like 
 they are just taking mario characters that have already been used instead of creating new characters 
 like the ones found in the bean bean kingdom. It is a good game. The two baby mario characters 
 are a nice addition, and the battles when you use both characters are fun, but when you have to 
 split off with just the babies it seems to get annoying. Its a game thats good and enjoyable, but 
 you may want to rent it if you have a subscription to gamefly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zarion91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Have to say for a DS game this is one of my favorites. The animation is adorable ( babies crying 
 ) The gameplay was easily adapted to and once you got the hang of counter attacks you could wipe 
 out all enemies. The sound in it was really good sounded great. The items in the game were really 
 fun to use and so were all the commands like the spin jump. The minigames were also fun but they 
 could have added a few more. So anyway this game is really fun and you should pick up a copy because 
 its worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is the much anticipated sequel to Mario and Luigi: Superstar 
 Saga for the GBA. Unlike its predecessor, Partners in Time features a unique battle system that 
 involves four people instead of two: Mario. Luigi, baby Mario, and baby Luigi. This increases the 
 amount of skill required to master the game, thus making it a little more challenging. Items also 
 replace the Bros. Attacks used in Superstar Saga. One slightly disappointing feature that I found 
 in this game was that it was too short. I managed to complete it in less than 20 hours, as compared 
 to 25+ hours for Superstar Saga. Much of the gameplay on the field involves separating the babies 
 from the adults to solve puzzles. As you progress through the game, you will get enhancements such 
 as hammers, more jumping abilities, and more items. Overall, this game makes another great addition 
 to the lineup of Mario RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleKaide
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi 2: Partners in Time centers around Mario, Luigi, baby Mario, and Baby Luigi traveling 
 through time, trying to rescue the princess (once again) , trying to defeat a species of aliens, 
 and collecting the Cobalt Star fragments using their super stylish moves. The game is an RPG, but 
 instead of just choosing your attacks and having them being executed in front of you, you will 
 have to be quick and use your reflexes to execute your attacks perfectly. You will also use a series 
 of wacky Bros. items, which are very useful, and fun to use. You will also use the babies to pull 
 off certain moves. The game is not hard, but it will keep you glued for a long while. The writing 
 is one of its strong points, and it will keep you rolling on the floor laughing at the quirky pokes 
 at other video games, and the internet. If you have a DS, and have a slight interest in RPG's and/or 
 Mario platformers, you should definitely pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcartman3722
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can play as both Mario and Luigi, as well as their baby forms. It is very similar 
 to Superstar Saga, but in ways, it's better on the DS.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay in this game is pretty simple. Each button X, Y, B, A is assigned to each individual 
 character. You learn many abilities to help you along your adventure which you can use to solve 
 puzzles along the way. The battle system in this game is similar to the last Mario And Luigi ame, 
 but has it's differences to. You can now use "bros. items" as an action. Bros items are items you 
 can use in action time where you have to push the right button that appears on the screen to do 
 damage to you enemies.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are pretty much similar to Superstar Saga, but in ways I guess 
 you could consider them better. They are brighter and more colorfull than before and are really 
 pleasent. There are many nice environments/worlds you can go to that are really pretty.
  
  Sound: There are no voiceovers in this game, but the music is mostly all good. Mario and Luigi 
 often interact and you will hear funny noises and watch them with funny gestures.
  
  Overall, this is a great game that shouldn't be turned down by any RPG fan with a DS in his/her 
 hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazasul
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  If you have played a mario RPG before, You should generally know what to expect (Especially superstar 
 saga which I shamefully missed out on) . However, That doesnt mean this game is predictable, Not 
 at all.
  
  This is a highly original game, The battle system in particular is reminiscent of paper mario but 
 involves using the 4 face buttons to control the characters. (A button for each character) This 
 is also the case out of battles.
  
  The difficulty is just right and the game is full of little jokes between Mario, Luigi and their 
 younger counterparts which can make this game powerfully memorable.
  
  It may just be me but I do find that the battles can get repetitive quicker than they should, And 
 the whole game is pretty short for an RPG but other than that its a top notch game. 
  
  If you own a DS, I would highly recommend this game to pretty much anyone.
  
  
 
  +Great Mario story that will definetly have you laughing (or at least chuckling)
  +Interesting Battle system
  +Great controls
  
  
 
  - Waaaaay too short
  - Equipment is a bit plain
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBMFighter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in Time may be the best RPG on the DS. With the gameplay and graphics 
 working together this is one of the best games out on the DS. This is the squel to the great release 
 on the GBA back in 2003. The gameplay in this game is like in the first one. The player takes turn 
 between his characters and the opponents. But in this there is something new in the twist. You 
 have the baby versions of Mario and Luigi with you to help you battle through the levels. At first 
 they may not look like alot of help but they can do there amount. With the use of hammer moves 
 and making bigger Bro moves they can do lots of damage to enemies. Also they have there own special 
 moves, as so do MArio and Luigi, in which they have to be together and can go underground or hammer 
 things. These balitlies will be needed to gt through the levels and unlock new areas. The later 
 levels get difficult and will amke you think more baut the moves before you move making it a game 
 where you do have to think. Also the storyline in this one will keep you playing throughout the 
 game. It has a deep story so you won't have to worry. One problem I had though was that since it 
 is on the DS you would think it would use the top screen, mic, and the touch screen more than they 
 do. So overall th game plays more like a new GBA game than anything else. The graphics in this 
 game are good for a handheld. The levels look unquie and don't feel the same. Also the characters 
 and enemies look new and improved from the last one. THe graphics in this aren't the best the system 
 has to offer but are great for the DS. Also in sometimes throughout the game you feel like you 
 are playing a recent GBA game because of the graphics. Again they are good but have alot of room 
 for an improvement. Sound is an importaunt part to any game and Nintendo did good here. The sounds 
 throughout the levels help to the feel. Each move seems to make different music plays. The background 
 music is something to listen to when bored. The music is done well but there are some downs to 
 it as well. Number one would have to be sometimes it gets alittle repetitive and can get on your 
 nerve if you listen to it to much. Also since this is Nintendo and a handheld you know there is 
 going to be no voice overs other than the sounds that the characters mumble and things such as 
 this. This game is good for the system it is on and if you have the money and looking for a good 
 RPG for your DS this is a great game to pick up. But if you haven't played Superstar Saga you may 
 want to go and pick it up and get used to the controls and the way the game will play. But overall 
 it has great gameplay, graphics, and sound but at sometimes feels like a GBA game more than a DS 
 game. Because of the game I was expecting when I pick this up I can say I was alittle depressed 
 though. But for RPG fans, pick this up NOW!!! I give it a 8.6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OniKeith
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi brought the Mario RPG formula to a new level with Superstar Saga, and Partners in 
 time expanded upon that gameplay very nicely with its dual screen abilities.
  
  Partners In Time heavily relies on the dual screen ability and it works almost flawlessly. The 
 expanded battle system using both Baby Mario and Baby Luigi was an excellent add to the mix especially 
 when being able to use them on items such as green shells and so forth for added damage. 
  
  The storyline, however, is where the game unfortunately takes a nose dive. First of all, for 
 those who played the first game, this one is quite different as far as exploration goes. Partners 
 In Time consists of time holes that would take the brothers to different areas of the game. This 
 game is horribly linear with absolutely no room for exploration that was allowed in Superstar Saga. 
 Aside from the lack of adventure in the game, it's not quite the Mario storyline that I had come 
 to expect after playing the excellent Superstar Saga.
  
  In the end, it's a great pick-up if you're looking to add to your Nintendo DS library. The gameplay 
 improves greatly from the first game as well as the new types of puzzles that use both screens 
 in ingenious ways. However, if you're expecting a sequel that expands on the first game, don't 
 count on it in the story department. I just didn't find the story to be nearly as awesome as the 
 GBA gem that is Superstar Saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gecko-t
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is a fun game, but it wasn't as good as I expected it to be. 
 
  The game's graphics where quite good, but not very special, since the DS can do better. The sound 
 is very good, and adds some nice tunes to the game 
  
  The good thing of this game is the gameplay. It's an RPG, which is worked out very well. The story 
 leads to some special kind of gameplay, since you get to play with both the older and the younger 
 Mario and Luigi. In the beginning of the game, it's sometimes confusing to use 4 buttons (A, B, 
 X and Y) for the 4 different characters, but after some time you will get used to it.
  
  This is especially fun in the battles. There are turn-based battles where you get experience points 
 to grow in level, but what makes this RPG and other Mario RPG's special, is that you have to do 
 something during the attacks too. When attacking you can increase damage and when defending you 
 can dodge or counter the attack, by pressing the button that matches with the character that is 
 attacking or defending. Special attacking items, 'Bros Items' are strong attack items for which 
 you use this system with two or more characters.
  
  But that is what makes the game too easy. During the game, you get a lot of these attack items, 
 and when you get used to the battle system, it gets very easy to inflict major damage with these 
 items. Both normal and boss battles can be won with the greatest ease, since you'll almost never 
 run out of the items.
  Dodging and countering enemy attacks is pretty easy too, as long as you don't press the wrong buttons. 
 Because of this, you don't receive much damage during the battle. And the damage you do get can 
 be easily healed, because you get many healing items during the game. 
  
  Outside the battles, the game is easy too. The puzzles in the game are fun, but never really challenging. 
 The most important reason the game outside the battles is easy, is because the second (top) screen, 
 is used to display a map of the area. Because of this, you always know where to go, and because 
 the game itself is very linear too, you will never have a problem finding out where to go.
  
  The other thing the second screen is used for, is to display the babies when you split up. 
 But the other specialty of the DS, the touch screen, is not used in the game. You can't even use 
 it in the menus. There is only one time you have to use it, when you have to wipe something clean. 
 But touch screen functions is not something I need, I even prefer not using the touch screen. But 
 if you look for a touch screen game, you're wrong buying Partners in Time.
  
  The value of the game is not too great, I finished it in 21 hours, but since I'm someone who does 
 everything in the game (battle all enemies etc.) , the average gamer will be able to finish it in 
 15 to 20 hours.
  
  I have played the first Mario & Luigi too, Superstar Saga. And I thought that one was the better 
 one. SSS was easy too, but not as ridiculously easy as PiT. And I also thought SSS had more inspiring 
 levels as PiT, though PiT has good level designs too. 
  
  In short, the game has good graphics and sound, and original gameplay. It was a good and fun adventure 
 RPG that was too easy because the battles are too easy since you get many items, and because of 
 the linearity and the display of a level map on the top screen. But the game is not ruined because 
 of this, and the good aspects of the game are more important in my judgement, and that's why my 
 final score is 8.6.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis23345
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  The first Mario RPG I ever played was Paper Mario on the N64 and that was and still is one of the 
 best games Ive ever played. So how does this stack up against it? Well, Youre about to find out.
 
  
  Graphics (B+)
  The graphics may be 2d cel shaded, but they still suit the comical feel of the game well. Although 
 they are nothing special, they are quite good netherless.
  
  Sound- (C)
  This is where ML2 fails. I personally hate the sound and music in this game. Unless you have a 
 tolerance for babies crying, a boring battle theme and annoying voices, you will always want to 
 turn the volume control on your ds right down
  
  Gameplay- (B+)
  Hmm, this is the major strength of ML2. The battle system is excellent, because like Paper Mario, 
 it is interactive and you always need to be on your toes, instead of just pressing attack and letting 
 the game do the rest. Stufff like, pressing a certain button at a certain time to do optimal damage 
 to the enemy, 4 way co-op attacks and more meaning that battles never get boring. Outside of battle, 
 you solve puzzles co-operatively using Mario, luigi and their younger siblings and you learn a 
 wider variety of moves as the game goes on.
  
  Story- (C+)
  The story has cliche elements, including alien attacks and time travel. It is also quite predictable 
 and doesnt stray too far from the story formula of previous Mario games.
  
  Lastability (C-)
  This is where ML2 really takes a big hit. First of all, it is far too short, 
 and even if you take your time, at most this game will only last 30 hours. Second of all, beyond 
 training all your characters to level 100, there are NO extra side quests to indulge in, nada, nothing 
 zero, and it hurts even more because the game is so short. And last and not least, there is no 
 unlockables, so you cant complete the game again in hard mode or anything like that so this is 
 an area where ML2 fails miserably.
  
  Summary
  Graphics- B+
  Sound - C
  Gameplay- B+
  Lastability C-
  Story C+
  
  Overall ( B)
  
  Buy or rent- Since this game 
 is so short, I would probably rent it or borrow it, because it is not worth a fully priced NDS 
 cartridge to play. However I suggest that you at least try this game out because it is enjoyable 
 while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Cloud46
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game for the DS, didn't push the DS too hard, but it is very fun. The control 
 scheme for the game was well thought out. Using the X and A to control the marios and the Y and 
 B to control the luigis, it shows a true work of art in this game. This game can be very fun and 
 you can play this over and over again. You will find it very easy toward the start, and start getting 
 harder toward the end. This is definitely worthy to be called mario and luigi 2. Definitely a perfect 
 sequel focusing on the DS's strongpoints. It can be explained by some of my favorite words. IT'S 
 AWESOME! BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I played and loved the original Mario and Luigi and highly anticipated this second iteration. I 
 was not disappointed.
  
  Gameplay: If you played the original there is not much different here except that you have the 
 younger versions of mario and luigi to join up in some highly entertaining attacks. For those of 
 you unfamiliar, read on.
  
  Mario and Luigi 2 takes a turn based battle system and presents you with many interesting ways 
 to stay involved. As with every Mario RPG ever made, there is a lot of timed button pressing involved 
 so that you can increase damage given or reduce damage taken. There really isn't too much to describe 
 with the battle system, as it is a fairly standard battle system. The only major thing apart from 
 the timed button presses with virtually every attack is the inclusion of Bros. Items. These items 
 are attack items which can be used to dish out large amounts of damage. One example is a turtle 
 shell which you can bounce back and forth between mario and luigi (and if you have the younger 
 ones with you, one of them will ride on top of it, allowing for yet another hit in the cycle) . 
 Timing is everything in this game, and can be the difference between a ridiculously easy win and 
 an overpowering loss.
  
  The storyline is fairly standard, nothing in it deviates very far from any previous mario RPG iterations. 
 It is the creativity of the script and writing that keeps you playing, along with the superb battle 
 system.
  
  Platforming elements are also included, although they certainly are rather basic. While more options 
 open up as you progress through the game, there really is never anything that can't be figured 
 out very easily.
  
  Graphics: The DS is quite capable of cranking out better graphics than what is presented here. 
 While the old school qualities of the graphics make them acceptable, it is readily apparent that 
 there could have been a lot more done with the animation. There are some moments of sheer genius 
 with lighting effects and such, but nothing that really stays put the whole game.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is truly fantastic. The music is very mario feeling, which is a good thing 
 for sure. There is no voice acting, but it never really seems necessary to have it. The mario babble-speak 
 and the babies crying are really the only 'voices' in the game at all. These both get rather grating 
 over time though, and once or twice caused me to turn off the sound entirely.
  
  Value: The game can easily be beaten in less than 20 hours, and there really doesn't seem to be 
 any reason to play through again, but it is still a fairly fun game and worth the money you have 
 to shell out for it.
  
  Tilt: I enjoyed Mario and Luigi 2 an awful lot, and would recommend it highly to fans of RPGs who 
 own a DS. It isn't something that is worth buying a DS specifically for, however. We still have 
 to wait for a killer ap RPG to appear on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest: since the Super Mario Bros. trilogy on the NES, I haven't played a single Mario 
 game aside from Super Mario World, and even that was an experience that only lasted for a short 
 while. 
  
  Along comes Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, in the same style as Super Star Saga but with one 
 major difference: twice the fun and double the adventure with Mario, Luigi and their respective 
 baby counterparts.
  
  The plot begins as Princess Peach disappears while using Professor E. Gadd's time machine and it's 
 then up to Mario and Luigi (and a very special suitcase) to travel back in time searching for her. 
 During their travels, the Mario brothers will encounter baby versions of themselves as well as 
 baby Peach and baby Bowser, while trying to save Mushroom Kingdom from an invasion of creepy evil 
 Shroobs.
  
  The controls take a little getting used to, but in the end they work really well. Basically, each 
 button is assigned to a single character: A for Mario, B for Luigi, X for Baby Mario and Y for 
 Baby Luigi.
  
  The group moves around together with the babies on piggyback, but at times you have to work with 
 the two sets of brothers separately. Since Mario and Luigi can't always fit everywhere, they can 
 at least roll over the babies and flatten them out. Their baby selves become flat as pancakes and 
 can then fit into tiny spaces, helping the older brothers with the environmental puzzle-solving. 
 At these times, you will see Mario and Luigi on the bottom screen while the babies move around 
 on the top screen.
  
  The combat system uses a series of timed button presses for attacking and dodging enemy attacks. 
 You can use each set of brothers to unleash a more powerful attack, or make use of special items 
 to allow the group to attack all at once, but no matter how you choose to attack, you will still 
 use the timed button pressing. There are a series of moves and the controls might seem complicated 
 at first, but the game itself will teach you how to use them.
  
  The leveling system is the good old "fight, gain experience, increase your stats". Defeating enemies 
 gains you experience points, but there's an extra bonus for when you level up. A bit like a tiny 
 slot machine, it lets you add a random number to the attribute of your choice.
  
  Another RPG element is the availability of clothing and badges with certain qualities, which the 
 brothers can find or purchase and then wear.
  
  Partners in Time makes good use of the dual-screen capability of the DS both in and out of battle. 
 The top screen is used for cutscenes, showing a map while exploring the world, showing a different 
 area when the pairs separate or to show vertical distances in a battle for certain enemy or player 
 attacks. The stylus and touch-screen are obsolete, except for starting the game.
  
  Graphically, the game looks very crisp on either screen and you will notice that each area has 
 been given a different color palette and graphics style. The music and sound effects are quite 
 good, aside from the babies crying (that gets pretty annoying really fast) . The story is written 
 in a casual manner and funny dialogs are a constant, my favorite being the "l33t" koopas'speech, 
 who insist on "pwning" everything because they "roxxor". Now that was unexpected!
  
  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is packed with wholesome RPG and platform fun, cool combat mechanics 
 and tons of humor. It's a game that will appeal to Mario fans, RPG enthusiasts, as well as everyone 
 else with a thing for "l33t sp33king" koopas. 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=marioluigipartners
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnWillis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  If it wasnt for how short this game was and the lacking features that were in the first one and 
 not in this, the game would have a 10.
  
  Most of the fun of the first game keeps it up in PArtners in Time along with some new features. 
 But the one thing it missed out on was the open enviroment feeling of the first game. In the first 
 one you could rome around freely without the use portals. There was more diversity in the lands 
 of the first one and they were more interesting.
  
  The big thing that got me was how quickly I beat the game. It's not even 1/4 the length of the 
 first one. 
  
  Here i have only layed out the week points of the game. All in all it is till a very entertaining 
 game while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_gogetto_7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is probably one of the most entertaining games in the history of 
 Mario. Partners in Time is a great sequel to Superstar Saga, though the sound wasn't as catchy 
 as it was in SS the gameplay is stronger and requires more timing of the buttons. Basically what 
 happens is that an Alien race called the Shroobs has decided to take over the Mushroom Kingdom 
 and whats worse is the Princess Peach has traveled back in time using Professor E. Gadd's time 
 machine. The bros. go back in time and try to save Princess Peach along the way they meet their 
 infant selves and team up to stop the Shroobs. The gameplay is fun, but the replay value isn't 
 as fun as Superstar Saga. Turn-based battles are entertaining because its not like Pokemon where 
 you choose an action and something happens. In Partners in time however attacking requires the 
 use of timing to pull off action commands. Fighting is harder if you don't have all of the bros. 
 together. For example the adults can't use hammers, but the babies have lower stats. If all the 
 bros. are together in battle the adults do the majority of the attacking, but you can use the babies 
 to pull off extra damage, and the adults take all the damage if an adult dies the baby takes over. 
 Overall Partners in Time is a great game to play especially if you enjoyed Superstar Saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackwolf770
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  What do you get when you mix babies and aliens? Something wierd and funny looking. That's exactly 
 what make Mario and Luigi so awesome. Only baby haters will not have fun with this game, and laugh 
 at the antics of Babies Mario and Luigi. The storyline (as far as I know, I still haven't beat 
 the first form of Princess Shroob ) goes as thus. Prof. E. Gadd builds a time machine. Peach takes 
 a trip to the past, she doesn't come back. When the time machine arrives, instead of Peach and 
 the 2 toads she took with her is a huge alien. So, after this alien is defeated, E. Gadd does some 
 tests as timeholes start appearing and Mario and Luigi fall in one and meet their baby selves. 
 The graphics are awesome in my standards, The gameplay is unique, it's just the right difficulty, 
 and the sounds are kinda cool, espacially the Shroob's music. The only thing I didn't like was 
 that you can't play with the stylus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorecs
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  This is the best game i have ever played the game is so funny! well the game is about this guy named 
 proffesor E gadd! Thename is funny! well he makes this time machine and princess peach gets stuck 
 in the past. So the usualgame mario and luigi saving princess peach. There are these evil mushroom 
 things called the shroobs who are the bad guys in this game. The key to this game is collecting 
 cobalt shrards to defeat the shroobs with. I am on princess shroob and my game time is 14 hours 
 so i would say 17 hours becuase this games bosses are realy hard especialy when you realy get into 
 the game the hp most of them have i would say 1000 or so! The funniest part in the game i would 
 say would be when you are on star hill and the star spirit wont let luigi threw and you hit a block 
 and then he says who did this for you then you push em all and he says wrong its 4 everyone and 
 there is no 4 and then luigi starts crying and then hes like you are a coward a complete nincompoop 
 its realy funny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Simply put, Mario & Luigi: Partners In Time is a masterpiece. Basically, it's a turn-based 
 RPG set in the Mario universe. If you played the first Mario & Luigi game for the GBA, then you'll 
 pretty much know what to expect from this game, although I found the first to be slightly better. 
 Still, Partners In Time is an amazing experience, not only because it has perfect gameplay that 
 utilizes the DS's dual-screen set up better than any other game I've played so far, but also simply 
 because it's so funny! Seriously, you will laugh out loud at tons of the game's jokes.
  
  The reason this series is one of my favourites is simply because it doesn't take itself seriously. 
 When you're in battle, your characters will dance around when they're not doing anything (which 
 is hilarious!) . Outside of battle, there's also lots of non-serious moments, especially in the 
 story. My personal favourite part of the game was the Hammer Bros who talk in L33T. Hilarious!
 
  
  The battle system is also pretty much perfect, and hasn't really changed much from Superstar Saga. 
 They've made some adjustments though, such as the removal of Bros Points and instead the addition 
 of Bros Items, and there's a few other changes as well, making the battle system seem similar yet 
 non copied. Overall, Mario & Luigi: Partners In Time has some of the best gameplay seen so far 
 on the DS.
  
  Graphics: Alright, I'll admit it: Partners In Time is one of my favourite looking games ever made. 
 The 2D sprites really are amazing, and I like the series' unique style of outlining almost everything 
 in black. It really helps the game look bright and cartoony, which I personally love. Really nice 
 battle animations and really great environments add to an impressive array of sprites, making this 
 the best looking game on the DS so far.
  
  Sound: I love the music in Mario games. And as with most of the other Mario RPGs, Partners In Time 
 borrows some of the classic Mario tunes, while adding its' own impressive list of new ones as well. 
 All of the music is great in the game, and I can't even recall one bad piece of music from the 
 game. While I think Superstar Saga's music was definately better, that doesn't stop this game's 
 music from blowing you away! Plus, whenever Mario or Luigi talk, it's extremely hilarious! You 
 have to hear it to see just how funny it really is, but trust me when I say that you will laugh 
 out loud every time you hear them speak out loud!
  
  Value: The only spot where Partners In Time loses points! That's not to say that it's a short game 
 however, because it's definately a meaty adventure. While Superstar Saga took me roughly 22 hours 
 to complete, Partners In Time took me 25, making it a bit longer than the original. While that's 
 definately a great length for a game, the one thing that I yearned for at the end were side-quests. 
 However, there really aren't any. You can try getting every piece of clothes, every badge, and 
 every item, but it would have been nice if there were some actual side-quests assigned to you by 
 NPCs that could have extended the game by a few more hours. Still, despite the lack of side-quests, 
 Partners In Time is a pretty lengthy game that you'll probibly want to replay over again because 
 of the sheer humour!
  
  Tilt: Overall, Mario & Luigi: Partners In Time is an absolute blast today. It's definitely one 
 of my favourite games of 2005, and is a must-own for all DS owners. In fact, I'd say that this 
 is a game that could even be worth the system purchase for those of you who don't own a DS yet. 
 It's got great gameplay, superb music, and some of the best visuals I've ever seen. It's also one 
 of the funniest games that I've ever played. There's even the return of one of my personal favourite 
 video game characters of all time, who was in Superstar Saga, although I'll let you figure out 
 who it is! Whoever you are and whatever your taste in video games, you must play Partners In Time. 
 Definately a true masterpiece, one that will never be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in Time (ML: PIT) is a great game on the DS, and so far the best DS only 
 RPG you will find right now. This game uses a really fun and somewhat complex battle system, humorous 
 dialouge, and great gameplay for anyone who starves for RPG on their DS.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pretty much what you expect from a Nintendo developed title. Fluid, colorful, and bright animations. 
 The game has a world that feels very much of it's own, however I do feel that the limit on exploration 
 does hinder the game's "wow" factor overall. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The whole reason some of you may play an RPG game, is the exploration aspects and character building. 
 Well, ML: PIT has nothing too complex here. The game actually plays with you going in a HUB (The 
 castle) and traveling back in time, to visit only those worlds. That's IT! There's no way to leave 
 the castle, and you're guided to go through each world, never allowed to really explore. So those 
 looking for any exploring in their games will probably be dissappointed.
  
  It also must be said, that some places aren't so memorable, or feel as original as the first title. 
 They don't look totally aweful, or anything, but they just kind of don't feel so inspired due to 
 some of the level layout.
  
  As for you Stat nuts out there. There's really nothing too complex with character development. 
 It's as dry and simple as they come. Qear equipment to give your character's stat boosts. Badges 
 help give your character's skills, but being allowed to wear only one, does end up making some 
 of them useless. (Even though some really are kind of useless to begin with) With Paper Mario giving 
 you Badge Points (BP) you could don some helpful badges, and lots of them as you level up, and 
 therefor gain new skills/abilities. Here having one badge is all you get, and it feels very useless 
 too. You may just find the only useful badges are those to boost EXP, or give you Unlimited Bros. 
 Items.
  
  Sound:
  Same cheery Nintendo tunes you know, but they don't really feel as memorable I must say. Some feel 
 kind of catchy and upbeat, but none really are terrible either. They just don't stay in the brain 
 after play.... Mario and friends speak, but in their quirky gibberish, and sometimes occasional 
 catch phrase. 
  
  Overall:
  Good game, and fun to play. RPG whores looking for an RPG to quench thier thirsts on the DS dry 
 RPG world, may not last long with this title. Everyone else may. It's fun enough, 20 hours of gameplay, 
 and it's not terrible or anything. It's just this title doesn't feel like it really excelled much 
 compared to the first installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyrule_SwordsMa
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  I have played the Mario and Luigi: SuperStar Saga game for Game Boy Advance and I love it (although 
 i did not finish it, lol.) I think this sequel its great like the predecesor.
  I think Nintendo could develop grater graphics with this new console instead of recycling the Game 
 Boy Advance ones, yet the efects are very well done.
  The plot is very interesting and the battle mode its great too. I also love the comic touch (from 
 a very big finger, lol) in theese games.
  I would love to have a wi-fi version of this game, but it is still awesome the way it is!
  The 
 sequel started, I think, with the Mario: RPG for Super Nintendo Entertaiment Sistem (also known 
 as SNES.) Then, this game became Paper Mario for Nintendo 64 and then into Paper Mario 2 and Mario 
 and Luigi sagas. 
  I don't know if you know but FinalFantasy is, like anyone knows, a turn based RPG. Although it 
 has some games called FinalFantasy Adventures or Seiken Densetsu, which doesn't use the same battle 
 mode. This mode was so awesome that Squaresoft released the FFA2 and FFA3 (better-ka Secret of 
 Mana and Seiken Densetsu 3) But the Seiken Densetsu 3, when they decided to bring it to USA, it 
 was transformed into Secret of Evermore and Mario RPG, I mean, SD3 (wich is an ICREDIBLE game, 
 the best i've played EVER) wasn't released in USA or Europe and replacing this hole nintendo and 
 Square-Enix (in that moment it was just Square) made Mario RPG and Secret of Evermore, in wich 
 SoE sucked. (incredible, isn't it?)
  So somehow whe have to thanks SquareEnix for having this exelent games on our hads. Yes, its true. 
 believe it or not... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  The legendary Mario Brothers are back, this time... er... well... in time. In Mario and Luigi: Partners 
 in Time, Princess Peach has been captured by an alien race known as the Shroobs. It's up to Mario 
 and Luigi to get her back safe, but here's the catch. You have to go back in time (thanks to the 
 help of Professor E. Gadd) ,collect shards of what is known as the Cobalt Star, and rescue her, 
 all with the help of their baby selves. Here's my review:
  
  Gameplay: Okay, this is how it goes. Let's start with the positive elements. First of all, and 
 mainly, the addition of the babies. It really is a great addition to the game. Baby Mario and Baby 
 Luigi add alot of intersting puzzle designs, some that has to do with the hammers that they equip, 
 others that has to do with the adult Brothers, or just part of the level (such as small gaps/hallways 
 that can only be fit through the babies.) . Their battle system is the same as the Brothers, except 
 the babies have hammers, and they don't, and you control the babies with the X and Y buttons while 
 you control the Brothers with A and B. Speaking of battle systems, the gameplay really hasn't changed, 
 which is a very good thing. Another great element to the game are the Bros. Items. These are bought 
 or found throughout the Mushroom Kingdom, and is part of the battle system. Basically, they are 
 like Brother's Attacks, except more limited and a bit whackier. And another positive element would 
 be the use of the 2 screens. One is used for gameplay, while the top is used for a map, or moving 
 the babies around during a puzzle. Now, for the negative elements. The main problems I had with 
 the game is that they were missing something that was one of the reasons why Mario and Luigi: Superstar 
 Saga was so great: Bros. Attacks. Sure, Bros. Items were great, but for some reason, it just could't 
 replace the true fun that were the Bros. Attacks. Another thing was the sort of linear level design. 
 it's good to look at and all, but it wasn't as varied as the other game. Another thing is that 
 the puzzles are a bit on the easy side, especially for people that have played Superstar Saga before. 
 That, and there just wasn't enough minigames in the game, that, and really aren't too interseting 
 at all. But despite all of my complaints, it is still a worthy enough sequel, and is the best RPG 
 out there for the DS so far.
  
  Graphics: This game has some very pretty pixels and sprites. This is, of course, better-looking 
 than Superstar Saga. The only real complaint is the level design. It's good, but could've been 
 a bit better.
  
  Sound: The story isn't really as near as good as the GBA's hilarious title. However, what saves 
 the story is the equally funny dialogue and writing. Only pure geniuses can make poor Luigi's abuse 
 so funny, and cause the Hammer Bros. to talk in Leet (but seriously...) .
  
  Value: Really, because of the game's linear design and "not interesting enough" minigames and puzzles, 
 this game is good enough to play one through smashing time. Unless you really love this game, you 
 will be playing it for some time.
  
  Tilt: Fans of RPGs, Superstar Saga, or just Mario will love this game and/or can't help but buy 
 it. Everyone else might not be interested in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboy454
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  the first one u fought cakleta and all this other **** but this one u tyeam up with the babys really 
 cute but very challenging. So I felt like the biggest ****
  Felt like the biggest ****
  when I killed your rock and roll
  Mowed down the sexy people
  
  Every time I look in your 
 eyes, every day I'm watching you die
  All the faults I see in you die, and why?
  
  So I'm don't like the biggest ****
  (I am the biggest ****)
  When I killed your rock n roll
 
  (Mowed down the sexy people)
  Every time I look In your eyes, every day I'm watching you die
  All the thoughts I'm singing 
 you defour and why...
  
  Eat all the grass
  Eat all the grass that you want
  Accidents happen In the dark
  Eat all the grass that you want
  Accidents happen In the dark
 
  Eat all the grass that you want
  Accidents happen In the dark
  Eat all the grass that you want
  
  Accidents happen
  
  Every time I look In your eyes, 
 every day I'm watching you die
  All the thoughts I'm singing you defour and why
  
  Why Why
  Why Why
  
  So I felt like the biggest ****
  When I killed rock n roll
  When 
 I felt like the biggest ****
  When I killed rock n roll
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGgamer19
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Nintendo delivers again a very funny Mario Bros RPG. This time around it is on the DS. Great being 
 the only RPG on the DS at the moment that is any good. As with Supersrar Saga on GBA this game 
 will have you laughing your way through. The story of traveing back and forth through time with 
 the aid of the Baby Mario Bros, was new and excellent. Many of the abilities you used in Superstar 
 Saga return to this one, plus a few new abilities. The battle system is turn based and very much 
 the same as Superstar Saga. So if you managed to play Superstar Saga first you will have no trouble 
 starting this one. If you haven't don't worry, it is not neccessary. My only complained is it was 
 rather short with no sidequests. it lacks in that part. Over all if you have a DS and enjoy RPGs 
 I reccomend Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. It is worth the laughs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Boys4Life
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Ok ok I got this game for X-mas (played in Feb) but I always play on game at a time so I can get 
 the story plot. Though I never play the first Mario and Luigi game this game is still very fun. 
 It like mostly a RPG slash puzzle game. This game has both old Mario and Luigi and baby Mario and 
 Luigi and the past kingdom is getting taking by Shroobs.. these purple mushroom things.. lol. Well 
 this game was lacking more Bowser and less shroob. Oh well thats ok I guess.. This game was funny 
 in spots because they let Luigi be Luigi scared and just cheery.. lol. Well I beat this game in 
 a week and a half but I played about 2 hours every day. This game is very good if you like Mario 
 and Luigi.. a RPG game or just you want a game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty-butler
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  if youv played the first one "mario and luigi: super star saga" then you will definetly want this 
 one. the use of baby mario and luigi gives the game so much more. it lets you do some many new 
 abilitys
  the game was kinda short for me. some bosses were quiet challenging. then just never wanted to 
 die. sometimes it was hard to remeber when button did what and you'd find your self being baby 
 mario instead of adult mario. but if you havent gotten this game you should. its a mix between 
 rpg and an adventer/puzzle. its definetly a one of a kind.
  so go get it right now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The Mario RPG series got its start back on the SNES with the Super Star Saga, and then the Paper 
 Mario series on N64/GameCube and finally a game on the GBA. Well, Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time 
 is the latest title in the series.
  
  The game that was released on the GBA was the first to introduce Luigi as a playable character. 
 If you are not familiar with any of the titles, the concept is pretty simple. Take the plot of 
 just about any Super Mario Brothers title, but instead of jumping from ledge to ledge to survive 
 and win the game, you wander around looking for enemies and when you find one a battle screen loads 
 and you fight RPG style.
  
  In the Mario & Luigi games, each button controls a set character. In this title, you control four 
 characters: Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. To keep things somewhat simple, the babies 
 ride on his older counterpart's back for most parts of the game. Luigi follows about two steps 
 behind Mario and you control Mario directly.
  
  Battling is very unique in this series. In a standard RPG, you pick fight or cast spell and the 
 character does it. In this series, you choose an action, the character starts the action and then 
 you must follow it up with another timed button press. This is how it is more platformer than RPG. 
 The game actually requires some twitch reflexes to do more damage to the enemies. Then, spell casting 
 is heavily reliant on twitch reflexes. You use a 'Bro Item which are either bought or found. One 
 brother starts the item and the other brother follows the action up. An example is a turtle shell. 
 Mario will start by kicking the shell. It will hit the enemy, bounce toward Luigi. Luigi needs 
 to press the button to kick it back to the enemy again only to bounce off toward Mario again. Back 
 and forth it goes getting faster and faster. It starts pretty easy, but gets very difficult.
  
  The plot, just like any Mario game, is pretty thin, but entertaining none-the less. It involves 
 an alien invasion and you have to stop it. There is a time machine involved which allows you to 
 team up with your baby counterparts.
  
  The game itself is entertaining for a good twenty hours of game play. If you can find a copy at 
 $30, it is worth the price. If it is not on sale and only be found at $35, wait for a sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsOmniaC777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Just wow. Makes me regret, that I never got a chance, to play Superstar Saga. Anyway, there is 
 no way possible, to write how much I love this game, but I'll try.
  I don't know where to begin. The excellent gameplay, the beautiful graphics, good story, I can't 
 figure out where to start. Hey, with a game this great, you'd have a big problem, on where to start.
 
  So instead of hurting myself, figuring out where to start, I shall say this:
  For those with a NDS, and you don't this game, GET IT! If you don't have this game, you are missing 
 out, on a LOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brightshadow525
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This sequel takes the fighting style and gameplay from its prequel Superstar Saga. This game whips 
 out rpg style gameplay and turn based action. First of all, lets start with the gameplay. The gameplay 
 is solid and great. The story was just original, although time travel, an overly used theme was 
 involved. The 4 person battling was just awesome. You had baby forms of Mario & Luigi, and they 
 were used to do some attacks that you could not do with just two people. You are put in a world 
 with monsters lurking about. To initiate a battle, obviously, you touch them. However, what was 
 a nice touch was that you could attack even before the battle started by jumping, or hitting them 
 with a hammer, which would do some damage to all enemies before the battle starts. Once engaged 
 in battle, you come up to a screen like most rpg's. You on one side the enemies on the other. You 
 have your standard jumping attack, and hammers, but this time the hammers can only be used by the 
 babies, so if you don't have them with you, tough luck! Unlike it's earlier prequel, this game 
 has no bros moves, which were moves that used up bros points which constantly needed to be checked, 
 and would get annoying. You would just have bros items. You would buy them, get them after battles, 
 or the old fashioned get them out of a box. Once you run out, you run out. Either get more, or 
 use some other attacks. These bros items can only be used when all 4 bros are in battle. The enemies 
 are very well made, and are creative. Each enemy, has certain attacks that they do, and you have 
 the ability to counter these attack. Usually you can use these counters to deal direct damage to 
 the enemy, otherwise, it just blocks their attacks. I thought this was very clever. Instead of 
 standing there waiting for the enemy to attack you, you had the ability to fight back. Although 
 it was turn based, you had to keep up the whole time, which made it seem more like an action game 
 to me. There were also some puzzles in the game that made you stop killing, take a deep breath, 
 think, and relax. Besides the gameplay, everything was killer! It all just amazed me, how they 
 went from Superstar Saga to this. My gameplay hours were all thanks to my obsession to level up 
 and be able to the final boss in a minute flat. That also goes for any other rpg I've played. But 
 that's just me, so don't expect to play as long as I did, although it is a fairly long game. This 
 was just an awesome game, and I really do think this game was underappreciated, and underrated. 
 Gamespot gave this a 8.9! I can't believe that! I just love this game, and for the Mario & Luigi 
 makers, "Keep makin' this better!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioFan28
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  Great game to play! Going through the game is easy though.
  All the levels were very easy but I would still like this game even if it was.....
  Horrible 
 to other gamers. Mario and Luigi go back in time just to save Princess Peach and met their baby 
 selves! Learning the game wasn't that
  hard since I was able to play my Nintedo DS alot. Here I am typing on my keyboard.... Game is very 
 easy but I still like playing it though.
  Well I've only beaten it 7 times and I'm still playing this even if IT IS EASY!
  And I'm going 
 to say this again! I just wigh I could play FOREVER!
  This game rocks in my opinon. I would recommend this game to people that would like to play a not 
 very long game and to those who love rpgs or both! That's all for tonight folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supermario61978
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  After the great hit M&L Superstar Saga. You would expect a sequel with better game play and a long 
 great storyline. It only has better game play and a great storyline. The game play is great, it 
 doesn't have 2 but 4 players to control. In battle if you press the babies button first then the 
 big brothers after it, you do more damage! It still has the ability to dodge attacks but you don't 
 have bros points, you have bros items which you can find or buy on your adventure. The only problem 
 is its shorter than the first making you wishing there was more meat. Its a great rent but not 
 a good buy so save your money. If you have played M&L Superstar Saga you should probably play this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi 2 introduces many new characters. This is just a few Baby MArio, Baby Luigi, Baby Peach, 
 Princess Shroob and the suitcase guy.
  Mario & Luigi made you laugh too much. This one will do the same. 
  Now for the very intense 
 review.
  M&L's gameplay has 4 main charcters Mario & LUigi and Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. You can split 
 them up or keep them toghter how is the transportation for babies strollers NO, Piggybank is it! 
 You won't have random battles but to go to battle hit or jump on a enemy. The battles are fun and 
 introduce BROS. Items. That replace BROS. Attacks.
  The graphics are the same as the GBA but could have been alot better. I was disspaonited with the 
 graphics. 
  The sound will have you humming alot (at least it did me) in class. Nintendo's value is great and 
 so is this with about 30 hours of gameplay. My love for Nintendo gets a 10 in TILT.
  FINAL SCORE 9.3
  GOB NEWSLETTER DECEMBER 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shattered_raven
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  i just got this game like a week ago and i just cant stop playing it i seem to be under the mario 
 control and its great!!! i bet if you bought it you would agree. im at the part where you fight 
 bowser and i keep dyeing and its making me MAD but i just go back level up and whoop his ass so 
 its good! haha but really this game with contrel you its like god of war but way less violent and 
 there are babies well mabey god of war was a bad comparison oh well. but it is a great game that 
 i do recamend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardchlee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  I am sure that everyone of you would or would have enjoyed this game in spite of the difficulty 
 of this game. As there are in total 4 characters in this game, you have to use all 4 buttons ( 
 a, b, x, y) to control each of them. Thus your hand have to cooperate with your eyes very well. 
 This is espectially important when you are using the bro. items, because if you fail, you will 
 waste an item without doing much damage on the target. The final boss, Princess Shroob is very 
 tough. Though I've tried 2 times, i still cannot kill the final form of her. I have to train the 
 characters to be higher levels before chalenging her again !!!!! But afterall, i believe this is 
 a very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongebobmaster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was.... pretty good. I was expecting more, as I LOVED the original. I played it 3 times, 
 I had so much fun. This, on the other hand, lacked substance. It seemed like I had beaten it long 
 before it had reached its true potential, and, although its game play was fun and addictive, it 
 left me with nothing left at all in the game after a relatively short period of time. I did enjoy, 
 however, the witty humour of Stuffwell, the computerized briefcase. It was overall, an exceptional 
 game, and I would recommend it, although it still fell short of its fantastic predecessor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redwan0111
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! It is way better than the GBA version. First of all, you have two screens, 
 so its really convenient. The storyline is okay, and it includes characters from other Mario games. 
 The battle system is great, it allows use all of the buttons, and u get to counterattack and move 
 around while the enemy is attacking, unlike other RPGs. The graphics are amazing. It is 2D but 
 mixed with some 3D effects. The bad part is that you cant use touch, microphone and the sound can 
 have some improvements. But the other features make up for it. Overall, this is good for RPG fans, 
 Mario fans, and for people that want great games for their DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I honestly didn't set my hopes too high for this game but it actually did surprise me. the games 
 humorous script and fulfilling gameplay is worth much more than the $30 you will pay for it.
  As far as the graphics go, it just looks a little more cleaned up in comparison to the game before 
 it on the GBA. However, the graphics are colorful and pure eye candy to look at.
  As far as the sound, i must agree with gamespot editors. the games tunes are quaint, but arent 
 anything spectacular that you could point out right off the bat (like Zelda or original SMB) . But 
 the cheerful tunes are enough to peak your interest whether in a cutscene or battle.
  Now, lets get to what this game is all about and what makes it so great, of course, the gampeplay. 
 The gameplay here is just like the last game, and like Paper Mario. While still turn based, you 
 are more involved while instead of just watching the battle, you will be required to press the 
 a button when necessary, or rotate buttons for the Characters (A is Mario, B Luigi, Y Baby Mario, 
 and X Baby Luigi.) this way the game never ever gets old.
  Along with the gameplays greatness is the outstanding script. It is humorous, but yet still involved 
 with the actually classic storyline. Each character has its own personality, and adds a great twist 
 to the game overall.
  Expect many thrills from this magnificent addition to the Mario Franchise. It will give you many 
 cheers, thrills, and chills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoconutPhone
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good sequel! If you don't have it, then you should definetely buy it!! You'll love 
 it!!! The game has a very neet variety of enemies, and bosses, and it is also very fun and challenging. 
 If you liked Mario and Luigi: SuperStar Saga then buy this game!!!!!!!!!!!!! Its possibly even 
 than the original! This game is also, has very funny scenes in it that is very enjoyable to whatch 
 and it provides alot of new items and badges that are fun to use. The only bad thing about this 
 game is that its kinda short but its still very fun and exciting. So as you can see, this is a 
 very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaMohammedCC
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  If you play this game you wont stop even if you finshed it, the bosses are hard but it is a lot 
 of fun, you must read if you want to finsh it quickly and understand things. but the strat is boring 
 and middle the best the end little funny not a lot. it is a little confusing but u have to be smart, dont 
 cheat in this game, or u r not a mario fan, cuz if u r you'll no what you should do.. if u r a mario 
 fan i sujest u buy it even if it costs more then 60$, but if ur parents think u grades in skool 
 are low, tough luck then, but if u r the smallest in the family, then u r lucky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesar999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Mario is yet again on another adventure to save the princess peach from an evil force again! What's 
 so different about this game than all the other games? It's an RPG! That's right. Mario and luigi 
 allied with their baby counterparts. The big thing about this game is how it is played out. It has 
 a real time stragety feeling to it as you control the attacks and evasions. One thing wrong about 
 this game is that it may be too short for those hardcore RPG players. And the game can lose it's 
 charm after a while. A solid game with mario in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnnoob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  i like this game well i dont have it my friend let me play it and i beat the game the story is 
 ok and meet their babys lol instead of yoshi carring baby mario its mature mario and luigi also 
 careing him self 
  
  its really fun with all the touch screen this games is not so bad u should buy it if u dont have 
 it but i dont know if ur going to read this. this is a great game mario goes down the portal and 
 luigi. im like lol y they do that for.
  
  i recommend this review to all mario fans and this game came out lastly by nintendo so u can buy 
 it more easily 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krazy_duck
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is MUCH MUCH MUCH MUCH MUCH better than the original i nevery 
 possible aspect. Better story, gameplay, graphics (of course) , and the addition of the babies makes 
 it extra fun. Been playing it for more than thirty hours and I'm still not done. That's what I 
 call bang for your buck....
  However, there is a downside. Boss battles can be somewhat tedious, and this game is not for the 
 easilybored. You have t osit through quite a bit of talking alot of the time... but otherwise, 
 brilliant game.
  Like i said, Very immersive game, couldn't put it down once i picked it up. Very witty and humorous. 
 It's a breath of fresh air today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecream123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  well... dang it. I was really hoping for a just-as-good-game as the first one, but oh well.
  Let's get started:
  Graphics are great (for the DS) , but they could've done a little better. They 
 take full advantage of using the 2 screens (except you only use the touch screen once in the game) 
 so that makes it pretty fun. The mechanics are flawless, except you have to know what to press 
 during combat and not which can be pretty confusing half the time you play. The only bad things 
 about this game are that there is no multi-player (yet, how could there be???) , and you can't pause 
 the game in combat, and sometimes you can't when walking around, and that you can't skip through 
 cinema times. But overall, this game is worth playing and playing maybe one more time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Squishie
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  I'm not very good at explaining thing, and I'm not very patient. So I'm writng this review from 
 the perspective of someone who has played superstar saga.
  
  The overall style is kept intact, and the game still has the same feel to it. Howver some of the 
 personality is gone from this game, as it isn't as funny or cheerful. Gameplay is slightly differen't, 
 baby mario and luigi help you put in battles in some stages of the game. As the name suggests, 
 this game invloves time travel, thats how you meet baby mario and baby luigi.
  
  This is a very lazy review, but it's late and I'm tired and I want to write more reviews. So, If 
 you've played the original, and you liked it, you will enjoy this game too, but it isn't quite 
 as good.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The battle system is basically taken straight from its predecessor, Mario & Luigi: Superstar 
 Saga. This time, instead of travelling through the neighboring Beanbean Kingdom, you travel through 
 the Mushroom Kingdom's past, which has been invaded by odd purple mushroom space invaders and their 
 flying saucers. Also, instead of just Mario and Luigi, you also team up with their baby versions 
 in the past, with the babies often riding piggyback on their adult counterparts. As in the previous 
 one, this is a turn-based game that allows you to do a couple standard attacks, jumping and hammering, 
 doing button presses at the correct time for extra damage. You are also given a chance to dodge 
 or even counterattack enemy attacks by jumping or hammering as well. Before each attack, each enemy 
 does a little visual clue which indicates what attack they will do and who the target will be. 
 In the last game, you had Bros. Attacks, which combined the abilities of both brothers, which used 
 Bros. Points to execute (essentially like magic points in other RPG's) . This time, there's more 
 available attacks, and they're all executed by items. I found that I got enough from question blocks 
 randomly found in the field to suit my needs, using them only on boss fights. Also like in the 
 last game there are a number of puzzles in the field that often send the babies into a narrow gap 
 to hit a switch or the like. On a side note, since you can evade all attacks with perfect execution 
 (in practice you do get hit every so often) , there's a wearable item in the game that regens your 
 HP each turn, and since when you run out of HP in piggyback mode, the baby takes over and can revive 
 the adult with an item, I found this game to not be too challenging. The higher regen and "extra 
 life" with the baby gives you a lot more of a margin of error than the first game.
  
  GRAPHICS: The DS sequel of the GBA game retains its 2D graphics, with a little bit of a crisper 
 image than the older game. Each area of the game has its own unique theme to it, be it a forest, 
 a run-down mushroom village, a thwomp volcano, or baby Bowser's castle.
  
  SOUND: Like in the first game, there are very short voice clips by Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, Baby 
 Luigi, and Peach. Mario and Luigi sometimes explains an extended story in jibberish. The shroobs, 
 the alien mushroom invaders, also have their own "language" of sorts, which is a few often-reused 
 clips. The music itself is decent, though probably a little under the overall quality of the previous 
 game in terms of the compositions. Still, the music isn't exactly bad either.
  
  VALUE: Like the first game, this game will take roughly 20 hours to complete from start to credits. 
 There's no real sidequest options in this game, it's all pretty much linear, with no different 
 gameplay options for a replay. Still, the first run through the game is a great ride.
  
  TILT: Simply put, Partners in Time doesn't deviate much from Superstar Saga, so if you disliked 
 the first you'll dislike the second, and if you loved the first then it's likely you'll love the 
 second. In my case, I think Partners in Time was a little more fun, especially thanks to the more 
 humorous interactions between Luigi and the babies. While the presentation may not be as good as 
 the first one (moreso with the music, which was a little step down) , there's just something about 
 this game that made me look upon it more favorably than its predecessor. Perhaps its the added 
 variety the babies provide, maybe the wider range of brothers attacks, maybe just the shroobs themselves. 
 Or, more likely, it was the hammer brothers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScorpMaster
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This game is extremely funny! The battle system is really good too. You would really enjoy this 
 game. The storyline is pretty good as well.
  
  Graphics:
  Each sprite is very detailed in a funny cartoonish way and the animations are really smooth.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound and music in this game is pretty good too, but it wasn't as catchy as the first game's 
 music.
  
  Value:
  This game will last quite a while.
  
  Overall:
  Overall this game is a really funny game and I reccomend it to all DS owners, even if you didn't 
 enjoy the first one you should really check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_loser15
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  The mario brother's have come to the DS to give us another mario RPG. This time however the baby 
 version of themsleves have come to assist/save the day.
  
  The gameplay this time see's you controlling the big and little versions of the mario brother's. 
 On 'the field' most of the time the babies piggyback on the bigger bro's back, yet at many stages 
 in the game the babies and big brothers need to seperate to solve various puzzle which involve 
 the top and bottom screen at the same time. These puzzle are not gimicky (a nice change for the 
 ds) yet there kinda easy. Also in battle mario brother moves from the first game have been thrown 
 out, and now have bro's item's which have either 2 or all 4 brother's doing special moves. These 
 are more involving then the brother moves were but are too easily avaliable.
  
  Graphic's are beautiful, alpha dream have brought great sprits yet again for all the character's. 
 The world's are full of colour and all suit the mario world. The animations are hilarious especially 
 luigi (as usual) . The sounds of the game are also great. With various refrence's to past mario 
 music, the only thing im not so happy with is the battle music very repetive and abit dull. Otherwise 
 great.
  
  Overall this is yet another great mario game from alphadream. The mario RPG's from alphadream and 
 intelegent system make the wait for the next mario platformer much easier. However I would easily 
 sau that the last mario and luigi had more variety of gameplay and a much more varied storyline. 
 However I think it's good that the touch screen was not used alot because I like the game as it 
 is. However I wish this game did not come out so quickly so that story could of been better.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Though it isn't really the best game ever, it has a very addicting formula and hilarious script. 
 I don't know if the first one was better or not, but I'm pretty sure that first-time players and 
 those who have played the first one, will enjoy this game.
  Though it doesn't really use the touch screen (you only use it to rub a piece of dirty paper to 
 let them discover something) , the game still uses both screens. The purpose of the top screen is 
 to depict the map or show where the babies are when they are apart from their older counterparts (e. g. 
 Mario and Luigi lets the babies jump into a cave. Then the map on the top screen fades and becomes 
 a location where the babies will set foot on) . The graphics look great. The soundtrack, voices 
 and sound effects are all good. The delivery of the scenes are hilariously cool. (the 2 screens 
 give you a sort of panoramic view of what's happening) While the gameplay is easy to learn. Combat 
 is also unique. Apart from the custom jumping and bouncing, there are these Bros. Items in which 
 you can inflict very large damage (especially if you execute the attacks 'contained in the items' 
 perfectly) , either the 4 of them will attack or just 2 of them. According to age group, of course. 
 Boss battles also require you to get your juices pumping and at the same time healing (like other 
 RPGs) .
  Science is also applied to it. (Not E. Gadd!) During battle, do you notice when for example, Adult 
 Luigi, Baby Luigi and Adult Mario have fainted. It is required that the surviving ally which is 
 in the example, Baby Mario, should carry Baby Luigi. And in that process, comes the slowing down 
 of jumps (to evade) which also makes the combat harder.
  Child endangerment would also pay off in the game because, the babies fight. They even add damage 
 during jump attacks or bros. item attacks. The only thing you should do is to press the designated 
 button for them and you can go damaging your opponent all the way.
  Unique skills which can be executed on the field (and sometimes battle) are also great. Just press 
 L or R and press the button of the character. Mario and Luigi (adult) can 'fly' using the Spin 
 Jump, they can cross paths faster by being a ball, while the babies can hammer (buttons or obstructions) 
 and dig underground. These are used in almost every level.
  The RPG elements also spruce up the game (that's why it's an RPG) , you get experience, you level 
 up, get money, buy items, equip clothing and badges and more.
  Though bad thing is, some puzzles are repetitive and some levels might become hard to jump on. 
 Some even require patience. But all in all, this game is a game you wouldn't want to miss in your 
 life. Even if you play it more that 1 time, it can still entertain.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_love_my_ds
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  this is my first ds game, so i dont really have any experience with the ds. this game is really 
 good, its just not as good as the first game. its got a long quest, good graphics, and well its 
 just fun to play. the game also has a great story, its just not as funny as superstar saga. its 
 still got an extremely funny story and its one of the best ive seen in a long time. my only real 
 other complaint is that the game is just way too easy. its a long game, its just that i never really 
 felt like there was some section that i couldnt beat. also there's no real incentive to go back 
 and replay the game. its not very fun on your second playthrough this is overall one of my favorite 
 games, i just wish it wouldve been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meganintendoguy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game. It just is. If you liked the paper mario series, but wanted something 
 a little different not being paper and getting to play luigi and the babies as well this is for 
 you. It is very very similar to Paper Mario. Let that be a good thing.
  
  The game won't last you too long, but unlike a lot of games it actually lets you go back and do 
 stuff you missed whenever you want as long as you don't fight the joke last boss. 
  
  I beat the entire game and I am really pleased at it. 
  
  The graphics and sound are both good 
 not perfect, but they definitely suit the mario world. The graphics especially. And I absolutely 
 loved the gameplay, getting able to double attack using the babies on one turn. It's excellent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJCNUT
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game is really good it has action romance comedy and every thing else if you have a ds this 
 is a must buy. well since I have to have a hundred words i am just goin to keep on writing nonsense 
 until i get to a hundred words ah this is so boring I already gave my review I should be dine but 
 I have to have a hundred words. stupid gamespot ign is so much better i shouldve join over there 
 but no i get to down load game guides yeah right this gay im out. still dont have a hundred words 
 com on already this takes to much time last time I ever write a review god you know what screw 
 it im joining with ign just kidding gamesptot but seriously mario and luigi is a really great game 
 if you hsve a DS you should reallu consider buying it im out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coylenintendo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  The good-Really funny, gets addictive later in the game, some parts are really fun.
  
  The bad-not as good graphics as other DS games, just a little too short, complicated battle controls 
 but you might get used to them later.
  
  Peach gets taken away by an alien race called the Shroobs. They also go in the past, which is where 
 you have to go to collect these crystal shards. You get Baby Mario and Baby Luigi to join you. 
 There are some levels, where you have to solve puzzles, fight enemies, and usually fight a few 
 bosses. The end of the game where you fight the final boss is pretty hard but the rest of the game 
 is mixed with easy and hard parts. You might find yourself fighting annoying enemies or bosses. 
 The fighting system is similar to Paper Mario and the first Mario and Luigi if you played it. You 
 choose to jump, use the babys hammer, heal some energy with items, or use the bros. items. The 
 Bros. Items are items that everyone on your side uses and you have to do a certain thing. Like 
 with the cannoball you have to press each characters button before they land on the enemy, so items 
 are complicated though. Use use Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi in battle. They get experience 
 points and level up, and they also have different stats like Attack and Defense and a few others. 
 This game is worth playing and is really funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plumer_man
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi partners in time (DS) is the sequel to Mario and Luigi super star saga for the 
 GBA. In this humorous RPG you have to (of course) rescue princes Peach from aliens that capture 
 her. Eventually, you go back in time and fiend Mario and Luigi as babies. You get control the normal 
 Mario and Luigi, use them all at the same time or just control the babies. The major change in 
 this sequel is the bro attacks. You have to use all four of the brothers to use the bro items. 
 The graphics in this game are 2D just like super star saga. This game uses both screens of the 
 Ds. Sometimes you have the babies on this top screen and at the same time have the older brothers 
 on the bottom screen. All together, this game is very fun and a good sequel. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicKaitou
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  la secuela no se hizo esperar en este titulo para DS ,, jugue mario and luigi para gba , y lo termin 
 , la mecanica del juego era algo tediosa con respecto a las batallas, habia que aplicar habilidad 
 de respuesta ojo mano, para la mayoria de las batallas....... una que otra cosa estupida ( como 
 los puntos de bigote) ........... pero resulta ser un buen juego entre lo normal y lo rutinario.......... esta 
 version perfecciona algunos de puntos flacos de la version anterior........ ojala que sea del agrado 
 de muchos porque tiene mas de un punto frenetico en toda la trama , ojala os guste 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  Pros: Solid action-RPG gameplay; excellent, funny localization
  Cons: Not enough variety to support length of game; undeveloped story; a little short.
  
  The 
 first Mario & Luigi on the Game Boy Advance was one of the most refreshing and entertaining games 
 of 2003, so naturally we were excited to see what developer AlphaDream could cook up on the DS. 
 While technically improved over the original in a lot of ways, sadly Mario & Luigi: Partners in 
 Time runs out of steam before the end because of a shortage of gameplay depth and story.
  
  Alien Mushrooms From Beyond Time
  
  Alien mushroom Shroobs are attacking the Mushroom Kingdom 
 of the past and have kidnapped the Princess Peach of the present. When Mario and Luigi go back 
 in time to help, they team up with their infant selves to find the pieces of the shattered cobalt 
 star to fight off the fungal fiends and their leader, Princess Shroob.
  
  Infant Abuse FTW
  
  Nintendos proven it can make just about anything fun, but even we had 
 our doubts about an infant abuse RPG. Yes, in order to solve puzzles, youll frequently throw, 
 flatten, and abandon the babies -- you can even shake those babies if you have the DS Rumble Pak 
 from Metroid Prime Pinball. How Mario and Luigi grew up to be well-adjusted after treating themselves 
 so poorly remains a mystery. Much of the puzzles revolve around splitting the twin twins up to 
 hit switches and open doors, usually throwing the babies up to the top screen. But there arent 
 that many tricks to navigate the world or types of puzzles to solve, ultimately leading to monotony.
 
  
  The excellent action-based battles of the first game are back, with an improved interface and an 
 added layer of complexity courtesy of the pre-ambulatory plumbers. Sometimes youll control only 
 the babies and sometimes youll only control the adults, but when together they can create even 
 deadlier attacks. As before, timing is crucial in attacking and defending, and each character is 
 assigned one of the face buttons, making every battle a unique and pleasantly finger-twisting experience. 
 Each spell uses a Bros. Item which initiates a little button-tapping minigame sequence, which 
 help keep battles exciting.
  
  Too Little For Too Long
  
  Sadly, the story is a major letdown when compared to the hilarious slapstick antics of the original: 
 the whole time travel concept is woefully underexploited and because the Shroobs speak in alien 
 gibberish theres a shortage of speaking roles, putting the brakes on the charm and wit that make 
 the first game a classic. Between the frequent battles and overused puzzles, without a strong story 
 to make it all worthwhile your enthusiasm will gradually wane as your efforts outweigh the rewards.
 
  
  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is an excellent production, sporting fantastic animation and 
 fully hand-painted environments to explore. The music and sounds effects get high marks, as well, 
 especially the hilarious pseudo-italian babble voice samples.
  
  For the first few hours, Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time will seem like its the best DS game 
 yet, but it slowly loses its luster as it tries to do too much with too little. The threadbare 
 story can barely support the games 20 hours of gameplay and the brothers dont have enough moves 
 to keep the puzzle-solving fresh. While still an enjoyable game, this isnt the improvement over 
 the first it shouldve been.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widger5000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Between the Incredible gameplay, and the awesome sound, this game is a complete masterpeice. This 
 game must become a classic, It actually compares to Super Mario RPG for SNES. The story line in 
 this game is great. The only thing that is bad about this game is the old avction commands, they 
 are very similair to the original, and are overused. Overall:
  BEST GAME ON DS. I recommend it for ages 8-20. I call it a must-buy for any DS owner. ONE TIP- 
 get it. I was, at first uptight about getting this game becuase it looked very similar to the original, 
 and I had just finished that one, But I got it, and it was a fresh, new experience campared to 
 the original! A can't say many bad things about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4yoshi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed Mario & Luigi 1, so I was watching for the making of number 2 since the E3 
 2005 show. The game is quite good, but for those looking for a sequal better or equal to the first, 
 this game will be a disappointment. 
  
  The gameplay itself is quite good, giving experienced players more edge, but allowing the beginners 
 to still do well. The storyline, while it might not be thrilling, has enough twists to keep the 
 game enjoyable, at least for the first time through. Also, as a veteran of number one, as long 
 as I did not wear the "dangerous, power-boosting" clothes, this game was quite simple.
  
  The graphics are also good, showing some of Nintendo's better works. However, none of them are 
 truly memorable.
  
  The sound is only decent. Again, nothing will stick with you five minutes after playing it, but 
 it does its job well enough.
  
  The value is where the game takes a nose-dive. The story, while it may be long enough, it is not 
 the same epic adventure that the first one was. The storyline does not nearly have enough umph 
 to make me want to play it again, and the jokes so rampant in number one become just an occasional 
 laugh. 
  
  This is a good game, but it does not live up to the standards set from the first one. I can recommend 
 this game to anyone who has not played the first, but to those who have, don't expect this game 
 to be up on that level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gck14
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome the grapics although 2d make it all the better i just could not see this game 
 as 3d. the game also has the same humor as the first. but you do not need to play the first to 
 get this version. the only bad part is wich is a plus (if you understand luigi playing the part 
 of grass in paper mario 2 you will understtand this humer) that it does not use the touch screen 
 almost at all (there is one short part involving cleaning a map) but all in all it is just a plain 
 joy to play i found my self finding time to play it unlike most hand helds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in Time is the second game in the Mario and Luigi series. It is a sequel, 
 and if you haven't played the first, you should beat that first and buy this. It is an action/RPG 
 style game, leaning more towards RPG. As Mario, Luigi, and also their baby counterparts, you'll 
 fight a Shroob (Rhymes with noob, but these guys aren't noobish, they're tough) aliens in the past. 
 Mario and Luigi go back and forward in time a lot in this game. Princess Peach has been captured, 
 again, but this time by Shroobs, and not Bowser. Bowser still appears, but like in Mario and Luigi 
 1, he's not the main bad guy. In the game, you basically travel to different parts of the Mushroom 
 Kingdom, beat enemies, solve puzzles, run errands, return, talk to the professor/toads/Toadsworth, 
 go back to a different place, etc. This sounds repetitive, and in a way it is in concept, but the 
 areas you go to, the enemies, the situations, etc are very unique each time. The story progresses 
 and isn't really cliched. The dialog in this game is hilarious, but it may dissapoint fans of the 
 original as the script is not as well written, but still well written nonetheless.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  There are platforming and puzzle solving elements in every area in the game. Jumping, 
 hammering, switching, gliding, spinning, and warping are just a few examples. You'll need to manage 
 your two basic teams, baby and adult. Sometimes you'll have to split up and accomplish tasks on 
 your own, other times you'll have all 4 in a party. In the battle system, you can do various things, 
 like jump and hammer. This is basic, and if you have 4 people in a party you'll have 4 buttons 
 to worry about on offense and defense. There are button sequences that you'll have to press in 
 order to maximize damage. You can dodge or counter your enemy's attacks, which usually have signals 
 indicating where they'll hit. A problem with this is that sometimes the shadows given by enemies 
 are not prominant enough, which could be a problem for people at first. Also, there are the usual 
 items you can use to raise stats and heal. Bros. Items are new and replace Bros Attacks, which 
 is kind of bad and kind of good. Bros. Items are more diverse, but I wish they put in the Bros 
 Attacks as well. These items work in the same way but you'll have to buy or find them rather than 
 learn them and use Brother Points (BP, equivalent to MP in Final Fantasy) . The game uses the two 
 screens to great effect, splitting the action. The top screen can be used for an alternate view, 
 a seperate view, or a map. They could've added some touchscreen elements though, maybe some mini-games 
 involving it ala Super Mario 64 DS. You can flee from battle. Every time you beat enemies, you'll 
 get EXP, which should be familiar to most gamers by now. You can level up on defense, power, HP, 
 etc. You can also make your mustache more refined to get more critical hits and get discounts when 
 buying items. You can equip badges, which are accessories that give various effects, and pants, 
 which alter stats.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Ah, the graphics. So animated, so fluid, no real problems here. The majority of the game is well-animated 
 3-D, with subtle details and background layers. There are some polygons here and there, but they're 
 not the main focus. When the polygons are present, they are smooth and without glaring jaggies. 
 Many of the game's greatest effects are your enemies' attacks. Bowser's fire looks awesome, and 
 explosions look great.
  
  SOUND
  Sound here is superb. Great sound effects, great background music, and great voicework (There are 
 more grunts, talking sequences, etc. I think Mario and Luigi even speak Italian!) The one bad thing 
 is the battle music. For bosses, they differ, but still aren't as memorable as the first game's. 
 The regular battle theme is ok, but not as addicting. Still, some of the boss themes are just plain 
 awesome.
  
  VALUE
  This is a very valuable game. Not only is it unique, it is long. It took me about 15 and a half 
 hours without doing many sidequests. Unfortunately, there aren't many sidequests to begin with. 
 Fortunately, the uniqueness and pure fun factor is enough to make this a memorable purchase, and 
 it's always fun and go back to play.
  
  PROS
  - Great Graphics
  - Fun Gameplay
  - Great Sound
  - Very Unique
  - Funny, witty, just plain awesome
  - Uses the two screens 
 effectively
  - No problems regarding technical stuff, you can just pick it up and play
  
  CONS
  - Not as superb a script as the older one
  - Not as addicting music as the older one
 
  - No minigames that you can access over and over again
  - Could've used touchscreen support
  - No unlockables 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigasonic1114
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi 2 is just like the original, except this time you have control of both the adult 
 and child version of Mario and Luigi. Princess Peach has gone back in time and you must rescue 
 her and defeat the evil Shroobs, aliens from another mushroom. They have taken over the past and 
 you must restore order to the past so the baby versions of Mario. Luigi, Peach, and Bowser can 
 keep on fighting with each other. In this version you can fight as either the babies, adults or 
 the adults giving a piggyback ride to the babies. There are special moves both in and out of battle 
 that help you to beat enemies and semi-hard puzzles. Once you have beaten the first few bosses 
 the game gets easier only because you have mastered the button moves for evasion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobMango
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  M&L: PT is one of the best RPGs available on the DS. Despite no touch screen use, you will still 
 have an enjoyable time playing this one
  
  Graphics- Colorful and bright, the graphics won't dissapoint you, as they are some of the best 
 you'll come across, despite not being 3-D.
  
  Gameplay- Same as Superstar Sagas, if you have played the first, you should be all set with this 
 one. It takes a little getting used to, though, with the babies.
  
  Sound- Good sounds, and the voices of the characaters aren't going to dissapoint you.
  
  Value- 
 You'll probably only play it once, but you'll surely have a good time in doing so.
  
  Tilt- I had a great time with this game, and still have not beaten it after 10 hours of play. I'm 
 sure many of you DS owners will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffiny
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  Myself, I have not completed the game yet, rather in Toad Town. So far I have practically not been 
 able to put the game down except to eat and sleep. It's just so fun and addictive.
  
  First off, the sprites are very nice and cartoonish. They're rather like the M&L: SS ones, but looking 
 a lot smoother with more shading.
  
  Next the music. Awesome. Wow. Some people say its a bit off and childing, but I don't know. I've 
 had the boss music stuck in my head for days on end now. Some of the music on the overworld can 
 get a bit boring, but the battle music is top quality.
  
  Then last of all, gameplay. Great. A lot of overworld interactivity, and probably the best idea 
 for a battle system yet. It takes turn based battles to a new level. Interactivity in the OPPONENT'S 
 turn. And overall, the game is just plain funny. Love it.
  
  Great game Nintendo, hope there will be another sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ReMuS-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  i , m i n s h r o o b , s c a s t l e  w h a t d o i d o ? i t r i e d e v r i t h i n g f r o 
 m k i l l i n g m i s e l f t o k i l i n g e v r y o n e p l e a s e a n y o n e t e l l m e w 
 h a t t o d o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haruko05
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Disappointingly boring. It's almost alike to the old one, no interaction with the touch screen. 
 There's no excitement with the storyline just the usual Mario save the day. Good if you never played 
 the first one I guess. There's really nothing new to this one even through they made it for the 
 DS. No updates at all.
  
  I would refer this game to maybe a first or second grader but otherwise not at all. The graphic 
 and sounds are the only good thing. Ending is kinda disappointing and there's no replay value. 
 There's two save slots so you can share the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twinkle-Toez
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok to start off I'm not going to lie, there is only one bad thing about this game. The reading 
 part there is lots of reading.. BUT... now lets get to the good part.. err rephrase.. GREAT PARTS! 
 Ok, Characters, Graphics and everything else about this game is just ballistic! You have to get 
 it, theres almost no explaining how great this game is. I've already told you about the bad parts 
 and thats really all that needs to be said lol, I wont rate it a 10.0 just because of the reading 
 part but let me remind you... GET THIS GAME! Its very addicting and nothing gets old, unless you 
 just get bored of games and dont like games at all... but yeah go get it.. its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octochomp_5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. It's everything I thought it would. Some of the bosses are hard to beat. Right 
 now I'm battling Mrs. Thwomp. man is she annoying! Anyways, I loved this game as soon as I got 
 it. The whole plot is decent, the characters are funny and some of the bros. items are useful, 
 especially the trampolines. One warning, though, don't spend all your time on it. when you can't 
 beat a boss, just play another game for a while and come back to it. My favourite characters are 
 Luigi, the baby bros., Kamek and Baby Bowser, because the game might have been dull without their 
 antics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascolik
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is my suprise of 2005. There were lots of many great game and better game than this one 
 in 2005, but this one really suprised me.
  
  Gameplay : This part is one of the best of this game, it is really well made and really innovative 
 at that point, it's the first time I see RPG have battle like in MLPT (Mario and Luigi Partner 
 in Time) .
  
  Graphic : Impressive for a portable consol and a rpg of that type.
  
  Sound : Good, sounds correct for the game but could be better some time.
  
  Value : Could have 
 been cheeper.
  
  Tilt : Great game that worth playing, but it's really too easy to know what to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmydude
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. I thought that it was hilarious all the way through. Nintendo did 
 a great job with the creation of this. The final parts of the game wraps everything up and puts 
 you in a mood at the end that makes you want to play it again. Then play the first one again, Superstar 
 Saga, if you have it. 
  Our two heroes, Mario and Luigi... and eventually Mario and Luigi... well they meet the younger 
 versions of themselves. They have to defeat the evil Shroobs that have captured Princess Peach 
 during her time travel expedition.
  The gameplay is creative and there is a variety of enemies waiting to test your reflexes. Your 
 reaction times will eventually effect how many items you will need. I am fast so I didn't need 
 any items. My sister is slow and not coordinated, she needed lots of coins. The graphics and sound 
 are very nice i think. The puzzles are witty and even smart people will once in a while need to 
 stop and think. One would always anticipate the cutscenes and enjoy the enemies and bosses. Magical.
 
  The most memorable event in the game would have to be the closure, or revolution. I really liked 
 how the game ended and answered all of the questions that remained. But the hammer broz. visit 
 was also a VERY entertaining encounter. I couldn't stop laughing you know. 
  I would reccomend this game to anyone that is alive. And I implore Mario and Luigi fans to get 
 this game and enjoy it to the fullest. I will be playing it again now. 
  Telling you too much isn't good, so if you haven't, go get and play it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 27695
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game is just not much like the original was. Exploring has been watered down and the overworld 
 has been replaced with time holes. No more will a yellow Monty Mole give you a free item for finding 
 his secret hiding place. This game could have also had levels in the present with little changes 
 in them just to make the game longer. 
  
  Furthermore the bros powers in the original have been taken away and replaced with bros items. 
 This took out the advanced bros attacks from the original (where if you do a bros attack very well 
 you could advance it and make it more powerful) . They also removed the hand powers from this game.
 
  
  The baby's use is little, their main use is just to give their old versions a 1-up if they fall 
 from battle. Everything else could have already been done with the two brothers. 
  
  The graphics are nice 2-D with a few effects only the DS could do. But the GBA could do everything 
 else.
  
  MandL PiT is a good game but a bit too short. I hope Nintendo does a better job in the next.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: salamisandwich
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Mario and luigi : Partners in time doesn't live up to the same immersive or comedic value over 
 nintendos console RPG: Paper mario.
  
  The game while having a good amount of puzzles, also gets confusing at times. 
  
  There are 
 10 differant outside battle abilities, all with unique challenges. They come a little too quickly 
 and are confusing. Also considering you have to jump two ways (one then other, or both at same 
 time) its 14 abilities.
  
  It also comes with 2 basic in battle abilities, and variates, making it 4 basic abilities. And 
 the "bros items" are numerous. Green sheel, red sheel, smash egg, cannonballers, pocket chomps, 
 trampolines, fire flowers, ice flowers, copy flowers, mix flowers. Making the total again 14 abilities.
 
  
  So in this game are 28 abilities you should master. Thats a lot. Not to mention mini-games.
  
 
  The humor is well there, shown with the hammer bros talking in leet speak (then you am cry!) , the 
 star gate talking about the goodness of people and diet, luigi constently getting hurt etc. But 
 compared to even the origional paper mario, the rate at which the humor comes isn't enough. 
  
  The game is solidly made, but a better learning curve and more humor would have really helped. 
 
  
  The graphics have style however, but could use improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewtwo99
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  This is my first review, so first let me explain my reviewing methodology. 
  
  Games will be receiving points in the following 6 categories, total points possible reflecting 
 how important each field is in my opinion:
  
  Story - 2 pts possible
  Characters - 2 pts possible
  Sound - 2 pts possible
  Gameplay - 2 pts possible
  Value - 1 
 pt possible
  Graphics - 1 pt possible
  
  I will score all of my games in this fashion, rarely awarding fractions of points in any category 
 other than value (this is the category that will lead to decimals in my ratings) . When reviewing 
 I will simply award the points in the categories with a brief explanation of why I gave it full 
 credit, half credit, no credit, or in the rare case subtracted credit due to the fact that it actually 
 harmed the game as a whole. I will more or less arbitrarily choose values for the tilt score in 
 the Gamespot categories so that the average reflects how I feel about the game, while trying to 
 choose accurately how I felt about the other portions. Please understand that they are still somewhat 
 arbitrary, so don't believe what I put for the standard Gamespot categories. Without further ado, 
 my review for Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time begins!
  
  Story - 1 point
  
  The story in Mario and Luigi: Partners in time deals with the ideas of time travel, but this isn't 
 handled in any particularly delicate fashion. In other words, it seems to be more of a device used 
 to get the babies teamed up with the adults, rather than lead to any interesting paradoxical situations. 
 The shroobs seemed to be basic, by the book villains that really didn't stand out and make me hate 
 them or love to hate them in any way. Overall, the story was strong enough to make the game work, 
 which is why I award it one point.
  
  Characters - 2 points
  
  Everyone will be familiar with nearly all of the characters in this game, and they are all done 
 brilliantly. Mario and Luigi, babies or adults, are both lovable, and Princess Peach is as adorable 
 as ever. Toadsworth is also quite amusing, and it is really only with this character that we get 
 to see an interesting use of the time travel plot device. I chuckled nearly every time I saw Princess 
 Shroob hold out her microphone to me as if I were in the audience cheering her on. Minor characters 
 also help make this game, such as the hammer bros speaking l33t before being handed a thorough 
 whooping. Because of these qualities in all of the characters, I award this category the maximum 
 2 points.
  
  Sound - 1.9 points
  
  The music that is introduced in this game for the first time is largely forgettable. That being 
 said, it doesn't necessarily make it bad. There are many themes from older Mario games that have 
 been remixed and placed into certain areas of the game, which definitely end up working for the 
 game in the long run. The last boss theme was surprisingly good as well, along with the end credits 
 theme to boot. I must admit that there was an overuse of voice clips for Mario, Luigi and the babies 
 which detract slightly from this score, which is why I am awarding it nearly full credit, 1.9 points.
 
  
  Gameplay - 2 points
  
  Simply put, the gameplay of Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is top notch for any turn-based RPG, 
 let alone for any hand-held title. Back in the late 80's and early 90's, the turn based fashion 
 was definitely in vogue, but due to the fact that consoles have gained power, it has been increasingly 
 difficult for this genre to thrive against real-time RPGs. Mario and Luigi: Partners in time pulls 
 this off without a hitch, allowing the player to actively participate in all aspects of the turn 
 based actions. Attacking enemies, dodging attacks, and using items all require good timing and 
 decent memorization. I cannot praise this game enough for its gameplay, which is why I award it 
 the full 2 points in this category.
  
  Value - 0.8 points
  
  This game is a DS title, which means that it is under $40.00 at retailers, automatically boosting 
 the value of the cartridge. I got just over 11 hours of gameplay out of it, without spending much 
 time doing anything extra in the game (not sure of much extra there is to do though) . Even though 
 this doesn't seem like much gameplay time overall, the game left me with an overall pleased feeling. 
 In other words, the time I spent with the game was enjoyed almost every minute. There were no slow 
 spots to be found in this title. However, I couldn't help but feel that the game could have been 
 a bit longer, which is why I am awarding a value score of 0.8 points. 
  
  Graphics - 1 point
  
  You won't find any outstanding graphics in this game, but what you will 
 find is an artistic style that works well for what is desired. The cartoon atmosphere makes all 
 the craziness somewhat believable. The game uses 2-d sprites and backgrounds, on a plane that emulates 
 a 3-d environment. This ends up working perfectly, which is why I award full credit towards the 
 graphics of this game.
  
  Bottom line: Mario and Luigi is well worth your time if you are a fan of Nintendo, RPGs, 2-d gaming 
 or a DS game that doesn't utilize touchscreen features (save for one small instance) . An overall 
 appealing game with an overall appealing score of 8.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinesol92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi partners in time is a great rpg i could'nt stop playing it this game is highly 
 addictive! This game offers some new characters and some old like the last game ther'es some pretty 
 funny parts. Of course in every good rpg there is some one annoying in ocarina of time theres navi 
 in final fantasy 7 theres yuffi and in mario rpg there's the burgelar etc and in this one theres 
 a suit case that wont SHUT UP! if you have been a fan of any mario rpgs (paper mario paper mario 
 2 and mario rpg) you will love this. Overall this is one of the best rpgs ive played in a while 
 i would highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LemmyKoopa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is really excellent. Basically, Peach goes back in time to the Mushroom Kingdom's past, 
 and ends up getting kidnapped by some new villains called Shroobs. Playing once again as both Mario 
 and Luigi, you'll go into the Mushroom Kingdom's past, and eventually find, and team up with, Baby 
 Mario and Baby Luigi. There are some puzzles where you'll need to play as the babies and the adults 
 individually. At other times you'll need all 4 of them in order to gain access to certain warp 
 pipes, or get to high areas, and such. As you progress through the game, both the babies and the 
 adults will learn fun abilities, such as the ability to spin jump. The battle system is like that 
 of the previous game, but improved with some new abilities and some new items. Also, the babies 
 can be quite useful in battle, because if Mario or Luigi die, you can still fight using their younger 
 selves. Also, they can gain level ups, just like regular Mario and Luigi. As if that weren't awesome 
 enough, throughout the game, you'll even experience some fun characters of the Mushroom Kingdom's 
 past, such as Baby Peach, Baby Bowser, and some others. This game also has quite a good sense of 
 humor, as is true with the other Mario rpgs, as well. There's not a whole lot to explore, but the 
 gameplay is excellent otherwise. The graphics are great and clear and well-designed. The sound/music 
 is good, too, as there's some new music as well as some cool re-mixes. Also, Mario and Luigi are 
 well voiced, and often sound funny when they're talking.
  
  Overall, a truly excellent game, an improvement over the original, which was incredible itself, 
 and definitely worth buying. The only flaws I'd say this game has is there's not a lot to explore, 
 and the replayability is rather low. Aside from that, this is game truly awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi is just a great game. If you ever played the one for the GBA you will love this 
 sequal. Also if you liked either of the paper mario games you will love this game because the battle 
 system is pretty much the same. The graphics in this game are amzing for a ds game and the gameplay 
 is really solid. It has a great story and is a mario game that all mario fans will enjoy. If you 
 have a ds and are looking for a rpg or just a fun game I definatly recommend this game to you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  As much as I have enjoyed playing Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, I am not impressed that there 
 is no replay value on this game, once you beat it thats all there is to do unlike other popular 
 DS titles. The only other complaint was that I enjoyed the Bros Attack system in Superstar Saga 
 as opposed to having to buy items to use, the Bros points system was much easier to use. However 
 the bros items were a lot more effective than the Bros Attacks, but having to spend the little 
 money that you get in the game was a problem for buying the Bros items. The controls take a bit 
 of getting used too, coordination and quick reaction are key to success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grungaloo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  "Mario & Luigi: Partners in time" was a good game. It has an interesting and sometimes funny story 
 line and it kept most of the original ideas from the first one. It uses the dual screen in an interesting 
 way but does not really take advantage of the DS' new touch screen. With the addition of the two 
 younger heroes, the game has allowed for new combat style and different attacks. It was very innovative 
 how the bros attack as a pair with their younger selves. Overall, it is still a very good play 
 and I would recommend it to all DS owners who enjoyed the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necromaticgamer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Yes! finaly an RPG for the DS. Mario and Luigi Partners in Time is the sequel to Mario and Luigi 
 for the GBA. It was one of my favorit GBA games so my expectations where high for this game. And 
 what do you know, its right on the spot. In this comic RPG you play as mario and his brother but 
 with your baby selves also! this adds even more to the RPG style fights. Now insted of 2 you get 
 4. the storys very simple. Peach travels back in time to see the former Mushroom kingdom. but when 
 the time machien gets back, Peach isent in it insted its a strange looking monster from the past! 
 you find out that the evil Prenceis Shroom has taken over the mushroom kingdom of your past. also 
 when the time machiene comes back it rips time holes everywhere. you travel therew them to colect 
 the stars shards, defeat the shrooms, and meet up with your baby selfs along the way. the graphics 
 are the best that you can get on the DS. clean, smooth cartoony style graphics like the first one 
 but better! The sound is the same too. Same style music same sound efects, same voice actoers (of 
 corce) . The game play is what changed the most. in the fights there are now 4 of you so that means 
 2xs the button mashing! But also they replaced the bros moves with simple items you all use togeather. 
 this was my biggest turn off in the game. I loved all the crazy moves you learn and practicing 
 to master them. now all it is is colect the items, use them untill you miss a button comand. This 
 time around though you get much stronger and so do your oponets. All in all its just not as good 
 as the first one, but is still very much worth your time. Very funny, very fun, and crazy like 
 adictive you will find your self playing this game for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuffisfun101
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This one was a little worse than it's first one. First of all, sometimes I couldn't see where I 
 jumped when things where in my way!!! Also when you get to the shroob castle the enemies are wicked 
 hard to beat. It took me half the game to get through the castle, and when I did, I had to fight 
 through this wacko shroob queen, then fight this fat queen!!! Nintendo is looking thear touch with 
 Mario. They can't think of any other games to do with him, so they are putting him in to series!
 
  Finally, a couple of good things. The only good thing I found from this game was that it was like 
 the first, and it had good bosses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskinator
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Mario + Luigi: Partners in time is like a compilation of all the past mario RPGs into one awesome, 
 colorful game. The creator, no doubt to be Shigeru Miyamoto, could have added in a touch screen-based 
 fighting system and maybe a little more than gibberish when Mario is "Happena Ah Pringoappentalion"ing. 
 The colors are awesome, and so are the effects. There are some parts that may seem humorous like 
 the "L337 No0b Killahz Koopa Bros" to most gamers, there is rumble pak compatability, though i 
 have not seen it in action. Overall this game is a must have for Mario fans and people who want 
 to see a new and creative RPG (like Final Fantasy 12, like come on, that game is in serious need 
 of an ending. But I'll save that for another review)
  Check out Mario & Luigi: Partners in time for the Nintendo DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaneBeck
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Its gameplay is great with a sence of humour. If you dont like mario and luigi ask yourself are 
 you near a tall building if so go JUMP OFF IT!! It takes about an hour to get used to it. Unlike 
 final fantasy this game will taake you awile to figure out how to beat the enemy instead of hitting 
 it with a sword untill it dies. you acually have to try and figure out how to get the weekspot 
 exposed. With the babies at your side your double the bros with the double the power with double 
 the screens. Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuigiFREAK13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  this was amazing. I'm the kind of guy who loves the kind of 'Paper Mario' kind of battle theme, 
 but this just caught me off guard. the different clothes, badges, the luck factor, stat building 
 and the bros. items were unexpected on my part. bosses were an inconvenese, but they were still 
 fun. the game is OK-harder because of the fact that it was hard without the walk-through (but then 
 again, what game isn't?) Once again i say great work and a great game... PLAY THIS :p
  
  im still wowed by it......................
  
  P. S. STOP MAKING JOKES AND COMMENTS AND ANYTHING 
 ELSE OFFENSIVE ABOUT LUIGI!!!!!!!! WITHOUT HIM, MARIO WOULD BE SOOOOOOOO LOST.
  
  thank you,
  luigiFREAK13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holada
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  No ser tan largo como un Final Fantasy, pero sin embargo te mantiene por aproximadamente unas 
 20 hrs. (que tampoco es poco) bastante divertido. Yo an no lo termino.
  La msica es siempre la misma en las batallas, media montona.
  Ya dejando de lado lo malo, hay 
 un gran humor, las voces de Mario y Luigi jajaja.
  Las grficas son parecidas al de Game boy advance.
  La historia es bastante buena.
  Muy fcil 
 de jugar. 
  Fue un gran punto por parte de Nintendo agregar a los bebs, se hace muy divertido manipularlos, 
 estar ellos en el juego y en el como se relacionan con sus partes adultas.
  Por ningn motivo te arrepentirs si lo compras es muy bueno. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I've always liked RPG games and this one is no different. Mario and Luigi and their younger selves 
 are all ready for action in this entertaining but predictable game. The graphics are good as is 
 the sound (but the whiny baby Mario and Luigi are annoying in the beginning of the game) but I 
 can't help getting that been there, done that feeling as I am playing it.
  
  The fighting is interesting, if for no other reason that you can use the baby brothers as weapons 
 (?!?) to help defeat your enemies. It's certainly an interesting idea, I know that I often had 
 an overwhelming desire when I was a young kid to pick up my little sister and use her as a projectile 
 - glad to see that this idea was incorporated into this game.
  
  Overall it is a fun and fairly entertaining experience, even if the execution of the game is tried 
 and true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_of_the_360
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Superstar saga (M&L) for the GBA was one of the greatest and most innovative RPGs 
 around. And the sequel Mario and Luigi: Partners in time (M&L: PiT) is just as great and innovative. 
 It has some of the greatest sprites i've ever seen, as well as great backgrounds and character 
 models. The sounds are great during battle or not. The good thing about M&L: PiT is that it has 
 the same "feel" as the original, it's funny, full of intense boss battles, and has a great story. 
 Their is no reason not to get this game because it is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This is truly an amazing RPG game, not to say it doesn't have its fair share of shortcomings. Its 
 feel's a little drained at times, and it fails to stump the player with a complex puzzle and flows 
 relatively smooth. With that said its still a very fun game. Replacing bro attacks with great selection 
 of easy to master items as well as a intresting set of moves.
  
  Keeping the platforming elements the first kept so strong, and adding to it. Although sacrificing 
 the difficulty in turn, the game is still a throbbing experience that dominates its predecessor 
 on many levels. With twice as much humor and life squeezed in and a interesting unique storyline.
 
  
  Time is both your enemy and friend, having caused the crisis and then providing a means to overcome 
 it.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Wonderful gameplay, combining both baby and adult bro's in a unique platform basis, and then turning 
 into a turn based rpg game.
  
  Graphics - 9
  Not much better than superstar saga, but rightfully so. They make no gameplay sacrifices for beauty.
 
  
  Sound - 9
  Much better soundtrack than the first, with a tiny touch of retro and a batch of new fitting tracks. 
 Although a soon forgettable soundtrack, the sound effects are great.
  
  Overall - 9.8
  It almost overcomes the amazing Superstar saga and provides a new intresting RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! It's like a mix between Paper Mario and Superstar Saga. You get to travel 
 back and forth in time in this game trying to rescue, no one other then, Princess Peach. It's going 
 to take more then just Mario and Luigi, they are going to need help from their baby selves. It's 
 just like Superstar Saga, travel around killing enemy's and gaining new abilities and levels. Whats 
 new is the badges. There something new added from Paper Mario. This game is really good. So I really 
 recommend you get this game. Ignore the losers who say this game reeks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_L_O_T_H
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Partners in time is probably a game that need more originality. I haven't played superstar saga 
 so I can't say whether the story is similar to the first like so many people say. The problem with 
 the game is that the first three or so hours of gameplay is great. Then, the game gets pretty obvious 
 and repetitive. By the end of the game, I noticed that fighting the random enemies are harder than 
 defeating the bosses. However, having the ability to counter enemies is very helpful indeed. I 
 haven't played any other Mario RPG until after I beat this one (I have played a little of Paper 
 Mario for the Gamecube) . So, I can't say if this game is a letdown or not compared to Superstar 
 Saga. But, if you haven't played it or you are just looking for some portable fun, I recommend 
 giving this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fimbulvetr2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is so plain fun. Look at my rating of this game and see if it rocks. This game has some 
 really crude humor like calling the Mario bros noobs and getting Pooped out of a dinosaur. This 
 game also has some great items like green and red shells, mushrooms, peppers, Trampolines, Cannons, 
 smash eggs. Sadly even though i like yoshi's with fangs. The yoshis are really funny in this game. 
 There is a reporter named kylie koopa. The whole thing gets so funny when you reach vin factory. 
 That is when hammer bros show up. I hope you like this game and this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CelestialZone
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  I played the first one for GBA and that was very good. when i beat it, i wanted more. then my cousin 
 told me bout Partners in Time. I mean i was wanting a second version. Since it was for DS i had 
 to get it. The way u have more attacks and u can use the babies now makes the game all the more 
 fun. They have upgraded the jump and hammer attack to do more damage and it jus looks soo cool. 
 I havent really found a use for the touch screen yet sunce i got it 3 days ago, but i know that 
 when i picked this game up, i was in for an awesome adventure starring my 2 favorite ppl, Mario 
 & Luigi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaneator
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:47 am PT
Review:  this is my first review so bare with me.
  Grapics: the graphics look like gba graphics but makes it better with 3d like
  parts like the 
 background. 10/10
  
  gameplay: this is where this game really shines the game has highely repsonse of controls but when 
 you use the babys its kinda annoying when useing a special attack reaching for the button and this 
 game is a unigue rpg.9/10
  
  sound: i think this game has great sound the remixes of all the favorite mario games and the death 
 sounds or all good.10/10 i loved the sound
  
  replay: not really any but if you like replaying games 8/10
  
  wrap up: over all you cant go 
 wrong with this rpg only a few minor complaints thats all if you like mario rpgs buy it or rpgs 
 in genrel if you dont like rpgs rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zim3454
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Lemme tell ya... I played Superstar Saga and the battle system was by far the most fun I've ever 
 had in a battle sequence. And with Partners in Time only improving on that... I was stricken with 
 anticipation for the sequel to come out and it was better than expected! I loved it! If you have 
 a DS and you like Mario you should go buy this game. Bottom line, it is the most fun I've had playing 
 an RPG since well, Superstar Saga :) This game will go down as one of the most enjoyable Nintendo 
 DS titles out there. I guarentee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australia-
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  This is a good rpg game I played for the ds. It has anything an RPG fan would want. A wide variety 
 of items to buy. The ability to gain levels for your characters. The thing that I like most about 
 this game is the way combat keeps you on your toes because you have to time your jumps and you 
 have the ability to dodge or even counter attacks. This game also has a very long storyline which 
 is great. This game has very strong humour and will keep you laughing alote. This is a great game 
 to buy if you really like RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariobros123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi two of our favorite charecters make it in another great game. This may be there 
 greatest ever. This game makes me a happy person after playing that horrible game my neighbor got 
 me. Anyways this game will make my top 10 list for a while.
  
  Mario and Luigi is an adventure. This game is much different than the other Mario and Luigi games. 
 In this one you'll have touse mario bros. items. Yeah instead of only attacking with mario bros. 
 moves you'll use items. For instance the Mario Bros. fire flower or green shells. You don't have 
 to jump on people to destroy them instead you go into a different battle arena and battle up to 
 four men with your pals. 
  
  You are equiped with not only items but mario and Luigi and Baby Mario and Luigi. Baby Mario and 
 Luigi have to take on some tasks themselves and Mario and Luigi will do the same thing. It is a 
 tag team effort in this game. That is whay they call it PARTNERS in time.
  
  The time part is that you have to jump into time holes to complete your journey. Through time holes 
 tou will find cobalt shards. You must collect a certain number of shards along the way.
  
  Battling is the high point of the game. When you are in battle arenas you must attack the opponent 
 with not only moves but mario bros items. You not only attack but counter attack. It is a tag team 
 effort in battling you must use Baby Mario and Luigi as well as Mario and Luigi to beat this game. 
 You can flee from battling but it will lower your money. 
  
  Puzzles are also a major part of the game. You'll have to use the babies and the adaults to overcome 
 all obstacles. I don't care much for puzzles but this changed my mind. sometimes you will need 
 to use all of your pals. Other times only 2 of them. But which ever this will be a fun game.
  
  I recomend this for just about everyone. It will keep you playing for hours. Make sure you 
 like Mario and Luigi humor because theres alot of it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningrod767
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi Partners in Time is a basic RPG with action commands, and adventure. It is a great 
 game. Mario & Luigi get stuck in the past, to save the mushroom kingdom from the shroobs. They 
 meet their baby selves, and save the Mushroom kingdom from evil mushrooms! This game is great. 
 It may take a long time to get used to the controls, but once you do that, it's addicting and fun. 
 You now control four characters; Mario, Luigi, B. Mario, and B. Luigi. If you are a mega fan of 
 Mario games, get this! It's a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is the Nintendo DS sequel to the popular Mario and Luigi: Superstar 
 Saga. But now instead of controlling two characters, you now control four! That leap from two to 
 four seemed to be a big improvement, it simply FEELS better to have four characters in a party.
 
  
  Famed Professor E. Gadd has just completed finishing on his time machine. Princess Peach is SO 
 excited, she promptly went into the machine along with a few Toads to visit the past of the Mushroom 
 Kingdom.
  Back in time, Baby Bowser is thwarted by Baby Mario by yet another attempt to snatch the princess. 
 Unfortunately, right at that time, the Shroobs decide to attack.
  The Shroobs are nasty - creepy purple mushroom aliens who were looking for a new home, and chose 
 the Mushroom Kingdom as their new home. Baby Bowser rescues them all.
  The time machine returns to the present, but Peach isn't inside! She's trapped in the past! Suddenly, 
 a "time hole" opens in the front courtyard, and Mario and Luigi dive in...
  
  Pretty much for the entire game, you try to find the Cobalt Star shards, which pretty much opens 
 the door to the Shroob Castle near the end of the game. And it's the key to defeat the Shroobs...
 
  The battle system seems to be slightly improved from Superstar Saga. I'm now a big fan of the 
 new Bros. Items, which are what they are - items that are used to attack enemies involving two 
 or four brothers. Of course there's Green Shells, to kick at enemies back and forth, but as you 
 progress through the game, you get goodies like Cannonballers, which shoot all four brothers into 
 the air and they crash down on enemies, Copy Flowers, which gives "attack of the clones" a whole 
 new meaning, and everyone's favorite, Mix Flowers! Think "FLAMING DEATH!!!!" when using this. :)
 
  
  The graphics are really colorful, and much more detailed than SSS's graphics. There's also some 
 3D elements in the game, particularly the battle scenes, but most of them look a little blocky. 
 Oh well.
  
  It does have nice music, but... you might start to get annoyed to death by it eventually... but the 
 sounds are still nice. Everybody loves the sound made when you land a "Lucky" hit!
  
  Currently the best RPG for the Nintendo DS. And a very excellent sequel to Superstar Saga. Any 
 and every Mario fan that has a DS should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshinator64
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga was a great gameboy game. this game goes there but just not as good.
 
  
  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time for the DS is the sequal to the first game. the story is that Mario 
 and Luigi must team up with they're babyselves to stop an alien invasion from the evil shroobs.
 
  
  This game is also funny like the first one with classical Nintendo humor (like bonks on the head 
 and abusing Luigi somehow poor Luigi...) Like in SuperStar Saga you use A for Mario and B for Luigi 
 but with the babies you use Y for b. Luigi and X for b. Mario. 
  
  Instead of Bros. Moves you know get Bros. items. (yeah i know sounds retarted huh?) you can use 
 a green shell or those fire flowers or... someother stuff.
  
  The bosses are hard in this game, and can take forever to kill. and i mean like forever. but it's 
 still a good game. the controls will take a while to get used to since not all DS games use the 
 buttons. but onec you get it all down and everything the game will be good. though it all ready 
 is.
  
  i give Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time a 9.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightclaw
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It's almost the same as the last one, but with some major tweaks. This time you go back 
 in time and find the baby form of the bros., and they join with you. In battle, when you have them 
 on piggyback, you can press an extra button to do extra damage. Plus, the bros. points are replaced 
 by items, which doesn't make much of a difference, exept that now there is a lot more variety in 
 those attacks. They are not as easy as the last game, but it won't take long to get used to them. 
 some can attack all and one, and some have special effects (like burn) , which adds some extra damage. 
 The babies can fight by themselves, but they have less HP, efense, and attack, but they have a 
 much higher speed than their future selves. The game is also a little bit harder, since enemies 
 can hurt you a bit more, but it just means you'll heal more often. What was dissappointing is that 
 you just jump from one area to another, so there's no more open fields that connect levels together.
 
  Graphics: The visuals and details are much more well done than the last game, which was to be 
 expected. Although, it can get hard to tell the babies from the adults during a fast-paced bros. 
 attack. The loading times are also a little longer, which is also to be expected. However, the 
 only area where this is realy noticeable is in the castle, since dungeon rooms are bigger.
  Audio: The sound quality is improved, it sounds great. However, what's missing is the catchy battle 
 theme. Of all of the music, this seems to be lacking the most, especially in the shadow of its 
 predecessor. However, the boss music is very well done. 
  Value: Partners In Time is a bit longer than the first game, and you can always play it again. 
 It will take about 17 hours the first time, without help.
  Tilt (Story) : The story isn't as developed as the first one, especially since it doesn't have as 
 many big plot twists. However, it does keep a lot of things secret, which can be good because it 
 keeps you guessing, but bad because it waits to unleash it until the last 30 minutes of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xplics
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners In Time (M&L: PIT) is a great RPG game for the DS, based on the previous 
 Superstar Saga (M&L: SS) , doing a great job of combining traditional RPG elements with the world 
 of Mario, and yet keeping the difficulty to a reasonable level to appeal to all gamers.
  
  Prof. E. Gadd has developed a time travel machine, which Princess Peach and a few of her Toad consorts 
 take back to the past to when she, Mario, and Luigi were all babies. Unfortunately, this was a 
 definite case of bad timing, as an alien race calls the Shroobs are attacking the Kingdom. Releasing 
 who the older Princess is, they take her into custody, though by a stroke of luck, the babies are 
 rescued and taken to the future under the older Mario and Luigi. With their infant counterparts, 
 the quartet seek to determine how to foil the alien invasion in the past as well as to protect 
 their own present from the same fate.
  
  The gameplay for PIT is effectively like most other RPG games, where you spent some time wandering 
 in an environment, talking to characters and collecting goods, and then the battle screens where 
 you encounter enemies. The environment is mostly the same from SS, with all enemies already seen, 
 lots of floating blocks that contain coins, items, or that act as switches to open other parts 
 of the level, and lots of platform-style puzzles that use all 4 brothers at the same time to unlock. 
 Normally, the older siblings carry the two younger ones piggy-back style as you move them about, 
 which does allow you to flip the young ones up to high platforms as well as to reach very high 
 floating blocks. However, they are several times that you need to split the pairs up, whether to 
 send the wee ones into a narrow opening or to hit a special multi-block switch that requires each 
 brother to hit it in a short amount of time, even if the parts of the switch are at opposite sides 
 of the levels. When apart, each brother has a special skill; older Mario can roll himself and Luigi 
 into a ball to move across parts of the level quickly, while Luigi can still use his spinning jump 
 to clear large gaps. The Babies have the hammers this time around, and Mario can use his to pound 
 enemies and switches, while Luigi can do a variation of the spinning jump to drive both kids underground 
 to find hidden beans as well as to move underneath gates and access special areas. Additionally, 
 the older siblings can impart some of their special skill to the wee ones; Mario's roll will temporarily 
 flatten the babies and allow them to wiggle through extremely thin areas while Luigi's spin will 
 launch the babies and let them float down for a long time, allowing them to get across very large 
 gaps. Switching between the sets of brothers is very easy; Mario and Luigi are always tied to the 
 A and B buttons and the babies to X and Y; pressing the appropriate button will flip the view to 
 that pair (if not already in shot) . There's many times that you'll send the babies into a special 
 area not on the map which then will move their action up to the top screen of the DS (much like 
 how caves and other areas in The Legand of Zelda: The Four Swords would appear on the GB screen) , 
 so you can see both sets of brothers easily. This is often necessary for one set to trigger a mechanism 
 that will move the other brothers forward. Most of these types of puzzles are pretty straight forward; 
 all the moves are introduced through the first 1/3rd of the game and signs or Toads help to hint 
 at how to recognize what moves are necessary when, as to make the last 1/2 of the game enough of 
 a challenge but not too difficult how to clear a given obstacle.
  
  The environment itself is better done in PIT than in SS. The game, while divided into several parts 
 of the Mushroom Kingdom, past and present, is better thought of as being divided into several "screens" 
 with rooms. The present screen you are in is shown as a cartoonish map on the top screen (save 
 when you have the babies go into special areas) showing the location of the quartet (or each pair 
 if separated) , save points, and warp pipes and time portals. Monsters are not random, and in most 
 areas, disappear when defeated (e. g. it's nearly impossible to level up indefinitely) , and as with 
 SS, if you can jump or hammer them before they touch you, you get a first attack on them in the 
 battle itself, though if they hit you first, you may be incapacitated for a round.
  
  There's also equipment that you can find in blocks, dropped from battles, or from shops, though 
 highly simplified for an RPG: there's pants, which can drastically improve or lower a number of 
 stats, and then there are badges (one can be worn at a time by each character) that slightly alter 
 battle conditions, such as having a better shot at dropped items, altering the damage you get and 
 receive, and so forth. You can also find plenty of health items as well as Bros. items lying about. 
 There's some special blocks that can also produce a lot of coins but require tight hand-eye coordination 
 to get the most out of. As mentioned, the babies can also collect hidden beans which can be used 
 at a special badge shop to get rare badges.
  
  Each brother levels up on their own as with SS. Each new level allocates points across the stats 
 of HP, Strength, Defense, Speed, and Stache (think Charisma, as this helps improves discounts at 
 stores) , and you get a bonus allocation on any single stat as well to help customize the characters 
 to your playstyle.
  
  The battle screen itself plays much the same as SS, and is based on a turn-based approach. When 
 attacking, you can jump on opponents, or if they have a sharp head, you can hammer them. As with 
 SS, if you hit the appropriate brother's button at the right time before the attack, you get a 
 large amount of damage, and possibly a chance to double that at times. If both sets of Brothers 
 are in play, then the babies are carried piggyback still, but when launching the attack, you can 
 have the baby hit first, followed by the older sibling, making for a much more powerful attack. 
 There are also several Bros. items that can be used (some requiring all 4 brothers in play) that 
 require a DDR-style eye hand coordinate to hit the right button at the right time in order to keep 
 up the damage being generated by the item; these generally require recognizing the correct brother 
 and hitting the appropriate button.
  
  Additionally, you can dodge and possibly counterattack your opponent. Nearly every foe has a graphical 
 clue that indicates what type of attack and whom (of Mario, Luigi, or both) that the attack will 
 target. While it takes time to learn all these, jumping or hammering at the right time can allow 
 you avoid or deflect damage, and quite possibly to damage the opponent as well. There's enough 
 unique versions of these that while the early ones may be very simply, it prepares you for the 
 more complex attack forewarnings in the latter part of the game.
  
  Compared to the previous game, which at the time of this writing I've played about 1/3rd through 
 but have not finished, the improvements in the gameplay system are definitely welcome, though I 
 believe much of the game has been made a notch easier. The map/screen overview is an excellent 
 addition as I would keep getting lost in the SS worlds, and there's enough verbal and visual hints 
 for figuring out the next steps. The ability to land a strong attack seems much easier in that 
 the timing is relaxed, and this definitely seems to make the game much more playable, but it does 
 quickly become the case that these strong attacks need to be the norm and not the exception as 
 you play, else you will be dodging and reviving help throughout combat. The gameplay is definitely 
 well suited to younger players, as you can make a large number of mistakes without running into 
 major problems save for the last 'act', where it's just a good idea to have a lot of health items 
 in the backpocket. However, it is also a great game for older gamers, particularly those that enjoy 
 Mario-based games.
  
  The basic story is a bit trite, but the dialog that works with it is quite well done, if not even 
 better than the original SS. While none of the brothers speak, they have several visual expressions 
 to help support the dialog from the rest of the cast and keep the story quite funny. For example, 
 at one point, the brother pairs meet a set of hammer koopas that have been taken over by the Shroobs, 
 and speak only in "l33t" talk - I'd never thought I would see "ROFL" actually used in a Mario game, 
 ever. Fortunately, while most of the game is based on SS's game play style, you need not have played 
 it to fully get everything out of the game.
  
  Graphically, the game looks good, using 2D sprites for all the characters, such that everything 
 is crisp and clear, and with enough variety in environments to keep the game fresh over the 20hr 
 gametime. Sounds are all standard Mario jumps and effects, with maybe the only complaint that the 
 combat music can start to wear after a while.
  
  As with most RPGs, while one can go back and try to collect all the possible goodies and max out 
 stats, there's not much more to the game after you complete it once, limiting it's replayability. 
 However, it does an excellent job of being one of the first true Japanese-style RPG games for the 
 DS, and definitely paves the way for more games of the same nature to utilize all the features 
 of the DS in this genre.
  
  I will note, however, the game has a few odd bugs in it that require you to restart from a save 
 point. Fortunately, these save points are frequent, and highly encouraged to be used, so at worse, 
 you may lose about 1/2 hr of playtime. As best as I can figure, this is related to how the game 
 handles your defense to battles if you have downed characters. In one case, both Marios were still 
 up, but Luigi had taken a hit. Normally, baby Luigi would drag him off the screen and come back 
 to fight in the second position, but for some reason, Mario jumped over and carried Luigi right 
 before an opponents attack - except no attack ever came and the game basically became unresponsive 
 to any user input, requiring a power cycle to get the game going. Similar situations where the 
 game was still going (no hardware crash) but stuck in some mode that I couldn't interact to break 
 out of occurred a couple of different times as well. I would definitely call these isolated, but 
 to my mind, I've yet to see any DS game with this significant a bug yet, and being a Mario title, 
 also very surprising. It's not a showstopper (again, with the number of save points available) 
 but something to be aware of.
  
  Overall, I quite enjoyed PIT without having completed SS, but this game has encouraged me to go 
 back and to try to finish that game as well. The gameplay style is quick to get into and and sufficiently 
 simple for a younger set to enjoy, but still a good game for older players with humorous dialog 
 and other nods to the rest of the Mario series. This is definitely a great game to have for the 
 DS, particularly if you are into RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoePoeJoe
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the game I thought wow the sequel, in hope that it would meet my expectations. 
 But instead I find a game that seems like the creators became bored of making it, so they just 
 finished it up real quick and released it. Don't listen to the "Game Spots" ranking of the game, 
 It is nothing compared to "Paper Mario" or other mario rpg titles.
  
  Story Line- I found the idea of the game to be one of the more positive things in the game it was 
 humorous and very different from the usual Bowser conflict. There are plenty on twists and turns 
 and some are just bizarre, the dialog was probably the best part. 
  
  Sound & Visual- They sound met my expectations but nothing special, It sounds better with ear buds 
 to me. The graphics were very colourful and detailed for being 2D, I wish this game was 3D in fact 
 I wish allot of games for DS were 3D.
  
  Rumble Pack- Way better with the rumble pack, The game uses it allot in combat and in the dialog. 
 And not all the vibrations are the same, some or short and others are long and stretched out.
 
  
  Game Length- very short I beat it in 2 days, I could do it in 1 day if i had the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatrbub54
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi is a needed game for your DS. A great RPG that is not too complicated but gets 
 you really into it. The battles are fun and the bros. items are really good. It takes a little 
 while to get used to using X and Y for baby Mario and Luigi and then A and B for Mario and Luigi 
 but you get used to it. There is a wide variety of baddies from the mushroom kingdom that you battle. 
 Some familiar some not. The graphics are 2-D but still look really good. The sound is good the 
 noises that Mario and the other characters make are really funny. Overall the game is really funny. 
 You'll hear music remixed from other Mario games. Still the same enjoyable Mario music though. 
 Totally worth the $35. After you go through the game you'll probably want to go through again. 
 Overall this is a great sequal and a great Mario RPG. Mario has almost seen every genre now. Whoever 
 thought of a Mario RPG is a genius. If you own a DS or are going to get one you need to get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrwindmddl77
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  In case you're wondering, yes I own superstar saga, beat it (maybe 6 times) and done everything 
 I could in the game to make it as fun as possible (which wasn't hard concidering how good it was) . 
 It's just, this one isn't as good due to the new baby system. The dissapointment here is not in 
 the technology. Partners in time looks above my expectations even though at a glance the graphics 
 look the same as gba's. The dissapointment is in the new system because in order to do some of 
 the things you could do automatically in superstar saga (dig for beans, spin jump) you have to 
 separate for. In superstar saga it didn't matter because of two things
  
  1. Instead of switching between babies and brothers, you just switch there positions
  
  2. 
 In places you had to spit up in the original, it was usually only briefly and only for puzzles 
 not combat where you'd need both
  
  In addition to the second reason Mario and Luigi are weaker than they were in the original game 
 due to addidng the babies. Now that you have the babies, in battles you have to press double the 
 buttons get the same damage you would normally. And a lot of the time you'll only be fighting with 
 the babies or the brothers. The combat is especially more difficult in partners in time in a bad 
 way. It's also a shame that touch couldn't be implimented into the battles, because if you would 
 do touch for them, they might be enjoyable.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this isn't a broken game, it's just not as good as the original. The game doesn't 
 live from the original Superstar Saga, but instead lives from the two screens (which it overuses 
 so much it doesn't use any other D. S. feature. If you really liked the original you'll still like 
 Partners in Time, just probably not as much as the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmkj
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:39 am PT
Review:  This game is an absolute knockout to add to any collection of Super Mario games or games where 
 Mario and Luigi fight Bowser. First off, the gameplay. Its even more greater now that u can control 
 both adult and baby Mario and Luigi. And with different ways to defeat enemies, like using a bros. 
 items like the cannonballer or the fire flower or green shell, it makes it even better. And theres 
 more, u can jump on an enemy or use the hammer once u get it, and if u dont feel like having a 
 battle, u can flee but it cases u to lose coins. Also, u can use different types of mushrooms to 
 cure u. U gain experience when u defeat an enemy which gives a boost to ur many stats. There are 
 bosses in there too and theres some hard ones. Next, the graphics. The graphics are great when 
 battling, walking, the backround, and an all new map of the great Mushroom Kingdom. The sound and 
 voices. Another great improvment from the other Super Mario games but, this one is different. Mario 
 and Luigi talk in this game but they talk in jibberish that only other people can understand. The 
 other people as usual have talk bubbles. The battle sequence and the voices and emotions all are 
 amazing. To anyone a fan of Mario and Luigi's adventures in the past or just like a game that is 
 puzzling, I highly reccomend buying this game. IT'S SUCH A KNOCKOUT TO ALL AGES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novadragon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Addictive! The battle system keeps you interested. This game really sucks you in. The 
 platforming is fun, but the battles are where it's at. Through the whole game there is so much 
 detail going on in the battles that I could play through a 2nd time and notice new things. And 
 I didn't have all the bros. items mastered by the end either. A lot of depth here.
  
  Graphics: Also really well done. The characters, enviroments, enemies, and every little detail 
 meshes the way a mario game should. Gorgeous looking game.
  
  Sound: Besides the really annoying babies crying, the sounds and music on this game are on par 
 with the graphics and gameplay. Really good stuff.
  
  Overall: If the game had some more length to it, I don't think I could really find a major flaw. 
 Well done game, if you're thinking about it, go for it. Worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamjone
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I had very high hopes for Mario & Luigi : Partners in Time. My first taste of the franchise was 
 with Mario & Luigi : Superstar Saga. I loved the campy humor, the mix of RPG and Adventure elements, 
 and how the game progressively built on itself with new techniques and specials. Enamored, I grabbed 
 Paper Mario and the Thousand Year Door, the next game in the franchise. I loved this game for all 
 of the same reasons. So I had certain expectations when I picked up Partners in Time.
  
  I was left very disappointed by this effort. First, the character building component of the game 
 is essentially worthless in this version. Sure, in previous incarnations it didn't have much effect 
 either, but I was hoping for some improvement here. The only true character building you can do 
 is to pick which attribute to give your bonus to. Otherwise, your character is on a pre-rolled 
 level up scheme. Just attack every monster in sight and you'll level up quickly, but it doesn't 
 appear to make much of a difference in your characters play. To pour salt in this wound, the equipment 
 that once allowed for some serious power-ups has been seriously cut down. The badge and trouser 
 system from previous games allowed for some interesting combinations where each brother could play 
 a specific role. Perhaps one could be a healer and the other the tank. In Partners in Time, you 
 are coerced into equiping all characters with the same trousers, as certain ones provide better 
 attributes than any others. And the badge system isn't even worth investigating. After trying out 
 several different badges, none appeared to have any real effect on my ability to defeat enemy characters.
 
  
  One highlight of the previous games was the campy writing. Each character had, well... character! 
 In Partners in Time this writing feels very forced. It's like one of the interns was told to write 
 the script after playing through the other games in the series.
  
  Finally, and this is what really ruined the game for me, is the boring repetitiveness of the game. 
 Without any character building, without any interesting team building, I was left hoping that the 
 gameplay would save the day. Unfortunately, none of the interesting features of the DS were taken 
 advantage of in this title. The baby brothers aspect is really forced. You must use the baby brothers 
 in certain sections to open up areas of the map, but otherwise they are totally unnecessary. In 
 battle, they provide little more than an extra hit and a backup in case the older brother dies. 
 The moves you learn in the first sequences of the game will be the only ones you use throughout 
 the game. Even the "brothers items" use the same mechanisms. The repetitiveness of using the same 
 moves throughout the game makes this a tiresome experience that places a dark spot on the franchise. 
 The only saving grace for this game is that it is extraordinarily short (my play time was right 
 at 16 hours when I beat it) . There is absolutely no replay value here.
  
  If you are at all a fan of the Mario & Luigi / Paper Mario franchise, do yourself a favor and avoid 
 this title. If you haven't played any of them yet, try one of the others, and spare yourself the 
 agony of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLESS911
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  Based on my cousin:
  
  Really fun not so hard, a very addicting game. You're Mario and Luigi traveling with Baby Mario 
 and Baby Luigi. Better overall story compared to Mario & Luigi Superstar Saga. It's funny to listen 
 to what they say when they're surprised or when something's about to happen. and to kickass in 
 the games. One great feature is that on the top screen you see the map and on the bottom screen 
 is the actual game. Baby Mario and Baby Luigi can transfer on the top screen and you control both 
 the Mario Bros. and the Baby Mario Bros. it's a very funny game. Mario and Luigi are back in action 
 the story is that... Professor E. Gadd invents a time machine and Princess Peach wants to try it 
 out but she never comes back. Mario and Luigi try it out and go into the past that's where they 
 find Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. The babies help the Mario Bros. find Princess Peach. There's also 
 weapons that are cool to use. The battle mode is very easy to use. Overall this game is fun when 
 you want to play a Mario game or just want to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-The controls can get a little frustrating at times and take a pretty long time to get 
 used to, but once you get them down, this game is really fun. The same great interactive battles 
 you know and love are back and better than ever. Now the big addition to this game is the fact 
 that you have some babies to contend with. Yes, those cute little Baby Mario and Luigi are here 
 this time around and give you the oppurtunity to do some extra damage in battles and to overcome 
 obstacles in the field. You still control Mario and Luigi with A and B, but you now control the 
 babies with the X and Y buttons. Combine thuis with awesome two screen gameplay and youll have 
 a pretty fun game in your hands.
  
  Graphics-Incredible
  
  Sound-The soundtrack is not as good as the first and the battle theme isnt as catchy but it is 
 still a pleasing game to listen to.
  
  Value-If you enjoyed the first, You gotta get it, but if you havent played the first, get another 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waluigi55
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:53 am PT
Review:  The best game i ever seen a long and great rpg
  better as the first mario and luigi superstar saga
  its a nice gameplay and it got a long playtime
 
  this is one of the best game of the nintendo ds 
  the real mario fan must have this game
  the fighting seens are great because it use the touch and the normal screen.
  i think it is better 
 than all mario party's
  and the game does like on paper mario the thousand year door 
  and i got that game to and it is a super game it got a long storyline
  and its new 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleDragon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Nobody makes games like Nintendo and Mario and Luigi 2 is a prime example. There is a great mix 
 of simple yet effective gameplay, nice animations and great character design. Nintendo has a reputation 
 for being imaginative and innovative which is what truly defines this title. I still think Nintendo 
 is the best developer ever for those reason and Mario and Luigi 2 exemplifies this thoroughly. 
 Anybody from the age of 5 to 50 can find something enjoyable about this game. If you are a mario 
 fan, definitely pick this title up for it is really worth the time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cradleOFfilth37
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  This game is worth like 40 hours and its so fun. The fighting is really fun. At first its bland, 
 but when you get going more and more elements are introduced to the gameplay, like shells and using 
 the babys and stuff. Plus, its fun to explore and there are some funny story lines. I havent reached 
 the end of it yet, but i hear fighting gets more exciting. I hear theres cannons and stuff. The 
 only flaws IMO are GBA graphics, no use of the touch screen (even though the dual screen feature 
 is useful) and it could have been online and you could have like fought online. Thats pretty much 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanewolfninja
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  ah yes mario lugi the second in command of nintendo, rock on link. anyways this game is just like 
 tudu superstar saga for the gba. and it doesent quit advance from there except it does it just 
 find. the gameplay is different from most turnbased rpgs you can dodge by pressing A for mario 
 and B lugi. plus you also control thier younger selves they can go of and do stuff that the older 
 ones cant, momma meuh. like they get to use a hammer go into to places the others cant fit like 
 trees with holes. the thing is that i dont like is that there is no random enemies poop. every 
 time you level up you choose what you want a bounus on like if you go down to power you spin a 
 wheel and press the button and you cna randomly choose the bonus from one to usally 5. the controls 
 are really iffy when trying to dodge and peform special combo jumps and combo hits. the noise is 
 annoying and aggravating. but really funny. thats about it great game to add to collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  It seems as though the game has much more better graphics then before. They creators really used 
 the two screens then other DS titles. The game is just like the first one but more longer, interesting, 
 and harder. New specials and items makes this game more fun then the first. If your have played 
 Superstar Saga then this will be a game for you! You get to control four characters this time and 
 use them to do creative specials and brain teasing puzzles! They should have made a Wi-Fi battle 
 system. It would have made this game much more endless to play with buddies! Just remember that 
 this is a must buy if you own a DS! It is pretty cheap for a game and it will be a lot of fun when 
 you hear Mario and friends making noise! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkfanatic501
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:01 am PT
Review:  I played this game and it is solid. It is even better then the first one. The game paly and graphics 
 are very good. U should get this game if u like rpg or mario games, or if u like both. U won't be 
 disappointed with this game. This game is funny and has a great storyline. This might not be the 
 best DS game out there, but it still deserves a perfect 10. oh and this game is 20 hours long so 
 u won't be bored with the game, at lest until u beat the game. So far i havent beat the game yet 
 but it sure keep me playing my DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potatoegood
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  not as much of a storyline as superstar saga but genarally just as good maybe better as superstar 
 saga. I especially like the humour in the game with all the little minimovies and stuff like that. 
 My favorite part was when Luigi made the babies cry and then Mario caught him then luigi cried 
 too. I loved that part. Probably the saddest part was when the babies had to go and the baby luigi 
 kept hanging on to the older luigi. I wish they could've stayed. Probably the best rpgs for the 
 ds out there right now. I doubt anyone there will be a far better game than that. Probably replayable 
 too. Either that or the the shelf it goes. Or back to the store to rerent it. so genarally it's 
 a game which most everyone likes and no annoying music.
  
  W3 4R3 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallen_Riku
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2005 12:47 am PT
Review:  After I beat the "Mario & Luigi Superstar Saga", I opened my copy of "Mario & Luigi Partners in 
 Time" the night I beat it so that I could get past the boring stuff (tuturials, etc.) 
  
  This game "babied" you all the way through the entire RPG. All Puzzles were rediculously easy, 
 and then Nintendo even added posters to explain how to do each puzzle.. 
  
  If you played the first one and beat it with ease, then you will have no trouble with this one. 
 As you are given most of the same moves and puzzle-types as before, and you are given a full tuturial 
 on every move you learn.. even if it just requires you hitting the "R" button, it will go into tuturial 
 mode when it comes time to learn a new combo. It it kinda annoying as you can't skip it.
  
  The Bros. Points system has been taken out and replaced with Bros. Items. You can do Bros. type 
 of moves in a sense (not like the link combos from before) , but like things such as kicking shells 
 by pushing the button of the character the shell is going to at that moment. These Bros. Items 
 are exactly that though. Items, so they can be consumed. The items aren't really that expensive, 
 and at most points in the game you can return to the Castle (your base in a sense) to restock, 
 heal, etc.
  
  I beat the game at level 30 something. Vs my Level 40 something on the Superstar Saga, despite 
 the fact that "Mario & Luigi Partners in Time" is longer . I don't know if level 50 is max, or 
 they don't expect anyone to get to level 99-100. I mean I found myself strong enough to beat the 
 boss in this game fairly easy at level 30 something. So I guess if you couldn't beat the boss, 
 or do not dodge well then you could level up in a sense to the point it don't matter anymore whether 
 you dodge the attacks or not. I mean the main boss I was fighting, didn't hit higher then a 9 on 
 me... out of 142hp Lugi had and 131hp Mario had. Not to mention all the items you are given throughout 
 your journey. You have plenty of Max Mushrooms (heals you completly) , and Ultra Drops (heals whole 
 party 60hp) and even if for some strange reason you used your 30+ of these items you could always 
 buy them at the store for a pretty cheap price for such a good item. You also have Super 1-up mushrooms 
 like in the old game where you can revive you at 100%HP.
  
  Unlike Superstar Saga, when you die on this game, you don't lose that characters turn, which is 
 good, but adds to the already easy RPG system. Their is no Magic in this game (just like the last 
 game) , unless you count the Bros. Items.
  
  I don't know, but an RPG just isn't the same without Magic in my opinion.
  
  Overall, even 
 though its not the best RPG, it is the only RPG out for the DS that matters at this point as Lunar: 
 Dragon Song looked promising to start with, but as most of know... it bombed out. You should read 
 the review of that game... losing HP while running... not being able to choose what NPC you wish 
 to attack, etc.
  
  If you compare "Mario & Luigi Partners in Time" to that game, then this game is awesome.. but compared 
 to other RPG's.. heck for the SNES, this game isn't as good.
  
  Gameplay: Gets real repetitive very fast, especially since you have to dodge the same enemy's attack 
 over and over. Even if you fight a low level monster and your now level 30 (considered high on 
 this game) you still have to dodge their weak attacks or take damage. You can only attack twice 
 in combat at a time, unlike other RPG's where it is usually 4. Meaning you can get outnumbered 
 quick, even if the battles are easy.. you have to wait your turn.
  
  Graphics: The Background is better then Superstar Saga and so are the character's faces a bit. 
 But you would kinda expect for the DS to be better then GBA. The Graphics aren't as outstounding 
 as they could be though, for the characters or the background as demonstrated in other games and 
 this games credits.
  
  Sound: I'm not really a sound person. I guess though I would have noticed if it was real repetitive 
 or crappy, but nothing awe inspiring, or even words like GBA Kingdom Hearts had.
  
  Replayability: NONE. You beat it, thats it. No other modes or bonus content unlocked. You save 
 file isn't even recorded as *cleared* as you load your save you will be right before the final 
 boss fight.
  
  If you just NEED a RPG for the DS, are a Mario Fanboy, loved superstar Saga, or just laugh very 
 easy. Then this game is for you... otherwise just wait for a Real RPG to hit the market for the 
 DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_of_kokiri
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  this game was really awesome. I have alot of friends eho beat it. But i have alot of cheats for 
 It So let me post them!!!!!!!!!! I am not A fan of the mario series so You wouldnt expect me to 
 like the game, but I thought well, why not, buy it. This is A really Awesome game. I know alot 
 of people think that nintendo is milking mario because three new mario games have been released 
 within 4 months, Super mario strikers and Mario party seven sucks really bad, but M&L: PIT is A 
 really cool game, I would suggest it to anyone, No matter what type of game you like, THIS GAME 
 IS TEH COOLEST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi are back in action. This time on the DS. Unlike the last weird plot on Superstar 
 Saga, this one is a little better. Professor E. Gad builds a time machine, and Princess Peach gets 
 to go in first, along with her two aids, into the past (Yeah, lets put a royal princess in there 
 first, along with her 2, little 3 foot aids, and see if she dies!) And, of course, she never gets 
 back. The time travel, though, rips a bunch of holes in the ground. The holes lead back to the 
 past where Princess Peach is. Guess what! Mario and Luigi have to rescue her, of course. So, you 
 go into the time holes and eventually you meet up with your younger selves, and thats when the 
 game actually begins. 
  The game is great fun, and is also hilarious! The graphics meet standards, with a little bit of 
 2D and 3D mixed in. The controls do get a little confusing, and sometimes hard, but you learn after 
 a while. The battle music could have been a little better, but you learn to ignore that because 
 the actual battles ROCK! After a while you also begin to level up, and get new items to add to 
 your inventory. Unlike the last game, you get bro items. These help you to defeat your enemies 
 a little quicker. There's a Trampoline, a green and red shell, pocket chomps, bro flowers, and 
 a lot more. Over all, this game is one RPG I think all DS owners should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcortese
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  The game is awsome and the graphics are crisp and clear, yet they are the same style as the first 
 game. It is very similar to the first one but is much more mature. The are less funny parts and 
 the game will still make you laugh at certain parts. The controls are much better once you get 
 used to them, and battles are much more challenging and fun. Bros items are better because they 
 are harder to execute and each of them involve endurance to how long you can last, or keep up with 
 constant bombardment of buttons.
  The game took me 14 hours the first time through, which is not as much as the first, but still 
 you will savour every hour as it has brilliant quality gameplay.
  Overall the game is great, it has a few twists and the story is quite original. You'll have fun 
 right up to the very end, which you will not know when it is  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroofCourage
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for anybody who played Superstar Saga. The game has very good graphics, 
 the sound is amazing. I even enjoyed the boss-theme. The characters are way more enhanced and has 
 a more sprite collections. The gameplay may need a little work but it's fine even though it's a 
 little difficult to new people playing video games. The value is somewhat questionable but it's 
 all good! I wish it would still have one of the abilities from Superstar Saga, though. The humor 
 is very hilarious! Luigi is wackier than ever! This game is a must have for mario and Luigi fans! 
 I suggest get it next time you see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster222
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is as good as the original and is highly addictive. The humor is great and the storyline 
 is good as well. It is hard to not like this game and i like the fact that the baby bros. were 
 added. The only thing i have negative to say is: where is the use of the stylus? If you're going 
 to put a game on the DS, use all of the system's capabilities. Overall, this game is awesome and 
 i would recommend it to anyone who has a DS. The gameplay during fights are similar to Mario RPG's 
 on the SNES which was another great game and so i am glad that that gameplay was added to this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morales664
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  If you didn't enjoy the first one, your mind will likely switch once you play this engaging RPG. 
 Mario hits the DS, with his fun-filled humour, and and tactical battle scenes. If you are an owner 
 of a DS, it is surely a must-buy!!!
  With fun battles, and engageing gameplay, it really is hard to put down. Once you start playing, 
 it seems impossible to stop. The sounds Mario and Luigi make through the game are simply hillarious. 
 I have actually been laughing out loud, just at some of the sounds that they make!!!
  
  If you are thinking of buying a DS, this game is another great reason to buy one. And if you haven't 
 played this game yet, I encourage you to buy 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was nearly better the SMRPG (super Mario RPG) but for some reason it felt rushed. It 
 is still a good game for the DS but it lacks difficulty. But it is preety addicting. What i really 
 liked about this game was the bro items and the four playable characters Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, 
 Baby Luigi.
  The plot of this may not be as good as Superstar Saga but it is enjoyable. I wont tell you the 
 plot because that would be a spoiler. But what I will tell you is that something suprising happens 
 what a clue huh. I recomend this to Mario Fans and rpg players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold_blade
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  this game is so good i dont get it . how is sss better than this???
  
  this game is underratet it should get the same rating as sss got u control 4 friaken people in 
 sss u only control 2 im not ,,, saying that sss sucks that game is gangster too 
  
  
  is rules it rules it rules it rules it rules it rules it rules it rules
  
  i i i ii i i i i 
 i i i i i i i t t t t tt t t tt t tt t t tt t tt tt t t t t r r r r r r r r r r r ru u u u u u 
 u u u u u u u u uul l l l l l l ll l l ll ee e e e e e e s s s s s s s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CARDSMAKEMEHIGH
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  fun does not get old fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun funfun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fu al the time keep playing it still 
 have not beaten but will soon finish and keep playing the game when im done get it now and play 
 until fingers really really really really really reallly really hurt extermely bad so that you 
 almost cry because this game is fun funfufn fufnf ufnf fufnfu8fjnf 8f f fkli i i i i i i i ii ii 
 ii i i i i i i i i iii i ii i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MADDOX007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This is truly an astounding story. Aliens! That is all I have to say, Aliens. Ammazing more than 
 anything else. I would say GREAT job to Nintendo for puoring all their heart and soul into this. 
 If there were a number that would represent my astonishment it would be: 100. I can not tell you 
 how much effort has been put into this-it is a magnificent game. 
  
  NOTE: This entire review was inspired by an Operah Winfrey parody on Mad T. V. 
  
  Alright then 
 that should be 100 words. I mean now. Um... now? How about now? Hundred words yet? Okay. Nnnnnnnoooooow. 
 Ugh! Hurry it up! Now! I mean it! Ok finally! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiemarkie231
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  As the second Mario and Luigi Role Playing Adventure to be released, it's my favorite, and I'm 
 sure it's a big hit with Mario fans and Luigi fans alike. This game is a classic that features 
 innovative controls, excellent graphics, and dialogue that'll keep you laughing, and sane enough 
 to actually play the game!
  
  Like all great RPGs, Partners in Time features a storyline that is intense to the core. An evil 
 race of aliens, called The Shroobs, are beginning to discover that their planet has become barren. 
 They soon discover that they need to find a new home -- and FAST!. The evil alien mushrooms, unfortunately 
 set their eyes on the Mushroom Kingdom, and set off to conquer it. Meanwhile, babies Mario and 
 Luigi are called to Princess Peach's Castle for a playday! However, Baby Bowser decides to crash 
 the party, and tries to take Baby Peach. Thanks to Baby Mario, Bowser fails in his attempt, and 
 Baby Peach is saved. While Baby Bowser begins to scream and yell over his loss, the Shroobs come 
 at possibly the worst timing ever and destroy the castle.
  
  Then, in the present, Princess Peach, along with Toadbert and Toadiko, are going to visit the past 
 Princess Peach's Castle, using E. Gadd's Time Machine, to see what it was like back then. A few 
 hours later, the machine returns, but with a monster inside. Mario takes care of it, and Luigi 
 informs the crew that a mysterious hole appeared in the courtyard. Mario and Luigi check it out, 
 but accidentally fall in and is sent to the past.... Mario and Luigi land in Hollijolli Land, and 
 the time hole disappears. While Luigi cries his brain out, Mario is intrigued to find that Hollijolli 
 Villagers were abducted by aliens. When Mario and Luigi check out the mess in the village, The 
 Shroobs attack, and sadly, defeat the Mario Bros. Meanwhile, the Koopa Cruiser, with the babies 
 inside, are being attacked by the Shroobs, and the cruiser fires a nice attack at the UFOs. Then, 
 one of the pilot Koopas notices "two villagers" are being attacked. So Baby Mario and Baby Luigi 
 go down to help them. Using teamwork and Bros. Items, the babies prevail! Immediately, Mario and 
 Luigi meet their counterparts, and the four realize one thing, they have to stop the shroobs at 
 all costs!
  
  In Partners in Time, gameplay is just like Superstar Saga, RPG-based with cool controls and moves. 
 Although that gameplay does not make use of the stylus, it does not affect the game whatsoever. 
 Partners in Time's turn-based battle system is new and refreshed. You can choose from at least 
 5 menu items: Jump, Hammer, Bros. Items, Items, and Run. Jumping and Hammer techniques are more 
 powerful, because now you can do more damage if Mario and his baby counterpart jump in "piggyback" 
 style, a new feature in the game. The same goes for Luigi, just different buttons. Bros Items takes 
 the place of Bros Attacks, but with these items, you can inflict more pain depending on which item 
 you use.
  
  Partners in Time uses the controls that made the series so special. With the A Button controlling 
 Mario, the B Button controlling Luigi, and the X and Y Buttons controlling Babies Mario and Luigi. 
 L and R Buttons are used to scroll through different actions such as the Spin Jump and Hammer techniques. 
 The control pad moves the characters and can help scroll through menu items, and the START Button 
 accesses Stuffwell, your "assistant." Talk about innovative!
  
  Basically, the graphics are the same, but now there is more 3-D put into it, making environmental 
 actions look like they're about to pop out of you DS! Character movements are now more life-like, 
 with Mario swinging his arms every step of the way! The sound is exceptional, and I'm talking about 
 the sound effects! The music itself is spectacular! Music plays the most vital key in the game, 
 giving players the soothing feeling, or the more dynamic feeling. The music also gives more feeling 
 into the game itself, which makes it more animated that other games.
  
  No matter which way you look at it, Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time, is an exceptional game, 
 with only one minor flaw. That teeny-tiny flaw is the disability to switch characters. However, 
 like the stylus, this flaw makes no major impact on the game. This game is what we'd expect from 
 Nintendo, and I do hope more will come. Whether your a fan of Sci-Fi or not, Mario and Luigi: Partners 
 in time, will have you addicted to your DS until the day you grow into an adult! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecterX3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is most definitely better than the first. The addition to play 
 as the babies adds to the already exciting story which includes alien mushrooms and time travel. 
 The Bros. Attacks are gone this time around , but are replaced and Bros. Items. Once you get the 
 babies they will ride on the older brothers by ridding piggy back. When the babies are piggiy backing 
 during battle you can use a piggy back attack, where if timed right will let the babies and the 
 older counter part attack at the same time. Also replacing Bros. Attacks are Bros. Items. These 
 Items are attacks were two or four of the brothers use an item such as a shell to hit the enemy 
 several times.
  
  Story wise the game does very well. It once again relies on humor a lot, which with the addition 
 of the babies, has become better than the previous game. The story revolves around Princess Peach 
 traveling to Mushroom Kingdoms past and being kidnapped, once again, by a alien race called the 
 Shroobs. So Mario, Luigi, in the babies travel from time hole to time hole to travel to the past 
 to collect piece of the new star collectible, the Cobalt Star, to find out how to defeat the Shroobs.
 
  
  This game does very well in presentation. It tries to add a new spin on the battle system from 
 the prievous game, but it doesn't make much of a change in it. I really liked the Bros. Attacks 
 in the previous game and am sad to see them go. There is cast of returning characters from previous 
 Mario games though, such as the yoshis, baby bowser, Professor E. Gad, and a returning character 
 from Super Star Saga. This game is a good edition to the series and I would recommend it to anyone 
 with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oback
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: very interesting to say the least. awsome combat moves (by using various items) give 
 you many different options for different foes. The game is actually difficult! timing must be spot 
 on at times and the player needs to know the enemies to be successful. 
  
  Puzzles are simple but entertaining. Some can be pretty difficult. 
  
  Graphics: some of the 
 best graphics on the DS. Artistic style is just right and the colors are bright and entertaining. 
 
  
  Sound: one of the only few lacking parts of the game. Combat sounds are overused along with character 
 voices. Most arnt anoying, just overused. 
  
  Value: story line is absolutely entertaining. Comedy is the high point of this game along with 
 subtle irony/humor. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legnaleugim2003
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is good but the first one has a more funny, hilarious story that can keep you playnig 
 it for hours. The only things that makes the first better s the story, the humor the first have and 
 the way longer that it was and of course the music in the only thing that this pass the first are 
 the graphics, but the animation of character doesn't feel to comfortable and funny like the first 
 one. The themes of this game is more mature and this don't have many funny themes as the first. But 
 if you are a gamer of 13 years up you may find the game more mature and you won't complain so much. The 
 thing that really kicks me out is that this game is really short the first one takes double the 
 time you take to finish this game. The first make take up to 18-20 hours and this may take up to 
 11-14 hours. I recommend this for only true fans of mario rpg or to rpg fans because this game didn't 
 do like the other mario rpg's sorry fo the ds having alot of poor games. This one was one of the 
 only games that don't enter to a bad category if you have a ds and already have mario kart ds and 
 want another game buy this you will enjoy it for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFish62
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Nintendo surprised its fans with the success of Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven 
 Stars, gamers have eagerly awaited a genuine sequel to one of Mario and the gangs early forays 
 outside the realm of traditional platforming. Since his 1996 RPG debut, Mario has stretched his 
 role-playing legs in the critically acclaimed Paper Mario series and, more recently, in the handheld 
 predecessor to Partners in Time, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. While the current effort does little 
 to improve an already exceptional series, Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is still a quality title 
 for any RPG buff looking for at least one good play-through.
  
  This time around, the Mushroom Kingdom is under attack by a fierce (and yet strangely cute) alien 
 race, the Shroob. Apparently, the Shroob didnt take very good care of their planet and are in 
 search of a new kingdom to pillage for resources. And wouldnt you know it? They happen to find 
 Princess Peach and her portly Mushroom companions. What follows is the tried and true formula that 
 any Mario fan will be irritatingly familiar with. The catch? All of this mayhem takes place in 
 the past, and its up to Mario and Luigi to rescue their beloved Princess and return the Mushroom 
 Kingdom to its rightful owners. Youd think by now Peach might consider investing some of her royal 
 fortune in better security.
  
  If you played Superstar Saga on the GBA, youll find Partners in Time immediately familiar. The 
 gameplay has remained essentially intact for the DS crossover with a few minor (yet nonetheless 
 enjoyable) tweaks. Youll spend the majority of your time exploring the various Mushroom Kingdom 
 territories, solving puzzles, and bouncing on baddies from both past and present Mario titles. 
 Each characters actions are mapped to one of the four face buttons so that Mario and Luigi are 
 controlled with A and B, while their pint-sized counterparts rely on X and Y. Throughout the game, 
 youll have to separate into pairs to progress through different areas. Each set of brothers is 
 controlled independently of the other, and switching between the two on the fly is easy. Both teams 
 feature different abilities that youll utilize to solve the games simple yet entertaining puzzles. 
 Mario and Luigi can perform a spin jump that allows them to cover great distances or roll into 
 a ball to maneuver quickly in confined spaces. The babies can use a set of hammers to hit switches 
 or dig underground, spit water to put out fires, or flatten into pancakes to fit through tight 
 spots.
  
  Unlike most RPG titles, there are no random battles in Partners in Time. With the exception of 
 boss battles, youll always be able to see enemies approaching. Whether this is good or bad depends 
 on your tastes, but it does help alleviate some of the tedium commonly associated with the genre. 
 Defeating enemies will earn you experience points for the games simplistic leveling system and 
 coins to purchase the occasional clothing or badge upgrades. Clothing (or armor) items must be 
 equipped by one set of brothers or the other. Badges, which offer various abilities or upgrades, 
 may be equipped by any of the four teammates. Again, whether you like this system or not depends 
 on your personal tastes. Its safe to say, however, that anyone who enjoyed Superstar Saga will 
 be happy with this more-of-the-same formula.
  
  Where the DS title improves the most over its GBA predecessor is in the midst of combat. Youll 
 find that controlling four partners often leads to interesting combo attacks, and deciding how 
 to make use of the added firepower is always an entertaining endeavor. In Superstar Saga, Mario 
 and Luigi learned new cooperative attacks as the game progressed. Partners in Time, however, transfers 
 these unique cooperative efforts over to various Bros. Items that can be purchased or earned 
 by defeating enemies. For example, Mario and Luigis traditional fire flower will deal increasing 
 amounts of damage to all ground enemies depending on how fast you hit either A or B. Pressing X 
 or Y gets the babies in on the act and divides your attack between air and ground enemies. The 
 battle mechanic never strays too far from the established norm, but it improves on its predecessor 
 by managing to keep combat from getting too repetitive.
  
  One of the biggest criticisms of early DS software was that developers forced their games to conform 
 to each of the systems unique features. The results were games with awkward touch-screen controls 
 or less-than-useful microphone functionality. Thankfully, Alpha Dream decided to focus solely on 
 one of the systems unique features  its second screen. Rather than fiddle with unnatural control 
 scheme, Partners in Time utilizes the DS upper screen for an ever-present and surprisingly useful 
 area map. During battles, the top screen is also used to extend the playing field and allow for 
 some interesting attack patterns. As an added bonus, the game also supports the DS Rumble Pak that 
 came bundled with Metroid Prime Hunters.
  
  Visually, Partners in Time remains faithful to the style established in Superstar Saga. Each of 
 the characters animates beautifully, and the superior DS hardware allows for a few improvements 
 over the GBA original. The series retains its cute and bubbly presentation, but dont let that 
 fool you. Gamers of any age will enjoy its unique sense of style. Timing during battles can sometimes 
 be frustrating because of the games angled perspective, but seasoned gamers will quickly come 
 to appreciate the challenge it offers.
  
  Mario & Luigis audio is, by far, the games weakest selling point. Remixed versions of classic 
 Mario themes are some of the series best, but they are few and far between. The new melodies are 
 decent offerings, but you wont be humming along to the soundtrack. Music during battles is redundant 
 and anticlimactic. Mario and Luigi intentionally speak gibberish, but the voices work well against 
 the games fluffy backdrop. The babies voices are incredibly cute, but youll find yourself considering 
 unthinkable acts just to get them to stop crying. All of this makes for an uneven soundtrack that 
 isnt particularly terrible. Its just not that great either.
  
  Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is an altogether enjoyable gaming experience that mixes the right 
 amount of classic Mario style with enough new content to keep veteran fans interested. Although 
 its missing much of the self-referential humor that made Paper Mario and Superstar Saga hilarious 
 trips through Marios past, the script still manages to entertain. If youre a fan of Mario or 
 role-playing games in general, Partners in Time is definitely worth a play-through. And with a 
 good 10-15 hours of gameplay, youll get your moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariolover100
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  the last game was a jerk because all it said was thank you for playing at the end of the game but 
 i love this game because you get to play with baby mario and baby luigi and all the funny stuff 
 like baby bowser so far i hope this game isn't a jerk toobecause that would make me mad if they 
 say thank you again im going to trade the game for another one like kirby canvas curse or somthin 
 but it's the best mario and luigi game EVER!! in the world and if you say it's not thats what you 
 think but it's a perfect game for everyone even for littler kids 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMa729
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game is way better than superstar saga and this game is what a sequal is suppose to be like. 
 the controls is kinda hard at the starting but once you get it you are all good with playing this 
 game. it got this 9.9 because there was one thing missing from Superstar Saga... the Bros Attack. 
 this game got bros item but if they put bros attack in this game it would have gotten a 10 but 
 other than that this game is amazing and it is worth to buy. how mario and luigi team up with their 
 baby selves is very cool and funny. plain and simple this game is AMAZING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaker88
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  I am a huge mario fan, which is wierd becuase Ive only heard of Super Star Saga a few times. However, 
 it was enough to convince me to get this game. So I did and here is my review:
  
  Pros- Great graphics, fights are fun and addicting, boss fights give you a challenge, the script 
 can be funny at points, a great story, once you under stand the controls it seems like nothing 
 can go wrong
  
  Cons- Controls take some getting used too, music isn't the best but it's still not bad
  
  Graphics- 
 Really good cartoon animation
  Sound- Really good, but some music gets old
  Gameplay- The strong point of the game. Fun to control four people at once
  Value- Worth your 
 money, but it would have been better to have multiplayer
  Tilt- A great game and the controls are great. It's just not easy to pick up and get right into 
 it the first 30 mins 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  First off, don't let the Gamespot review throw you off. Contrary to what they say, the story and 
 script are well done. Nothing special of course (neither were the other games') .
  
  I've laughed out loud several times throughout the game. Sure, there is some cheese to the humor, 
 but come on. It's expected.
  
  The sound is also great. Some of the classic Mario themes made it in. And the sound effects are 
 hilarious also. I love the 'Italian' that the Bros. speak.
  
  I am kind of upset about the length of the game. It took me about 12 hours to complete it. Also 
 there are no unlockables, extras or sidequests in the game. So after you complete it, there's no 
 real reason to play it again for a long while.
  
  If your a RPG fan, Mario fan, or even just like humor in your games. Try this out. You won't be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: authentic_50
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi are Wild n Out with an all new RPG Masterpeice!!! This game has got it all! This 
 game is just as good as the first, if not better. It has a fantastic story that puts a twist on 
 the whole "save the princess" deal. The buttons can be a lil tricky at first, but all n all, you'll 
 get the hang of alternating attacks with the biggies and the babies. I love the voices of the characters 
 (It reminds me of the sims...) Why couldn't Kirby have a game like this... lol. Anyway, this is 
 a MUST have for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the original game then you'll like this one, thats quite obvious this is nearly 
 the exact same game but with some things taken out and some added. The gameplay is mainly where 
 all the additions are but this is also where most of the faults lie. 
  
  You can do battle with either Mario and Luigi, Baby M and Baby L, or all four at once. Its when 
 playing with all four that it cna get confusing because the amount of buttons to remember, and 
 still you must dodge the enemies constantly. Then theres the lack of the RPG feel to it. Because 
 there's only really one place where you can go to buy things and thats the present day Peaches 
 Castle. All the other cities you find are usually abandoned, under seige, or just empty. 
  
  So is this game worth buying? In my honest opinion im enjoying this game more then probobly 
 any other DS game out except Mario Kart. But do not buy this game looking for an extensive RPG 
 game. This is more like a platformer, puzzle, action.
  
  The difficulty can be either insanely hard or much to easy it all depends on your ability to dodge 
 the enemy attacks if you do that you cannot lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shear1017
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi Partners in Time is what mario rpg fans have been waiting for. As a big fan of 
 the first one I say its a good improvementover the first. The time elements in the game r cool 
 and its really funny the see all the mario characters as babies. The humor and story line was a 
 bit better in the first but it still imerses you into its world. With the baby elements in the 
 game thegame play is better than ever and with two screens and the new bros items. You will be 
 totally hooked on this game. I played for 9 hours in one day. its deffinetly a challenge on the 
 DS and fans of the first will be impresed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Those who have played Mario & Luigi Superstar Saga on the GBA will find familiar design here. The 
 graphics in particular are nearly identical in style to its predecessor but this time around you 
 will have the functionality of a second screen. 
  The second screen will be mostly used as a map though which is a plus and a minus at the same time. 
 Sometimes you will use one screen to control the two babies while the other screen has the elder 
 Mario and Luigi. Unfortunately you can't control all four at once so it would have been just as 
 simple to use one screen that you can switch back and forth with. Likewise the map could just be 
 used by bringing it up with a button since while it is useful from time-to-time it really wasn't 
 necessary all the time to have it up on the top-screen like it was. 
  Also in battle I wasn't very impressed with how the top screen was used except in later portions 
 of the game when enemies would appear up top and would attack. However, for the most part the top-screen 
 in battle will remain fairly vacant. Since the action requires your undivided concentration you 
 may never even realise how little the top screen gets used in battle. Also, I cannot remember but 
 maybe one or two instances where I had to use the touch-screen. For this reason, while I still 
 think it is a great game, I don't believe it was necessary as a DS game - it could have been just 
 as good on the GBA with little to nothing lost.
  That aside, the game is still a great buy for anyone of any age. The plot is wacky and full of 
 pleasant twists and hiccups to keep you entertained and the battle is time based but with real-time 
 abilities that allow you to dodge attacks fom your enemies manually. The only dissappointing thing 
 about the games plot is that you will essentially only travel in places in the past and explore 
 those areas from access points (warp points) within the present day in Peach's castle. The time-travel 
 appears to have been more a means to getting the baby characters to interact with their future 
 counter-parts. However, in a wacky game such as this anything goes so no fault there. The audio 
 quality was great and all the voice-bits really give this game a lot of charm and character. The 
 graphics are almost identical to the GBA game and I was surprised to see that there were no fancy 
 cut-scenes in the game like I would have hoped. The gameplay is the best part of the game. Overall 
 I have to give it a 8.5. It measures up as a great sequel but for whatever reason I found Superstar 
 Saga more enjoyable. Regardless both games are part of my permanent game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytdhjnfgbvfjvgd
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The brand new game, Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is a strong RPG with many missions and will 
 make you want you to play it again and again, well until the battery dies. Actually, Mario & Luigi: 
 Partners in Time is the sequel to Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga for the Game Boy Advance. However 
 unlike Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, you get to control the babies (Baby Mario and Baby Luigi) . 
 Also instead of the Bros. Attacks from the 1st game, you get Bros. Items which are items that you 
 need to press a certain button at a certain time. The game goes like this: Mario & Luigi have to 
 save Baby Princess Peach and go back in time to destroy the Shroob Kingdom which are these mushroom 
 monsters. The only complaint on the game is that it lost its humor from the origanal game. Anyways, 
 you should buy this game if your a fan of the Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga or if your a Nintendo 
 DS user and if you do not have one it is worth it to buy a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoDuckRules
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  A brilliant game that wouldn't work on any other system.
  
  Gameplay: The battles are masterfully done, as with the original game. The Bros. Combos from the 
 original game have been replaced with Bros. Items, which I actually like better! Especially the 
 Copy Flower! The dual screens are used in a couple of ways during battle. Characters are displayed 
 mostly on the lower screen. When your cursor is on top of a Bros. Item, a simple explantion of 
 how to use the item is displayed in the upper screen. And the upper screen is used to illustrate 
 tall enemies (Example: A streched up Pirahna Plant) and whenever something (Enemy, item, etc.) 
 goes over the bottom screen, it is displayed on the upper screen. For example, some enemies jump 
 up into the upper screen and then slam down on to the ground, creating tremors. Sometimes, an item 
 will be tossed up into the air (Example: Smash Eggs) and fly onto the other screen. Outside of 
 battle, the gameplay is generally the same as the previous M&L. The action takes place on the bottom 
 screen and the upper screen displays a map of the area. The babies can leave their adult counterparts 
 at any time and continue on their own, exploring areas the elder brothers cannot reach. If the 
 babies leave the screen (Example: Enter a hole in the wll or a warp pipe) , they are displayed on 
 the upper screen, leaving the adult Bros. displayed on the lower screen. You can only control one 
 pair at a time. Whenever you want to switch control to the elder Bros., press A or B. To switch 
 back to controlling the babies, press X or Y. If the babies make contact with their adult counterparts, 
 they ride piggy back on the back of their older selves. While walking this way, the future Bros. 
 can toss their baby selves into the air to reach higher item blocks and switches. 
  They can also hurl the babies on to high up ledges which cannot be accessed otherwise. After a 
 while, the babies aquire hammers and can use them to drill into the ground and smash things. Later 
 on in the game, the adults gain the ability to do a spin jump similar to that of the original game. 
 They also gain the ability to to roll in to a ball to travel faster. If the adults spin jump into 
 the babies, the babies will launch into the air and twirl around while slowly descending towards 
 the ground. While the babies are in this state, you can control them and get them to places previously 
 out of reach. If the adults run over the babies while in ball form, the babies get flattened in 
 to the size of pancakes. While in this state, they can squeeze under low clearences. So far, I 
 have only seen the touch screen used once, but I won't say how in case of spoilers.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't much better than it's GBA predeccessor, but they don't need to be. 
 The game wouldn't work right if it were 3-D. The DS's power allows for many characters to be on 
 the screen at once. Other than that, the game isn't that much different than Superstar Saga graphically.
 
  
  Sound: Very clear sound. I can't think of anything else to say to elaborate. All I can say is the 
 sound is amazing.
  
  Value: I payed $48.99Cdn for this game and have not once regretted it. I think I will be playing 
 this game for a long time.
  
  PS: The time period for the learning curve may change depending on whether or not you played the 
 original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  mario an luigi partners in has been the best mario addition in the DS mario franchise since mario 
 64's remake. the difference iz that iz jes like the 1st, looks like paper mario and plays like 
 both. iz fun 2 see younger you and older you stomp'n on catepillars, goombas an have sum classic 
 puns and sum funny comedy. mrioa and luigi has a story that iz time consuming so you'll be happy 
 playing this game b/c it'll last like 1 week if you played it constantly. i can admit that iz sorta 
 kiddy but hell iz fun like a RPG. i like the touch screen usage (at times i didnt) but the game 
 iz satisfying an fills 1 of my needs. i believe u should buy this game regardless your a fan or 
 not b/c it'll be worth money, an iz a addicting nintendo drug 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Purk-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I wrote this same review on amazon but i I'll write it here too.
  
  The smash success of Mario and Luigi Superstar Saga on the GBA is now followed by another smash 
 on the DS. The game utilizes the touch screen greatly, and gives new innovation to an already golden 
 formula, making it platinum. 
  
  You will once again take control of Mario and Luigi and save the Mushroom Kingdom and Princess 
 Peach from danger. The thrat this time is a race known as the Shroob. Their home planet is no longer 
 bursting with life, and so they decided to leave and check out your home. They're all lead by Princess 
 Shroob, and they think the Mushroom Kingdom is the perfect place to conquer. 
  
  The events that take place in the game will take place in the present, as well as the past. Using 
 not only Mario and Luigi, but baby Mario and baby Luigi. The game is full of as much love and heart 
 as the previous title, being funny and having some of the most engaging gameplay ever presented 
 in an RPG. 
  
  As with the GBA version, Superstar Saga, you'll control Mario and Luigi. The A button controls 
 Mario and the B button controls Luigi. Just the same, the X and Y buttons control baby Mario and 
 baby Luigi. And using all four characters isn't all that bad at all. The younger versions of our 
 heros can be given piggyback rides to speed things up a little. You may find yourself having to 
 use the children more often than not. They can fit into places their adult counterparts can't, 
 and they can also be flailed to places the older brothers can't reach. You'll most likely control 
 both sets independently, and that's fine as well. 
  
  Both sets work in different ways, however. Mario and Luigi use toned down versions of special abilities 
 found in Superstar Saga. Mario and Luigi execute the jumps, while Baby Mario and Baby Luigi use 
 hammers, which let them hit switches and bury underground. 
  
  Shopping hasn't changed at all. The only difference is that you'll have to buy baby clothes for 
 the younger heros. Badges, thankfully, can be equiped on anyone. 
  
  Battling has undergone a big change, but I assure you it's for the better. You now control four 
 characters in battle as opposed to just two. Some of your attacks can now be enhanced thanks to 
 the babies. For example, they can perform an attack with their hammers while standing on their 
 respected shoulders. Special moves in battle have also changed. Instead of learning all new techs, 
 it's based on the items you have in stock. This is also enhanced by the babies. Some of your special 
 techniques will involve all four of your players. Others will be slightly enhanced by using the 
 babies, meaning they'll be more powerful. You may have to do some battles without your little buddies. 
 
  
  The same old "timed hits" which was introduced in the SNES classic, Super Mario RPG, still exists 
 here. In your special attacks if you mess up the button combination it could cost you to perform 
 a watered down attack instead of a successful rock hitting assault. The same goes for dodging techniques. 
 As in the first Mario and Luigi game, enemies will clue you in on who they're attacking and you'll 
 have to have the correct timing to dodge them. It takes time to learn, but it presents a very good 
 challenge to the game. 
  
  Mario and Luigi Partners in Time does not slouch on the DS capabilities. You'll find yourself using 
 both screens. The top screen serves as a map, and as a gameplay screen when the babies seperate 
 from the adults. The top screen also serves to present story sequences rather well. The use of 
 the touch screen may sometimes feel a little tacked on (like wiping off a dirty picture to make 
 a discovery) , but at least you'll actually use it. 
  
  Visually, the game stays true to the look and feel of the GBA title. It's good to see it doesn't 
 make Baby Mario and Baby Luigi look too cute either. The DS also gives us a more sharper look at 
 thing such as special attacks. The time periods also look distinctly different. The only problem 
 that really presents itself with the visuals, is how some angles make jumps hard, and how some 
 of the counterattacks are hard to pull off because of the angle. 
  
  The voice acting is fantastic. With a different variety, including the babies. It also sounds really 
 lively. The sound is pretty well done too. Some of the themes (like the battle theme) you won't 
 find yourself humming, but the music is good where it is, and it also stays true to the situation, 
 as well as to the original GBA game. 
  
  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is without a doubt, one of the best DS titles out there. While 
 it's safe to say it doesn't outdo Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga on the GBA, you can be sure this 
 is a damn good follow up. 
  
  The Good: 
  +Great graphics 
  +Wonderful combat system 
  +Engaging gameplay 
  +Solid graphics 
  +Great sense of humor 
 
  
  The Bad: 
  -Camera angles make some jumps hard 
  
  A solid DS title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:12 pm PT
Review:  M&L: PiT is the second in the M&L handheld series. The game is classified as a RPG, but I'd say 
 its more of a Platformer RPG than anything. You can level up, & have battle sequences, but you 
 also walk around the levels hitting question boxes & jumping on enemies (which is how you gain 
 a first strike in this game) . The game plays very similar to Paper Mario, for anyone out there 
 that hasn't played the first in the series (I've played the first too briefly to make the comparison) .
 
  
  Gameplay- 9- Everything in this game has a certain level of charm to it that really brings it past 
 the level of being just another game. The mechanics of having to press different buttons to attack 
 with different people does take a little getting used to, but isn't at all difficult, just different.
 
  
  Graphics- 9- Everything is bright & colorful, much like a Mario platformer. For a 2D game, everything 
 is really sharp, and shows that 2D games are far from dead.
  
  Sound- 10- I think the game really shines in this department. The voices of the Brothers are funny, 
 many familiar sounds are left intact, and this game really uses the stereo sound well.
  
  Value- 8- 20+ hours gameplay is great for a handheld RPG
  
  Tilt- 9- Why 9? Cuz its really 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeatOfMax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has made very innovative games and it just keep's getting better. Such games that make 
 me smile are from nintendo. Mario and Luigi : supar star saga wasn't just a brilliant idea but 
 also a masterpiece kind of game. It might not be the greatest game on earth but it is darn close. 
 This follow up straight sequel just increases the story, new event's, longer hour's and even more 
 fun new innovative suprises without using the ds's More capable functions (mic&touch/scrn) . Still 
 a fun game and you must get it to continue your adventure. It's still funny like the first one 
 but also brings you into hours on end like the first one did. Get it A. S. A. P OK ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys1elliott
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  This is the sequel to 2003's hit Mario and Luigi: Super star saga. Although this time round you 
 dont just control Mario and luigi, you control Baby Mario and Luigi as well! This leads to awesome 
 puzzles. Like making the babies do something on the top screen that, helps the big bros on the 
 bottom screen.
  
  Whilst traveling the babies ride on the big bros' backs. You have the option to throw the babies 
 off at any time for puzzles and what not. Batlle is brilliant in this game, instead of bros attacks 
 (1st game) it now has bros items, which are way cooler than the bros attacks in the original. You 
 can use items from red shells to mini Chain-Chomps!
  
  All the witty humour from Mario RPG; s still remains, although less so than it's prequels and it's 
 hilarious seeing baby bowser and bowser first seeing each other. The graphics remain to be cute 
 and cartoony, which is great.
  
  The one downside to this teriffic game is that it does not feel as open as the original and areas 
 are connected by timezones, not land.
  Altogether this game is a must have, It looks like Nintendo have produced another non-boring RPG, 
 wow! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is, as you probably know, the 2nd installment in the Mario and 
 Luigi series (Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga GBA) . I found that, although the sequel is shorter, 
 I became immersed in this game much more quickly than its predecessor. 
  The battle system is interactive, interesting, innovative, and other creative adjectives that start 
 with "I." Unlike traditional RPGs, there is more to this game than "give an order, it gets done," 
 you have to time action commands to do the maximum amount of damage, often times controlling all 
 4 characters, the elder and younger Mario Bros., at the same time. Bros. Attacks have been replaced 
 by Bros items, which actually allows for more variation and a greater number of attacks that you 
 can perform. I love the battle system in this game, and it varies from fight to fight based on 
 which enemies you face, and even their attacks change during the course of a battle, keeping you 
 on your toes throughout.
  There are many tricky puzzles to figure out during the course of your explanation, some more difficult 
 than others, but they are at the right difficulty where you will find it challenging but not get 
 stuck on a particular level and get discouraged.
  There is a lot of Mario Bros. and other humor in the game, and one of the enemies you will face 
 is actually hypnotized into using 1337speak, which made me laugh, being the nerd that I am. The 
 humor is not all too plentiful, but there are sizable doses of it at times, and none is outstandingly 
 crude.
  A common complaint is that the battle music lacks variation, but this is a relatively minor issue. 
 Although it would be nice to have seen a little more variation, I thought that the tunes were rather 
 catchy.
  The replay value is not very high in M+L 2, however, due to the lack of side quests and variability, 
 as it is a noticeably linear storyline. This does not reduce the quality of the game playing experience, 
 though. The other gripe RPG gamers would have is that you can beat the game in under 20 hours, 
 which is rather quick for an RPG game. 
  In summary, Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time is many things. It is a nostalgic experience for 
 fans of Mario and Mario RPGs, it is an Action-RPG that keeps you engaged during every battle, and 
 it is also an entertaining experience that most DS owners will like. I rate it a 9/10, and I recommend 
 it to every Mario fan that has a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWILIGHT4
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Well for mario and luigi partners in time the game is so cool for me for other people the game 
 might be diffence in there opinion as for me it stor about the shroobs and a the time holes and 
 going back and foreth thourgh time is a huge impact on the game and all so the battle system is 
 execelent it consits of solo jump, hammer, ideams, and the new thing is the bros. idems and it thaks 
 the place of bros attcks so it is sort of a new way of battleing and sinces I am huge Zelda, Mario, Metriod, Harry 
 Potter fan all the games made for them is execelent but as for the game is self the story is great 
 how mario and luigi go back in time only to find there baby selfs and of the prinnces and bowser 
 the whole game is a masterpace it is like a conflict between mario and luigi and baby mario and 
 luigi vs bowser and baby bowser vs the princess shroob and all the other shroobs it is like paper 
 mario the thoundes year door mario vs bowser vs the x-nuts the game is just as equaly as good as 
 that game so as for the game I have not finished the game yet so I can't say much but I am at Thwom 
 Mountain and that is my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicStyles
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Hasnt it happened to you before? Youre having a normal day in the castle, and that crazy professor 
 makes a time machine, which is taken on its maiden voyage by the local princess. Meanwhile, back 
 in the past, creepy, purple mushroom aliens are attacking your infantile self. With lasers. And 
 spaceships. Just a regular day right? Well, if you live in the Mushroom Kingdom it is.
  
  Mario is undeniably the biggest star in gaming, spanning a mass amount of genres and an ever-growing 
 number of titles. From platformers to tennis, Mario has done it all  and right behind him most 
 of the time has been his green-clad brother, Luigi. This mantra of Luigi following Mario was taken 
 quite literally in Alphadreams 2003 smash-hit Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga, which offered a 
 simple, innovative, and most importantly fun control scheme in an RPG world filled with enough 
 Mario-universe humour to get even a non-gamer laughing for hours. Its now two years later, and 
 Alphadream has produced a game that improves on the original in every conceivable way, making it 
 one of the best Nintendo DS titles yet.
  
  Right
   Wonderfully smooth and incredibly humourous animations for all sprites
   Easy to learn and 
 very fun control scheme
   Fantastic localization has made this one of the funniest games to hit store shelves in a very 
 long time
   Great use of second screen
   Interface has improved over the predecessor
   Rumble Pak compatible!
  
  Wrong
   Although it is more challenging than the original, it 
 is still somewhat on the easy side.
   Rumble can be a little noisy if you have the volume turned down.
   Very poor use of the touch 
 screen
  
  - -
  
  Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time adds and takes away from its predecessors controls, and the 
 result is quite pleasing. Mario is controller with the A button, Luigi with B, and their respective 
 baby counterparts with X and Y. You move around with the directional pad in a world that has puzzle 
 solving and platforming alike. One bro follows the other, so essentially the player is only moving 
 the front character. Not too far into the game, the babies team up with their older selves, and 
 all four are moved as one unit, with the option of throwing the babies off by pressing the X or 
 Y button. Unlike in Superstar Saga, Mario and Luigi cannot switch places  Mario is always in front 
 and Luigi is behind him. One of the best features, the Bros. Moves, has been carried over to the 
 sequel, like drilling underground with the babies or rolling around in a ball as the elder bros.
 
  
  The fight system remains mainly the same until you get to fight as all four. The babies piggyback 
 the older versions, adding potential bonus damage to an attack. When using the Jump attack, for 
 example, players can choose to first do a timed hit with the baby, and then with the older all 
 in the same turn, doing extra damage than with just one bro. Bros. Attacks  and thus, Bros. Points 
  have been taken out, and in their place are Bros. Items, which more or less function the same, 
 but they use items instead of points. Bros. Items are timed attacks that use two and/or four characters, 
 and are as humourous as they are powerful. One of these items causes a Chain Chomp to chase older 
 brother left and right across the screen, who jumps on an enemy in his way. If theyre in your 
 group at the time, the babies ride the chain chomp and additional damage can be dealt by swinging 
 their hammer as they pass the enemy. 
  
  Boss battles have been changed to include some trick to beating them. The first boss, for example, 
 has two lackeys that re-spawn if eliminated. The main enemy itself drinks some juice before it 
 attacks, and this juice can be altered to either benefit or harm it by hitting the lackeys. Its 
 entirely possible to win the fight without using the two extra enemies, but it makes it much easier 
 to use them to your advantage.
  
  The two screens are used very well in Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time, displaying a map when 
 not in battle, different camera views during story events, and a greater vertical distance in battles. 
 In a typical fight the top screen is used for enemy and player attacks alike, and it definitely 
 adds more challenge to timed attacks and defense. There is no multiplayer, so the wireless goes 
 unused. There is also no touch-screen use, but in a game as great as this its only a minor drawback 
  it already uses the hardware for great effect.
  
  Those DS owners who went out and got Metroid Prime Pinball will be pleased to know that Partners 
 in Time is compatible with the Rumble Pak, vibrating the system when opening the menu or when an 
 attack connects. Its a shame that the game does not come with the peripheral, but at least support 
 for the device is here, unlike other Nintendo add-ons (read: e-Reader) .
  
  Arguably the best reason to get Partners in Time is because of its fantastic localization. Superstar 
 Saga was by all means a hysterical game, but this one goes much farther, making it easily one of 
 the funniest games to come out in recent times. Kamek commenting on kidnapping Mario and Luigi, 
 the Hammer Bros. speaking in l33t, and Toadsworth meeting up with his past self are a small fraction 
 of comedic moments found in the game. From start to finish, you will have a grin on your face, 
 be it from the subtle humour in the sprite animations and voice-overs, or from the insanely wild 
 story sequences.
  
  Partners in Time looks and sounds leagues over its predecessor; screenshots do not give this game 
 any justice. The frame rate has been kicked up a notch, the animations for all sprites are not 
 only more numerous but are smoother and funnier. Although the game plays primarily in two dimensions, 
 Alphadream has thrown some really cool 3D effects in the game, like a shockwave attack during the 
 first boss, or when entering and leaving a battle. The audio is a mix of new songs and remixes 
 of classics (they never go out of style) , and each area sounds like it should: cold places have 
 a slow, tranquil feel; battles feature fast-paced tunes; Peachs castle features old-school songs 
 with a twist.
  
  - -
  
  Buy, Rent, or Avoid?
  If you have even a remote interest in any Mario game or RPGs, then you should do yourself a huge 
 favour and buy this game. For a Mario fan, there is no gift for the holidays better than this game.
 
  
  - -
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  This game is an absolute joy to play. From start to end you will never once lose interest, as it 
 keeps throwing new uses of the unique control scheme at you. The bosses are tough as they are comical, 
 and the battle system is fantastic. Rumble Pak use is a welcome bonus to anyone who purchased Metroid 
 Prime Pinball.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The sprites in the game move astoundingly. The animations in battle, out of battle, and everywhere 
 in between are as smooth as they are funny. It has taken far too long for a game to feature Baby 
 Luigi doing The Monkey.
  
  Audio: 9/10
  A great and varied soundtrack featuring original pieces and remixes of classic Mario songs is only 
 half of it. The voice-overs for Mario, Luigi, Peach, and their baby counterparts are a riot to 
 hear every time.
  
  Value: 8/10
  A lengthy adventure that is so much fun the first time through, that youll find yourself playing 
 it again and again months after the first time you beat it.
  
  - -
  
  Overall: 9.3/10
  A great game that can be easily recommended to anybody, anywhere. The gameplay 
 is very fun, and the visuals and audio look and sound fantastic. The only real downside is having 
 to wait for a third installment in the franchise to be announced.
  
  
  
  - -
  
  
  For more of my reviews, visit www. NintendoNow. com! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: recall2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Crisp graphics and excellent gameplay make this a "finisher"; a game I won't put down until completed, 
 no matter how long it takes. The game is well suited to the DS dual screens, but occasionally the 
 jumping is a little difficult to judge because of the void between the screens, but you soon learn. 
 The one downer I'd say is the music does start to grate after a while. The gameplay is defintely 
 top notch stuff here. Although why should you be surprised? Superstar Saga on the GBA was the same 
 quality game. All in all an excellent, value for money game. 9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltonnaslund
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:01 am PT
Review:  If you didn't enjoy the first one, your mind will likely switch once you play this engaging RPG. 
 Mario hits the DS, with his fun-filled humour, and and tactical battle scenes. If you are an owner 
 of a DS, it is surely a must-buy!!!
  With fun battles, and engageing gameplay, it really is hard to put down. Once you start playing, 
 it seems impossible to stop. The sounds Mario and Luigi make through the game are simply hillarious. 
 I have actually been laughing out loud, just at some of the sounds that they make!!!
  
  If you are thinking of buying a DS, this game is another great reason to buy one. And if you haven't 
 played this game yet, I encourage you to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyaejay
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:10 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely entertaining and very fun to play. It is exactly like superstar saga, only 
 the one thing that makes it shine above it is how cute it is! Baby Peach especially! Even though 
 her crying can get a bit annoying sometimes.
  
  The controls are pretty much the same, except the fact that the X and Y buttons are incorporated 
 in that Baby Mario and Baby Luigi are controlled by them. A small difference is that instead of 
 using brother points, you use items that you collect either from hitting blocks or winning them 
 in a battle. I like to use the fire flower because it hits all enemies at once and is entertaining 
 to watch.
  
  I absolutely love how the baby brothers seperate from the older brothers to complete tasks that 
 they couldn't do together. It makes the game more interesting and unique in gameplay.
  
  The way that a map of the actual building or area you are in is displayed on the top screen really 
 helps a lot, and was something that I wished I had when playing superstar saga quite often.
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as superstar saga, which means great quality and very 
 colourful. The sound is the same too - every piece of music fits to it's area, and the little voices 
 couldn't be anymore entertaining and cute!
  
  I very much enjoy playing this game, and am extremely impressed!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
