-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario Party DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/mariopartyds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More than 70 dramatically different minigames.
 Controls can be picked up in seconds.
 The touch screen and microphone are put to good use.
 Plenty of play modes for one player or multiple players.
 Multiplayer requires only one cartridge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Opponent AI is too rigid.
 To get the most enjoyment, you need to play against other people.
 Doesn't offer an online mode like so many other Nintendo games do nowadays.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,248 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Hudson Soft
Genre: Party
Date: Nov 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mario Party DS offers a diverse collection of fun minigames that you can play alone or with your 
 friends. 

  To say that Mario Party DS is just a collection of competitive minigames is like saying the Louvre 
 is just a warehouse of paintings. These quick tests of skill aren't the usual sort of generic button-mashers 
 you'd normally find in games of this type. Nintendo and Hudson have come up with a spectacular 
 set of "pick up and play" challenges for this handheld installment of the ongoing franchise. They've 
 also crammed it full of play modes and have lavished it with the sort of cheerful polish you've 
 come to expect from Nintendo-branded games. Best of all, the developers have made it so that you 
 need only a single cartridge to get a party going with as many as four people.  

           Compete in competitive minigames against the CPU or your friends.      

  For years, 
 the Mario Party franchise has been well-known for its minigames that anyone can pick up and play 
 right off the bat. The Nintendo DS rendition offers the same types of games and general ease of 
 use, only in a portable package. There are more than 70 different quick tests of skill to pick 
 from, broken down into categories that let you battle one-on-one, in free-for-alls, in two-on-two 
 teams, or in lopsided three-against-one situations. Some of the games use the buttons, some require 
 that you tap or scribble on the touch screen, and a few even have you blowing or shouting into 
 the microphone. Instructions and demonstrations are shown onscreen for every game, but they're 
 usually not necessary since the controls typically require that you perform a few simple actions 
 at the right time or scribble the stylus as fast as you can. More importantly, the games themselves 
 are hilariously clever. Dodging thwomps to see who can be the last one standing, throwing food 
 onto a conveyer belt to try to hinder your opponents that are running on it, turning the crank 
 on a music box to lure goombas toward you like a video game version of Hungry Hungry Hipposthese 
 are just a few of the crazy tasks you'll perform.  

  Typically, a collection like this made for the Nintendo DS will give you 20 or 30 minigames. This 
 one has more than 70. Remarkably, despite that lofty number, there aren't many duds. Sure, there 
 are a couple of silly games of chance involving pressing a single button to reel in a cheep cheep 
 or to land on a cup floating in a sea of muck. However, the majority are more engaging, such as 
 when you have to try to take pictures of your opponents in a 3D maze or draw a crossbow line back 
 to shoot at moving targets. The team-oriented games usually require teamwork. In one, you and your 
 partner are carrying a loaded tray and must alternate button presses to spin the pair up a stack 
 of books. In another, you each control one side of a racecar and have to work together to move 
 ahead and steer around obstacles. Some of the minigames are truncated versions of popular Nintendo 
 games. There's one that has you racing through a platform level reminiscent of Super Mario Bros. 
 Another has you riding Jet Skis through a wet 3D course that's similar to a stage from Wave Race. 

           In the board game mode, you complete minigames to collect coins and roam around the board 
 gathering stars.      

  All throughout, the presentation reflects the cheerful attitude you'd normally expect a game starring 
 Mario to have. The menus, results screens, and story mode dialogue scenes juxtapose hand-drawn 
 artwork with the expressive 2D character sprites of Mario, Luigi, and the rest of the gang. The 
 rich stereophonic music will make you want to keep the volume turned up, and so will the goofy 
 character voices, assuming you're not against Nintendo characters verbalizing their joy. While 
 a few of the minigames are put together with flat 2D backgrounds and simple character sprites, 
 the majority employ multilayered 2D artwork or detailed 3D settings and characters. And yes, references 
 to past Mario games are everywhere. Goombas, koopas, and shyguys appear in numerous minigames. 
 Boss minigames feature large versions of Piranha Pete, dry bones, and other Bowser henchmen. During 
 the music box minigame, you'll notice that the tune the music box plays as you turn the crank is 
 a melodic rendition of the Super Mario Bros. theme.  

  Minigames can be selected individually or played in groups as part of a multi-event competition. 
 You can compete to see who can win the most, who can accumulate the highest score, or who can navigate 
 a staircase where a win moves you upward and a loss moves you downward. A fourth option serves 
 up random pieces of a bridge for every win. The first person to collect all of the pieces and complete 
 a bridge is the winner. Of course, a Mario Party game wouldn't be a Mario Party game without a 
 turn-based board game mode. The one in Mario Party DS offers five different game boards and provides 
 a random minigame at the end of each turn to dole out coins that can be used to buy items and stars. 
 The design is easy enough to get the hang of. You roll dice to move ahead, you land on squares 
 to collect coins, and you use items to stack the dice or lay traps for your opponents. At the end 
 of the game, the player with the most stars gets to go on to try the boss minigame. Typically, 
 one romp through the board game mode takes about 30 minutes to complete.  

  Mario Party DS is best enjoyed with one, two, or three other people. However, if you want to play 
 against the artificial intelligence, you definitely can. Be aware, though, that the AI puts up 
 a decent, natural challenge only on the hard setting. On the easy and normal settings, the AI is 
 a pushover, and on the expert setting you will almost never beat the AI, which has an uncanny ability 
 to move at top speed and knows exactly where hazards are going to appear. For solo play, the cartridge 
 also includes a story mode that organizes the five board game stages into a quest of sorts. As 
 the story goes, Bowser has miniaturized Mario and friends using his miniaturizer rod, so now you 
 have to pick a character and work through Bowzer's minions by beating the different game boards. 
 Progress is saved after every turn and at the end of each board, which means you can easily take 
 a break and resume the quest later. If you lose, you don't have to replay the boards you've already 
 won. You do have to replay the current board, though, which is a bit of a bummer.  

           Familiar Nintendo characters, settings, and music are everywhere.      

  Alternatively, 
 if you get tired of the individual minigames and the story mode, the cartridge also offers six 
 different stand-alone puzzle games. Three of them are Mario-themed takes on Columns, Puyo Puyo, 
 and Panel de Pon -- with minor changes to protect the guilty. Of the other three, one involves rotating 
 a cylinder to catch and match marbles, one involves grabbing pieces off of a conveyer belt to fill 
 in a rectangular container, and the last involves rotating and matching like-colored groups of 
 triangles in a never-ending cluster of triangles. If you've played Hexic on Xbox Live Arcade, this 
 last one is eerily similar to that. While these stand-alone puzzle games seem out of place in a 
 Mario Party game, they're actually nice time wasters that can easily take the place of Tetris DS 
 or Planet Puzzle League on those long bus trips.  

  Mario Party DS is an outright blast when played with other people, and since you need only one 
 cartridge to enjoy everything, the odds are good that you'll be able to entice your DS-owning friends 
 to play with you. As a solo endeavor, challenging the computer opponents does get old eventually. 
 However, between all of the different minigames, play modes, and puzzle games, it'll be a while 
 before you condemn the cartridge to your storage shelf.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (64 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DonnyJavid
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party DS was fun because in Story Mode you get shrink and you have to go through all the 
 stages to beat Bowser! Also Party Mode was sorta the same but they added some new stages and more 
 spaces on the board so it was pretty fun. Minigame Mode was the same except the minigames. You 
 can do mutiplayer which is really fun. You can play Minigames you unlocked or Party Mode. There's 
 Duel Mode, where only you and your DS buddy face each other in all the 4 player minigames. Or you 
 could do a Party Mode and play all the minigames! Or you could be ont teams where there two teams 
 and you play minigames and if you win they your team gets coins. Also there a palce to see your 
 records and your items you've gotten while play Mario Party. And now there's Mario Party Points 
 where you get points from, playing minigames, playing Party and Story Mode, and More! Mario Party 
 was really fun! Buy It!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:07 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 was a bit uninventive so you might be approaching this game with real caution. No 
 problem here though so get ready to play! I kept badgering Nintendo to change and now they have.
 
  
  Well, we don't know if it was the constant badgering by annoyed gamers like us or just the series' 
 move to the DS that did it but it would appear that developer Hudson Soft has finally improved 
 things. As a result, Mario Party DS is actually fun to play instead of the knuckle-gnawingly frustrating 
 console experience it's been in recent years.
  
  
  It's just much more player-friendly. It's as if Hudson has finally realised that no, we don't want 
 to watch CPU-controller players umming and aahing over which direction to go, or buying items from 
 a shop, or having duels with other CPU players. Now when they reach a crossroads, the direction 
 has already been chosen, when they enter a shop they come right out again and you're told what 
 they bought, and (most thankfully) when they get into a one-on-one duel mini-game with another 
 computer-controlled player you're simply told who won instead of having to go through the rigmarole 
 of watching a mini-game you've got no control over. It's Mario Party played at a brisker pace and 
 the flow of the game benefits from it. No longer do you sit there stabbing at the A button thinking 
 "come on, come on".
  
  A Quiet Riot
  The majority of the 60-plus all-new mini-games are also much more enjoyable than the offerings 
 in the recent Wii version, since they were clearly designed with the DS's unique abilities in mind. 
 
  
  Since the game's Story Mode begins with Bowser shrinking the eight playable characters down to 
 the size of ants, every mini-game stays with that theme, allowing for more imaginative set-ups. 
 So whether you're sliding down a washing line on a coat hanger, dodging huge footballs being kicked 
 at you by a Goomba or punching away at the top of a mechanical pencil to try and make your lead 
 longer than anyone else's, each mini-game is pleasantly surreal because of the fact you're playing 
 them from the perspective of tiny characters.
  Of course, Mario Party's main selling point has always been its multiplayer support and the DS 
 instalment could have fallen flat on its face had Nintendo decided to make multi-card play compulsory 
 (in other words, had you needed to have four cartridges to have a four-player game) . Thankfully, 
 the whole multiplayer mode is single-cart only, meaning should four people wish to get involved 
 in some Mario Party shenanigans they won't need to spend 120 on four cartridges.
  
  
  
  If you bought Mario Party 8 and were disappointed by it (hey, we told you so after all) , don't 
 turn a blind eye to Mario Party DS because you expect it to be more of the same. The DS version 
 is a great laugh, with some fun boards, excellent wireless multiplayer and some genuinely enjoyable 
 mini-games. Mario Party 8 was the party equivalent of two people sitting at a table playing Risk; 
 this is more like a barmy student bash with people lighting fireworks on the roof 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicrocks96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is about these five Meteors falling from the sky, and one falls near Mario. So then 
 the next day he showed everyone what he found, and it called a sky crystal. So during that same 
 time Mario and the gang got an invitation to Bowser's castle, saying that he's sorry about being 
 such a jerk.
  So Mario and the gang thought that this time it wasn't one of Bowser's bad tricks-How wrong were 
 they! Then they went to Bowser's castle, and they were all trapped in a cage. Then Bowser shrinks 
 Mario and everyone else to like ant-sized people, than he throws 'em far off to Wiggler's Garden. 
 That's when you start playing the game.
  
  What I like about Mario Party is that in Mini game Mode, you can choose from hundreds of mini games. 
 I enjoy Get the Lead Out, Raft Riot, Rail Riders, Hot Shots, ok let's just say that I like all 
 of the mini games (Except Trace Cadets) . I also like the multiplayer. I enjoy playing with my best 
 friend, and my sister.
  
  What I don't like about Mario Party is that my Sister beats me at every mini game we play together.
 
  
  So uh, thanks for reading my review, and here is my score:
  
  8.7: Great
  
  -View my blog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  There has not been a good handheld Mario Party game up to date. There was atleast 1 for the old 
 gameboys, but those barely recieved any attention. This game includes several mini-games, which 
 is what I like. I don't think I have even gotten to all of them yet! Even though there are plenty 
 of games, not all of them are quite that good. There's a handful of decently fun ones, then the 
 others are only average or below that yet.
  
  The graphics are quite well for the DS, the characters may seem a bit too pixelated from a little 
 ways a way, but otherwise the graphics look quite alright. Single player parties can be pretty 
 fun, but there's only a few options to those. There is a story to keep the game going... but that 
 doesn't take so long.
  
  The best thing you can do is gather up some friends (if you have any) and play with them wirelessly 
 with thier DS's... but I'm a little disapointed there are no Wi-Fi features. I didn't really expect 
 there to be any since the Wii one doesn't have it either.
  
  Like any other Mario Party game this one can rely on a lot of luck. Even though the games are easy 
 and all, you can get punched around just as easily as any other MP game. But it's cool how it's 
 kinda like playing the Wii or GC Mario party games just in the palms of your hands.
  
  The controls are OK, but some of the stylus spinning games are a little retarded. 
  So catagorywise 
 I rate this game:
  
  graphics 8.5\10
  
  sound 7.8\10
  
  gameplay 8.5\10
  
  multiplayer 9\10
  
  overall: 8.5\10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo 64 is where the Mario Party series started. It went from #1 - 3 and they were all 
 great. Each had their own flaws, but they were fun to play. After that the series went really downhill. 
 Mario Parties 4-8 (including the GBA version) were total letdowns, but we know there is still hope 
 in the series when we pick up Mario Party DS.
  
  --Graphics --
  
  For te DS, Mario Party DS has really nice graphics. They are realyl square at some point bt if 
 you can look past that, it looks great.
  
  8/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  The main focus of Mario Party games are the Mini-Games and boards. This is the reason the newer 
 Mario Parties weren't so good, because either they had bad mini-games, annoying boards or both. 
 But in Mario Party DS, most of the mini games are fun to play and the boards get annoying sometimes, 
 but not a lot. For example, in some of the mini-games it either tells you to spin a wheel on the 
 touch screen to control a car, or blow into the microphone to blow out candles or use the buttons 
 to break ice cubes. It's nice to see the mini-games in different varieties and not just using the 
 touch screen. Most mini-games on the DS in other games just requires you to scribble a lot on the 
 screen, but in Mario Party it's different. Now for the boards, my only complaint is that they are 
 too small. There isn't enough spaces to walk accross, so if you hit a 10, you can basically go 
 half way across the board. And espeially when you get a Triple Dice Block, there is a good chance 
 you can get the star, no matter where it is.
  
  8/10
  
  --Music --
  
  Each board has it's own song. They are all great and niceto hear. Even the mini-games have a different 
 variety of songs. It has different kind of music for either intense 2 vs 2 mini-games, free for 
 all coing collecting mini-games, etc...
  
  8/10
  
  --Story --
  
  In Mario Party DS, the story starts off with Mario seeing 5 shiny objects flying across the sky. 
 One falls near him and determines that it's a Sky Crystal and hurries to tell the gang. Just then, 
 Kammy Koopa flys by and gives them invitations to Bowser's Castle. He wants to have a dinner with 
 them to apologize for how much of a jerk he has been. The gang goes, but it is a trap and they 
 get trapped by Bowser. Bowser steals Mario's Star Crystal and uses his Minimizer to shrink them. 
 He throws them out and now it is up to the gang to get all the Star Crystals before Bowser. It's 
 a basic story and what you would expect.
  
  8/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  Mario Party DS is the best Mario Party since #3! It's a great game to play solo but it's even better 
 to play with your friends! You also only need 1 cartridge to play! It's a bummer that there is 
 no online, but maybe they'll add it in the sequel. ;)
  
  8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakisto
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Very fun to play multiplayer. story mode gets a little boring after too long but still good. My 
 only disappointment was that they took DK out as a playable character. He was always one of my 
 favorites, but i found satisfaction with Waluigi as he is my second favorite. the graphics are 
 pretty good for a ds game, some of the best Ive seen DS wise. I love all the mini games some are 
 a little annoying but it all depends. All the mini games are fair it just depends on the players 
 and their ability, or lack of, to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Mario and the gang are back once again for another party, but this time they've gone miniature 
 and have landed on the Nintendo DS. Bowser has shrunken Mario and the rest of the crew on a mission 
 to find the five Sky Crystals that have fallen to Earth. With new party boards and new minigames, 
 Mario and his pals are back for a new adventure in Mario Party DS.
  
  The Story Mode has players choosing a character and taking them on an adventure through five party 
 boards to become the Superstar and stop Bowser from getting the Sky Crystals. To move through the 
 party boards, players must collect the most stars to become the Superstar and then defeat the board 
 boss in a Boss minigame. Like every other Mario Party game, each board has its' own theme and each 
 one plays out differently. For example, the first board you have to go through, Wiggler's Garden, 
 has you playing in a huge garden in which you will have to try to avoid the hungry Piranha Plant. 
 Another party board is Donkey Kong's Stone Statue in which you must climb to the top to trade coins 
 for all the stars you want. Every time you play a party board you must become the Superstar to 
 advance, or you'll have play that board again. Once you have completed a party board, you will 
 earn Mario Party points based on various factors during gameplay, such as your final ranking and 
 minigame performance. Once you get enough MP points, you will automatically be rewarded with prizes 
 and collectibles that can be viewed in the Gallery.
  
  Being the 10th game in the series and the first on the Nintendo DS, Nintendo did a good job of 
 making use of the stylus, mic and duel screens in Mario Party DS, but just not enough when it comes 
 to the minigames. One minigame using the stylus is Goomba Wranglers, in which you have to collect 
 more Goombas then your opponent by drawing circles around them with the stylus. Toppling Terror 
 is a team minigame in which you and a partner must blow into the mic for five seconds and which 
 ever team blows the most will push Whomp over and onto the other team. These games are really fun, 
 but unfortunately during a party board game only one or two of the stylus or mic games came up. 
 With the innovative hardware available, it was heartbreaking to see only a number of games using 
 the stylus or mic. But with over 60 minigames available, there's still plenty of fun to have even 
 though a lot of the minigames seem to be dating back to the Nintendo 64 era. The dual screens are 
 used well both on the party boards and minigames. On the party board the bottom screen is used 
 as the main screen to hit the dice block and see players move along the party board. The top screen 
 is used as a map of the board and shows the status panel (which shows the stars and coins) for 
 each player. During minigames the bottom screen is the main screen and the top screen is usually 
 an extension of the bottom screen.
  
  Probably the best and coolest feature in Mario Party DS is the ability to hook up wirelessly with 
 other players in Multiplayer Mode using just one game cartridge. Using the DS Download Play option, 
 up to four players can hook up their DS wirelessly and join in on the fun. The download time is 
 really quick and it only takes a few moments to get all players linked and ready to play. And the 
 fact that everyone has their own DS allows players to read through the rules and tips of a minigame 
 at their own pace.
  
  Along with Story Mode and Multiplayer Mode, there is also the Puzzle Mode, Minigame Mode and Party 
 Mode to keep the party going. The Puzzle mode is filled with classic puzzle games from the Mario 
 Party series and can be played over and over again when wanting to get away from the party boards 
 or the usual minigames. The Minigame Mode gives players the chance to play any of the minigames 
 unlocked during Story Mode and Party Mode without having to go through the party boards. The Party 
 Mode is just the normal game that allows players to choose from any of the five party boards to 
 play.
  
  Mario Party DS does a great job of bringing a successful franchise to a new platform while keeping 
 to its roots. It would have been nice if the majority of minigames actually used the innovative 
 hardware of the Nintendo DS instead of recycling some past ideas, but it still excels as a thrilling 
 party game. With its ability to link four players wirelessly using one game cartridge, it's one 
 of the best multiplayer games on the DS and one of my favorite games in the long running series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  In this game you can be any of the mario Characters and you can do Party mode just play turns of 
 a board game. There is also Story mode that you can just do the story which is kinda lousy. The 
 third to last thing is the minigame mode a place where you can just play minigames against each 
 other. The last thing is puzzle mode is when you play a bunch of Puzzles.
  
  IN the story mode you pick one of the characters and you go to all the boards and versus against 
 each other. There is no unlockable characters or nothing. There is some badges like if you complete 
 the story mode with Mario then you get the Mario badge.
  
  The good of this game is that there is alot of stuff to do. The last good part is that the boards 
 are amazing.
  
  The bad part of this game is that Nintendo should have added some characters you need to unlock. 
 The other bad part is that there should have been Wifi for this game.
  
  Overall this game gets a 8.0 outta 10. If you are going to get this game then you should because 
 it is easy and it takes about 11 hours to beat the game and the game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-Gameboy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario party game has never looked so good in a mini version. This game has good adventure, good 
 action, a lot of awesome mini games, and the bosses are mean and bad as usual. This game provides 
 a lot of options such as story mode (single player mode) , party mode (mulitplayer and single player 
 mode) , boss battles (single player mode) , you can battle for any cup (multiplayer and single player) , 
 puzzle mode (single player mode and you can listen all the music of the game. When you win the game, 
 it gets boring though if you redo the story, you don't have to but if you do you can unlock secret 
 items and stuff and you can check them out. Plus if you want to play multiplayer mode your friend 
 doesn't even need to have a Mario party ds card because he can just ds download play. Anyway overall, 
 it's a good game and I'm sure you're going to have a blast when you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero254
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Party series is an example of one of those game series that'll never die. Now the fine 
 folks at Nintendo has decided to take it on the go for the second time. (The first time was Mario 
 Party Advance, but lets forget about that monstosity.) Mario Party DS marks the first actual portable 
 Mario Party game. It doesn't have any actual unlockables, but there's a few replay value. There's 
 the story mode, where you go on a trek to get Bowser (how original) and to unshrink them. The Party 
 mode is like the same as all the others. You also have your usual modes in a Mario Party game. 
 The boards & minigames all share a common theme: they're regular objects, but they look supersized. 
 The format hasn't changed since the first game, and it never will. That will get boring after awhile. 
 Multiplayer is a blast to do & it'll involve only one game card out of the four of you. That's 
 it. What were they thinking? It's a multiplayer series, Nintendo. You should've added multi-card 
 support. Also, the MP points you score, are only for Single Player. This may sound like me bashing 
 the game, but there are some good points of the game, too. The minigames are challenging & fun, 
 espesually with more people. I also like how they use the three types of control, from the face 
 buttons, the touch screen, & even the mic. Mario Party DS is a fun Party game on the go, & It can 
 be used for time-killing. However, it can't always be your one game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavisDUDE333
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party DS sure got its share of publicity, and Mario was going on a portable system again. 
 Who could resist? This time, Bowser shrunk them into bite-size people, tossed them into a suddenly 
 huge world, and went off to find some Star Crystals. So is this game bringing the party onto to 
 the DS?
  
  The game is centered around eight teeny-tiny Mario heroes, or as I call them, the crew. The game 
 offers six options on the Main Menu; Story, Party, Minigame, Puzzle, and Multiplayer Modes. Oh 
 wait, that's five . . . Oh right, and Gallery.
  
  In Story Mode, the Crew sets off after being shrunk by Bowser. Cartoon-like moving comics depict 
 the story. (Does that make any sense?) To get to Bowser, you head across five game boards. Of course, 
 everything is giant, and each board has its twists and turns. Tap a spinning dice, and your character 
 will run across the board, and this is the "party." Oh, translation? Toss and steal items, avoid 
 booby-trapped panels, and groan when you tap a 1 and need to get somewhere far away. In addition, 
 everyone is striving to collect as many Stars as possible to win. After all four players take a 
 turn rolling (hitting) the dice, the players engage in a minigame. Minigames are "separated" into 
 modes, whether it's 2 vs. 2, 1 vs. 3, 4 player, or good old Battle mode. After playing 10 rounds, 
 the player with the most Stars goes against whatever Boss is terrorizing the board. The computer 
 won't defeat the boss, so it's up to you to win on the board and take on the boss.
  
  Party Mode drops the "story" and let's you race across any board you've completed and play any 
 minigame you've unlocked. 
  
  Minigame Mode strips Story Mode down further, into six sections; Free Play, Step It Up, Battle 
 Cup, Score Shuffle, Boss Bash, and Rocket Rascals. Any of these modes let's you dive back into 
 the minigames on hand in a somewhat organized fashion.
  
  As far as minigames go, Nintendo went with quantity, not quality. True, over 70 minigames is impressive, 
 but when you get down to the minigames, there isn't too much depth. Most games are fun, and will 
 have you scribbling with the stylus, button mashing, and puffing in the microphone. Replay content 
 is pretty thin, but there are tons of unlockables for the hard core Mario fan. Puzzle Mode is just 
 something jammed in the game, and you might not touch it once. Puzzle Mode is there for someone 
 tired of the minigames, if 70 are too little for you. 
  
  Multiplayer is handy, but the only option is Download Play, similar to Super Mario 64 DS. And with 
 no Wi-Fi, you won't be partying online anytime soon. Even with that said, you and three other people 
 can actually party with just one game card and four DS systems. 
  
  Mario Party DS is a reminder of how minigames are meant to be mini. No, I don't mean mini as in 
 made for mini Mario. Mario Party DS is pretty solid, but quantity doesn't necessarily beat quality.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  
  PRESENTATION: 9/10
  
  MARIO PARTY DS: 9/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party DS is only fun with friends. Yes it's mario party, where you get stars, complete mini 
 games, etc etc. But many of the games are disappointing, especially the ones where all you use 
 it the stylus. Personally, there are only a few games where i could actually go to mini games mode 
 and just play and enjoy.
  
  It is only fun with at least 2 people because, one, you cant really talk to the computers, and 
 2, the games aren't nearly as enjoyable unless you got someone next to you. It doesn't even have 
 wi-fi, which I'm quite surprised by, seeing how, IT'S MARIO PARTY! On the upside, only one person 
 actually needs mario party to play to the full extent. There's no multi card available cause you'll 
 get the same thing
  
  Conclusion? it's an 8.1, that's about it, it's only enjoyable with friends, and decent by yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Mario party Ds is a preeety disent game with awesome graphics and super gameplay but it hase down 
 sides. BUT IT HAS A SHORT STORY MODE WHICH IS THE BIGGEST DOWNSIDE BUT IT HAS REPLAY VALUE. The 
 sound is okay but notthing special but it would be cool to play as bowser in exabition. But this 
 is worth 30$ if you have a Ds but if you dont like mario party 5 on the gamecube than this is still 
 a good buy because its better and more addictive so I recomend it to all Ds owners and Mario fans 
 and video gmae geeks like me. y a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a Ds rocks. y a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaa a aaa aa aa aaa a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby684reader
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing with over 70 different minigames it offers fun for the family. There 
 are plenty of single and multiplayer modes that are all easy. The all offer a variaty of fun games 
 and challenges. The controls are easy and the game is just plain fun. A slight problem is that 
 the artificial intelligence is quite easy to beat and it is a lot more fun if you have people. 
 For multiplayer you only need 1 cartridge. four players and one cartridge is quite fun especially 
 when you four people want to play but they all don't want to buy the game. The minigames are all 
 different and the game modes are also all different. The sound and graphics aren't half bad and 
 this game won't get boring for a little while. To anybody who wants a game where you can just sit 
 down and play with friends this is the game for you. Nintendo did a great job with this game and 
 you can expect another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlil-starx
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be so addictive...
  This was the first mario party game iv played and i was really happy with it..
  Basically you 
 choose a player [great selection including mario, luigi, peach, yoshi, daisy and a few more ] then 
 go round game boards trying to get the most stars and playing really fun mini games, defeat boss's 
 and become the superstar..
  
  This game has lots of different modes... eg: Story mode [ as above ] , Party mode [ as above but 
 choose which board to play and who you play against] , Mini game mode [ simply mini games ] , Puzzle 
 mode and of course multiplayer- which is great.
  I havent tried the game with Wifi but the DS-DS multiplayer is really good..
  
  Collect MP 
 point and collect badges and trophies...
  
  This game will give u hours of fun even when youve completed story mode..
  
  So to sum it up 
 this is really fun and another great mario game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay. Mario Party DS offers some great new party boards to play on and really fun new minigames. 
 Some games are really fun and make great use of the stylus or microphone, while a few are uncomfortable 
 button mashers-example: Get the Lead out. But for the most part the minigames are fun and engaging. 
 The story is a bit childish, but the boards that you play on are colorful and creative. And if 
 you collect the most stars (by paying coins) you get to play the boss minigame, which is associated 
 with the story, but I'm not going to spoil it. The boss minigames are as creative as the regular 
 minigames, but they are a little too easy to be BOSS minigames. Once you win you move on to the 
 next board. And by doing certain things in story mode you can unlock little trophies and music 
 that you can view in a gallery. Aside from Story Mode there is party and minigame mode. Party mode 
 is just playing a single board game with the CPU. Minigame mode offers different ways that you 
 can play the minigames you've unlocked in story mode. You can play them competitively or just free 
 play. Mario Party DS, however, is better to play with friends. And amazingly, three of your friends 
 can get the full experience of the game without needing a copy of the game! That gives Mario Party 
 DS a huge plus!
  
  Graphics. very good 3D graphics for the DS.
  
  Sound. Nice music and character voices.
  
  Lasting Appeal. If you have friends this game won't 
 get old for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterlala2002
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Ive never been a huge fan of mario party games. The N64 titles were great, but i got sick of them 
 fast. The gamcube titles were poor, excluding 5, which i found fun. Mario party 8 on wii was a 
 disaster, and well, i never really looked at returning to the mario party franchise, but gave mario 
 party DS a chance.
  
  I found mario party Ds surprisingly fun. True its not a huge leap forward form the other mario 
 parties, but it does everything well, and the sotry is midly interesting this time. Also i feel 
 like the system isnt as corrupt as before, and u dont get random bad luck before you get a star 
 etc. Good game, defiantly the best mario party game for a while!
  
  The wifi isnt bad, but its much better playing the game through with a friend via multiplayer. 
 
  
  Just to make the review longer ... Toad is the best lol, he has been my favourite since the original 
 mario party till now.
  
  Also, a disapointing aspect of mario party DS is its length .. u can finish story mode in probebly 
 2- 3 hours ... but atleast the few hourse are enjoyable.
  
  Thanks :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RKOgirl21
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game? It's very addictive and you cannot stop playing it for few hours 
 (like me playing it last night from 2am to 6am in the morning) , but story mode for me is very hard 
 esp the boss battles. The party mode is so fun, better than the story mode especially I love the 
 bonus star option, then there's the minigame modes with different games to play and also there's 
 a puzzle mode for puzzle lovers. If I say to DS owners who don't have this game, buy this game!
 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Music: 9.0
  Fun: 9.5
  Perfect For Kids/Adults?: Yes
  Addictive?: Yes
  Best Minigames: Star Catchers, Double Vision, Cumberjacks, Gusty Blizzard, Rail 
 Riders, anything with the stylus or microphone
  Worst Minigames: Trace Cadets, Whomp-a-thon, Shuffleboard Showdown, anything with luck
  Best 
 Level: Toadette's Music Room
  Worst Level: Kamek's Library
  Buy it?: Please do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  I am mixed on this game. Its one of the best Mario Parties. But the AI at times you swear cheats. 
 And thats on Easy. 
  
  Mario Party DS obviously is another version of the series made for DS. Its a board game where mario 
 and his friend roll dice and move around various themed boards to earn stars to become a super 
 star! Each board has its own set of rules on how to earn a star. On one map you may can buy as 
 many as you want when you pass the star for 20 coins each. On another map there may three jars 
 and only one has a star while the other has something else in it!
  
  Through the game you gain/buy items to use on the board or each other. These items can take away 
 coins, items, stars and all sorts of wild things. And like any board game theres tons of spots 
 that do tons of things. From duals, to spots that kick you across the board to spots that make 
 you some money by playing a little game. Its very fun and additive.
  
  The minigames themselves are very fun since you get to use touchscreen AND the microphone. Buttons 
 are used to but the funs comes in trying to use the other things. Although at times its hard to 
 figure out some of the touch screen tasks with the stylus. These games also are varied but are 
 fun.
  
  There are options in game at anytime to turn off mic games and een turn on just easy games. And 
 you can also change the AI level at any time which is nice once you see how much they cheat.
  
  There are lots of things to do with this cartridge. You can play story mode where you unlock 
 the last board and see a interesting story that explains somethings about this game. Theres also 
 other modes like the normal party mode and mini game mode. You can even download the game to a 
 friend so you can both play! Theres even other kinds of games you can play outside of Mario Party! 
 As you do anymode you earn MP points that unlock things, mostly to show off I guess. And you can 
 unlock badges. Once again to show off.
  
  Now there some problems. The biggest being the AI. On EASY it a fair match and unless your doing 
 your best you will get creamed. If you set it higher even to medium you will be slaughtered. Its 
 impossible to win. They AI cheats to say the least. What funny is there a 4th difficultly to unlock. 
 For what reason is beyond me. I guess its to make you cry like a baby if being beat on medium wasn't 
 bad enough.
  
  I mentioned also the stylus mini games at times seem near impossible. Sometimes when you do them 
 you are perfect where as other it seems like it just won't work. Maybe next they should have little 
 demonstrations. 
  
  Overall its still a great game as long as you play Easy AI which is still challenging. Its a buyer 
 if you want to something that can keep you busy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party was released around 1999 for the N64, and was overall a hit. Nintendo continued until 
 the Nintendo GameCube came out, then they released Mario Party 4 for the GC. That lasted until 
 Mario Party 7. After that, it came to the Wii in Mario Party 8. But what about a portable one? 
 I've always wanted to play it on the go on an airplane or something. Nintendo has overall anwsered 
 everyone with Mario Party DS, and as it's name goes, it is for the DS.
  
  Mario Party is simple, you collect stars and want to get the most so you can win. Helping you are 
 coins, which you use to buy these stars. That is always what happens, and everything on the board 
 is mostly chance. Mario and friends, ever heard of free will to the people because most everything 
 doesn't change much in Mario Party DS.
  
  On most or every Mario Party game, you are all having a little party on this fancy little board, 
 and most of the time, Bowser is trying to stop it. That's still how it goes here. You still play 
 on a board. All players go and then a minigame happens is still the schedule. Whoever gets the 
 most stars wins is still what happens. Point is, it's just another Mario game in the palm of your 
 hand.
  
  Of course, it's not all board crap. You can just escape and go play minigames if you aren't in 
 a competive mood. There are also a few other things you can do, but no spoilers here.
  
  What's really notable about this game is how it uses the Nintendo DS's online play features. IT 
 DOESN'T. Most every Nintendo DS game has some kind of online play or downloadable content. Why 
 not this? It makes perfect sense. Well, at least you can play with others. The game uses it's wireless 
 so that you can play Mario Party DS with other people, give some credit to that. Also pay attention 
 to the fact that you only need ONE Mario Party DS game to play with others. In other words, you 
 don't need to pay more than $120 US to play with others. That's nice.
  
  So although Mario Party is a great game and this one can be played in the palm of your hand, it 
 lacks online play and chances of finding a stranger with a Nintendo DS who would like to play Mario 
 are pretty slim, which makes this game lacking the Nintendo DS's features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawel_9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  This is my first Mario Party game and I really enjoyed it. And yes it was for the DS.
  
  Gameplay: I like how after everybody has their turn, you play a minigame. In a game you play 10 
 minigames. I also like how each colour on the board represents something. Like when you land on 
 red you lose coins.
  
  Graphics: Standard DS graphics, a cross between PS1 and N64. 
  
  Minigames: There are so many minigames. There are 32 4-player minigames, 12 1-vs.-3 minigames, 
 13 2-vs.-2 mingames, and 5 Battle minigames. Thats a total of 62 minigames.
  
  If you like Mario games then I would highly recommend this game. I would also recommend this game 
 if you have friends or family who have a DS because this game is twice as fun with friends as it 
 is by yourself. And also if your riding in your car and your bored, just get your DS and play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTDansoh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  8 - Gameplay
  7 - Graphics
  7 - Sound
  8 - Value
  9 - Fun
  
  GOOD: You get a hell of a lot of minigames (around 70) and they are very different from eachother. 
 They use the buttons, stylus, and mic. | | There are a lot of things to do when not getting Stars. 
 There are also classic puzzle games from previous MPs that are addictive and will keep you busy. 
 | | The game is most fun if have three other DS-owning friends. The best part is... it only takes 
 ONE card to get all the features of multiplayer. |
  
  BAD: AI is pretty unbalanced. Easy computers seem like they're not even trying; Normal computers 
 are still pretty easy; Hard mode will give you the best and fairest challenge, while Experts are 
 near impossible... Mostly in games that require speed. | | The game will feel somewhat incomplete 
 unless you play multiplayer. | | Not as good as Mario Party 2 OR Mario Party 3, the best in the 
 series. | | No online. | |
  
  OVERALL: MP - DS is still a good game to play when bored. But try to be bored with other to make 
 it more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDogKool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party has been around forever now, dating back to the Nintendo 64. However, they have been 
 losing their quality since Mario Party 3, becoming uninspired and somewhat boring.
  
  This trend has changed now with the release of Mario Pary DS. There are tons of fun minigames, 
 and the ability to host a 4-player party with only one game card is a big bonus.
  
  In Mario Party, you and 3 others roll dice and travel in a board game type style. Along the way, 
 you collect coins and use them to buy stars. Whoever has the most stars at the end of a set amount 
 of rounds wins. It is a simple game mechanic that has always worked.
  
  At the end of each round, you play a minigame, weather it is 1 on 1 on 1 on 1, 2 on 2, or 1 on 
 3. The minigames are catered to each team setup, so 1 on 3 minigames are not grossly outbalanced. 
 There are over 70 minigames, most, if not all of them easy to play. They are very addictive and 
 fun, providing good laughs all around. Whoever wins a minigame gets 10 coins, so there is an incentive 
 to win.
  
  In the single player department, players can play a single board mach, or a variety of gmee modes 
 that basically add up to whoever wins so many minigames wins. However, they all have different 
 ways of playing, so they are not all the same. For example, one of them is as simple as: win a 
 minigame, and you move up a step. Whoever gets to the top first wins. Another one has you buying 
 "pieces" to get to a goal first. They are very well spread out. There is also a story mode that 
 has you winning at different boards and unlocking one later for multiplayer, fighting bosses along 
 the way.
  
  While there is no Wi-Fi play, sadly, there is 4 player download play options, meaning you only 
 need one cartridge for 4 DS's to host a 4 player game. This provides hours of hilarious entertainment, 
 wether at home, at a party, or on along bus ride.
  
  Mario Party DS is definiatley one of the best Mario Party games yet. Its simple controls and fun 
 multiplayer make it a great buy for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  Mario Party DS is undoubtly one of the best Mario Party games since the first. The Multiplayer 
 is the best, especially on 4 players as you will have hours of constant laughing since you started 
 playing the game.
  
  The graphics are better than the N64 games; that's pretty good for a DS game. The sound is perfect 
 and the Multiplayer is arguably the best out of all the DS games out there. You can start a whole 
 party with only one game cartridge.
  
  The single player is pretty good too. It will give you pleanty of things to do so you're pretty 
 much ocupied for quite a while. There are a lot of side things to do other than party mode aswell. 
 So if you want a break from all of that board play, there's somethign else to be found.
  
  Mario Party DS is a game that any Mario Party fan should own as it is as good as the Nintendo 64 
 ones. If you're not sure whether to buy it or not, try multiplayer from a friend, you'll know that 
 you have to buy it after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokerules123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I basically got this for crimbo (or Christmas) as well as my DS Lite (& some other games) & this 
 is really fun. When i played the s****y Mario Party 8 & Mario Party Advance game, i hated the Mario 
 Party series. But Nintendo created a good Mario Party game that uses the DS' controls (the touch 
 screen, the microphone & the D-pad of course) . You can play some fun & wacky mini games, from the 
 likes of Fast Food Frenzy to Call of the Goomba to Raft Riot & much more. The icing on the cake 
 is that you only need ONE Mario Party DS cart to support 4 others, which is cool because needing 
 to get 2 or 4 Mario Party DS carts is a total waste of money. The story mode lets you choose your 
 character & go through a story where Bowser invites you to a party, but it is a trick & he shrinks 
 you & your friends, & you go through different boards, killing the bosses at the end of each board. 
 The mini game mode includes different modes that you can unlock, & of course the mini games that 
 can be played once you have unlocked them. There is also a puzzle mode which you choose a puzzle 
 mini game from past MP games. Sadly, there is no Wi-Fi, as the inclusion of Wi-fi would of be cool. 
 Bottom line, this game is the best after the dissapointing MP games.
  
  Good:
  This is the best after the dissapointing MP 8 & MP Advance
  You only need ONE cart to support 
 4 others
  Uses all of the DS' controls (the touch screen, the mic & the D-pad)
  Lots of modes & more
  Bad:
  Still no Wi-Fi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I actually picked this game up today (2/24/08) and I love it! And as I said it's the best Mario 
 Party ever! This is a great game with easy controls and perfect multiplayer. And even if you don't 
 have the game you and a friend can play via DS download play. You can play up to 4 people with 
 1 game. 
  
  The story line is great! With boss battles, being mini, (or as they say in the game "pint-sized") . 
 The first time I played this was at my cousins house, on Christmas vacation. I just loved it and 
 played it for a long time (3 or so hours) . there aren't enough words to describe how much fun and 
 addicting this game is.
  
  In this game Bowser shrinks Mario and company. He tricks them into a fake feast at his castle. 
 Bowser is in seach of something called the "Sky crystal's." And of course Mario has one. So Bowser 
 has to devise a plan to steal it, and he came up with shrinking Mario and all of his friends (and 
 Wario and Waluigi) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party DS is the newest one of the newest Mario games to come out for the Nintendo DS. This 
 game brings everything to the table that you should be looking for in a Mario game. There are so 
 many different things you can do. First you have to go and beet the story mode before you can play 
 the mini games, though. Anyways, the good things about this games are this. The storyline is kind 
 of cheesy but its funny at the same time. The controls and use of the touch screen are cool. Also, 
 the graphics are good to, every detail, and the sound quality which kind of gets anoying. The bad 
 things are probably how you have to unlock all the mini games. It gets kind of anoying, and will 
 have you pretty mad at times. Other than that, if you are looking for a good game that has good 
 ds download play and plenty of game play to keep you entertained I would reccemend this game to 
 you and others that enjoy Mario. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windmaster42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I love this game It's great to play with friends and the the minigame are
  really origanal (no rip off's of other minigames of past games)
  Although the the story mode 
 is similar to past MP's but still
  great. I love playing as Waluigi and just playing a random
  party or minigames and the idea mario 
 party points was great too
  since you can unlock badges and trophies by just playing.
  multiplayer is great they even made a mode just for playing with friends.
  like other mario partys 
 the multiplayer is great , the minigames are fun
  and the story mode is still cool since it has a plot on a story line about bowser shinking the 
 heros plus adding in boss minigames in although 
  since the only way to beat the game is to get everything which means you have to beat story mode 
 with every character which can get annoying. I would recommend this game for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finn789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  This game coming to the DS is not a bad thing. Defintly not a bad thing.
  The game makes you want to buy it, because of the great cover and you will buy it.
  Its worth 
 it.
  The party boards are great, fun mini games (My faves dust buddies where you can get sucked up by 
 the vacum cleaner) Cool mini games modes, Exellent multiplayer!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  You play, play, play then you leave it.
  Dont look at it again.
  But i dont, but i have and know 
 people that will.
  Dont let that happen.
  Its best in multiplayer, but still fun in alone.
  Its HARD. in most games you set them to hard, 
 and there hard but then you eventually beat them.
  Not with this game. They cant get better, but in the minigames there undefeatable. Only if you 
 set hem to hard or expert.
  DONT DO EXPERT UNLESS YOU WANNA LOSE!
  Only buy this game if you want to have fun.
  And im sure you would......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weedwacker44
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  The game's just like the usual Mario Party, with a few new things. The added functions of the stylus/touch 
 screen and the microphone allow for many new mini-games to be available. There's also a story mode, 
 with boss missions after each board. Unfortunately, there's only 5 available boards in the game. 
 Each board has unique effects that make them interesting to play on, and by playing in the story 
 mode, you can unlock new features for the board.
  
  Multiplayer games are fun to play, only requiring one game card, since only DS Download Play is 
 available for multiplayer. You just have to watch out in case you get too far away from your fellow 
 players, cuz lag sometimes occurs in the game. This game could probably use some online multiplayer 
 as well.
  
  Graphics aren't too bad, but they aren't great either. The graphics are maybe slightly better than 
 the N64, but it's smooth enough to actually play the game normally.
  
  In the end, great party game, but like most Mario Party games, it loses its interest after awhile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  In Mario Party DS, you essentially have a shrunken down version of the console version, fewer boards, 
 and substantially fewer mini-games. The best part is, the minigames, boards, and even the single 
 player portions of the game all mimic this shrinking.
  
  In the solo adventure, the story goes that Mario & co. come upon an object from the sky and shortly 
 thereafter are invited via kamek to a party hosted by Bowser. Surprise, surprise it's a trap, and 
 Bowser shrinks them down to size and tosses them out on the street. This then leads them on a quest 
 to go back to Bowser's castle and confront him. But, on the way they come across some denizens 
 who need their help. 
  
  With this miniaturized motif, the majority of the minigames as well as all of the boards match 
 it. With this, I am most pleased as the console versions all felt detached from one another, but 
 at least on the DS, the games all show some sign of the crew being smaller than normal. 
  
  Unfortunately, the minigames aren't that plentiful. I was able to unlock them all in one story 
 mode play thru. 
  
  The games do use the DS well, with a combination of button-using games, as well as some that just 
 use the touch screen, and even a few that only use the microphone, or any combination.
  
  While the minigames may not be plentiful, there are plenty of extra unlockables, but these are 
 only obtainable thru solo game play and seems like a mistake in such a multi-player centric game.
 
  
  This is also THE game on the DS to get if you have friends with other DS systems. With one cartridge, 
 you can play a full game of Mario Party with three others. A wonderful idea for this franchise, 
 but personally, Wi-Fi Connection gameplay would've been a nice addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The DS has a handful of mini-game collections, like Bomberman Land Touch! and Duck Amuck, but Nintendo's 
 madcap Mario Party series has arrived on the DS. This isn't Mario Party Advance either, this is 
 straight up Mario Party fun like its N64 and Gamecube counter parts. This time, the story centres 
 around Mario one night finding a sky crystal. The next day, when Mario and crew are discussing 
 this rare object, Bowser invites them to a party, to make up for being such a jerk... an obvious 
 trap, but Mario and his friends fall for it. The Koopa king then grabs the sky crystal, and with 
 his new invention, the minimizer, shrinks our pals to the size of mice! If that's not bad enough, 
 Bowser whisks them far away from his castle. Now Mario and the others have to find the remaining 
 four sky crystals and show Bowser a thing or two.
  
  Like previous installments, Mario Party DS involves running around a game board collecting stars 
 scattered throughout. You can buy these for 20 coins. Any MP veteran should know the drill by now: 
 Hit the dice block to see who goes first, everyone takes their turns, you play a mini-game, repeat. 
 It sounds easy, however, during turn six, the final five frenzy will start, in which Bowser pops 
 up and helps the player in last place in a variety of ways. They include:
  
  Get 20-30 coins
  
  Get 10 coins from others
  
  Stars for 5 coins
  
  Get 1 star
  
 
  Get 300 stars
  
  The last one you'll never get... NEVER. If you do, it'll scroll up one or two places up and give 
 you something else. The friend spaces, which allow you and one character of your choosing to receive 
 five coins, is replaced by duel spaces, which allow you to pick an opponent and compete for coins, 
 or even... stars. The party boards are varied: Wiggler's Garden involves the usual set-up, Toadette's 
 Music Room involves paying a certain amount of coins to buy a star, DK's Stone Statue you can get 
 as many stars as you want from the Star Splurge space located at the top of the statue, Kamek's 
 Library has you opening jars for 10 coins each, and Bowser's Pinball Machine brings it back to 
 square one, collecting stars for 20 coins.
  
  The real selling point of the game is its massive mini-game collection of 70. There's such variety 
 in them too. Dust Buddies has you trying to escape being sucked up by a vaccuum, Toppling Terror 
 has you blowing into the MIC along with a partner to blow down a Whomp onto the opposing team, 
 Get the Lead Out has you mashing the A button to get the longest distance. There's so many to choose 
 from, and the big deal about these... only very few of them are duds. Of course, you'll have the 
 other usual modes to choose from and some new ones. The wild Party mode returns as well as mini-game 
 mode. Puzzle-Mode features puzzles from previous installments and a new one called Triangle Twisters.
 
  
  Now I'm sure some of you are disappointed this game doesn't have Wi-Fi, but the DS download play 
 is more than enough. You can play all the modes from single-player with up to three of your friends... on 
 one game card! The CPU don't put up much of a challenge on easy or normal. Hard gives you a decent 
 challenge at least. WARNING: Do not compete against CPUs on Expert unless you think you're ready, 
 because chances are, in mini-games, you'll almost never win, I guarantee you, ESPECIALLY in games 
 like Rail Riders and Get the Lead Out.
  
  You'll get the 8 main characters who've been in Mario Party for quite some time: Mario, Luigi, 
 Wario, Peach, Daisy, Waluigi, Yoshi, and Toad. Even though Boo or Birdo aren't in this installment, 
 8 is more than enough as opposed to Mario Party Advance's four characters. The Gallery is also 
 new. You can view character figures, board features, badges, and boss trophies you've unlocked 
 via the single-player mode through Mario Party points, which are accumulated by playing through 
 boards and mini-games.
  
  Overall, Mario Party DS is a truely impressive entry, possibly the best entry yet, equally as good 
 as the N64 originals. Because like the old saying goes, 'Ain't no party like a Mario Party.'
  
  Good: Variety of mini-games, loads of bonus content, highly addicting, four players with just 
 one game pak
  
  Bad: ...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendragonlink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  As you know this is the first mario party game for ds and is the 10th marioparty game ever released 
 in this sereis, it actually fits because in spanish, DS sounds like 10 in spanish:
  
  Graphics: I think this are the best graphics for nintendo ds after LoZ: phantom hourglass, they 
 look like mario party games from gamecube:
  2.0/2.0
  
  Difficulty: If you finish the game, you can unlock a harder difficulty, and it is very hard to 
 win minigames with that difficulty:
  1.5/2.0
  
  Addiction: This game is very addictive, every time a friend comes to my house, we want to play 
 this game all the time we can:
  2.0/2.0
  
  Variety: There are so many minigames that you can play with your friends as for one week non-stop:
 
  2.0/2.0
  
  Multiplayer: The only time i play this game is when my friend are in home or im in theirs, because 
 its not the same:
  2.0/2.0
  
  Total:
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Mario Party DS follows the same board game and mini-games formula, but adds a few other things 
 to the mix. 
  
  The single-player mode follows a silly story where Mario and friends are shrunk to mini-proportions. 
 They must find and confront Bowser to return to normal, but to do this, they must go through the 
 five worlds and defeat each boss. This means that you pick your character, play the board game 
 in a given stage, move on the the boss and the next stage. However, you MUST win a board to be 
 able to fight the boss. If any AI character wins, he/she won't make it and you will have to play 
 the board all over again.
  
  The stages have distinct looks and mini-games. As usual, you roll the dice and hop around the board 
 collecting coins and trying to accumulate the most stars. There are a number of items you can purchase 
 to help you (double and triple dice, teleporting pipes that take you directly to the star, swap 
 spots) and others to hinder your opponents (coin and star hexes for example) . 
  
  Every time a turn ends, everyone plays a mini-game, either 2 vs. 2, 3 vs. 1 or each man/toad/princess/dinosaur 
 for themselves. There are over 70 mini-games in Mario Party DS, using all the capabilities of the 
 system. The controls include the stylus, D-pad, buttons and microphone, and many games make great 
 use of the dual-screen feature.
  
  Since everyone is tiny, everyday objects become hazardous and they are what the games are based 
 on. For example, in one of them you play air hockey by throwing casino chips from the touch screen 
 to the top screen and try to hit everyone out of the play field. In other games, the mini-crew 
 scrambles to push the lead out of mechanical pencils, stay on top of a rotating roast, run and 
 dodge fast food on a conveyor belt, blow on the mic to freeze their opponents, rub your character 
 to prevent it from freezing and many other crazy activities.
  
  Though Mario Party has always been a party game best enjoyed with friends, the DS version caters 
 more to solo play. Aside from Story Mode, there is a Minigame Mode where you can play six randomly-selected 
 games that don't take place on the boards for a series of challenges: Free Play, Step It Up, Battle 
 Cup, Score Scuffle, Boss Bash and Rocket Rascals.
  
  A Puzzle Mode includes five puzzle games from pervious Mario Party games: Mario's Puzzle Party, 
 Bob-omb Breakers, Piece Out, Block Star and Stick & Spin. The ??? option has a brand new game called 
 Triangle Twisters, which you unlock by completing Story Mode. Puzzle Mode has a two-player option 
 as well.
  
  Every time you play a game you have the chance to win one of the 150 collectible prizes, such as 
 board pieces, music, figures and cutscenes, which can all be found in the Gallery.
  
  There is also a Party Mode where you can play against AI opponents or wirelessly with up to three 
 friends with just one cartridge, in either a Battle Royale, Tag Battle or Duel Battle. A downloadable 
 Extras Mode includes two other games for two players, Pen Pals and Desert Duel (respectively co-op 
 and competitive) . Unfortunately, there is no Wi-Fi play.
  
  Graphically, the 3D look and animations on the board stages is great, but in some of the mini-games 
 the graphics seem dumbed down into 2D backgrounds and very basic sprites.
  
  I did enjoy my partying in short bursts, and that's where the convenient auto-save feature comes 
 in, since during Story or solo Party Mode the game saves after each turn. However, some of the 
 2 on 2 mini-games were painfully frustrating with an AI partner.
  
  But overall, Mario Party DS offers plenty of content to keep gamers-on-the-go busy with a wacky 
 variety of modes, puzzles and mini-games. Party on!
  
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=mariopartyds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  You'd probably expect a bunch of 2-bit minigames with crappy graphics..... If you thought that, 
 YOU THOUGHT WRONG! :)
  
  In my opinion, Mario Party is one of the most amazing DS game you can get right now! It's honestly 
 like having an entire Gamecube crammed into a little box! (Not to mention the t. v., 4 controlers, 
 and mic.)
  
  There are thirty-two 4-player minigames, five boss minigames, 
  twelve 1-vs-3 minigames, thirteen 2-vs-2 minigames, six "Puzzle Mode" games, and two "Extras Mode" 
 games!!! (The games let you play with Buttons and D-pad, Stylus, or the mic.)
  
  You can play on 5 boards in Battle Royale, Tag Battle, or Duel Battle as  
 Toad.
  
  And the greatest thing of all is that you only need ONE game card to play with 4-players!!! (DS 
 download.)
  
  There isn't anything cut out of multiplayer except boss minigames. (You can even play on boards!)
 
  
  You NEED this game if you have friends or family who have DS'.
  (And trust me, I normally don't say this about games.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  The Good: Same great Mario Party gameplay you love. Minigames are fun. Nice extras. Nice graphics 
 and audio. Up to 4 players can compete in the whole game with only 1 cartridge. 
  
  The Bad: No online play. Same great Mario Party gameplay you may be tired of by now. 
  
  Review: 
 Well, this is Mario Party DS. It's exactly like the console versions. The game is based around 
 playing through board games, hitting dice blocks, and competing in mini-games. The minigames on 
 this DS version are as good as ever and make great use of the mic and touch screen, though they 
 don't overuse them either. This game actually has a "story mode", so it gives the single player 
 mode a bit of direction, though it's nothing fancy on it's own. This game also features a new "puzzle" 
 mode, where you can play from 4 or 5 different puzzle games. They're supposed to be derived from 
 other puzzle games, but since I'm not a big puzzle gamer, I forgot the names. The puzzle games 
 themselves are actually pretty fun too, moreso if you're into puzzle games. Let's see, another 
 good feature is that it saves the game automatically for you for after every turn in story mode. 
 So it's easy to play in short bursts, which is always a good feature on a handheld game. Probably 
 the best thing about this game is that it can be played with up to 3 other players with only 1 
 cartridge. That's the whole Party experience too, which includes over 70 minigames. Probably the 
 worst part of this game, ironically, is that it doesn't have any online play whatsoever. :- ( The 
 game is so good on it's own merit, to have online play would have made this one of the best DS 
 games ever I think. 
  
  All in all, it's a great Mario Party game for the DS. The only 2 drawbacks are the lack of online 
 play, and the fact that it doesn't add much of anything "new" to the series. It plays out like 
 all the other Mario Party's, so I guess that can be a good or bad thing depending on how you look 
 at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak3111
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The game has a lack of variety in the shop. It just sells the same 4 things the whole time until 
 the last 5 turns. Also, the boards are slightly short. I've seen people cross the WHOLE board in 
 one turn. Also, because of the short sized board, its possible to get 1,2, or even three stars 
 during one turn. I've seen it happen. Before you hit the disagree button, I'd like you to know 
 I'm not saying the game sucks at all. I'm just pointing out some things I've noticed. the game 
 is the best one I have. This is irrelevant but nintendo should make an all multiplayer game with 
 no singleplayer. That would be awesome . I'd buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lumpohero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  The Mario party series has gone through alote of punishment from time to time but still racks in 
 the cash. Mostly because now a days anything that has mario on the cover is bound to be sold. This 
 game though, this game is different. It put the series back on the right track and makes its comeback 
 with some nifty ideas but it also brought along just a few flaws.
  
  The graphics in this game are fine and in most DS standards are great. The character will perform 
 different animations for every minigame played which you can tell they put a little time in too 
 such a DS game. There is some blury parts of the game board but that is easily ignored because 
 most of the mini- game graphics look fine. I would give the graphics in this game about a "B" though 
 because I have seen better on the DS, and im okay with these ones although.
  
  The gameplay can range from many forms of entertainment or boredom. Moving around the board can 
 be very dull. Luckly the mini games are so well done in this latest instalment and also not based 
 so much on luck as much as previous games. This game can make you very happy. ALSO VERY FRUSTRATED!!!!! 
 The reason I say this is because when a opponent triggers something it can actually effect you 
 in a pretty brutal way. Or your opponent will get the luckyest dice roll ever boosting him or her 
 ( my 7 stars all were took by luigi in one turn ) in the lead. Although the same can happen to 
 you and when it does you feel as powerful as Jill when holding a rocket launcher to a tyrants face 
 ( EHEM!! No resident evil jokes I have to be serious) for the rest of the game.
  
  The game modes are your average mario party essentials. You have your mini game play room, story 
 mode, party mode, and the very very unique Multiplayer mode which I will get too in a second. The 
 only thing you will not have access too at the beggining is Bowsers pinball board, and a couple 
 of modes in the mini game room. Other than that just enjoy your self.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is some of the best I've ever experienced for a DS game. You want 
 to know the reason why? You only need 1, thats right 1 DS game to play every mode in the game besides 
 story. There is absolutly no catch. In fact you can just about unlock every minigame in multiplayer 
 mode. The multiplayer is basically the same as the single player but sharing the experience with 
 your freinds and family is a very fun and rewarding experience. Great for road trips and lunch 
 time at school with your freinds.
  
  My summary of this game will be a little breif speaking as it is probaly the best mario party in 
 the series. It is hard to see flaws about this game actually. I think its just the fact that playing 
 alone can feel a little dull and once story mode is over, you will never play story again. This 
 game is worthy of a good grade in my opinion, but is far from being the perfect mario party game. 
 My verdict is a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llabtoof9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of Mario Party games, however, Mario Party DS by far is the best one!! Although, 
 it's fun doing single player, in order to get the best out of the game, you have to play with other 
 people!!
  
  Gameplay: There are TONS of minigames. You can play 4 player (which is everyone against everyone) , 
 2 vs. 2 (which you get put on a team with another player and you work against the other team) and 
 1 vs. 3 (which one random player plays against the other three) . All of the minigames are very 
 fun and can really suck you in. One nice addition to the minigames is that you can practice a minigame 
 as many times as you want before actually playing it for real. They have a little feature where 
 you press X before a minigame and you can practice all you want before you do the "real thing." 
 In story mode you play with all of Mario's friends and try and beat Bowser in a bunch of parties. 
 In these parties, you try and collect coins to buy stars. You roll a dice and move that many spaces, 
 depending on the space you land on, you might get something, or lose something (ie coins) . The 
 main goal is to have the most amount of stars at the end of the party. Pretty self-explanatory 
 isn't it? For the most part, these parties are very fun, however, the one problem and my biggest 
 complaint is that even when the CPU is on level hard, they still SUCK and are very easy to beat! 
 If you really want a challenge, then get 3 other friends together and play against them! Trust 
 me, playing against others makes the game a lot more fun and competitive!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are definitely top-notch on the DS. By far some of the best graphics I have 
 seen yet, and I own a lot of DS games!! All of the players look great and the backgrounds and minigames 
 are also amazing. But what else would you expect from a Mario game, right?
  
  Sound: Of course, the sound and music is great because they use a lot of great Mario tunes, and 
 include some new ones! Anything from jumping around the board to kicking a soccer ball in one of 
 the minigames, it all sounds great!!
  
  Value: Once you have beaten story mode, you can still play parties against other people. I know 
 I keep saying this, but really, in order to make this game better, you have to play against other 
 people! The nice thing about Mario Party DS is that the WHOLE GAME is in Single card multiplayer 
 (meaning you only need one copy of the game to play with 3 other people for anyone who didn't know!!) . 
 This really adds to the game because you don't have to worry about all your friends going out and 
 buying the game! One problem with the game though, is that it doesn't support Wi-Fi. Now that's 
 not a big problem because I like being able to talk to the people around me while playing, but 
 still, it would have been nice if they had included that!
  
  Conclusion: All in all, this is a very good, solid game for the DS and by far the best Mario Party 
 yet! I would recommend this game to anybody who is looking at getting it, but try to get some friends 
 over to play with you, because without other people, it's really easy! However, there are a lot 
 of minigames and you can spend a lot of time playing this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursedmonkeY95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Finally! I was hoping to have Mario Party on the go (on DS) and now it came true. Mario Party DS 
 is like any other mario party, but uses the stylus and the mic in some of the mini-games. In Mario 
 Party DS, the characters get microsized so that you are just a little less shorter than a soccer 
 ball. So therefore, they have the craziest games ever to play with. 
  
  Im mad that there is no online play. But it can also be a good thing becuase some people take forever 
 for one turn or aren't there half of the time. Also some of the mini-games can be confusing becuase 
 they don't explain the rules of the game that much. 
  
  Also, it i like Mario Party 3ish becuase it has only a few characters to choose from. However, 
 most of us pick those characters each time we play that game. I also like how you can get 3 other 
 DS's and play with each other during a car ride or even at home. In my honest opinion, you should 
 buy this game and have a great time playing with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the gameplay, if you are used to mario party gameplay, then this 
 one will be easy for you getting used to, you go around on a board hitting dice blocks waiting 
 on every other player to take their turn, then you play a minigame, it is as simple as that. There 
 are many minigames to play, and over 3/4 of the minigames are at least decent to good, some minigames 
 use the touch screen, or they may use the D-pad. This game uses the touch screen very well, there 
 are many minigames that use the DS touch screen and it works just fine. There are many boards to 
 play on and they look really cool, and each have their own little area, you got a garden, a music 
 room, a jungle and so on. There are many extras in this game, for example, the puzzle room, you 
 can go and play various puzzle games and to make it better, these puzzle games are the exact same 
 as some of the puzzle games in the past mario party games and they play just the same as they did 
 in the past. The graphics are some of the best on the DS yet, the graphics are really nice they 
 look very identical to Mario Kart DS. The story mode is really nice, it lets you get used to every 
 board and get some new minigames. The boss battles after a board in the story is one of the best 
 add ins so far, mainly you face off in a battle against an enemy like the piranha plant, you gotta 
 shoot these things in its mouth and avoid him swallowing you up and taking life away from you. 
 There are also many decorations you can get if you keep going on in story mode, you get new items 
 for decoration. Again, this is another one of those games that has excellent multiplayer, you can 
 mainly do what you did in the older mario parties. The bad parts of this game is the sound, its 
 ok, but after awhile the sound just kinda sounds a little dull and what the heck is up with waluigi's 
 voice, his sounds terrible in this game, but its the DS what can you expect? This game doesn't 
 have wifi connection whatsoever, it would have been nice to face off with people around the world 
 by playing some of your favorite minigames. Overall, another great DS game to add to your collection, 
 just with a couple very minor flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I was unsure of this game at first, mostly because all the other games in the series kind of sucked, 
 but I soon realized that it was well, awesome. Basically Mario and the gang are shrunk by Bowser, 
 and the plot revolves around their size. Some of the mini-games include blowing out candles to 
 reach the finish, avoiding a vacuum, riding soap, dodging giant soccer balls, and slicing up cucumbers.
 
  
  The mini-games are the best part of the game. Mainly because there aren't very many boards, and 
 the graphics aren't amazing for a Mario Party. They make great use of the stylus, the microphone 
 and the regular controls.
  
  The game may be limited in single mode, but play with a friend and it's the best multi-player DS 
 game yet. And even if you can't, then face off against a CPU.
  
  Oh, and the character selection isn't bad either. Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Wario, Waluigi, Yoshi 
 and Toad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marajade312
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party DS is a great game. It takes all the fun from the other Mario Party's and turns it 
 in to a great game to play. The controls are super easy to pick up, and there's sooo many things 
 to do.
  On story mode you play through 5 different boards, with a boss battle after each board. After everyone 
 has gone a turn, you play a minigame. This happens 10 times, since you have 10 turns.
  On party mode you basically do the same thing as story mode, except you can pick which board you 
 want to play (as long as you have unlocked it) and you don't have to do the boss battles.
  Minigames are a lot of fun. There's so many to choose from. They range from simple things like 
 tapping the screen to harder things like running around on a path thats constantly changing colors 
 and turning black so you can't see all the pits.
  Puzzle games are challenging. You have to think quickly, or else!
  The gallery is cool because 
 you can see what you've unlocked by playing Mario Party. And, you can see all your high scores 
 and compare them to what the staff scored. Its super hard to beat their times, but I did it a couple 
 of times. There's also a place where you can hear all the sound clips from the game. In order to 
 unlock this, you have to complete story mode with one character.
  This game is great, but its even better when you play with a friend or 2 or even 3! You can play 
 the whole game off of 1 cartridge. This is a must get game for mario fans and party fans everywhere! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok.... I was very excited when I saw mario party coming for DS. Like many others I have played all 
 the Mario party games clear back from the Super Nintendo. I sat down to play this and thought it 
 was great! It plays just like the other Mario Party games (pretty Much) . You go and play on the 
 boards and the one with the most stars at the end is the winner. The story mode you play four boards 
 which have a boss at the end of each level and you have to play the story mode as all the players 
 to finsh the game. The graphics and sound are really good and the only thing I would change about 
 the game is the fact that there are only 4 boards to play on and I think they should have added 
 a few more. Other then that if you like Mario Party you will like this game! A Must have for DS. 
 Mario games are always the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  hey there! thomas_bobbypin here! and im here writing a review for Mario Party DS now to start i 
 am thoroughly impressed with this game! Graphics-
  
  ouch! these aren't the best graphics ive seen but not the worst! they are ok!
  
  Sound-
  
 
  what?! theres sound? i mean the only sound is music and two different character voices ex. mario 
 IM THE SUPER STAR! and Oh no! 
  
  Value-
  
  i feel great! i love this game all the way! with many mini games and 4 player multiplay with one 
 card makes it a great game!
  
  Minigames-
  
  WOW! there are over 70 somthing minigames and most are really fun!
  
  FAQ-
  
  is this game 
 worth my time?
  
  YES!
  
  how are the minigames?
  
  fun! you'll really enjoy it!
  
  what are the multiplay options?
  
  Single card or single card
  
  all in all this is 
 a great DS game definetly worth the money
  
  thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  MPDS is great because of it's wide selection of minigames. There are 70+ minigames that are all 
 different, though not all of them are fun, there are enough minigames to make the chances of getting 
 a boring one pretty slim. The main problems are:
  
  1 - THE BOARD PART: Before going into a challenge, you've gotta wait through a boring board game 
 like... errr... thing. It's really boring because it's a game of chance and it can take forever 
 for your opponents turns to be over.
  
  2 - THE LENGTH: It could last you a while if you actually want to go through and beat it 100%, 
 but the main story will only take you about a day or two.
  
  3 - THE DIFFICULTY: I said that the difficulty is just right, but it isn't, it's between hard and 
 easy but is somehow closer to easy, meaning that it could stand to be more challenging.
  
  But the game is still great and has ton's of replay vaue. (Even if it's not fun replay value) There 
 are ton's of wacky challenges, some more entertaining than others, but whatever kind of game you 
 like, there's sure to be something in here for everyone.
  
  Chances are, once you beat the game once, you won't want to go through again. And if you think 
 that you can replay minigames, think again. Almost everything requires two players. The only few 
 things that don't is story and "Step It Up" minigame. 
  
  For beating the game with a certain character, you'll get a medal. (Example: Toad medal for beating 
 the game with Toad) These medals are basically pointless however, and just seem like a sad attempt 
 at adding length to the game.
  
  Pros: Good graphics. Cartoony music. 8 different playable characters. 70+ minigames make it unlikely 
 to get the same game twice within the first few levels. You can play old Mario puzzles. Great use 
 of the Stylus. Some minigames are extremely entertaining.
  
  Cons: Almost everything requires two players. Board parts are as boring as heck. There's replay 
 value, but it's boring replay value. 
  
  I do enjoy MPDS, and I think that anyone with a DS should own it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkcomments
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party is a virtual board game with a lot of fun! Yet there is more surprise, you think you've 
 won, but the other player turned the table into his liking!
  Controlling is easy, sound and music are ok, game play shine sparkling. The beginning starts off 
 good, I don't know what say, everything is good! It's just plain fun, like how I classify this 
 review, how ever, I didn't like the part where you have to feed the piranah with bombs, I gave 
 up on it. Get this game If you've played other Mario Party series, and if you never heard of this 
 series, try out this game, especially with a friend! The mini-games are great too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bart_Simpson2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  So Mario came out on a Party Game version? Well it's a good game by the way... 
  It really impressed me with the way this game turned out to be.
  
  Game play- This game is 
 awesome is this part. It's like a classic board game, throw a dice, move some steps, and now comes 
 the best thing... There are stores, items, coins, stars, etc. and the objective here is to "buy" 
 stars to grow your power to defeat the various bosses and to do it you have to:
  -Have more stars than your opponents
  -Collect till 3 items to use in your opponents (snag bags, 
 coin swap, star hex...) or in yourself ( double dice set, triple dice set...)
  And in the middle you will have duel house, that makes you choose an opponent and do a bet, Bowser 
 giving you stars or coins if you are in last, and after the last player finishes his round all 
 of the players have mini-games which you give 10 or more coins to the winners and i don't say more 
 because I don't want to be a spoiler. So a good performance here 9/10
  
  Graphics- Unfortunately, it doesn't have too much things to apply very good graphics but the things 
 that have are good apply the graphics that the DS has to give. Truth is that we don't see any bugs 
 or deformed forms. The dices, characters, etc. are well designed and with the technology evolving 
 it's very difficult to see that. I'm sure that if this game was on the good old GBA we sure would 
 seen some things deformed. I thinks this is a good note 7/10
  
  Sound- Well this is here I'm more surprised. I thought that this will have themes like in some 
 GBA games like Pokmon and such but, truth is that it isn't. Instead we have the characters talking 
 ( of course not very long speeches) some laughs of Bowser, monkey sounds of DK (when he appears) 
 and the accompanying music is very awesome. Well done Nintendo... I think that a 9/10 is very good.
 
  
  Replay Value- This is very good too. We have a very good multi-player game but it's a shame that 
 hasn't got WFC (Wi-FI Connection) . You don't have much missions to do but you will having some 
 items unlocked in the end of every world in Story Mode that sincerely I don't know what it is for 
 but in this game anything can happened. The mini-games that we have to play are great and I think 
 this part we can actually think of Zelda. You see, this game also brings up good things on Nintendo 
 and we use Stylus, Mic, and the bottoms. Of course this doesn't even compete with Zelda but in 
 this fact that i just talked i think we compared. A well reached 9/10
  
  Resuming, this is a great game with Mario and his Friends (and brother Luigi) which brings very 
 fun things that will entertain you and your friends and the only shames are that is not a very 
 length game and doesn't have WFC. I think that this game should have a Version 2 with much more 
 length, WFC and in top of it, continues to bring fun to all. 
  
  Recommended to all fans of Mario Games and the ones that want to adventure in other type of experience.
 
  
  Bart_Simpson2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilled_Ice
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Ah Mario Party, we've had some good nights together. Staying up until 3 in the morning chugging 
 down 2-liters of soda and yelling vulgarities at each other until we all pass out from exhaustion. 
 But recently, you've become the one that crashes the party, and not in the good way.
  
  Mario Party DS is the tenth title in the series, that is, if you count the GBA version. This time 
 you play Mario going to Bowser's castle for a buffet. Now if you are thinking "Hey, Mario isn't 
 stupid enough to go to his enemy's castle and eat food." No, wrong, Mario and friends stupidly 
 walk in and get shrunk down and thrown out the window. This is the premise of the story. While 
 it would've been a good story for say, a normal mario game, this just doesn't make sense when it 
 comes down to this game. Although a cute ploy for being a smaller version of Mario Party.
  
  Gameplay is simple and takes only 5 minutes to learn. You hit the dice, you go around and collect 
 stars, play mini-games. And hope to god you have the most stars by game's end.
  
  Mini-games are still fun but have the feeling of deja vu. Every one of the games shows previous 
 connections. There are a few games that are original, but they are few and far between.
  
  The music and sounds in the game are original but then again, I wished that i would hear some classic 
 Mario music. That wasn't going to happen. None of the musical scores are memorable and the characters 
 barely have any different lines besides "I'm the superstar!" Would've been nice to here some more 
 grunts.
  
  Graphics and videowise, this game has a unique way of telling a story in a comic book like manner. 
 Frames with different story elements are used, some are used over and over again. While the frames 
 shoot out from different directions, once you see them the first time, you will tend to skip them 
 if you play through the story again.
  
  The replayability is lack there of because there is no incentive to playing it over and over again.
 
  
  Multiplayer runs just like the previous versions but it's tough to find people to stay around for 
 10 turns.
  
  Now, Nintendo should've put their "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" pinch hitter AI in and given this game 
 online modes. This is something that fans have wanted for a long time. And not the stupid friend 
 code system.
  
  This game is a rent at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I'm trying to get through all eight DS games I got for my birthday with reviews, and I just so 
 happened to decide that Mario Party DS should be the next subject. 
  
  Mario Party DS has one of the more "complex" (as to say not very complex) stories of the Mario 
 Party games. Lets just say MP: DS's single-player mode is so far the best and most robust and hardest 
 of all other Mario Parties with Bosses and all... I hope Hudson keeps it that way for future installments, 
 but a little less harder and much more bosses! 
  
  Anyways, let's start with the single-player mode. As I said the story mode is probably the best 
 of all Mario Parties thus far, with a decent story and awesome boss minis. But the AI is so unfairly 
 strong at getting stars and the small boards just make it too easy for them to gather stars... especially 
 when they put the stars repeatedly in front of your CPU opponents. Anyways, the mini games are 
 basically ranging from fun to VERY depressing. Quite a few of them are the latter, which is dissappointing 
 considering the uniqueness of the DS platform.
  
  With only 70+ mini games, MP: DS will be beaten quickly. But its fun multiplayer mode that only 
 needs one cartridge can make up for that. While MP: DS is fun, it's too short and should offer more 
 than just 70+ and more like 90+ next time around.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  The graphics are another strong-point in MP: DS it looks goregous! The graphics are smooth and very 
 nicely done. Not much to say besides that.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  
  The sound is one of the first major downpoints of Mario Party DS. It's got annoying repetetive 
 tunes all over it. Mario Party usually offers some of the most catchiest tunes around. Where's 
 the catchy Mario Party 2 and Mario Party 4 music, Hudson?
  
  Also there's not much voice work except the usual, "Yeah!" or "Nay!"
  
  SOUND: 7/10
  
  
 Mario Party DS's lasting appeal is not too great, considering only 5 game boards, no decent unlockables 
 (nope, no unlockable characters this time around) and only 70+ mini games. Wi-Fi doesn't really 
 hurt it in my opinion since Mario Party would basically suck on Wi-Fi because people would disconnect 
 if they were losing anyway. 
  
  Overall, it's a fun game and reccomended if your a Mario Party fan like me, but I hope Mario Party 
 9 will be a double-release on the Wii and DS... with more mini-games, characters, and boards. 
 
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 7.5/10
  
  The game is pretty fun and worth $30, but could be a little short for those of us veteran Mario 
 Partiers. 
  
  OVERALL: 7.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8smokes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party DS is definatly one of the best PARTY games for the DS. It has basically all the same 
 content as you expect from a Mario Party game, but what's strange, is that it's on the DS. 100+ 
 minigames, Tons of multiplayer/party features, 7 different puzzles for when you get board of Story 
 mode, all in your pocket! The boards might be a little short, but there are 5 boards, all with 
 unique boss battles (Yes, there are boss battles in Mario Party DS (They are affiliated with the 
 story mode) ) . You can even play your friends with 1 DS card! Mario Party, DOWNLOAD PLAY! It might 
 be a little easy but it's definatly fun if you have friends to play it with. You'll spend about 
 4-6 hours on story mode (it's short, but CRAZY FUN!) , but there is plenty of fun puzzles, and elements 
 to keep you playing for awhile. It's all the Mario Party Fun, on the go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoRus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party DS is a really fun game to play by yourself, but to enjoy the game at its best, online 
 gaming with friends, family, or any random person you see that owns a DS is the way to go! Mario 
 Party DS has 5 dofferent boards to play on and about more than 80 mini games. There are also bonus 
 features in the game like "classic games" that include stuff like a mario kind of tetris game, 
 unlockable modes, 5 different mini game contests and alot more. The great thing about this game 
 is that it's single card play ONLY, there is NO multi card at all! In online play, you can do party 
 mode, wich is seperated in to 3 different ways to play (Royal Party, Team party etc.) , you can 
 do any of the 5 mini game contests, you can play any of the bonus games AND any of the classic 
 games. In the story mode, when you win the party in a board, you'll be in a boss fight mini game, 
 wich is pretty interesting. The story mode is kinda corny tho, but who cares?!?!? IT'S STILL MARIO 
 PARTY!!! There are 2 different files in this game (in case anyone wants to know) , and i would recommend 
 that you get this game, it's a cheap preice 4 a great release game (acout 30$ Canadian) . The online 
 play will blow you away!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrylthebest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  players will like the game most in the ds but some problems it will make u feel bored after some 
 time i played this game more than 3 months i do feel after playing it for a little while but i 
 loved the graphics made for mario on the ds first when i brought this game i felt it was the best 
 game ever on any console but still its excellent but i did'nt stp playing mario i still play it 
 even though i have a psp As i have 2 consoles ds and psp i only like to play mario on the ds and 
 play games on the psp overall its my best game till now and still i have to wait for SVR08 on ds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost61192
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party DS is a Great game for anyone who is looking to get entertained and at the same time 
 having lots of fun. It has plenty of Mini games and a great stroy mode to keep you hooked. Multiplayer 
 is lots of fun and friends will also have fun playing it. I Wished it had online mode. If it had 
 online mode it would probably be one of the Greatest DS games to date and the most fun . Mario 
 Party DS is a must own for any DS owner. I give it a great score of 9 out of 10. This has been 
 my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAIV07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Mario Party for the DS is a very fun game for all ages. It uses the touch screen functionalities 
 very well but all of the characters in the game can get very smogged on the small screen which 
 will make it a little bit hard to do the party. This game is relitively easy but fun like mario 
 party 8 is for the wii. I completed this game in about 3 days but I have to give nintendo credit 
 for putting mario party on a handheld device. The mini games are also fun while using the touch 
 screen. I do recommend this game to everybody who has a DS and who likes mario party! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stouph99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Nowadays when you see a new Mario Party out there you think, oh great, same old stuff but with 
 new game boards... but not this time! Much much much better!
  
  I started off playing the story mode and it's a great theme to have all the characters shrunk to 
 mini size! Puts a great spin on the game!
  
  They got fresh new mini games that don't all take 10 seconds to complete, great use of the stylus 
 and microphone. And the mini games are nothing like the ones on Gamecube and Wii, they're totally 
 new! Nothing like the previous versions. And they're plain fun! 
  
  However, I find that getting stars is much harder now. It is basically just plain chance, but I 
 find that when the CPU gets a star, the next star always ends up on his path again, so it doesn't 
 give you a chance. 
  
  The pickup items are interesting, but that darned gold pipe is just way too much pwnage! What it 
 does is take you directly to the star space and lets you buy the star for 20 coins!! Instantly! 
 If you have the money you can pick 3 of these up at the pipe store and pwn the game! And when the 
 CPU starts doing this it just defies the purpose of the game and will annoy the pants off you!
 
  
  Nevertheless, pick this one up! It's very much worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechaGoomba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I have been a big mario party fan since the furst one. It started going downhiill around mario 
 party 5 and in my opinion mario party 8 for the wii brought it back. But it wasnt until now that 
 the hand held touch screen edition of mario party will revive the series in a whole new way.
  
  
  The game starts out with the main cast if mario characters. There are 5 regular boards. 
 You try to get the most stars to become the superstar like always but there is a little twist. 
 In order to be the super star and clear the board you have to beat the boss of the board. Bosses 
 are unique and challenging in there own way. 
  
  You have over 70 mini games that have stylus, regular analog and even blowing on the screen to 
 play all those games. 70 mini games is a bunch. You will have so much fun playing them all alone 
 or with friends.
  
  Now that brings me to multiplayer. If you know someone who has this game also then good. If not 
 multiplayer is out of the question. It sucks cause nintendo forgot to give this game wifi : (. But 
 oh well.
  
  Also as a bonus there is puzzle mode where you play mario party variations of puzzle games like 
 mario party tetris (which is my favorite its amazing) . You try your best to beat your record and 
 get MP points.
  
  So as you can see mario party DS does bring the original feel of mario party back with a little 
 twist of extra modes. The only downside is that wifi is not in this title. At least they made this 
 the best mario party ever and its even fun while playing alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getaris
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  The game puts you in a giant world made of common things, and this affects the boards, the minigames, 
 etc. The history tells thaqt bowser wanted to apologize for "being such a big jerk" so he invited 
 mario and friends to a party at his castle, here he makes our heores chess pieces sized so them 
 dont annoy him on his new plot, the playes then must fight to rescue themselves (Weird, huh?) . 
 The Party mode is the classic play-with-friends (or computers) mode from all the games, and has 
 5 diferetn boards with diferent features and rules (dont worry, they arent weird like MP8 boards 
 rules) . The game also has Mini game and pluzzle mode where you play the minigames you have collected 
 so far in a board-less party and classic puzzle games taken from mario parties 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. 
 Theres is also a gallery where you can see the things you have unlocked (figurines, minigames, 
 records, history mode videos, music, etc) .
  
  The game itself features pretty cool graphics that wont bother you with weird effects, and good 
 music that wont annoy you. The sounds and voices are good too.
  
  The minigames are pretty fun, but the computer players can be to easy- or to hard! Many minigames 
 are short, others are long but them all are pretty cool and will keep you playing even after seeing 
 them all.
  
  The multiplayer only uses one card download, and is a full download so it will take some time! 
 But after that, the amazing mario party multiplayer that we all love will give you lots of fun.
 
  
  This is a game that anyone can enjoy, its true that it has no wifi, but that doesnt not matters 
 because the game itself is about play with friends. I higly recomend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siebe9
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Now, Everybody it finally is here Mario Party DS. 
  I of course buyed the game as fast as i can 
  and i played it right away. The game
  starts by 
 peach's castle where you 
  get a letter from bowser that he wants to apologize
  for being a jerk, LMOA :)
  Now even a 2 year old wouldn't believe
  , but the mario gang does, So 
 they go to bowsers 
  castle and they get CAUGHT.
  
  And now the game begins. When i saw
  how good graphics were (A little bit better than mariokart's 
  graphics) I immediatly thought 
 of mario party on the gamecube 
  it feels so good to have Mario Party on your DS.
  It is time to tell something about the gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is basic just tap the dice 
 or place a hex (trap)
  And if everyone's turn's over then the fun begins!
  A Minigame: there are different minigames, however 
  in the first world the computer is a bit 
 to easy : (
  
  But there's more there is also mingame mode,
  Puzzle Mode, Just play a game mode, And of course Multiplayer.
  Don't wait to buy it, Just Do It!
 
  
  Graphics:8
  Music:7
  Gameplay:9
  Variety:9
  Replay Value:10
  Multiplayer: 10 (Lots Of Fun)
  
  53:6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenrir26
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is all you would expect from a quality MP game, great mini-games that are fun to play, 
 ad-hoc multi-player is fun as well (and you only need one cart for some 4 player action to boot!) 
 I thought the graphics were a little bland considering what we have seen come out of the DS but 
 it in no way takes the fun out of the game, after a few mins of playing you don't really notice 
 it. A plethora of games will keep you interested in this one for a long while and there is tons 
 of added replay value. Sound and music is basic Mario fodder and does not annoy, which is a plus. 
 The game also takes full advantage of the DS's unique features and control is top notch. Games 
 vary in difficulty as well but never get so hard that someone new to the series couldn't pick it 
 up and play.
  
  The only reason I gave this one an 8 instead of a full 10 is the lack of WiFi multi-player (would 
 have made this game all that more fun) and the bland graphics. But don't let that sway you from 
 picking this gem up as soon as you see it, it's one of the few that will keep you addicted for 
 a long while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party Franchise became a good success when the first game came out on the N64. It was great 
 but can this game beat it?
  
  Graphics: Standard DS graphics, too bad it was like the graphics in Dementium or COD 4, it would 
 be awesome. Only problem in the game was that it look really fuzzy including when looking at some 
 of the characters. There are art work in the game but they are mostly good manga (yes i said it) 
 art which is awesome .
  
  Sound: Some Sounds were recycled from previous mario games but fits in the game perfectly. There 
 are some weird techo music which is weird but enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay: Over 80 minigames, you can't really reject that, Gameplay seems fresh and new. Only problem 
 is that they still didn't have the old minigames which is awesome. (Like bumper balls, fishing, 
 go karts and limbo!)
  
  Value: there are some unlock options i guess that put some in the game.
  
  Buy or Rent: If 
 you enjoyed mario party games from gamecube, wii and the N64 versions, you would enjoy this, but 
 newcomers might find it differcult at first
  
  yay or nay?: yay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinconSixEcho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I've never played a Mario Party game before since I had always viewed them as geared for children. 
 Once again, you can't judge a book by its cover lesson triumphs.
  I like the variety in the DS Mario Party; story mode, board game mode or just jump into a head 
 to head mini game which there are 70 plus.
  My girlfriend and I play just off my single cartridge in my DS and download the second player into 
 hers and there is nothing lost in gameplay.
  Playing alone is fine but there is more satisfaction and competition in playing against someone 
 who sitting across from you. The only fault I can truly find with this game is that there isn't 
 any wi-fi play. 
  The games are involved whether it have you blowing into the microphone to knock over a Whomp or 
 spinning the stylus to throw cherries. I have to say that I looked a little foolish playing this 
 at my local cafe and blowing like a mad man into the microphone in the public.
  I highly suggest this game for two or more players but if you are looking to pass time while waiting 
 then single player will suit just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJ-Void
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Mario Party DS is a great game with the stylus and mic, and the gameplay can last forever. With 
 well over 70 or mabye 80 (I don't know) minigames, it's a classic that anyone would want to play. 
 The gameplay is just like any other mario party and the sound quality is great. Finishing off graphics 
 are superb so buy this game today! (Unless you still don't want to)
  
  Hold up, I need to type at least a hundred words to submit so I'll just do this: . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimmJow23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party DS is exactly what it sounds like. Mario Party. But, on the DS. The theme of "shrinkage" 
 is kind of interesting. A lot of the games make good use of the stylus and mic. The games are what 
 you'd expect from a Mario Party, with a little added flair. A lot of games (70+) , considering that 
 this title is a handheld. With all the exitement, Mario Party DS, is just a Mario Party on the 
 DS. Short and simple. To some it up though, the multiplayer is still fun with more people. Blowing 
 in the mic and spinning some wheels or shooting arrows with the stylus makes Mario Party DS a fun 
 title that should be picked up the chance you get to. Even though I think it's just the same Mario 
 Party. I'm sure your kids will adore it and worship you for buying them it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
