-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario Kart DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/mariokartds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Eight players with a single copy of the game.
 Classic gameplay is better than ever.
 Plenty of single-player content.
 Lots of fun stuff to unlock.
 Human competition from all over the world.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Hanging out at McDonald's to play online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.1, 78 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 14,627 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Kart Racing
Date: Nov 14, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mario Kart DS represents a significant step forward for Nintendo's much-loved racing series, and 
 not only because it's the first to feature online play. 

  If you've ever been the proud owner of a Nintendo system, or have at least befriended somebody 
 with one, odds are you've encountered a Mario Kart game at some point. The popular racing series, 
 which first appeared on the Super Nintendo in 1992, lets you race your favorite Nintendo characters 
 against each other in karts that can be armed with such devastating weapons as banana peels, opponent-seeking 
 red shells, and opponent-shrinking lightning bolts. The series has evolved steadily with each iteration, 
 up to and including 2003's Mario Kart: Double Dash, which retained most of its predecessors' features 
 while introducing a new team-based mechanic that saw each cart manned by both a driver and a gunner. 
 Mario Kart DS, then, might seem like something of a step back for the series in that it more closely 
 resembles the Super Nintendo and Nintendo 64 games than the GameCube version; but, as the first 
 game in the series to boast integrated online play, it also represents a major step forward.  

 
          Balloon battles are back, and better than ever.     

  Like previous Mario Kart games, Mario Kart DS features a number of single-player grand prix competitions 
 that comprise four races each. Mario Kart DS includes a total of eight grand prix competitions 
 for a total of 32 different races, many of which aren't available until you beat those that you 
 can select from the outset. Four of the grand prix (or 16 of the races, in other words) are all-new, 
 while the remaining four are composed entirely of classic circuits taken from the SNES, N64, GameCube, 
 and GBA iterations of Mario Kart. The tracks include everything from simplistic figure-eight circuits 
 and beach courses to street races that task you with avoiding traffic and racing around a giant 
 pinball table. Grand Prix competitions can be contested in 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc classes, and 
 as you progress through them you'll notice an increase not only in speed, but also in the aggression 
 of your opponents.  

  Before you do any of that, of course, you'll have to decide which of your favorite Nintendo characters 
 you want to race as. There are eight characters with two karts each available the first time you 
 play, but as you progress you'll unlock  lots  more. When selecting your racer, there are a number 
 of different factors that you'll want to take into consideration -- the speed and acceleration of 
 your kart are the most obvious, but you'll also want to bear in mind your weight, handling, and 
 drift attributes, because the differences between the various karts are quite noticeable once you 
 take them out on the circuit. The final attribute that you might want to take note of is "items," 
 which has a significant bearing on the quality of the power-ups that you receive during the course 
 of a race. If you choose a character with a very low items score, for example, you're very often 
 unlikely to get your hands on a blue spiky shell (it never fails to take out the race leader) or 
 the new Bullet Bill power-up (which temporarily transforms you into a Bullet Bill and flies you 
 past opponents on autopilot) .  

  The new Bullet Bill power-up is one of three new items in Mario Kart DS, all of which complement 
 rather than detract from the existing arsenal that many of you, no doubt, know and love. So, in 
 between dropping banana skins for opponents behind you and firing shells at opponents in front 
 of you, you might now find yourself launching an exploding bob-omb, or releasing a blooper (one 
 of those flying squids) that squirts ink onto the screens of every player in front of you. The 
 effectiveness of the blooper varies depending on how the ink lands on the screen of your opponent, 
 and also depends to a large extent on how well your opponents are able to drive while the DS's 
 top screen is covered in black ink. Driving after being "blooped" is made much easier by the presence 
 of a top-down view of the circuit on the lower screen, which is actually good enough that you could 
 play the game using only that if you really wanted to. The map screen not only shows your location 
 on the circuit, but also the locations of power-ups, traps, and opponents. A column down the left 
 side of the screen also lets you check on the race positions and current armaments of your opponents, 
 which often makes it well worth a look toward the latter stages of a race.  

          Missions and boss battles are a welcome addition to the Mario Kart mix.     

  In addition 
 to the aforementioned single-player grand prix mode, Mario Kart DS boasts an unusual mission mode 
 that tasks you with performing a variety of objectives against time limits. A number of the game's 
 54 increasingly difficult missions require you to pass through numbered gates in the correct order 
 or collect coins as you race, for example, while others force you to use the game's boosting mechanic 
 on corners, or drive around circuits backward. The mission mode is arranged in six groups of nine 
 missions each, and each group ends with a boss fight that needs to be beaten before you can progress 
 to the next. The boss fights in Mario Kart DS are quite varied, and task you with things like beating 
 a boss in a race, knocking a boss off a platform using turbo boosts, or hitting a boss's vulnerable 
 points with green shells. The missions not only make for some enjoyable challenges, but also improve 
 your racing techniques by forcing you to focus on different aspects of your game individually. 

  The forgiving handling of the carts makes Mario Kart DS is an incredibly easy game to pick up, 
 but there are also plenty of advanced techniques that you can use to give yourself an edge. Drifting 
 around corners, for example, lets you negotiate even the tightest of hairpins without decreasing 
 your speed, and if you repeatedly move the D pad left and right while drifting, it's even possible 
 to gain a boost of speed by inducing a miniturbo. Timing your start perfectly will also give you 
 a high-speed advantage off the line, and you can also gain a significant boost by drafting (tucking 
 up behind) opponents who are beating you.  

      

  The battle-mode games, balloon battle, and shine runners can also be played single-player, but, 
 like just about everything that Mario Kart DS has to offer, they're even better when played against 
 friends. Using just a single copy of Mario Kart DS, you can enjoy races and battles against up 
 to seven of your friends. There are some restrictions on circuit and character choice when using 
 only one copy of the game, of course, but there's still plenty to do. Get a bunch of friends together 
 with their own copies of the game and you'll each be able to try out every circuit, character, 
 and cart that you've unlocked against each other. The same is also true when you take Mario Kart 
 DS online, except that only four players are supported in each race, and only 20 of the game's 
 32 tracks are available. The only other noticeable difference in online races is that it's not 
 possible to "prime" weapons for use later on by dragging them behind your car -- a popular tactic 
 that Nintendo chose to omit from online play for reasons unknown (and most likely technical) .  
 

          If you're lucky, getting Mario Kart DS online will be no more difficult than hitting an 
 opponent with a red shell.     

  Depending on your PC and network setup at home, getting Mario Kart DS online can be the easiest 
 thing in the world, or it can take a little while to figure out. If you're using one of the wireless 
 routers supported by Nintendo (as listed on nintendowifi. com) , getting online can be as easy as 
 having your DS search for your network and then entering your security key using the touch screen. 
 Firewalls and such can cause problems, however, even when you use Nintendo's recently released 
 (and incredibly simple) Wi-Fi USB Connector. If you don't have a wireless network or a PC running 
 Windows XP at home, then your only chance to sample Mario Kart DS's online features might be to 
 visit one of your local hotspots. These can be located simply by entering your zip or postal code 
 at nintendowifi. com, although you shouldn't be surprised if your list of local hotspots bears more 
 than a passing resemblance to a list of your local McDonald's joints.  

  Once you get Mario Kart DS online, you'll be able to search for races against friends (you can 
 have up to 36) , rivals (players of similar ability) , worldwide opponents (we've come up against 
 players from as far as Italy and Japan) , or regional opponents (same country as you) . You'll invariably 
 have to wait at least a couple of minutes to get a full field of four racers together, and if it 
 takes too much longer you might find yourself forced into a race against just one or two opponents 
 instead. Online competitions take the form of four-race grand prix, and you'll get to vote on which 
 circuit you want next between races. Our online races to date have been lag-free and a whole lot 
 of fun, although we've lost opponents through disconnections more frequently than we'd like. Whether 
 these opponents were leaving voluntarily or because of network problems is anybody's guess, but 
 it's equally irritating either way.  

  There's no option in Mario Kart DS that lets you avoid players who you think are habitually quitting 
 out of races when they're losing, nor is it easy to add racers that you enjoy playing against to 
 your friends list. When you're matched with opponents you'll get to see their username, their win 
 and loss statistics, and any emblem that they've designed for themselves using the game's simple 
 paint program. What you won't get to see, though, are their 12-digit friend codes, which is the 
 only piece of information that you need to exchange in order to become friends. The friend code, 
 then, is an adequate system for adding real-life friends to your Mario Kart DS friends list, but 
 it doesn't facilitate the befriending of players you encounter online in any way. Not that you'll 
 be making many friends on the circuit in Mario Kart DS, of course -- in fact, you're more likely 
 to lose them. The game's near-perfect weapon-based handicapping system invariably gives better 
 power-ups to racers at the back of the field, so that even when you're in last place you won't 
 feel that a podium position is unattainable. The result is either that you could be deprived of 
 your first-place position just inches from the finish line, or you could suddenly find yourself 
 gaining four or five places on the last corner of a race simply because you got lucky with a power-up. 
 It doesn't always seem fair, and you can bet that it's incredibly frustrating at times, but it's 
 a system that rarely fails to keep a race competitive and interesting, and one that has been a 
 feature of the Mario Kart series since day one.  

          Don't expect to make many friends on the Mario Kart DS circuit.     

  Charming visuals 
 and sound effects are also an ever-present feature of the series, and Mario Kart DS is no exception. 
 All of the characters and rides are nicely detailed and animated, and the game's weapon effects 
 have arguably never looked better. The circuits vary a little in terms of visual quality as a result 
 of the GBA and SNES tracks getting only minimal makeovers, but none of them stand out as being 
 inferior to the rest, and you're unlikely to take much notice of the scenery while a race is underway 
 anyway. Everything in Mario Kart DS also moves extremely smoothly, which is a big plus during races. 
 The game's audio is composed largely of engine noises, weapon sounds, and occasional remarks from 
 the racers, who are quick to express their glee or disappointment as they overtake you or fall 
 victim to one of your weapons.  

  Mario Kart DS is without a doubt one of the best games to hit the Nintendo DS to date. The game 
 plays every bit as well as any of its predecessors, and adds just enough new features to the mix 
 to make it worthy of your attention, even if you're still playing any of those games on a regular 
 basis. The online play is undoubtedly the icing on an especially yummy cake, and even if you're 
 not in a position to sample said icing, a yummy cake without icing is still a yummy cake.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1555 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: adrianfbuan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  INTRO:
  
  Mario Kart started in our SNES. Then it went on to the N64. Then it arrived on the GCN and GBA. 
 Now, it is on our Nintendo DS. It lives up to its reputation. In fact, it made the series' reputation 
 higher making it arguably the best in the series and most likely beating Mario Kart Wii.
  
  
  REVIEW:
  
  Mario Kart DS. The game is made to what its supposed to be, to race with Mario 
 twists. The game has no storyline or whatsoever.
  
  The real Singleplayer mission is the Grand Prix. You go here, race and, of course, to win. In this 
 way, you get to unlock stuff. You unlock new karts, new drivers, and new cups. The unlockables 
 are great. You get new karts and more to choose from. Dont forget about the race circuits, because 
 theyre also great. It also has circuits from old games in the series. Simple? Yes, but its more 
 satisfying and more difficult than reading this. Unlocking those stuff gives you a sense of satisfaction. 
 Those unlocked stuff also gives help in....
  
  Multiplayer. This is where the real fun comes. Its fun to race with friends, either from the other 
 room or other corner of the globe. Its fun to lead a race against a friend and continue taunting 
 until you get to the finish line.... and then get pissed to find out there's one more lap to go!
 
  
  Lets go to the Gameplay per se. Same old, same old. Nothing much. But it is still fun. It has the 
 fast paced fun of Mario Kart. The controls are smooth like. The items still play a big role and 
 it can turn the tables around.
  
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  Come to think of it, it is still the same Mario Kart from the days. It racing with items.
  
 
  The game is addictive and fun, making it so great.
  
  In fact, so much addictive and so much fun on a little game card. :]
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willpak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a combat racing game featuring all of your hero and villian faves. While single player 
 is, for the most part, easier than eating your favorite dessert, multiplayer, via WiFi or good 
 wireless communication players, is an absolute blast. 
  
  Graphically, this game is superior to most of the other DS games to hit the market. Solid characters, 
 beautiful landscapes, and tumbling carts are amazing for such a portable device. 
  
  There is a large assortment of weaponry to fling at your opponents, from bombs with huge blast 
 radius' to bananas that, if dropped strategically, will slip up all that you leave in the dust.
 
  
  Single player modes are too easy. For example, if you get really good, you can almost lap opponents 
 on "hard". Mini-games are a bit lame, but time trials is a fast-paced thrill ride. This mode is 
 hard, do not attempt until you are killing the AI. 
  
  This game shines, however, at multiplayer. Single card mode can host up to 8 people, which is astounding. 
 Learning is easy, so a few practices should be enough for even noobs to have go at it. Race or 
 battle, either one will have you laughing with fun joy. WiFi is invigorating, but, rarely, some 
 people, I have found out, you just can't touch. No matter how hard you try, they leave you behind. 
 Most of the time, though, you'll find people equal to your own skill level and you'll have a great 
 race. 
  
  Overall, one of the best DS games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:43 am PT
Review:  I decided to do a structured review. Asking what a good Mario Kart game must have and saying whether 
 or not Mario Kart DS has it.
  Charming sound and artistic design:
  Not much to say actually. The graphics are pretty much what you would expect. Not as great as the 
 wii version, but with a lot of charm to it, and over-all good graphics. The sound is typical Mario 
 music and suits the courses perfectly.
  Good courses:
  
  I'm not quite impressed with all the 16 new courses featured. Some, like Peach Garden is just boring 
 and the game would be better without them. On the other hand, the good ones are really awesome. 
 Three of the courses are on my top five list of the best Mario Kart courses ever. I really love 
 Shroom Ridge, Air Fortress and DK Pass. Also, there are 16 retro courses. They have made a lot 
 of good choices with what courses they have picked. The SNES and GBA courses are well-suited for 
 the snaking system.
  
  Good gameplay:
  
  What makes this game so great is undoubtly the snaking system, adding a lot of skill to the mix. 
 It is not easy to handle, and it makes it more important to main a character and a kart to really 
 be good at that karts power sliding, because the power slides are very different from kart to kart. 
 I guess you are bound to found a kart that fits you, but personally I don't understand why anyone 
 would choose something else than the polterguest 4000. The controls apart from that feels natural 
 as well.
  
  Item balance:
  
  They have yet to succeed making a perfectly balanced game. I for one, hate the blue shell. The 
 red shell is extra frustrating, since it might come from an illogic angle, meaning it is harder 
 to block it with a banana or a shell. Luckily you can see on the map on the lower screen where 
 the shell comes from. One purpose of the items is to make sure you can screw up ones, but still 
 win. Frankly, it is a little too easy to get a giant lead when you're in front. On the easier gran 
 prixs, you might win a race with half a round (or on baby park, with more than one) . So the item 
 balance is just fair.
  
  The right difficulty:
  
  As I said, it is easy to get a big lead. However on the hardest levels, the difficulty is pretty 
 much right, and if you need more challenge, you can try to get a three star rank. On time trials 
 and missions, the difficulty is what it should be.
  
  Extras:
  
  Time trials is better than ever, because power sliding make it challenging, and the game gives 
 you staff ghosts to try to beat. No Mario Kart game so far has better time trials. They have also 
 included missions, where you collect a certain amount of coins, do a certain amount of power slides 
 during one lap, or defeat a boss, all on limited time. This adds a lot to the single player experience. 
 Mario Kart DS is also the first Mario Kart game that included online play. Playing against random 
 people online might not be that great. There is only up to four players, and often you will come 
 up against unskilled gamers. There is also a wins-and-loses count, which result in a lot of disconnectors. 
 I wouldn't advice playing online unless you play against friends.
  
  As a conclusion, Mario Kart DS had gameplay that is superior to the other games in the series, 
 and good courses that take advantage of this. If there is one DS game you must have, it has to 
 be this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPinballWizardX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:05 am PT
Review:  Whether you've been playing since the original on the SNES, or you've never played a MarioKart 
 game before, this is a must have for DS owners. It's fun, and immersive. The two alternate battle 
 modes don't feel like half-baked add-ons, but instead genuine parts of the game. There's 4 difficulties 
 and a total of 32 tracks, half of which are all-new and fantastic, the other half of which are 
 a wonderful mix of the best of the best of the classis tracks. The online play is a great touch 
 once you've beaten the main game. The mission system is a great way for beginners to get the hang 
 of the game's excellent controls, and a great way for experenced players to hone their skills. 
 All in all, a great mix of the old and the new. Mario Kart DS is certainly a must-have for all 
 DS owners, and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  In Mario Kart: DS, you play as different characters, racing in these little karts on some decent 
 race tracks. But just because it's decent dosen't mean it's the best racing game out there, although 
 it's probably the best for the DS. 
  
  The Good:
  -Offers a nice selection of different Nintendo- related characters that look pretty good, as well 
 as some nice-looking tracks
  -The best racing game in terms of the DS
  
  The Bad:
  -You get bored after a while 
  -Not enough gameplay options available
  -Same as what you'd 
 see in any other mario game out there
  
  Well, if you have a DS (I don't I just played it at my friends house) , then this game is a giveaway 
 for racing/marion kart fans. Otherwise, you probably should, at all costs, just rent this. I you 
 like it when you rent it, go ahead and buy it. 
  
  Ovcerall, 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conno0r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  Many people will agree with me that this is a highly addictive game. Unlocking characters and challenging 
 people around the world on the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection adds to the great excitement of Mario 
 Kart DS.
  Although, this game does unfortunately have a down side. Nintendo Wi-Fi is densely populated with 
 many Japanese Mario Kart owners. This can get particularly annoying as the majority of the time 
 they seem to be exceptionally good. "Snaking" is also an often thing used on Wi-Fi by racers worldwide, 
 this is were you drift from side-to-side on a straight piece of track using the mini-turbo each 
 time. This provides the user with more speed. The time trials often loose their fun after time. 
 The Staff Ghost-Data is pretty challenging on most race-tracks which also gives time trials boredom.
 
  Mario Kart, however, is one great game for the DS! The Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection feature gives 
 the game endless challenges and amusement. Grand-Prixs keep you racing to achieve "star-ranks" 
 and unlock a range of characters.
  If you own a DS i recommend you should buy this as it is a fantastic game produced by Nintendo. 
 I also advise that many Mario Kart racers believe that Yoshi is one of the best performing characters 
 and that the Poltergust 4,000 is a great car. I'm not saying these are perfectly true; it is just 
 what i have heard.
  
  9.5/10
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjdillow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:09 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I didn't expect a lot of diffuculty and amusement from it but I was 
 proven very, very, very wrong. This game is extremely addictive, entertaining and exciting. The 
 Grand Prix side is fairly difficult once you start to unlock races in the 150cc and 150cc MIRROR 
 with hard opponents. The cars that you unlock are a mixture of cool, creative and just wacked out 
 which adds a heap to the already high amount of fun. This game is also equipped with an absolutely 
 awesome battle mode with baloon battle and shine runner. Baloon battle you must kill off others 
 or the other team members in team mode before you die yourself. It is difficult because you only 
 have one baloon or one life while the others have three, luckily though you can steal baloons by 
 using a speed boost to ram the opponents. In shine runner you must collect more coins then everyone 
 else. Overall an extremely fun and addictive game with great multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  The Good: Impressive graphics; fun, catchy music; controls that are easy to pick up but have plenty 
 of little tricks to them; even more items to blast at enemies; a lot of 'karts' to choose from; 
 tons of tracks, including plenty of classics; awesome multiplayer; Wi-Fi is incorporated; a cool 
 new mission mode.
  
  The Bad: There's a reasonable number of characters, but not a ton; single card multiplayer makes 
 your partners use Shy Guys; snaking can kill the Wi-Fi experience for you.
  
  The DS was released at the end of 2004, making it the first next gen platform to arrive. After 
 the PSP's 2005 release shortly afterward, the handhelds had a battle over sales and who could produce 
 high quality games earlier.
  
  DS managed to sell better in its first year, though the PSP was also at a higher price, leveling 
 the playing field. DS brought in customers thanks to a few excellent games right off the bat. Super 
 Mario 64 DS was an excellent launch title, like the original version, and the Metroid Prime: Hunters 
 demo reeled in more audiences.
  
  Shortly afterward, two Nintendogs games, Kirby: Canvas Curse, Advance Wars, Animal Crossing: Wild 
 World, Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time and Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, all entries in monster 
 franchises, sent the DS miles above the PSP in sales.
  
  That's not to say PSP didn't have a great year too, but DS truly managed to sell out when the first 
 real killer app (in my opinion) arrived: Mario Kart DS.
  
  Mario Kart has been successful on every platform its been released on, mainly because of tight, 
 fun controls and excellent multiplayer to rival Super Smash Bros. And this one is no exception. 
 As ever, accelerating, turning and drifting all work differently depending on the character you 
 choose, so your racing style may be completely different every game until you find one suitable 
 to your tastes. Even better, chucking bombs and shells at your opponents, whether real or AI, is 
 humorous and a unique twist on 'racing'.
  
  But Mario Kart isn't just up to its usual tricks. There are tons of tracks, including sixteen new 
 tracks and sixteen classic tracks from SNES, N64, GBA and GC incarnations of the franchise. Multiplayer 
 is as spectacular and addictive as always, with sweet local multi-card play. Single-card play is 
 fun, but your friends have to play as Shy Guys, and that is a bit of a downer for them. Plus, they 
 don't have many options as to how they want to race.
  
  So the more Mario Kart games near each other the better. This is also the first Mario Kart to utilize 
 a Wi-Fi connection. If you have a wireless router you're set. If you don't, you might be paying 
 for a USB connector or eating at McDonald's a lot, but on the upside you'll only have to pay the 
 $30 once.
  
  And Wi-Fi is insanely fun. The competition, as you can imagine, is much better, so it's not as 
 predictable. If the opponents are snaking, however, that can take the fun out of it if you don't 
 know how to, because you won't win, so be prepared.
  
  Still, the local game is cool even on your own. The normal Grand Prix is as addictive as ever, 
 and 150cc is extremely challenging. Mission mode is a cool new diversion, and battle mode is awesome, 
 even alone. Time trials are pretty fun to challenge yourself, for that matter. Shine Runners, the 
 new battle mode, is just as fun as balloon battle too, which is saying something for it.
  
  Speaking of balloon battle, this mode utilizes the microphone on the DS in an intuitive way, as 
 you'll be blowing up the balloons. This adds a new strategic element to it, because even though 
 the mic is very responsive, it takes time to blow it up. You can still steal balloons from other 
 characters with mushrooms too, so you should consider that before blowing up all three right off 
 the bat.
  
  The usual items are back for this game: bananas, bombs, shells, upside down cubes, lightning, mushrooms 
 and invincibility. But there's plenty more now. You can turn into a missile and shoot by your opponents 
 (hitting them in the process) , shoot a blue shell at the person in front (which is impossible to 
 dodge, short of driving off a cliff) , and put sludge all over the opponent's top screen. This last 
 was truly genius because of the capabilities of the platform, since they can then use the bottom 
 map, which is excellent to the point that you can use it almost as well as the top screen to navigate.
 
  
  There are quite a few karts to pick from, but not quite as many characters. It's a reasonable selection 
 though, and it's fun trying them all out to see who suits your taste. Plus, you can unlock more 
 with each mode you beat.
  
  The graphics are pretty impressive on a handheld. They're very good 3-D and not as blocky as you 
 might think. The music is just like Mario: charming, and it gets stuck in your head. You'll probably 
 be whistling to yourself as you play (although that, and blowing into the mic, might attract attention 
 in crowds) .
  
  So there's plenty of bang for your buck with Mario Kart. It's more than worth your money to this 
 day. There may be a bit too much rubber banding (people going back and forth from first to last 
 and vice versa, very suddenly) , but this adds some surprise to the results. The more experienced 
 player may not always win, which will help reel in newer gamers.
  
  And whether single player, single-card, multi-card, or Wi-Fi is where you'll be, Mario Kart is 
 back and truly better than ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS was released in late 2005 and hit the DS like a blue shell. Almost everyone who had 
 a Nintendo Dual Screen bought it, and DS owners surely thank Nintendo for the good game.
  
  It has a great single player mode, the CPU is smart enough to give some trouble for the first-time 
 racers. Battle mode shows itself as a really cool alternative for the usual races and the multi-player 
 mode is a nice ask for friends who own it.
  
  Unfortunately, the online mode isn't exactly what all Mario Kart fans were waiting for. Only four 
 players can play simultaneously, and usually, one or two of them disconnect after the first race. 
 The few racers limit is said to be a way to prevent lag - which still occurs even with two players 
 -, but it took a half of the fun off. It would be bad enough if that were the only bad point of 
 the online play. Only 12 of the 32 courses of the game are available for online matches. Other 
 bad points aren't so important (though they could be the line between winning and losing) such 
 as not being able to hold a shell or a banana shell behind the kart or stopping the item roulette 
 earlier than its "natural" stop.
  
  After Mario Kart Wii, I see MK DS a surpassed game, with poor and pointy graphics and harder to 
 drift. Finding opponents online is harder than the Star Cup. Besides that, riding bikes is way 
 cooler than riding karts. 
  
  Mario Kart DS had its shiny time, who enjoyed it had fun. If you haven't, don't worry. It's not 
 that special.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuzs123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:05 am PT
Review:  If you want a game then you should totally get this one. Every thing is amazing about it. The graphics 
 are just crazy. The karts, tracks, and characters you can use are awsome. My favorite part though 
 about mario kart is the wi-fi. I play with my friends all the time. I have been playing with my 
 friends on wi-fi for about a year. Even though my record sucks. In my opinan the only thing better 
 then mario kart for ds is mario kart for WII. There is only 1 kind bad thing about this game. When 
 you go on wi-fi lots of people use hacks. Like extra speed always have a power up and other stuff 
 like that. But i still recomend this game. If you dont belive me ask a friend or somone if its good 
 or not. Then you will belive me. If you are bored of your other games you should really get mario 
 kart for ds. You wont regret it. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamevsWolf
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 4:42 am PT
Review:  1) The game is very bright and attractive which creates a good atmosphere between you and the game.
 
  2) The racing tracks are very entertaining and very clever.
  3) you have all your super mario characters with different charistics and lots of cars for each 
 character. xD
  4) I think the music creates a nice tunnel to the fantasy world which really draws you in the game 
 including the background animations really helps and makes it much more fun!!
  5) The graphics are Great!! Just something you would expect from a Mario game! ^^ 
  6) The idea 
 of driving into mysterious box [ ? ] and getting some sort of a interesting and funny advantage 
 really does much it 101% more Interesting and Super duper Fun!! 
  7) The loud cheerful happy music after coming 1st or 2nd always.. ALWAYS makes you want to continue 
 playing more x) 
  8) There are plenty of options to choose from either play with a friend/s, battle mode, time trials, 
 unlock characters and tracks etc...
  9) Easy to control not to hard to play and some Awesome Karts 
  10) After aceing 150cc mirror 
 and get 1st place everytime really does make yourself feel better too hah xD lol
  -gamevswolf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfly360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:24 pm PT
Review:  mario kart ds is one of the greatest multiplayer games of all time. the graphics are great even 
 for a ds game.
  
  the race tracks are very well designed.
  
  the weapons are still fun to use.
  
  no lag (that i have seen) on multiplayer.
  
  AI isn't 
 cheap.
  
  the best part: if you want to play with your friends, you need only one person to have this game 
 and you can still play, even if you don't own it. whenever you play online with friends and AI, 
 one AI will be a lot better than the others. (at least on the easiest difficulty because my friend 
 sucks)
  
  overall, this game is very good and can at some times be challenging. it is the best maro kart 
 game i have played. (i haven't played mario kart wii yet) if you have a lot of friends and want 
 to play a multiplayer game with more than 4 players, you should get mario kart ds. it is very fun 
 and addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_7173
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:39 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a game that is almost perfect Why? because it not only gives you what you would 
 expect from mario kart but also gives you a heck of a lot to more to do.
  In the first mario kart you could only play as eight characters:
  Mario
  Luigi
  Peach
  
 Toad
  Bowser
  Yoshi
  Koopa Troopa
  and Donkey Kong
  But in Mario Kart DS you can play as thirteen characters:
  Mario
  Luigi
  Peach
  Toad
 
  Yoshi
  Bowser
  Donkey Kong
  Wario
  Waluigi
  Dry Bones
  R. O. B.
  Daisy
  Shy Guy
  Which is better than eight. Another new thing about mario kart ds is it has a mission 
 mode. Mission mode is a fun and usefull mode made for even more mario kart fun but also made so 
 you will get better at mario kart ds missions consist of doing things like collecting coins and 
 driving through gates in a spesific order and much more.
  Mario Kart Ds is a game that is so fun you can play it three days straight without getting bored.
 
  My overall score 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a good racing game, but since GameSpot gave it 9.3 I think they pushed it a bit 
 far. I like some of the cources, some have made me think of everything bizarre. I like Waluigi 
 Pinball and Rainbow Road but banshee Boardwalk is tricky and can be so frustrating for some non-serious 
 gamers. Also I find most courses too easy even for the least-talented gamer. I can beat the whole 
 game easily... on the first day in fact I unlocked everything, even the MIRROR: 200cc which can 
 be pretty tricky and tough. Some cources are a piece of cake. I like the Figure Eight Circuit and 
 the Yoshi Circuit and Waluigi Pinball, which takes you into a life-like pinball reality game so 
 you have to dodge balls and electric flippers. I do but do not recommend this game. Rent it first. 
 Or leave it on the gate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elwafir123
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game to put in your collection then this is it. If your looking for a game 
 to last you a month then keep looking. This game is highly enjoyable but it took me 3 days to beat 
 grand prix mode. This is Mario so you can't go wrong with it. Wi-fi mode, battle mode, time trials, 
 and mission mode are all great additions to this game. This is the first game to have wi-fi and 
 it was 100% awesome. Unlocking new characters and karts will always keep you happy and worthy. 
 This game was sold out in 2 stores thats how good it is.
  
  I gave it 8.5 because if your hard core then it'll be to easy and the tracks will get tiring soon 
 trust me. Shine runners and balloon battle are really fun and never get boring. This game is perfect 
 for a long car ride or metro. But overall it's fun and it's worth the money. Mario Kart Ds is a 
 step in my opinion.
  If this is for a birthday present then get it. Meet you in the tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeglove
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:29 am PT
Review:  Full review 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Like nearly 
 every Nintendo platform since the SNES, Mario Kart returns once more for an outing on the DS. Bringing 
 his buddies into the mix, Mario lines up on the starting line again with the likes of Luigi, Princess 
 Peach, Yoshi, Donkey Kong and many more for mayhem on the asphalt. 
  Various bright and sometimes cutesy themes taken from the Mario universe translate into different 
 racetracks. Exotic and exciting tracks like Luigi's Mansion  a nod to the ghost-hunting Gamecube 
 game, DK Pass  whereby snowmen litter the landscape and gigantic snow boulders chase you down 
 a hill, and a superbly fun track that takes place on an oversized pinball machine are but a few. 
 In total there are thirty-two to unlock through single-player mode. Sixteen of them are new to 
 the DS, whilst the more nostalgic can enjoy previous tracks handpicked from the SNES, the Gameboy 
 advance, the N64 and the Gamecube Mario Kart outings.
  
  Playing single player is satisfyingly difficult, although not overly so. From the beginning of 
 Grand Prix you can start in 50cc mode, which is conquered fairly quickly, as it is the slowest 
 and easiest. 100cc is a little quicker, while 150cc mode provides a good challenge and the computer 
 is unrelenting. Each cup of Grand Prix is split into four tracks and getting the most points overall 
 wins you the cup, opening more cups and tracks to beat. On top of that, beating everything with 
 a gold in 50, 100 or 150cc mode nets you some bonus characters and more karts to choose from.
 
  Each racer is balanced against one another. Yoshi, although quick on the acceleration has a low 
 top speed, weighs very little and has a poor chance of getting decent items. Bowser, on the other 
 hand, is enormous yet slow on the uptake. If Yoshi collides with him, Yoshi will get wiped off 
 the track altogether, which is incredibly satisfying if you're Bowser and incredibly irritating 
 if you're not.
  
  Items are also randomly doled out through boxes regularly spread across the tracks. Depending on 
 your position in the race you will either likely receive a crappy banana skin for being in first 
 place, or if you are lagging at the back  a mega boost mushroom to speed your way back up into 
 the rankings. Two new additions to the DS outing are the Bullet Bill power-up, which transforms 
 you into a giant guided bullet that thunders you up the track, knocking anyone else out of your 
 way. The other is the terrifying spikey blue shell. A combination of a bob-omb and a red shell 
  this homing explosive missile is the bane of all 1st placers. It locks onto whoever is at the 
 front and there is absolutely no way to escape it. Worse still, you can hear it whizzing towards 
 you a mile off, so you know your fate is sealed before it even appears above your kart. Other old 
 favourites like the invincibility star and the ghost power up return.
  The touch screen of the DS is not really taken advantage of, although it can be used to navigate 
 the menus before racing, or used to draw your own logo for your kart. Instead the lower screen 
 is reserved for rather detailed information during races. The top screen will show you all the 
 action, yet the lower screen will give you all the position details, a top down view of the track, 
 who has what item, and any hazards like approaching shells or bananas still left on the track. 
 Given such detail, it is entirely possible to race successfully using just the lower screen.
  
  The real racing fun comes from multiplayer mode against other people through the wireless connection. 
 Up to eight people can play together; even those without a copy of Mario Kart DS can join in because 
 of the DS' unique downloading function. I have only played with one other person, but even if there 
 are just two of you, the rest can be taken up by the computer to harass the both of you. Even more 
 so, through the DS' Wi-Fi function you can connect to the Nintendo's online WFC with piss-ease 
 if there is an access point nearby. However, online, you are limited to three opponents, the speed 
 is set to 100cc, some of the tracks that have a lot of detail are not available (such as the aforesaid 
 pinball dodging track) and unless you know other people's "friend codes" you'll be randomly dumped 
 into an ad hoc game  but it is still fun to play against other people. In my limited experience 
 through taking advantage of Nintendo's free access points (put your postcode into nintendowifi. com 
 to see if any are nearby) the players tend to be very bad, or irritatingly good. As always, hardcore 
 players will find the tiniest little things to exploit and use them with abandon and because there 
 is no function in place to arrange players by their wins and losses, you will rarely randomly encounter 
 someone of your equal to provide a decent challenge to one another. 
  Despite online gripes, Mario Kart is still a very good experience, even in the single player. Although 
 it is not original, the DS version doesn't feel like some cheap cash in either. The trouble-free 
 controls are perfectly suited to the DS and even if you get tired of racing, there are plenty of 
 challenges available in 'Mission' mode. Such things include mowing down dozens of crabs with shells 
 or knocking over big bad bosses using turbo boosts. Slightly pointless but fun, and a lot of them 
 do help improve your overall racing. Racing games are fairly limited on the DS so far, but you 
 will be hard pressed to find a better racing experience on something the size of a pocket diary. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas back in 2005 when it was a new releae. The moment I started playing 
 this game, I was hooked! To this day, Mario Kart DS is still addictive and is THE best racing game 
 on the Nintendo DS. You can choose from 12 different characters. My favorite is of course Mario. 
 You can also choose any vehicle you want, even if it is not your character's vehicle. This can 
 only be done though if you have unlocked all of the characters in the game : (. You can choose from 
 32 different tracks. There are 16 new tracks, and 16 classic tracks. My favorite track is Rainbow 
 Road. In my mind, Rainbow Road is like the Daytona 500 of Mario Kart Racing :) . The difficulty 
 in this game varies. Here's how I rank them:
  50cc-Extremely Easy
  100cc-Medium
  150cc-Hard
  150cc Mirror-Hard
  Of course, sometimes 150cc may not be that difficult at all. 
 I am very good in the 150cc karts. I have 64 consecutive wins in 150cc :) . Your favorite items 
 are back again! From Red Shells to Stars, all of them are in Mario Kart DS! Truly, a masterpiece 
 to own. Overall, addictive gameplay after all these years, 12 characters to choose from, 32 tracks 
 to choose from, go for the gold!, new and old tracks, and the best racing game on the Nintendo 
 DS. If you own a DS, BUY THIS GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS leaves every other entry in the Mario Kart series in the dust as it speeds to the 
 finish line and delivers a stunning game, that will keep you hooked for months. The game has five 
 options at the starting screen. The first option is single player, and what an option it is. In 
 the single player mode, you can choose from Grand Prix, Time Trial, Vs., Battle, and Mission mode. 
 Grand Prix has you competing for a trophy in a cup consisting of 4 races. There is a set of brand 
 new tracks, and a set of old tracks from the SNES, N64, GBA, and the Gamecube. There is a total 
 of 36 tracks in the game, but you'll have to play through the game on the 3 different speed settings 
 to unlock them all. There is also a handful of unlockable characters, providing enough incentive 
 to keep you coming back for more. But does the actual game deliver? The race begins with a cinematic 
 intro to for each track, showing of the fantastic visuals of the game. You will race against 7 
 other computer opponents, who thankfully, are competent in their racing ability. There is a variety 
 of power-ups on the tracks that are essential for winning. If you are in last place, the power-up 
 will be very helpful to get you ahead of the other players, but if you are in first, you'll get 
 power-ups that help sabotage the people behind you. Sometimes, this unbalances the game, which 
 means that the best racer will not always win. At least everybody has a chance. If you are frustrated 
 by this unbalanced racing, you have nothing to fear. Those who are skilled, will learn the art 
 of grinding on the track. Grinding gives you an extra boost if you use it wisely. The next option 
 is the time trial mode. It's pretty addictive at times and it gives you an oppurtunity to get better 
 and better racing times on your favorite tracks. The best part is, if you get a good racing time, 
 you can try your luck with the developer's ghost racers. It's a great option for those looking 
 to improve their racing skills. The next option Vs., is racing, but getting to set the rules like 
 how many tracks you want to race on, or how many players will race, etc. It's not a very rewarding 
 mode, since it doesn't unlock anything. The next mode is battle mode, which is fun, but flawed. 
 You can choose balloon battle, where the goal is to hit your opponents with weapons to make them 
 lose all of their balloons. The next option is Shine runners, where you must be the one to collect 
 the most stars to win. Both of these games are really fun to play. The downside is, none of the 
 games are multiplayer, not even locally. That means you will have to face the computer opponents, 
 who are incompetent and you'll find yourself winning too much. This is unusual, since pretty much 
 everything else in this game is multiplayer. Also, the game won't save your scores. The next mode 
 is mission mode. You will go through levels completing the mission that the game gives you. If 
 you complete all the missions in one world, a boss will be unlocked. They are fun to battle, and 
 they provide incentive to move on. There are six worlds to complete, and if you get at least one 
 star on every mission, a seventh world will be unlocked. This mode is somewhat fun, but once you've 
 finished it, there is no more incentive to return. The next mode on the title screen is multiplayer, 
 but I don't have any friends with this game so I didn't have the oppurtunity to try it out. For 
 those of you in this situation, there is a great Wi-fi mode. Racing online can be very fun, but 
 it can get on your nerves. Here is a list of complaints I had about the games' Wi-fi mode:
  1. Lots of players cheat using the action replay
  2. Some racers will lose interest and leave 
 the game if they are losing or if they are bored, causing the game to end if a lot of them start 
 to leave.
  3. Some players will use the "snaking" technique, which is hard to do, but if you master it you 
 will win almost every race.
  There is still a lot of fun to be had though. In the settings menu, you can create a nickname for 
 online racing and an emblem that will be painted on the side of your car. It is great for creative 
 people. I would definitely reccomend Mario Kart DS to anybody, since it is one of the only games 
 out there that literally, anyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the second handheld Mario Kart Game ever made, and I'm glad to say it is a great 
 improvement from the previous GameBoy Advance version. The graphics are decent, but a little outdated 
 since this game has hit its 3 year anniversery. There are many good things to say about this game, 
 so its still worth to get because there probobly won't be another Mario Kart handheld game anytime 
 soon at all, if ever again.
  
  Graphics- As I said the graphics are pretty good, but a little outdated. They are pretty standard 
 compared to most other DS games, so nothing much else to say about the graphics, they are rather 
 nice and squeezed in just perfectly though.
  
  Sound- The sound is good.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is amazing. You can do pretty much what you can in most other MK games. 
 There are 8 cups which is really nice, and 4 modes (50, 100, and 150cc, and of course the Mirror) 
 The rating system is just as in MKW and even the gameboy version. The point system is just as the 
 GC version. There is also battling, and even more interesting yet, missions. There are some unlockables 
 and quite a few things to do so the gameplay can be quite lengthy and fun.
  
  So this game is a good idea to get but one thing I didn't mention is the online. If you plan to 
 get this game and play online against random people, don't expect to find very many legit matches. 
 By legit I meen there are several people on this game who hack even online, that's not even the 
 bad part because it's almost impossible to find matches nowadays of course. I'm very disapointed 
 to miss the time when the online was alive because I only got this game in August.
  
  However if you do have a Wii I highly recomend Mario Kart Wii because the gameplay is also great 
 and the online is still very fun and expanded.
  
  Back to Mario Kart DS... I think this will remain as one of the DS's highest rated games out there, 
 and even after 3 years this is a full priced game, but it's a good one :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedhlfc4life
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is in my opinion the best game out for the nintendo ds i have had it for over 3 years 
 now and i still find myself playing it. Its a very addictive game with lots of tracks but only 12 
 characters excluding the 1 secret character the game has a battle mode where u can fight to knock 
 off all of your opponents balloons u can also steal there balloons if your almost out this mode 
 can also be played in teams. The other game in battle mode is u have to collect the most stars to 
 win. The grand prix mode starts at 50 cc where u have 2 win 8 trophies once u have this done u move 
 on to 100 cc again once u have this one completed u go on to 150cc which when this one is done 
 u unlock 150cc mirror in which all the tracks are turned around. There is also a mission mode where 
 u complete missions and at the end u fight a boss im not sure but i thinks there is 8 bosses this 
 mode is my favorite but it is to short. Since this is a car game of course it has a time trial mode 
 which u can guess what it is u set a time u try to beat that time very simple to understand and 
 if u dont your a retard. This game also has a paint mode where u can create ur own emblem that u 
 can put on the front of your car. There are 36 karts on this game featuring cars bikes cranes etc. Overall 
 this one of the best games the nintendo ds has to offer probably just because it is mario. This 
 game is my favorire game out for the nintendo ds 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apprentice5000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Mario game I have ever seen! I got it 2 weeks ago and I, m still addicted to it! 
 It has an excellent multiplayer (you and a friend) and superior Nintendo Wi-FI Connection! I like 
 the missions, they are fun and never get boring. My username on Mario Kart is Lord Vakk so if you 
 see me on Wi-Fi, put me on your friend list! You will never beat me though :) Okay maybe you can 
 if I am not Yoshi. My favorite tracks are Banshee Boardwalk, Rainbow Road and Bowser Castle. What 
 is yours? I also have a question about Time Trials. How do you unlock the staff ghosts? I try to 
 get a really good time, but I never see any staff ghosts. And when I do Multiplayer with someone 
 I can only pick from 2 cups (Mushroom and Shell Cups) . It is a little bit frustrating. Please help 
 me with this stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_OmegaHunter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS
  
  Sound- 9/10 : Unbelievably great music, You'll have heard most of it if you've played Double Dash 
 or Mario Kart 64 but there's still a few new tunes.
  
  Story- ?/10 : There is no real story to this game.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10 : There are 8 grand prix's 
 in the game, and you'll play through each of them to unlock 12 different racers, a bunch of karts, 
 ( 3 for each racer which comes out to 36 karts ) and 32 race tracks. ( 16 all new ones and 16 old 
 ones from the Game Cube, N64, GBA and the SNES! ) There's also mission mode... but its pointless. 
 You can try to set new records in time trial mode and send them to your friends to race against. 
 But the best thing about this game is its multi-player, you can race against up to 8 players on 
 multi-card or single card! You can play either shine runners, balloon battle, free race or team 
 race. As well as up to 4 players on Wi-Fi.
  
  Graphics - 9/10 :Graphics are amazing, best I've seen on the DS so far!
  
  Overall- 9/10: I 
 would recommend this game to both hardcore and casual gamers. With its good music, great graphic 
 and crazy 8 player multi-card it's a must have for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bildevo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best remake of a game for a handheld system. This is classic Mario kart racing. 
 This is Mario kart DS.
  
  Basically, if you have yet to play a Mario kart game, I shun you, but I don't hate you. For hate 
 is a strong word. And so is this series. Starting way back on the NES, going to N64, game boy advance 
 and game cube, these games has a long line of fun kart racing.
  
  The object of Mario kart is to race against 7 other racers (characters from various Nintendo games) 
 and get to the finish first. You can use several different weapons and tecniques to help you do 
 this, but in the end it all just comes down to knowing the tracks. This sounds easy. Well... it 
 is. And it's tons of fun too.
  
  The DS version is no different . Well, it is different, but just in good ways. Newly added is WiiFii 
 which is wireless internet. If you have a wireless internet connection in your house, then your 
 set. If you dont, they aren't too much money ($20) and are easy to set up. Yet if you don't want 
 to be bothered with all that, just go to a local starbucks or anwhere else u know that supports 
 wireless internet connections and game on.
  
  Ok so theres 
  
  GP (Grand Prix)
  Missions (Which are very stupid and menial, but unlock cool stuff)
  Vs (you and a friend sitting 
 next to each other)
  Timebattle (Racing against the clock)
  Or internet (playing those kids in Japan is really tough)
  
  The weapons are the same as they 
 have been for decades, yet they still feel right at home
  
  Bananas
  Tracking shells
  Normal shells
  Stars (fast + invincibility)
  Mushrooms (speedbursts)
  Lightining (the coolest)
 
  
  and a few others
  
  So if you ever like sitting down and playing a fun game for hours and hours just to have fun and 
 not level up or really get anything out of it, then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  You can't deny it; Mario Kart is an exceptional series filled with well-done installments. The 
 games have such widespread appeal because they're polished and so darned accessible. As expected, 
 Mario Kart DS (the series' second portable outing) is another respectable effort from the men at 
 Nintendo.
  
  Unfortunately, MKDS throws the experimental (but interesting) two-man-to-a-kart feature from Double 
 Dash!! to the wind in favor of the traditional hop. Some people may not care, but that mechanic 
 was one of the best injections of fresh blood in the series. Other than that, the core gameplay 
 remains the same. You'll notice a few tweaks, such as an increased emphasis on "snaking" (performing 
 drift boost alternating left and right on a straightaway to increase speed) , new items like Bullet 
 Bills (which are something akin to auto-pilot Invincibility Stars) and Bloopers (which hamper a 
 driver's vision for a short period of time) , multiple karts for a character, and the use of the 
 touch screen (which provides helpful information such as an opponent's location on a course and 
 what items they're carrying) . Other than that, it's the same Mario Kart that you've come to know 
 and love. 
  
  MKDS also adds a few new gameplay modes to the mix. While most players will probably skip over 
 the half-baked "Mission Mode" (simply because you gain nothing from fully completing it) , surely 
 anyone with a working wireless connection will flock to the online modes. The interface is a bit 
 shoddy and the options are limited (then again, this was one of Nintendo's first attempts, so I 
 can let it slide) , but it's undeniable that there's fun to be had in testing your hand against 
 the world.
  
  The graphics are what you'd come to expect from the DS. While overall the game is on par with Super 
 Mario 64 DS (which isn't a bad thing) , some of the characters appear to be misshapen. Granted, 
 this only really comes into play on the character selection screen, so it shouldn't bother anyone 
 too much.
  
  The musical direction is good albeit familiar. There are a few exceptions, such as techno (the 
 unexpected but welcomed Waluigi Pinball) , colonial-style/classical (DK Pass) , and even soothing 
 beats made simply from the ticking of a clock (Tick Tock Clock, another one of the more innovative 
 tracks in MKDS) , but the majority of music, despite being nice to listen to in the heat of a race, 
 is too similar to what you've heard in the last four Mario Karts.
  
  Voice acting (as expected) is implemented in MKDS. It's a nice addition, but the sound quality 
 of the DS does cause some of the characters to sound a bit odd. 
  
  Old fashioned or not, you shouldn't pass up on MKDS. Another quality example of Nintendo greatness, 
 Mario Kart DS is a great way to sait your racing appetite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicrocks96
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  When I was at my vacation at Myrtle Beach, I bought Mario Kart, at first I 
  thought that Super Mario 64 DS was the best DS game yet, but when I 
  bought Mario Kart, the 
 tabels had turned! 
  
  What I like about Mario Kart is that you can choose up to 9 characters (I 
  already unlocked the 
 whole gang) , the items are always good (my favorite
  is Bullet Bill) , and the graphics are nice and colorful.
  
  And there is nothing bad about 
 the game.
  
  So thanks for reading! So my score is: editors choice 10: Perfect
  
  
  
  BOFS CXVN ROGSFJ GDHIKOLFB GFJIHKN GDOJSHL GOIDHKFJ FJGVKL GHFJ FDI KJGIDFJ FGISXHF FGSHJKU 
 FUHGU FNMJICKF
  FHGJIDXKN FJGLIK JXLGVIKC JIGPOFD JHGFIDPO JGHFIPO PSOR POFGXBJK JIGPOF PJIDFKGHB PGFJ PJGXVBOK 
 JVPF CXPFJVKOM POJGPFOBF DFGOIKN JGPO KG OGJIHN. GAMESPOT, GAMESPOT, GAMESPOT, GDHOOIB GHJHIGDO.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroGamer34233
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  If you don't have a Wi-Fi connection at home, get one. Then grab a copy of "Mario Kart DS" and 
 get ready to take on players from around the world in an all-out mad dash to the finish line! Online 
 capabilities will keep you playing for hours.
  
  Graphics - The majority of the game's graphics are close to being on-par with "Double Dash" for 
 the GCN. Of course, the return of classic tracks from all preceding MK releases means graphics 
 move down a bit when racing these.
  
  Sound - The sound quality matches that of "Double Dash." The in-race music is well-done once again, 
 and different characters have their own little sound bytes that come up in certain situations.
 
  
  Controls - Thankfully, the folks at Nintendo built this game to use the face and shoulder buttons 
 instead of the touch screen for control. Controls are easy to figure out.
  
  Gameplay - Once you complete the entire game and unlock everything imaginable, Wi-Fi online play 
 is a must. You can compete against players from around the world (a maximum of three others at 
 a time) . But despite the limited number of players, it's still a lot of fun to play other HUMANS, 
 especially if beating the computer has gotten way too easy. The only problem I've had with the 
 Wi-Fi in this game is sometimes I'm ahead on the map, and all of a sudden someone just "appears" 
 across the finish line before me, like my connection just caught up or something. But don't let 
 that shy you away, as it doesn't happen often.
  
  Overall - This is the best game I've played so far utilizing the DS' Wi-Fi capabilities. It's definitely 
 worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calee_ope
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  After 2 months, he's able to finish the 50cc races in the top 3, but he needs help with completing 
 most of the missions. Overall, it's still a little tough for him, but he's very competitive, so 
 that's part of what has him hooked. It also means that he won't grow out of it or get bored with 
 it anytime soon.
  
  This is a great game for car trips, doctor's office visits, or anything that needs a distraction 
 to keep kids fairly still & quiet for a while. It also worked well with keeping his cousins (who 
 range from 6-12 years old) occupied on a recent family outing. I was surprised at how universal 
 the appeal was, especially since his older cousins are into much more intense gaming. I thought 
 the older boys might think it was too catoony, but they were more absorbed with it than the 6-year 
 olds.
  
  I totally dig Mario Kart- it's fun and mildly addictive without being complicated. Having it on 
 a portable platform like the ds is wonderful! With the way the courses/cups are broken up, I can 
 easily complete little sections at a time if I'm stuck in a line somewhere without feeling like 
 I had to stop in the middle of something. It also means that if you're keeping an eye on several 
 kids at once, letting them share the game is easy, because you can either switch after each course, 
 cup, or mission... and if you have a second ds, two kids can play with ONE game cartridge (although 
 the second ds has to play as the "shy guy" character instead of one of the regular Mario characters) .
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drsaamah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The amount of time I have put into this game baffles me.
  If you've liked past Mario Kart games, you'll undoubtedly like this one. What will surprise you 
 is how much MORE you like it.
  This game features the classic Time Trials, 4-race Grand Prix, and Balloon Battle modes that you've 
 grown to love.
  In addition, the game now features a Missions mode, Retro tracks, and Shrine Runners mode. All 
 these features, new and old, support multiplayer modes through Download play (up to 8 players with 
 a single copy of the game) , local wireless, and online.
  The Missions are essentially challenges involving anything from racing another character, beating 
 a course in a certain time, or battling Boss characters from Mario 64 DS. Based on your performance 
 in completing these missions you get a ranking which will determine the unlocking (or lack thereof) 
 of other aspects of the game.
  The addition of Retro tracks to this game are a nice little dose of nostalgia for Mario Kart veterans, 
 or just new courses to players who may have missed past installments of this series. The courses 
 in the Retro Grand Prix come from every installment of the series thus far.
  The Shrine Runners version of battling is a nice bit of variation from the classic Balloon Battle. 
 Each battle is timed, during which the characters try to collect as many Shrines as possible before 
 time is expired. Shrines that have been collected by a player can be lost if hit by a shell or 
 other offensive power ups.
  In my personal experience, the online play was fairly impressive, but many disagree with me. To 
 be fair, I only played online on a few occasions, which brings me to my next point...
  You don't NEED to the multiplayer to completely LOVE this game. Mario Karts of the past have kept 
 us amused for no more than ten hours before we called our friends to gather around the SNES or 
 N64. This is no longer the case! The amount of unlockable characters, courses, and missions (keep 
 that in mind :D) will keep you busy for hours upon hours. When I picked up this game I had no idea 
 how much time I would be spending on it despite none of my friends owning NDS's. The single player 
 is great. I cannot stress this enough. Not only are they quite enjoyable, but the difficulty involved 
 in unlocking every bit of the game is just perfect.
  In addition to the game modes mentioned above, the graphics look amazing, the sound effects and 
 music are exactly what you would expect from a Mario game, and the game controls are very intuitive 
 and well designed.
  If you're a NDS owner who hasn't already played this game, you need to put it on the top of your 
 list. It's THAT good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pai-may
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart on the DS is one of those games that you can pick up and play whenever, or wherever 
 you find yourself. Every DS owner should have a copy of this game; it is that good and it is that 
 addictive.
  
  The cars drive well and the physics of the game engine are sound; light cars get bumped off track 
 easier, especially when hit by some of the heavier drivers out there such as Bowser or Donkey Kong. 
 
  
  The tracks are warmly embraced like old friends and even if you have never played the game before 
 you are going to have no trouble mastering most of them. Even the new tracks are reasonably different 
 from the old to justify their existence in the game.
  
  There are a series of cars for you to unlock as you progress through the single player mode, 50cc, 
 100cc and 150cc and by doing so you unlock more tracks for the multi player game. Most of the drivers 
 are fairly well balanced, though there are divers you will just never use, such as toad and peach, 
 unless you like their driving styles. Mario seems popular and drives really well, though Wario 
 is a bit weightier and is equally competitive.
  
  The game comes into its own in multi-player play though and is truly an awesome spectacle when 
 you have more than one additional friend hooked up for play. You can even design your own logos 
 for your cars and show them off to your friends. Multi-play does rely on you having worked your 
 way through single play and if you have unlocked Rob then you've pretty much mastered the game.
 
  
  I don't want to say many bad words about this game, for little bothers me. Blue shell is annoying 
 though there are ways of dodging it if you realise it is coming and there are ways of taking advantage 
 of its use by other racers.
  
  All in all a truly wicked title and once again Nintendo pulls it off. Better than Mario Kart on 
 the Gamecube, though I've not played the Wii version for a comparison.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has followed on its Mario Kart series and released the next installment on the DS and 
 is entitled: Mario Kart DS. Now, this installment uses the 2 screen feature on the DS beautifully 
 and while it doesn't use the touch screen or microphone much, it's hard to say what could be done 
 with it. But, by far Mario Kart DSs strongest point is that it introduces one of the greatest Mario 
 Kart modes ever: Mission Mode!
  
  I cannot stop saying how much I love Mission Mode, it's simply perfect. One thing this series lacked 
 was single player modes and Mission Mode is the exact thing this series needed. It's fun, challenging, 
 and a blast to play. Instead of actually racing, you get to complete unique objectives and there 
 are even bosses. I really like the bosses and overall, this mode is enough reason to buy this game. 
 I really hope to see it in newer installments.
  
  Another wonderful new installment to the series is Retro course. If you missed out on a Mario Kart, 
 you can actually race on some of the old ones, and it is really cool to see some of the old courses 
 return. It's great for Nostalgia too. However, some of the shortcuts from the original courses 
 were cut out which I really hate, but a few were left in, so it's okay.
  
  Of course, Mario Kart DS has what all the other installments have. Races, and races. New items 
 were added: The Blooper (very cool) , Boo (old item returning) , and the Bullet Bill (better version 
 of star, boring) . 
  
  Also, what's really cool is that the bottom screen can be used to see where the other racers are 
 and what items they have. This is awesome because it lets you see how far ahead you are and you 
 can see what your opponents are going to use. Not only that but dodging the blue shell is now possible 
 because all you have to do is slow down when you see someone get one! It's a really cool feature 
 and something for "hardcore gamers."
  
  Mario Kart DS also adds online to the Mario mix, but as many of you know, the online isn't that 
 good, and there are multiple hackers, so I don't play it online anymore.
  
  With the added features, Mission Mode, Retro Tracks, and the usual Mario goodness, is there anything 
 wrong with this game? Well, the online for one. The character selection is very poor. Only 12 characters, 
 and 1 of them isn't even a Mario character (O_o) . Also I found the Bowsers Castle and Rainbow Road 
 stages to be disappointing, and those are stages I always look forward too.
  
  The multiplayer also works great because it is single pack compatible. The sound is very good too. 
 I like the music for some of them. The graphics are a bit lacking. I didn't like that the items 
 and some hazards were sprites. I would've rather had full 3D models.
  
  To sum things up, Mario Kart DS introduces 2 of the greatest Mario Kart additions ever (Mission 
 Mode and Retro Tracks) , it uses the second screen well and makes dodging the blue shell easier, 
 and is just a blast to play. While it has many complaints (online, characters, etc.) , with these 
 great new additions that makes the series so much better, it's hard to not like this game. One 
 of the best DS games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is an incredible racer on the DS thats great fun. The graphics are great for a DS 
 game, and theres plenty of content to keep you busy for a while.
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay: There are eight racers to a track and you race and use weapons to try to stop each other. 
 The game has a suprisingly good amount of content for a racer on the DS, icluding 12 racers, over 
 30 karts, 8 cups, mission mode, wifi connectivity, 4 types of racing mode, wireless as well as 
 DS download play. The tracks in this game are really good, and also the retro tracks are superb 
 as well. Mission mode is really fun, including bosses all from the Super Mario 64 DS. The battle 
 options are fun, I really like shine runners. The battle tracks are great as well. The wifi can 
 be really glitchy at times, and you'll be frequently come across hackers that use these glitches 
 to there advantage and find glitched out shortcuts to win every time. The DS download fearture 
 couldve been better, but its still good.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics: The animations of the characters are very fluid and fun to looks at. The levels as well 
 as the obstacles are superb and feel like double dash graphics. 
  
  
  
  
  Sound: The sound is great. Luv the music as well as the SE's.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: Wireless 
 play is basicly playing through every mode with a friend except mission mode. In Download play, 
 the other player plays as a Shy Guy and the gameplay modes are limited.
  
  
  
  
  
  Unlockables and Extra Content: So so, there arent a lot of racers as I'd hoped, but still a good 
 amount. There are levels to unlock, but those are really easy. The time trial mode has staff times, 
 which is kinda cool. Its a shame that theres no downloadable content, but we kinda expected that, 
 because Nintendo's not that cool.
  
  
  
  
  Replay Value: High
  
  
  
  
  Final Comments: A great game to any DS owner's library, and they still sell it even though it was 
 released three years ago, and the price hasnt even dropped, so obviousely its a great game. Check 
 it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_F0X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Simply the best Mario Kart ever. Cool and inovative courses, interesting characters and many types 
 of karts make Mario Kart DS one of the best racing games of all time.
  The courses are long and challenging and, in addiction, you can play some courses from previous 
 Mario Kart games.
  All the classic characters are back, each one with 2 karts: a exclusive one and the classic standard 
 kart, and all of them have their own attributes.
  The game modes goes from the classic GP mode to battle and mission, that will require time and 
 skill to complete.
  On top of that, is the amazing online option, via wireless, that simply boosts the fun. More than 
 any other, this game is made to play online, with people from all over the world.
  Mario Kart DS is a challeging game, innovative yet loyal to his tested & trusted formula and, even 
 if you don't play online, via wireless, this is a game you should not miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 92602_448
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a fun game. Multiplayer is cool. The only bad thing is that it gets boring after 
 you finish 150 mirror CC because there is not much left to do after that. You finish the missions 
 and there is even less. The computers soon start bumping into the walls and throw themselves off 
 the roads even on the hard mode. The good thing is that you can watch computers blowing baloons 
 at the edge of a cliff and you can push them off. (: Overall, it is fun, but gets boring after you 
 beat it. It still is a nice game with the features. j jj j j j j j j j j jj jj j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j jj j j j j j j j j j j j j j jj j j j j j j j j jj j j j j j j jj j 
 j j j j j j j j j jj j j j j j j jj j j j jj j jjj jj j j jj j j j j j j jj j jj j j j jj j j j 
 j j j jj j j j jj j j j jj j j jj j j jj jj j j j jj j j j j j jj jj jj j jj j j j jj j j j j j 
 jj jjj j jj j j jj j j j jj j j j j jj j jj j j jj j j j j j j j j jj j j jj j j j j j jj j j jj 
 j j j j j j j j j j j jj j j j j j jj j j j j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zobi123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  *Amazing Grand Pix modes
  *Unlockable Karts and characters
  *Fun but not to impossable Missions
  *It has all new tracks/cups just for MKDS and the retro 
 tracks/cups you loves and grew up with
  *Cool 8 man battle mode with teams or no teams
  *The time trail mode couldnt be better with staff ghosts, your own ghosts, and you can download your 
 friends ghosts
  *The Multiplayer is very intense, when you sneak by your friend at the last minutes you will be 
 cheering and your friend will be crusing
  *the best in the mario kart series in my opinion
  *Great multiplayer options
  *Never gets old
  *tons of replay value
  
  
  The BAD:
  There 
 are pretty much no bad sides to this game unless cause this game costs like 45 bux.
  
  anyways that concludes my review for mario kart ds.
  THANKS FOR READING 
 
  
  MARIO KART DS you GOTTA LOVE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  GET IT NOW IF U DONT HAV IT!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  ________If you own a Nintendo DS then this is a must have. Not only is this one of the best racing 
 games you can get for the DS, but this is also one of THE best games on the DS, period. This game 
 has 32 tracks to race on, some new tracks and others are tracks taken from other Mario Kart games 
 like Baby Park from Mario Kart Double Dash and even some tracks from the SNES version of Mario 
 Kart. You can get up to 12 characters to choose from, some of the characters being R. O. B. and Dry 
 Bones. Grand Prix is the main bulk of the game with 4 different modes; 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and 
 150cc mirror mode. As you beat the different modes you unlock new things like characters and karts. 
 This mario kart has some cool little extras along with its racing that makes this game have great 
 replayability. In single player mode there are missions you can do in this game. These don't unlock 
 any extras or anything like that, but are just fun to play. All they do is give you different tasks 
 to do from going through gates in a limited time to racing the huge catipillar Wiggler. Another 
 extra is you can create an emblem to put on your kart, just a picture you draw will be placed somewhere 
 on your kart, depending on which kart you use. There is also battle mode and a new mode called 
 shine runners where you collect as many shines as you can before anybody else. Now for the multiplayer 
 portion. This is where than game can get very exciting if you have up to seven other friends with 
 DSs. When playing with other friends wirelessly you can have up to seven, the only drawback is 
 if they don't own a copy of Mario Kart than you can't use all the tracks, also only one person 
 will be able to chose a character while everybody else will have to use shy guys as characters. 
 Being a shy guy doesn't hurt the other players because shy guy is a pretty fast character. If everybody 
 does have Mario Kart though, then everybody can chose their own character and all the tracks are 
 availiable to race on. In Wi-Fi mode you can race four people considering their are four other 
 people playing Wi-Fi, sometimes you will only get one or two other people to race. Unfortuately 
 their are some drawbacks to Wi-Fi. First of all you can't race on all the tracks in Wi-Fi mode, 
 but there are a good number of them. Another is sometimes just waiting for the game to find three 
 other opponents can take a couple of minutes and get kind of annoying. Finally, just the some of 
 the players themselves can be annoying because they will quit on you if your winning, but that 
 is just something you have to expect when it comes to Wi-Fi. If you got really good ranks on all 
 your races in single player mode and also on missions mode like one, two, or three stars then that 
 will show up above your character. You have to have at least one star on every race and mission 
 for this to work. You can check to see if you have stars by going to records on the main screen. 
 Stars don't make you any faster, they are just a status to show other players how good you are. 
 In Wi-Fi you have four modes; worldwid, regional, rivals, and friends. Worldwide just lets you 
 race pretty much anybody, regional just lets you race people in your region, pretty obvious. Rivals 
 is a little different from worldwide and regional because unlike the latter two modes where you 
 race random people, rivals has you racing people that are really good, usually two or three star 
 people. Friends is just where you can race your buddies over Wi-Fi considering you have their friend 
 code and they have yours. That it for Wi-Fi, I only wish Nintendo had put battle and shine runners 
 on Wi-Fi. So all in all Mario Kart DS is a great game that can keep you playing for hours on end. 
 If you have Wi-Fi you could play even longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevewins1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great addition to the whole Mario Kart series and I think that it's one of the best. 
 I enjoyed this game a lot and I definitely got what I paid for. Not only is this game single player, 
 but multi player too. Single card, multi card, and Wi-Fi are all available on this game so whether 
 or not your friends have it, they'll still be able to appreciate the fun that this provides. However, 
 on Wi-Fi, there isn't as much detail as there is with multi/single card download play. When people 
 power slide, you can see the flames and there are other minor details left out but that's okay 
 with me. Also, another down point about Wi-Fi is that when you are seeking opponents, it takes 
 a while for them to show up and the game always tries to find 3 other people besides you. If there 
 aren't 3 other people that show up in a certain amount of time, the game will automatically start 
 with the number of people that you have. However, the game waits a long time before deciding to 
 start the races so you may spend a while just seeking opponents. Another bad point is that if you're 
 playing against a sore loser, they'll just power off when they start to lose and you'll have to 
 search for opponents once again. This isn't really the game's fault but rather the humans that 
 are playing it. If you're playing against someone who doesn't care if they win or lose, you'll 
 have a much better time playing. I believe that Wi-Fi is the game's largest con.
  
  In single player, there are many different modes: Grand Prix, Missions, Battle, VS, and Time Trial. 
 In Grand Prix, you compete in 4 races that are grouped together. The better you place in each race, 
 the more points that you'll earn. At the end of all the races, the person that has the most points 
 wins the Grand Prix and they get a trophy!
  
  In Missions, you go through levels and try to beat different missions that range from racing as 
 fast as you can, to blowing up big bosses! There are fun challenges for everyone.
  
  In Battle, you can play balloon battle or shine runners. In balloon battle, you can blow up balloons 
 on your kart and then try to use items to hit other people's karts. When you get hit, you lose 
 a balloon. If you lose all your balloons, you lose the game. In shine runners, shine sprites appear 
 around the course and you have to pick them up. If you can't find any, you can always use an item, 
 hit another person, and then steal theirs!
  
  In VS, you play against the computers in single races. You can pick your kart, character, and the 
 course. Try to be first! There are 32 courses in total. 16 of them are especially for the DS version 
 and the other 16 are from versions from GBA, NES, SNES, and GC. Now you can enjoy all of your favourite 
 races from the past on this one version!
  
  Finally, in Time Trial, you have to try and race your fastest. Can you beat your previous record? 
 They also give you the option to save your ghost which is basically just saving everything you 
 did in that time trial. You can then load your ghost and try to beat it when racing again. If you 
 set a certain time, you can earn staff ghost data and try to beat Nintendo staff records! Can you 
 do that?
  
  That's the game play and I'd have to say that I was impressed by it.
  Game play: 9/10
  
  The next thing that I'd like to cover are the graphics. For sure, the graphics 
 aren't as great as the GameCube version but this isn't a console! The graphics are great for the 
 DS and I don't think that they could be any better unless it was for the GameCube itself!
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The music and sound effects were great too. I loved the music that was at 
 the beginning of the game and I always had the racing music stuck in my head! As for the sound 
 effects, they were also great. You could hear the sound of the cars engines and you could hear 
 items being fired. There are also sounds whenever the car crashes or items hit the car. If you 
 drive into a banana peel, you will hear the characters talk sounding disappointed. Also, whenever 
 you pass someone, your character will make a sound or remark showing that they're happy.
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Replayability: This is a game that you can just keep playing over and over and 
 over again. It doesn't ever really get boring. If you ever want a tough challenge, go on Wi-Fi. 
 There's always people who are extremely good out there.
  
  So my final recommendation would be to definitely get this game. It costs about 35 US dollars but 
 it's well worth it. If you get it as a gift, don't give it away. It's an awesome game and it lives 
 true to its reputation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Introduction: This game came out in 2005, with lag-free WiFi and in my opinion, graphic's and gameplay 
 that are ahead of it's time.
  
  Concept: It's a racing game, the gameplay is a little bit different from Mario Kart Double Dash!!, 
 where in this game, you ride the kart with one character, where as in Double Dash!! you can use 
 two character's on one kart, anyway, the gameplay is really addictive and fun + with lag-free WiFi, 
 you can have races with any one over the world and you can play with up to 8 people and it never 
 really get's boring.
  
  9/10
  
  Graphics: Very similar to N64 graphics, and this came out in 2005 and it has graphics that are 
 better than most DS games, and it came out in 2005 and it's really good actually, I don't what 
 more I can say about it.
  
  9/10
  
  Story: It's a racing game, so it doesn't really have a story.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Good Aspect: Fun gameplay, Wifi matches that are lag-free and addictive.
  
  Bad Aspect: The game doesn't have a lot of characters and it doesn't have a lot of Kart's, every 
 character has a standard kart and a specific kart for the character and it differ's between character's, 
 but since this is on a handheld, I won't take a lot of point's from the game.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: If you like racing games, 
 get it, if you like Mario, get it, and honestly, If you like having WiFi matches, buy the game, 
 It's one of the best games on the DS.
  
  and I give this game a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  Having played several older Mario Kart games this game lured me with everything that made the previous 
 ones so fun to play. Mario Kart DS offers all your favorite Mario Stars and some more characters 
 you may unlock within progress. To that it delivers a few game modes including a mission mode and 
 a party mode. The party mode and therefore the overall multiplayer is great. You will have to blow 
 in the mic to create balloons which you may not lose but you will have to burst the ones of your 
 enemy. However, you will find yourself playing this game to unlock new race circuits and several 
 new characters at the beginning. So this will keep you busy the first few playing hours. 
  Anyways, besides the characters and race courses you may get some are already available at start. 
 
  The graphics are good and smooth in movement. Overall they are very colourful and its just 
 the typical Mario Kart visual design. Furthermore the game makes good use of both DS screens. The 
 upper screen shows the race while the lower screen reveals a map of the race course. To that you 
 will see traps, bananas and so on which is quite helpful to prepare for.
  
  You wont have any problems getting into the game as you willlearn it in about 10-15 min. 
 which isnt very much. However the game will become better as you proceed.
  Mario Kart DS offers some really good features like online play where you might play with anyone 
 around the globe. But one of the best features is that you may play with up to 8 gamers, having 
 only one DS card.
  Apart from some circuits you know from the N64, Gamecube or SNES there are several new courses.
 
  Overall Mario Kart DS delivers the typical Mario Kart feeling. Itsquite possibly the best 
 Mario Kart plus you may enjoy it on the go. Its easy getting started and you wont 
 regret buying it as it is rather cheap now. Thus I recommend it to everyone, Mario fan or not; as 
 it is still one of the best DS games and has high replay value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Good Stuff:
  .The best tracks in a Mario kart game.
  .A large range of karts to choose from.
  .Each character has their own specific karts.
  .Online (even 
 though it doesn't let me connect =) )
  .Classic stages.
  .Missions with bosses.
  .Nice CPU players.
  
  Bad Stuff:
  .Hard to connect online.
  .You'll get hit by LOADS of 
 blue shells.
  
  Mario kart once again reigns over all other racing games and this is my best DS game.
  
  I'll 
 get over with two flaws first. It's really hard to connect online like I always am trying to get 
 my DS online but it never works and I think most people experience this connection problem.
  
  Although it's still an awesome game, it just feels like a big chunk of it is ripped out if 
 you have problems connecting online.
  
  The next flaw is that you'll get hit by a load of items by your opponments but it's nowhere near 
 as bad as Mario kart wii and I guess it's to be expected.
  
  Now with the two main flaws of this game over with, I'll go on about the good things in this game.
 
  
  The stages are by quite a long shot the best I've seen in a Mario kart game or any racing game. 
 There really great and imaginative like the flying forteress and that's just one example so bravo 
 to whoever made the designs for them!
  
  unlike other Mario kart games, There are quite a large range of karts to choose from with all sorts 
 of different stats and whacky designs. Each character has their own specfic karts too.
  
  Missions are a welcome addition to Mario kart and they should be used in other Mario kart games 
 or any other racing games. You have to complete specific objectives in different racing and battle 
 stages. Once you've completed all the missions in that world, you'll have to face a boss that is 
 beaten by an very imaginative way.
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: Could of been better, but their still some of the best on the DS! 9/10
  
  Story: 
 like most Mario kart games, it doesn't have one. N/A
  
  Sound&Music: The music's some of the best on a DS game and the sound is great too. 9.5/10
  
 
  Gameplay: Like other Mario kart games, but with better battle modes, missions, a large range of 
 karts and awesome stages, well... it's pretty much perfect! 10/10
  
  Overall: The best DS game on the shelves so far, and reccommened for any Mario game or racing game 
 fan! 9.5/10
  
  P. S: Important note: use that blue shell!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keifyninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  When I got Mario Kart DS, it was everything I expected in the series. Great selection of old and 
 new tracks, crazy powerups, and addictive multiplayer. It also has interesting things such a missions, 
 which is a series of small challenges that provide a fun distraction from regular races. The most 
 exciting thing about Mario Kart is multiplayer over wifi connection, which is fairly smooth during 
 races but sometimes has the hiccups when you connect to others. There isn't much to say about this 
 game that people don't know already. If you haven't picked this game up you should. It's a great 
 buy for children and adults alike, and it has a decent novelty in which you can design a logo for 
 online play. In conclusion, this is a great entry in the series (the best since the original I 
 think) and is overall fun to play even if the wifi is a little iffy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerJM
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  In 2005, the DS was in serious need of a killer-app for the hardcore gamers. That's not to say 
 that there weren't good games, and casual gamers had already had their killer-app. But the DS was 
 missing "the" game that defined the console that made people want to buy the DS just to play it. 
 Enter Mario Kart DS, the launch game for Nintendo's Wi-Fi service. With features that evolved the 
 series greatly, even on a handheld front, the game seemed promising. But when it came out, it exceeded 
 most people's expectation. I wasn't sure at first (after all, the previous handheld entry in the 
 series was mediocre at best) but after hearing good things about it, I decided to get it. Later, 
 I found out how great the game was. 
  
  Mario Kart DS is a racing game in the infamous Mario Kart racing series. It's a kart-racing game 
 with all of Mario and friends. You use items to slow down the other players. It plays just like 
 any other game in the series. You accelerate, to use items, and when you become more advanced at 
 the game, you start turbo-drifting. The item mechanic (one of the things that set it apart from 
 other games in the genre) basically has you using items to either slow down other players, or to 
 speed you up. In order to unlock everything, you must win every cup (the different tiers of racing 
 courses) on all four difficulty levels. There are also a few other modes. Battle relies solely 
 on the item mechanic, in which you throw items at the other players. Each has three balloons, and 
 the items knock the balloons off. The last one surviving wins. There are several variations of 
 the main mode. One is time trial, which has you trying to beat your own times, and it involves 
 no other racers or items. It's just pure racing. There's multiplayer, which has you racing against 
 your friends. There's online, which has you racing against strangers. There's mission mode, which 
 sends you on random mission that often involve collecting coins on different course situations. 
 
  
  So what sets Mario Kart DS apart for other similar games? What makes it so fun? Well, first of 
 all, the courses are some of the most creative I have ever seen in a racing game. Let's take Yoshi's 
 falls, for example. The course is built mainly along one big turn, so you can turbo-boost throughout 
 the whole thing. There are two ways to "roads" of sorts, to ride it. (Although they're really close 
 to each other, so they're not really "roads") The bottom road is the fastest, but it occasionally 
 gets cut off by water, which means that you'll have to be constantly have to go to the top path. 
 This eliminates the  strategy if you take that path, but the top 
 path is slightly longer. The stage itself is designed very well, and this is just portion of the 
 creativity contained in the games courses. Even the generic courses feel very well designed, as 
 the turns and such make perfect sense, and just the length of each course makes sense. The "regulars" 
 courses that are always in each game (rainbow road) are at their best this time around, and the 
 improvements over the previous versions make a big difference. Rainbow road is no longer an annoying 
 course that you're constantly dying on. These amazing, new, original courses in Mario Kart DS are 
 only half of the courses in the game. There are also sets of courses from previous games. While 
 I know many will argue with me on this point, but I think that Nintendo's selection on the retro 
 courses was ace. From Moo Moo Farms to several SNES courses, the older course course selections 
 were very smart and varied. Also, the courses were changed graphically, but they weren't at all 
 tampered with. The SNES and GBA courses got a graphical upgrade, and nothing changed. The courses 
 from Mario Kart: Double Dash! Are completely changed graphically to fit the DS, but the courses 
 themselves are exactly the same. This is a great achievement in the field of emulation, and it's 
 rare that stages are changed graphically, and the stages themselves are left unchanged. Overall, 
 the courses in the game are insanely good.
  
  Another thing that makes Mario Kart DS stand out is its Kart system. This continues the Kart system 
 from Mario Kart: Double Dash for the Nintendo Gamecube, in which there are three tiers of Karts 
 and characters: Light, Medium, and Heavy. Each character had one kart to use, but any character 
 could use any character's Kart, as long as they were in the same weight tier as the character. 
 While this may sound confusing, it was simple, and it added depth and strategy to the game. When 
 you start up Mario Kart DS, the amount of Karts each character has is two, but the system in which 
 you can use a Kart from any character of that tier is not in this addition. However, as you progress 
 through the game, one of the things that you unlock allows you to use the karts of ANY character, 
 no matter their tier. This adds a ton of depth to the game, and you can spend hours and hours just 
 trying out different character-to-kart combinations. 
  
  Mario Kart DS is also the first game created by Nintendo (period) to feature and robust online 
 mode that continues to be supported for years. In terms of online, the game is great. The game 
 ranks you amongst your fellow players with a very user-friendly and simple interface. The regional 
 mode has you kart racing against people in your regional area, while the worldwide mode has you 
 racing against people from all over the world. Rivals have you racing against people as good as 
 you are. Friend mode allows you to race against people you know in real life using the game's friend 
 code feature. While I know several people will disagree with me here also, I think friend codes 
 are great. They prevent child predators from finding out any information about you, and are simple 
 and quick. Slow-down online is very infrequent. Overall, the online is very robust and fun.
  
  There are several other gameplay mechanics that I love. The characters are varied and robust, 
 the amount of depth in the game is huge, the interface works perfectly, the amount of unlockables 
 is huge, and the learning curve is perfect. The list goes on and on. There are a few other things 
 that I don't have time to mention. My main point is that the game had a very high level of polish 
 and depth.
  
  In terms of graphics, the game truly shows off what the DS game do. Mario Kart DS features full 
 3-D polygons on the DS. While now, several DS games have pulled that off in 2005 it was quite a 
 feat. Even now, the game still holds up graphically. Compared to some games on the PSP, it doesn't 
 look quite as good, but overall, the game looks great. There's not one example that I can really 
 use to describe the graphics. Rather, it's the game overall that looks good. The game can handle 
 several things going on-screen at once, and all of the characters together look good.
  
  The music and sound are both pretty good. While they're not things that I would describe as "great" 
 they're still both pretty good. The music is pretty catchy. The game carries on some of the whistles 
 of double dash are back. The game's music is hard to describe, but it's just kind of catchy. But 
 if you've played Mario Kart before, it's basically what you'd expect. Rainbow Road is still Rainbow 
 Road (and it's a road that we're all gunna go... when we die) , Mario circuit is still Mario circuit. 
 The toons are still very similar to those of the Mario Kart games before it, but they're still 
 good and catchy. Similarly, the sound is familiar. It's basically the same "it's a me, Mario" that 
 you've been hearing for the past decade. All of the voices, noises, and sounds just feel directly 
 taken from Mario games that have been coming out for the last few years. While they weren't that 
 good in the first place, it certainly won't hinder your enjoyment with the game in the least.
 
  
  However, pretty much everything has its share of flaws, and Mario Kart DS has its own share. The 
 mission mode, while is a good concept, fails in the end. All of the missions are either too hard 
 or too easy, so no one can really enjoy them. This is a shame, but the missions had potential. 
 The main mode is also way too easy. The AI just isn't good enough, and it feels poor overall. While 
 these flaws do hinder your enjoyment with Mario Kart DS, they are both pretty minor, and don't 
 hamper your overall enjoyment with the game.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is a great game. It's rare that the handheld version of a game actually 
 exceeds the console version of games, but that's exactly what Mario Kart DS does. It improves the 
 console version of Mario Kart. It's currently the best version of Mario Kart available (including 
 the Wii version of Mario Kart) . It's surely the DS's killer-app, and it does not disappoint at 
 all.
  
  True overall score: 9
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sodney
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Mario kart is a great series of racing games for nintendo platforms. It is weird that the ds version 
 is the best of them all.
  
  The sound is great, the music is typical mario style and the graphics are some of the best for 
 the ds.
  
  The game has no special story, the objective of the game is to win all the series. 50cc, 100cc, 
 150cc and mirror. After that you can try out a nice selection of challenging missions.
  
  The gameplay is amazing. The game is fun from start to finish and the game has a lot of funny weapons 
 and karts. There is also a lot of characters from the nintendo universe in the game, like in all 
 the other mario kart games.
  
  This game has great value. The grand prix races takes a while to race through and the missions 
 are challenging but the real fun is playing wi-fi. The game has 32 tracks, which is more than any 
 other mario kart game as far as I know.
  
  Overall, this game is great and is a must buy for any ds owner. I think this is the best game for 
 the nintendo ds and it should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrbly07
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  MKDS has plenty to do: from the usualy CC's with easy-mirror modes, and newly added missions which 
 can be quite a challenge. 
  
  After a few weeks when you've beaten the game and unlocked all characters, you can move onto the 
 best part! WIFI! Play with anyone around the world, some people will amaze you at how good they 
 are and make you want to be better! It's fun to just race and keep track of your wins/losses. It's 
 also fun to read people's icons! 
  
  The gameplay is smooth!!! The characters are a little unbalanced as usual, but that's nothing to 
 fret about. The graphics are the best on the ds, you might even mistake it for a GC version, maybe! 
 :P The sound is great, that classic mario feel. 
  
  The bottom screen serves as a map, there really isn't much they could've done with it. 
  
  
 Learning to dash will be hard, but once you do so racing will get a lot more interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nolythegoly
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome to all mario kart fans, in my poinion its is the best mario kart made , if 
 u have a DS this should be the first game u buy, and wifi is a blast to play.. it has a new feature 
 missions which is fun to play, u have blaaon battle and shine runners which will never get old, 
 and ofcourse u got ur grand prix 500, 100, 150 CC and mirror mode, also something else new a brand 
 new character r. o. b ( robot operating buddy) which is awesome to be but don't expect him to blast 
 off at the beginning as his accelration is not the best.. i diifently rate this game a 10\10 and 
 recommended it to all Ds users oh and wifi u will need a wireless router which is around 20$ or 
 u can see if u have a access point around your house, after having that wifi is a blast and if 
 u dont have it u can use dowload play were u can add more human players to the race but you will 
 need eigth Ds's around ur neighbourhood and you will probably will have to be 35 ft apart to play.. 
 i hope u enjoyed my review on mario Kart DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3g0dfath3r
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  *Amazing Grand Pix modes
  *Unlockable Karts and characters
  *Fun but not to impossable Missions
  *It has all new tracks/cups just for MKDS and the retro 
 tracks/cups you loves and grew up with
  *Cool 8 man battle mode with teams or no teams
  *The time trail mode couldnt be better with staff ghosts, your own ghosts, and you can download your 
 friends ghosts
  *The Mulitplayer is very intense, when you sneak by your friend at the last minutes you will be 
 cheering and your friend will be crusing
  
  The BAD:
  *its pretty expensive to buy new form stores so buy it used form a friend, store, or on the internet 
 or something. worse comes to worse pay the $49.99 new or what ever it is.
  
  anyways that concludes my review for mario kart ds.
  THANKS FOR READING 
 
  
  MARIO KART DS GOTTA LOVE IT IF YOU DONT THEN YOU CAN GET THE FUDGE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo4ever25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a Ds version of the popular Mario Kart series. (Mario kart 64, Mario Kart super 
 circuit, Mario Kart Double Dash, Mario Kart Ds, and Mario kart wii, in chronological order) . It 
 is also the best in my opinion because it is strong all around. The WI-Fi never gets old, it introduces 
 clever challenges using your kart to run over koopas and other various minigames. My only complaint 
 is the single player mode, because once you beat it it gets old. You can also unlock some famous 
 characters from Nintendo's history and an extra Kart for each character. This is a great game for 
 hardcore gamers and casual alike. And the The Wi-Fi never gets repetitive or boring. Even though 
 it is still around $30, it is well worth the money, getting the most bang for your buck. Any DS 
 collection cannot be complete without Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThorSkaagi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I bought Mario Kart DS and I had pretty high expectations for it. Well, those expectations were 
 not high enough. 
  The game translated near perfectly to the DS. The gameplay is very smooth, almost never suffers 
 from frame rate problems, and looks great. Aside from Mario Kart Wii, this is the best looking 
 MK game, even beating out Mario Kart 64. 
  There are a lot of characters to choose from, each with unique attributes, as well as a variety 
 of vehicles for each. The tracks are really impressive, also. It has all-new tracks, as well as 
 old tracks borrowed from the GBA version, the GameCube, and the NES version, including fan favorite 
 Rainbow Road.
  There are three classes also - 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc, obviously the difficulty raising with each 
 one. 
  And, of course, Mario Kart wouldn't be Mario Kart without power-ups. No new ones here, I don't 
 think.
  The controls are conventional - you turn with the D-pad etc. You do not really use the touch screen. 
 The map is on the bottom screen, and you drive from the top.
  This is the best game for the DS to date, and it definitely deserves a 10, out of 10.
  
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigblaze16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Playing with friends is a blast and the wifi runs very smoothly. The mission mode is bizzare and 
 seems almost pointless but its a nice distraction some times. One thing i didnt like was that the 
 game kept its gameplay like the originals and left behind the two character per kart system in 
 its gamecube version, which is a shame because i really liked it. But those are relatively small 
 complaints. Battle mode is my favorite and i could just do balloon battles all day. Theres lots 
 of unlockable karts and characters, including one that really surprised me. Theres tons of stuff 
 to keep you busy and plenty of fan service. If you have a DS you NEED this game!! I dont know many 
 people without it. If you see it at gamestop or somewhere for cheap then pick it up for sure. You 
 wont regret it!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masacur007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of those games that's near perfect. Not only is the kart racing awesome with 
 many unlockable characters like Waluigi or Dry Bones, it has lots of other stuff to do once you 
 beat the grand prix. You can try to beat your fastest time on any course in time trials by saving 
 a ghost, complete 54 missions with cool boss battles at the end, or even battle your friends over 
 wi-fi or multi-player. You can also do balloon battles, which is when you try to have the most 
 balloons by stealing others' balloons or using shells or bananas to make foes lose balloons. You 
 can also do shine runners which is when you try to get all the shines possible The bad thing about 
 Mario Kart is that some of the missions, like hitting those stupid moles with green shells are 
 very frustrating becuase you have to time your shots correctly or drive through gates that are 
 randomly placed on the map. They make you put down your DS and go play Xbox Live or go for a bike 
 ride. Besides those few irritaiting mssions that spoil the fun game, Mario Kart DS is an incredibly 
 fun game to do overall, even once you have unlocked everything and basically know the game like 
 the back of your hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a great game in every way and is an improvement from the past Mario Karts. Mario 
 Kart is easy to learn and is created for many types of gamers. The Wifi support is just what the 
 DS needs! Racing with people within your own region and even worldwide packs in the most difficult 
 races you will ever experience! Mario Kart is loaded with newer and older tracks and the character 
 selection is just right! Everything is pieced together well to make this game highly addictive. 
 I give Mario Kart DS an 8.5 because there are a couple of things that could of been done to maximize 
 gameplay. You can't race on all the tracks online, which sucks by the way, and mission mode is 
 completely pointless when you can really have something else better, like competitions. You can 
 only race up to 4 players when you should be able to really race against 8 on a wifi connection. 
 Despite of the minor shortcomings that Mario Kart DS has, it's a game that will certainly be remembered 
 by Mario Kart fans everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDDZX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  In Mario Kart DS you play as mario and co. You can choose all your favorite mario stars from mario, yoshi, dk 
 and peach with a more to unlock as you play through the game modes. There are mission mode and party 
 modes for those who are great at the overall races. In mission mode you can find yourself doing 
 tasks you would not normally do in a driving game. as for party mode you can use the DS mic to 
 blow balloons and play battle modes with your friends.
  
  The game makes good use of the top and bottom DS screens allowing you to view the race at the top 
 and see the map at the bottom. Though the bottom screen is somewhat useless its still able to atleast 
 show you were traps and bananas are. You can also use the bottom screen to view key components in 
 the game.
  
  Learning to play this game is fun and easy and takes only about 5-10 minutes and is really fun 
 to start off with and only gets better as you play further into the game.
  
  The game offers online play with anyone around the world as well as the ability to collect your 
 friends friend code and play with them online. The DS also allows you to play with 8 friends on 
 one cartridge and it is a really good feature to have when some friends dont have the game. 
  
  The game offers new maps as well as ones from the SNES, N64 and Gamecube. All the maps are 
 fun and easy to draw through with the usual near turns and what not you expect from Mario Kart.
 
  
  Well thats the end of my review. Be sure to check out Mario Kart DS, it has good replay value and 
 can be bought for about 20-30 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The only other karting I've was Crash Team Racing back on the PS1, but with Mario Kart on DS it 
 brings me back alot of memories when I was younger. Mario Kart is a simple racing game for anyone 
 at any age and is highly addictive game for anybody.
  There's not really much of a story to Mario Kart you are just racing other drivers and winning 
 what ever cup is in the game like Mushroom cup you can choose from many Mario Charcters like Luigi, 
 Wario, Donkey Kong or Bowser and of course everyone's favourite Mario.
  
  Gameplay=Basic gameplay where you choose your charcter and kart, controls you've got your basic 
 controls accelerate, brakes, throw or use item or powerslide while jumping and turning around sharp 
 turns around tracks. There are 8 Grand Prix races each one has 4 tracks you can chooseNitro Grand 
 Prix or Retro Grand Prix where you cna race through old tracks from the old games from SNES, N64, GBA 
 and Cube version. There are missions where you can do certain task's or missions there are bosses 
 as well that you can race or defeat. There is also basic Time Trail where you can race around tracks 
 and get a low time on each track and racing your's or other Ghost's.
  
  Graphics and Sound= Like other Kart games there always cartooney and not next gen like you would 
 see on PS3 or 360 at the moment. The game does feel like a retreo game with many details, there 
 are remakes or certain tracks from the SNES, N64, GBA and Cube versions of Mario Kart with full 
 3D enviroments all poured into one handheld game. Mari Kart does feels almost as CTR was back in 
 the late 90's on Playstation 1 but yep CTR did get its idea from Mario Kart series. Obiously you 
 have got your bacis voicing for most charcters like hearing Mario's whoo hoo sound or Wario's laugh, 
 music in the game is good to listen either its old or new to hear.
  
  Overall= Mario Kart has a really strong multiplayer with useing Wi-Fi connection where you can 
 race your friends and race other players around the world and it is simply enjoyable with tons 
 of things to do. Most people will be coming back to Mario Kart over and over again no wonder it's 
 still popluar at the moment world wide on DS. You can choose what difficulty you would want it 
 want 50cc is easy and the hardest is 150cc where you'll be in for a real challenge if you don; t 
 want to play online with other gamers. There are many things to unlock including charcters and 
 karts to choose from the more you do, the more faster you get if you play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Impressive graphics on a handheld; fun, catchy music; controls that are easy to pick 
 up but have plenty of little tricks to them; tons of items to blast at enemies; a lot of 'karts' 
 to choose from; tons of tracks, including lots of classics; awesome multiplayer; Wi-Fi is incorporated; 
 the new mission mode.
  
  The Bad: There's a reasonable number of characters, but not a ton; single card multiplayer makes 
 your partners use Shy Guys; snaking can kill the Wi-Fi experience for you; you may have to pay 
 $30 for a Wi-Fi USB connector.
  
  The DS was released at the end of 2004, making it the first next gen platform to arrive. After 
 the PSP's 2005 release shortly afterward, the handhelds had a battle over sales and who could produce 
 high quality games earlier.
  
  DS managed to sell better in its first year, though the PSP was also at a higher price, leveling 
 the playing field. DS brought in customers thanks to many excellent games right off the bat. Super 
 Mario 64 DS was an excellent launch title, like the original version, and the Metroid Prime: Hunters 
 demo reeled in more audiences.
  
  Shortly after, two Nintendogs games, Kirby: Canvas Curse, Advance Wars, Animal Crossing: Wild World, 
 Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time and Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, all entries in monster franchises, 
 hit the DS right off the bat.
  
  That's not to say PSP didn't have a great year too, but DS truly managed to sell out when the first 
 real killer app (in my opinion) arrived: Mario Kart DS.
  
  Mario Kart has been successful on every platform its been released on, mainly because of tight, 
 fun controls and excellent multiplayer to rival Super Smash Bros. And this one is no exception. 
 Accelerating, turning and drifting all depend on the character you choose and chucking bombs and 
 shells at your opponents, whether real or AI, is humorous and a unique twist on 'racing'.
  
  But Mario Kart isn't just up to its usual tricks. There are tons of tracks, including sixteen 
 new tracks and sixteen classic tracks from SNES, N64, GBA and GC incarnations of the franchise. 
 Multiplayer is as spectacular and addictive as always, with sweet local multi-card play. Single-card 
 play is fun, but your friends have to play as Shy Guys, and that is a bit of a downer for them.
 
  
  So the more Mario Kart games near each other the better. This is also the first Mario Kart to utilize 
 a Wi-Fi connection. If you have a wireless router you're set. If you don't, you might be paying 
 for a USB connector or eating at McDonald's a lot, but on the upside you'll only have to pay the 
 $30 once.
  
  And Wi-Fi is insanely fun. The competition, as you can imagine, is much better, so it's not as 
 predictable. If the opponents are snaking, however, that can take the fun out of it if you don't 
 know how to, because you won't win, so be prepared.
  
  Still, the local game is cool even on your own. The normal Grand Prix is as addictive as ever, 
 and 150cc is extremely challenging. Mission mode is a cool new diversion, and battle mode is awesome, 
 even alone. Time trials are pretty fun to challenge yourself, for that matter. Shine Runners, the 
 new battle mode, is also just as fun as balloon battle.
  
  Speaking of balloon battle, this mode utilizes the microphone on the DS in an intuitive way, as 
 you'll be blowing up the balloons. This adds a new strategic element to it, because even though 
 the mic is very responsive, it takes time to blow it up. Also, you can still steal balloons from 
 others with mushrooms, so you should consider that before blowing up all three right off the bat.
 
  
  The usual items are back: bananas, bombs, shells, upside down cubes, lightning, mushrooms and invincibility 
 are all there for you to blast your enemies with.
  
  But there's plenty more now. You can turn into a missile and shoot by your opponents (hitting them 
 in the process) , shoot a blue shell at the person in front (which is impossible to dodge short 
 of driving off a cliff) , and putting sludge all over the opponent's top screen. This last was truly 
 genius because of the capabilities of the platform, as the bottom map is truly excellent, and you 
 can use it almost as well as the top screen to navigate anyway.
  
  There are quite a few carts to pick from, but not quite as many characters. It's a reasonable selection 
 though, and it's fun trying them all out to see who suits your taste. Plus you can unlock more 
 with each mode you beat.
  
  The graphics are pretty impressive on a handheld. They're very good 3-D and not as blocky as you 
 might think. The music is just like Mario, charming, and it gets stuck in your head. You'll probably 
 be whistling to yourself as you play (although that, and blowing into the mic, might attract attention 
 in crowds) .
  
  So there's plenty of bang for your buck with Mario Kart. It's more than worth your money to this 
 day. There may be a bit too much rubber banding (people going back and forth from first to last 
 and vice versa, very suddenly) , but this adds some surprise to the results. The more experienced 
 player may not always win, which will help reel in newer gamers.
  
  And whether single player, single-card, multi-card, or Wi-Fi is where you'll be, Mario Kart is 
 back and truly better than ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSfreak789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I got the game I couldn't wait so I got out my Nintendo DS, turned it on and got stuck 
 right into it and boy was I surprised. Mario Kart DS is one of the best Nintendo DS game so far! 
 I could never get bored of it!
  
  THE GOOD
  *Different levels to fit your standard
  *Solid graphics for the Nintendo DS
  *Wide range of race courses and challenges (Missions, Time 
 Trials and Battle Tracks)
  *Contains Wi-Fi connection
  *Multiplayer - up to 8 players at a time
  *Lots of different characters and Karts
  *Controls 
 are easy to use
  *Great obstacles
  
  THE BAD
  *Download play only has limited levels
  *Ends too quick (but don't all Mario Karts?)
  *It is too easy to win on 50 class races
  
 
  Overall the Mario Kart DS is a great game for a wide range of ages. I am pretty sure you'll agree 
 with my review. No money wasted guarantee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokolvrolok
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  This game is hugely addictive and one of the best games on the ds!
  There are many new tracks available to race on and also a number of retro ones.
  The graphics 
 are unfortunately not very good but they are fair for a DS.
  There are some characters available to race as, most from other mariokart games but there are a 
 few new exclusive ones.
  There are a number of game modes and they all are quite fun.
  Each level has its own theme tune/song and they are all very catchy! 
  
  This is a short review 
 but i just want to say that everything you liked about mariokart is presented just as well on the 
 ds.
  I would recommend it to everyone with a ds. Fans of the Mariokart series may be disappointed that 
 there is not much new to the game but you can look past this because the game works so well on 
 a ds.
  Its a portable dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gddr45
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  The next installment in the series, the first on the DS, might be the greatest Mario Kart experience 
 yet.
  
  Pros
  Battle mode is better than ever
  New online play
  New mission mode
  Great sound
  Great look
  Really imaginative courses
  
  Cons
  It takes forever to get 
 online
  Forced to play as Shy Guy in multiplayer if you don't have the game
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is no different from the rest of the series, but it has gotten better. 
 The first place you should stop by at is the grand prix. Here you compete againest 7 other CPU 
 players to get to the top. There are 8 cups and 32 courses, however you have to unlock them in 
 Grand Prix. There are 16 new courses and 16 old courses that are all fun to play on. New items 
 include Bloopers, Boos, and Bullet Bills. All the original items make an appearence as well. 'Nuff 
 said about Grand Prix. There is also the time trial mode where you go for your best time without 
 the other racers. The VS mode where you can race on the tracks you've unlocked. The main attraction 
 when you are not playing the Grand Prix is the new Battle Mode. You can choose to play the Balloon 
 Battle, or Shine Runners. You can choose to be alone or on a team. In Balloon Battle, you use the 
 mic to blow up the balloons. It makes Battle very creative. And if you don't want to do it the 
 fun way, just press select. In Shine Runners, you have to collect the most shines. The people with 
 the least shines at the end of the time get booted. The battlefields are so creative and fun, one 
 would want to explore.
  There is even a battlefield based on the Nintendo DS. There is also a mission mode and hands down, 
 it's great. You have to complete a certain task, and if you beat it you get a ranking from E-***. 
 Beat all the tasks in that level, and you face a boss. Beat the boss, the next level is unlocked. 
 Plus you get an overall ranking for that level. I hereby award this gameplay by this: 9.5/10
  
  Multiplayer: In multiplayer, you link up your DS's with other local people. Up to 7 other people 
 can join your party of racers. If you have the game, you get to chose your character, but if you 
 don't, you have to play as Shy Guy. If you like Shy Guy, than this shouldn't be a problem for you. 
 It's sad affairs when your favorite character is Luigi and you have to play as Shy Guy. It will 
 get old pllaying as Shy Guy. Overall multiplayer is fun, with a minor bug put in there. Score: 
 8.5/10
  
  Online:
  Yes!! The new online is here!!! It might not be as great as it sounds. One problem with online 
 play is that it takes forever to gather 4 people. You constantly drop the signal. It proves really 
 annoying. The cool thing about online though is that you can compete with friends, people that 
 live in your country, and people all over the world. Once you have those people, everyone votes 
 on course, and it's randomly picked. If get in first place, you earn a win. If you don't you earn 
 a lose. It's really hard to prove you're good because a lot of the time you are put agaisnt people 
 who snake, and have 3 stars by there names. Score: 8/10
  
  Graphics. The first time I looked at this game I thought, WOW!
  These graphics are so good. Yeah 
 sure you see a few minor pixels, but it's really great! Score: 9.5/10
  
  Sound: The sound is the best I've heard so far. When get by something powerful, the sound bursts 
 from out of the screen. The characters are very vocal, and shout every time they pass someone or 
 when they get hit. One thing I wish the characters would shout out? Perfect! Score: 10/10
  
  Controls: The controls are simple. UHHH.. Ok, you press the A button to accelerate. Press X 
 to use item. Press R to drift, uhh.. and waggle the Control Pad back and forth. Got it. *drool* 
 The controls are that simple, so it's total pickup and play. Score: 9/10
  
  This game overall is awesome and stands alongside Super Mario Kart
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rook_Druchii
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is at the time of writing, not the latest of the Franchise, but it does stand on 
 it's own as one of the best kart-style racers ever. It is the first game to allow players to use 
 any character with any vehicle in the game, and it also has WiFi capability for online play. Beyond 
 that, it's a racing game. But not all racing games tend to get very high scores as does this one.
 
  
  Game play, is rather simple, and comfortable, the racing is not broken at all, the CPU opponents 
 are not given predetermined times based on your own, and they do not suffer from rubber-banding. 
 I refer to this as something to suffer from because though it makes the CPU players better (at 
 the expense of the credibility of the game as a game with finite rules and common flaming sense) , 
 so you can actually see just how much better you are than the CPU players by just how large a gap 
 there is between you and them. If the gap is behind you then that's good, if it's before you, learn 
 to powerslide and avoid goombahs or something. 
  
  The modes offered are all available for you (and only you if you are the sad sort of loser who 
 somehow feels some odd affinity to me, that makes you a loser) to play, be it alone or with friends, 
 via wireless multiplayer. That's right, fir the first time in a Mario Kart game, you can play versus 
 or even battle all by your lonesome self, which is a refreshing dose of sensible game design on 
 the part of the Mario kart DS team, so congrats to you tired men and women of Nintendo for producing 
 something that every gamer since 1992 has had the pure despicable gall to ask for in this wonderful 
 franchise of games. Too bad that the difficulty issues that are present in either game type in 
 battle mode are varied, that is to say the least, like saying that Bruce Banner has a small issue 
 with anger management. So it is obviously apparent that like Bruce in his wimpy human form (because 
 you humans are so fragile) , the 'Shine Runners' battle mode is laughably easy and though you are 
 given the instructions to collect the 'Shines,' the Mario Kart DS CPU players seem to have confused 
 this task with searching for the Holy Grail through a means that can only be described as a painfully 
 mistaken explanation of the particle theory combined with dawdling about aimlessly like a bunch 
 of five-year-olds in an easter-egg scavenger hunt. But at the same time, the conventional balloon 
 battle mode can be little more than a lesson in complacency for the player, much like Bruce Banner's 
 anger issue (if you haven't noticed, it's the green one that's 20 bloody feet tall) . Though I believe 
 that the extreme difficulty issues are more than a result of the CPU being engineered to have a 
 vastly heightened sense of particle physics than the average teenage youth, because there are so 
 many things that are inherent in the game which happen to be conveniently designed to work against 
 you (the player) . Things such as the CPU rivals that will automatically unload every item they 
 have in their possession as soon as you come within a certain distance of them, and that you have 
 to blow up the balloons that keep you from losing the race somehow, as though the arenas are saturated 
 in chlorine gas and the only way to keep your character alive is to keep them with balloons filled 
 with air so they don't drown in their own humors. Let me take a minute to elaborate on just how 
 troublesome the task of blowing into the mic really is: You start the battle mode with 1 balloon, 
 so you have two options, either blow up a second balloon and possibly a third, or you can foray 
 into the arena that will momentarily turn into your worst gaming nightmare and chance getting beaten 
 senseless by the first computer character to nab a red shell. So if you decide to play this scenario 
 safely, you would want to blow up at least one more balloon to keep from getting raped by the green 
 shell of mechanical justice, but this task can prove to be a great hassle because you can not drive 
 your vehicle while you empty your soon-to-be-blue lungs and oddly enough, this means that in order 
 to protect yourself, you must leave yourself as vulnerable as possible while you try to find that 
 ever-changing sweet spot on which to exhale violently so that the flaming game can register your 
 attempt to stay alive. On top of the fact that this method of staying alive is through the most 
 counter-productive means that could have been conceived by 1000 monkeys with 1000 typewriters, 
 that is the not being able to move at all, the fact that you can be destroyed instantly if you 
 are not able blow into the mic properly or quick enough, and that you will often require more than 
 a single breath to actually blow up the said balloons one by exhausting one, but you will still 
 be invariably faced with the eventual realization that the CPU players don't have any trouble blowing 
 up their balloons in less than 2 seconds. And even if you do get to have three balloons on your 
 kart at once, you can always be decimated by the game if if manages to time a series of quick, 
 evenly paced beatings in your direction so that you will get hit and lose a balloon before you 
 have the chance to finish blowing the next one into your DS to keep yourself in the game. Which 
 is not helped at all by the fact that they attack YOU with everything they have once they see you 
 and you will eventually notice that they don't really take much pleasure in attacking each other, 
 other than leaving bananas lying about so that they may run over them 30 seconds later, and still 
 hold up the facade that you [the human] are not actually totally alone. Apparently there is an 
 alternate method to blowing up the balloons that does not require you breathe into your DS like 
 a pedophile in the back of a Catholic high school examination, and it comes in the form of holding 
 down the 'Select' button, yes the one that players usually forget exists as soon as they buy their 
 Nintendo DS. But hey! Now you don't have to aggravate your asthma (because we're all lazy layabout 
 geeks and nerds so we ALL have asthma, whether you know it or not) but this isn't much better than 
 the other method, only a compromise. Instead of trying to find where to blow on the DS forever, 
 you can instead rest assured that this method will always be recognized by the computer so will 
 work every time, but it is far less quick than when you actually get the blowing to work, so you 
 are left even more vulnerable than when you were panting for breath. Maybe if the guys who made 
 the game tried to actually blow into the DS themselves and make the button method mimic the some 
 amount of time that blowing hard took, then the idea could have been elevated to BAD. 
  
  I don't know what it is that makes game designers want to use every peripheral device and poppycock 
 interactive hardware feature in an attempt to make the game-play more immersive and fluid, because 
 it never seems to work. Ok, well, granted that the whole Dual Screens idea and the touch screen 
 function are the single coolest things to ever happen to gaming since sliced bread (though I can't 
 imagine what kind of game one could make of slicing bread) but the 'extra cool' functions in gaming 
 hardware always seem to be on the gratuitous side, like a charity for rich people rather than their 
 intended function which is to make people rich (and keep them that way) . But the issue with the 
 microphone blowing on the DS for this game is that instead of making the game-play fluid and immersive, 
 is does a particularly good job of being sketchy and frustratingly grounding from the euphoria 
 that the game play would otherwise be, like a pretty-boy in jail, everyone wants a soft, supple 
 piece of him for themselves, but they all refuse to be his friend. Maybe in the future, it'd be 
 a better idea to do something that is truly immersive and fluid, like using HP counters instead 
 of a ton of stupid balloons (trust me, those 12-year-olds of the world won't start crying) , it 
 will allow you to not divide the game play into intervals of being slaughtered and licking your 
 wounds by turning it into a big flowing micromanagement-free slaughter-fest as well as enabling 
 the user to use settings like changing the base HP for all characters and make different items 
 cause different amounts of damage. It's like all the problems could be solved with simple solutions, 
 rather than those annoyingly complex ones that require a week playing games under the tutelage 
 of Teh_Masterer and possibly Morpheus (but Lawrence Fishburne would do just fine) as a facade at 
 making things more strategic and 'in depth,' a phrase that should be restricted to brothels and 
 the Final Fantasy franchise. 
  
  The versus modes are not really vastly different. In fact all of the racing in this game is quite 
 designed to make your life miserable, that is if you are good at the game to any real degree. In 
 a single player versus match, you can set the CPU difficulty, which seems redundant, and the conditions 
 of what order of courses to race on and how many races to compete in until certain goals are met, 
 such as a set number of races or wins, or none. Options can be set if you are not the type of compulsive 
 gamer who likes to calculate their success rates mathematically in video games, between binges 
 of Weird Al music videos and making origami cranes, and you just like to play your game instead... 
 The main thing about racing in this game is that one must know how things go within a race: First 
 place is the most frustrating position to be in because items are typically designed to keep you 
 from getting too far ahead of everyone else, like that ex-girlfriend who can't bear to see you 
 happy outside of her anatomy, or that other unattractive girl at work who seems to think that there 
 is some sort of underlying attraction between you and herself, which seems to justify (in her twisted, 
 flaming mind which I imagine would resemble a contortionist hogtied into the shape of a pretzel 
 and left in a furnace) her constantly following you around all the bloody time!! Or that other 
 girl who keeps leading you on but never lets you get past the obstacle that is the 'other guy'... where 
 was I? Oh yeah, first place is where you will have much trouble escaping the other 7 maniacs trailing 
 you armed with red homing shells, lightning bolts and spiked shells with wings, before you can 
 get far enough ahead to consider yourself secure in you position until the end of the race. Second 
 is where you have to chase down the prick first place who is oddly never too far ahead to be impossible 
 to catch in time, but far enough ahead that the guys who are constantly destroying one another 
 behind you in a manner best described as Mario Kart DS on crack and severely abusing the Chaos 
 Theory will constantly attempt to pull you into their cluster-flock by hurling red shells and bob-ombs 
 at you every time you get close to taking first place. And the there are the lower positions that 
 reward you with all the power items that mess up everyone else BIG TIME, that is if another aspect 
 of the game were not inherently designed to make you throw your DS into the nearest wall. 
  
  This time it's the actual variety of vehicles that you get to unlock and play in with any character 
 in any racing mode you please. The problem with this is that the game has an 'in-depth' stats measure 
 that makes every vehicle generally unique and somehow themed to the character that they are designed 
 around, with varying degrees of selective exaggeration and emphasis, so then you will realize that 
 every character gets a set of three vehicles modeled after them, and each vehicle - regardless 
 of the character - is built with an 'item' stat that is generally unexplained other than it has 
 something to do with items in game. But clearly every character gets a cart that has either a high, 
 medium or low stat for items, that is apparently based on the tire-size of the cart, but this automatically 
 means that some carts are disposed to have a higher or lower than average tendency to obtain aggressive 
 items that evidently are the most useful ones in the game. And as are the stats concerning items 
 associated with the apparent tire size of each vehicle in the game, it also means that the larger 
 and harder to use heavier vehicles that each character has respectively are designed to produce 
 the most satisfying and devastating items when you need them, but the smaller, more nimble carts 
 that actually allow you to gt into and hold first place, do a poor job of yeilding anything more 
 threatening than a single red shell on a reliable basis. Now this gets to be quite troublesome 
 when you have just been pelted by at least one spiny shell in a given race, and possibly have to 
 quickly regain your hard-earned position as race leader from your new explosion-induced state of 
 6th place. But it's the final lap and all you can do is powerslide your way forward and hope to 
 receive items more dangerous than a green shell or a fake item block but it is very fair that the 
 very sort of item you would need in an emergency is something you can only obtain through extreme 
 chance and having the right vehicle. 
  
  As one might be aware by this time, the items in this game have some annoying balancing issues 
 and some of them function in awkward ways that makes them useless or irritating. Banana peels do 
 a considerably negligible job of slowing you down, red shells have a tendency to hit you from the 
 sides which makes dragging items behind you only useful for making extra room to carry two items 
 at a time, so long as you don't get hit by anything else, lest you end up dropping the item. Spiny 
 shells are a rel piece of work, they are relatively easy to obtain (at about fifth place to eighth 
 place) and serve only to irritate the person in first place. Since spiny shells sprouted wings 
 (and also apparently when the game designers at Nintendo's Mario Kart team decided to become stupid) 
 they have seemed to not realize that being in a low position in the race and getting the once fabled 
 spiny shell (now they are more abundant than anecdotes in this blasted review) actually does nothing 
 to help you catch up to everyone else. It just flies ahead and blows up the leader and possibly 
 anyone too close to him, but totally ignores everyone else otherwise so if you only manage to hit 
 the silly fool in first, then you will still have to race just as hard to catch up whoever was 
 ahead still. Spiny shells are totally broken too much like the alarm clock owned by the Green Giant 
 (not like he really needs one because he's always standing over some guy's farm at dawn saying 
 'HO HO HO' in Barry White's voice, which has enough bass to cause earthquake in Japan. But I'd 
 hate to live on that farm, because you have to wake up to that and make sure nobody looks out the 
 windows until he's gone because instead of being greeted by the beautiful sunrise gleaning over 
 the golden horizon, you'll see right up the Green Giant's leg and your wife will feel the sudden 
 urge to leave you) Blue shells can be dodged by powersliding and jumping or running into something 
 else, less punishing than an explosion, the former technique is easier to do at the faster engine 
 classes but possible in 100cc as well. Also when a spiny shell is fired, it tracks down the racer 
 in first place at that time and not the person who overtakes the race leader before the shell reached 
 it's target, thus making the spiny shell more of a grudge weapon. But the problem with this is 
 that red shell will attack a character based on position, at least until it closes in on it's current 
 target, so if you are in 2nd and the guy in 3rd fires a red shell at you, but before it reaches 
 you, you manage to take 1st place (probably with a flaming spiny shell none the less) , the red 
 shell will hit the person who now is in 2nd, not you. Beyond these obvious irritations with the 
 items in Mario Kart DS, everything else handles well and comfortably, again everything does it's 
 job well (except for the blasted homing shells that are on crack) .
  
  There is a mission mode here as well, and there's really not a whole world of depth to it, other 
 than it serves as a tutorial (without saying it) to get better at the game. You will be given scores 
 in the form of rankings that scale like school grades F, D, C, B, A, *, **, *** (well, except for 
 the last part. Imagine if you could get Star rankings at school? You go running home to show your 
 parents the A+, that you got in Math, but then they say that 'Timmy down the street got triple 
 star, why can't you be more like him?' to which you deliver one of two possible replies 1. 'Timmy 
 gets help from Lassie, who his parents can somehow understand' or 2. 'Well, Timmy snakes through 
 class!' Well, I guess that a third is possible... 3. 'Timmy fell down a well [for the tenth bloody 
 time!] and Lassie fell in with him and now they're both covered in snakes!') anyway, the only real 
 goals that the mission modes ultimately offer is to get triple star rankings on everything, which 
 can open up some serious bragging rights in WiFi mode if you get star rankings on all the missions 
 and all of the Grand Prix cups in all engine classes, because your name will be complimented by 
 your overall star ranking be it *, **, or ***.
  
  The Grand Prix mode is the staple racing mode for all Mario Kart games since Moses walked dowm 
 from Mt. Sinai holding two Super NES games in his hands, Super Mario World and Mario Kart... you 
 are greeted with the same ranking system used in the mission mode and you can get triple stars 
 really easily so long as you powerslide a lot, get rocket starts at the beginning of each race, 
 finish in first, stay in first place for extended periods of time, don't get hit by course hazards, 
 don't go off the track, and don't fall off the track either, but should you infringe on any of 
 these rules, make sure to powerslide some more to make up for it, and you can still save your ranking 
 so that it appears in WiFi races.
  
  As for WiFi racing, it's shallow still, but it came out at about the same time as Nintendo WFC 
 started, so there's no need to get nit-picky unless nits are either your sole source of sustainance, 
 Nitz is your favorite character on 'Undergrads,' or you know just what the hell nits are, and it 
 turns out to be something important! In fact, WFC works extremely well in play, there is minimal 
 lag even on worldwide play, and if there is, the game does a decent job of compensating for it. 
 As usual with any online-capable game, some piece of trash somewhere figured out how to hack the 
 pants off the game and bring it into the world of wireless play, so there will be the occasional 
 person who gets an unlimited supply of spiny shells or can free-fly as a bullet bill or win instantaneously, 
 but hackers are not terribly abundant online, so the game isn't ruined every time you connect, 
 like how Timmy's pants get ruined every time he fall down a well with only his freaking dog to 
 save him. Scoring is confusing at first but if you have a head on your shoulders and not between 
 your legs (or anyone else's but then you wouldn't need video games at that point would you? heck 
 you wouldn't even need the internet. Lube maybe, or a parole hearing) then you can figure out that 
 the win/loss scores are based on how many people you race against and beat by the end of the four 
 races that you must compete in. You can exchange friend codes with other players and play exclusive 
 intimate matches with them as well to take away from the cavalcade of disconnecting fools that 
 plague the online gaming universe. 
  
  The tracks are also very sensible and well designed, though they are all easy to learn and they 
 have a good set of hazards and unique obstacles to race through, they all require a good deal of 
 skill to race effectively, and many of the shortcuts come with equally detrimental risks should 
 they not be executed properly. The main issue with the tracks in general is that they are not particularly 
 hard to race, nor do the hazards pose enough of a threat as they may have been in previous versions 
 of the game. They took out all of the punishment for not racing properly on a certain part of the 
 track, and they made everything easier than average to race through without much incident (perhaps 
 this was a way of balancing out the fact that items in this game are really what can make or break 
 you, and decided that having to think about technical racing in a racing game was too flaming much 
 for the millions of  adolescents who would buy 
 this) . As well as the 16 brand new tracks that you get to race on there are 16 old tracks (making 
 4 retro cups) that are selected from the Gamebube, Game Boy Advance, Nintendo 64 and the Super 
 NES versions of the game (one from each console in a cup) but seeing that the designers were all 
 sufferers of vertigo, they seemed to have chosen the least interesting and least imaginative courses 
 from the old games to put into this one. But still, they are overall quite imaginative and fun 
 to race on, so the game gets the job done exceptionally well no matter how an issue I make of it.
 
  
  In all Mario Kart for the DS is a very well-executed game that makes the most (but not quite enough) 
 of it's much-appreciated game play features and delivers well with the WiFi online play, which 
 only adds to the replay value of the game. Granted that it does have some miserable failures, they 
 are far, FAR outweighed by the fact that all good attributes of the game are incredibly well done, 
 much like my fingers after typing all this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyGamingNerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS was my first Ds Game, and holy cow this game is AWESOME! The Grand Prix is lenghty 
 with all the difficulties many levels wich are nicely designed, All the characters are awesome because 
 all they have their unique cars. You can also make an own spray wich you will see on your car (i 
 have the super mario bros. 3 Mario with raccon suit. spray) . Now whats really cool is that you can 
 play this game ONLINE! with other random guys or your friends... and the online play is lag-free. Sometimes 
 there are just some hackers that use action replay and shoot blue shells all the time at you, that 
 makes it impossible to drive at all. Theres also a time attack mode where you can race any level 
 fast as you can. Also the battle mode is cool to play with bots.
  
  I have never liked racing games so much... but you dont need to like a racing game if you buy Mario 
 Kart DS. I can describe Mario Kart DS in three words and it would be "Amazing Racer Masterpiece" 
 Thats all theres to say in short.
  
  If you dont own this game, by all means get it Now!
  
  Il give it a 9.5 because of the awesome graphics and visuals the characters voices, and Online 
 play. Only bad thing .. there are many hackers now at online play.
  
  Thank you for reading -HappyGamingNerd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philx3
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best it has great characters from mario games. You don't start off with them 
 all they need unlock by doing the grand prix what also unlocks more race tracks. Theres different 
 modes of play like battle you can change friends to battle or races. And you can also go online 
 and race across the world. There are about 16 new race track what are truely fun to play. And then 
 16 more from old Mario kart games. Like N64, GBA, SNES. Different Karts have different advantages 
 as well. Evenuallty all Karts are avilable to be used by any character. Theres also team racing 
 so u don't hav to race all against all. U really should get this game as it is great will also 
 good graphic compared to other DS Games. Its all ways good fun to play and you will not get bored 
 of racing. Theres also a challage in learning how to snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series is one of the successful Mario spin-offs, all Mario Kart sales totaling over 
 48.18 million. (This does not include sales on the Virtual Console for Wii) Mario Kart DS is the 
 fifth installment in the series and is the first Mario Kart to be on a hand held system. Mario 
 Kart DS is also the first game to take advantage of the Nintendo DS Wi-Fi capabilities.
  
  Mario Kart DS is a Kart Racing game featuring all of our favourite Nintendo characters, including 
 Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Bowser and many more. The game contains 13 characters, four of which, 
 are unlockable. 
  
  The single player aspect of the game has 5 modes you can play in:
  
  In Grand Prix, (the main 'story' of the game) you pick a class, a character, a kart and finally 
 a grand prix. There are 8 grand prix's but only 4 are unlock-able from the start of the game. In 
 each grand prix there are four tracks, the object is to place as high as you can to get points, 
 at the end of all the races, the points are tallied up and if you are in the top three you unlock 
 a new grand prix.
  
  In time trial mode, you try and get the best time on a chosen track, you can try and beat the ghost 
 time. A ghost time is when you race on a track for the first time, than it creates a ghost, and 
 you can play again and try and beat that ghost. There is even a staff ghost which is really hard 
 to beat!
  
  In versus mode, it is basically a free race, you can have teams, you get to pick the course, etc 
 and you get points as you keep racing. The good thing about this, is you can keep race infinity 
 tracks and still not be done racking up the points.
  
  Battle mode has two different games, first, balloon battle. When you begin balloon battle, you 
 have two balloons and can blow into the mic to get a maximum of 3. When you get hit by an item, 
 you lose a balloon, the object is to survive the longest. The next game is Shrine Runner, in this 
 game, you go around collecting Shines, when you get hit by an item, you lose a shine, over time, 
 people with less Shines will get booted, the object is to stay in the game for the longest amount 
 of time. Both games have a team option.
  
  In the final mode, mission mode, you are given tasks, once you complete 8 tasks, you have to defeat 
 a boss. This is probably one of the best modes in MK DS because the objectives vary from driving 
 through gates in order to performing power-slide turbo boosts.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing, you can see everything from the tire treads on the racing 
 karts, the audience in the crowd on some of the tracks and there is lots of detail on all of the 
 karts, but, the graphics are lacking on the touch screen, everything is pixel-y and looks ugly.
 
  
  The sound in this game is okay, sometimes you can tell that the DS is doing this game no good sound-wise 
 but other times you can hear everything from power-slide turbo boosts, items hitting the track 
 and much more.
  
  The multi-player features are fun, but there is nothing to separate the two things, they both feel 
 like one mode, except now you can talk to people while doing local wi-fi and playing against a 
 real player makes it harder.
  
  I have not tried online, but if you don't own wi-fi, after you log about 100 hours on this game, 
 it will get boring.
  
  Overall, this game is just a graphically updated version of the older games with a few new items 
 and characters, with little-to-no touch screen capabilities. But if you are looking for a good 
 racing game on the Nintendo DS, you've found your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrelboyfan
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has finally drove to the DS! Now you can play with your friends in Wi-fi. 16 new races! Including 
 some from other Mario series games, Defino Square (Super Mario Sunshine) , Luigi's Mansion (You know, Luigi's 
 Mansion) , and more. Plus tracks from, Super Mario Kart, Double Dash,64, and Super Circuit in 3-D. Now 
 two new Minigames, Balloon Battle (You can use the microphone) and Shine Runners. Both are in 2-Player 
 Mode. In Versus play againest the computer karts and choose your favorite tracks. Too lazy to pick, let 
 the computer do it for you! 13 Playable characters (The Shyguy is only available in 2-Player) Make 
 best times in Time Trial. And complete Missions and defeat bosses. Best of all, you can paint a 
 symbol to paint on your car in the Grand Prix.
  
  Mario Kart DS gets a 10 out of 10 a perfect installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart. The funnest game ever, now on the DS! It's like a dream come true! Of cause you wanna 
 know how it turned out, so here it is!
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Like on other consoles, the arrows is to drive, A is to accelerate and B is to reverse. On the 
 top screen, you are playing normal Mario Kart, while on the touch screen is a map of the race track. 
 The race tracks include some classic tracks including Figure 8 Circuit and Moo Moo Farm. Some tracks 
 are very adventures with lots of little obstacles to keep you entertained. The characters include: 
 Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, Wario, Daisy, Dry Bones, Waluigi and R. O. B.. They all have their 
 own three cars you can choose from and when you finish the game, your character can be anyone of 
 those carts. The game runs smoothly with loads of options to make your time on Mario Kart DS perfect. 
 There are also some new items you can get in mystery boxes that will keep you interested. Although, 
 it is a bit too easy. An experienced gamer may find he is winning every track, even if the CPUs 
 are put on hard mode, so the game is a little bit short. But there are tons of neat little missions 
 to complete and a few battle tracks, but it's still over way to quick.
  
  GRAPHICS
  There are some places where there are some big pixels, but it's the best graphics I've seen on 
 Mario Kart. In this game, I doubt you will even think about the graphics, they're good enough.
 
  
  SOUND
  The sound is awesome! The music is great and helps you feel comfortable with this game. Nothing 
 in this game doesn't have a sound, even the trees that you speed past shake in the wind which gives 
 it a beautiful sound for racing. I've got to rate the sound 10 out of 10 because it is just great.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  In multiplayer you can either race or battle. If you both have the game card you can race on every 
 track, but on download play you can only race on 8 tracks and all your opponents have to be Shy 
 Guy.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart makes the DS a spectacula console. Anyone who wants a great racing game on 
 the DS, this is the way to go!
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 10/10
  Multiplayer 8/10
  RATING 9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Here are most of the things you'll need to know about Mario Kart DS:
  
  1. Graphics
  Outstanding graphics! Its cartoon-like but... thats the way its supposed to look.
  
  2. Fun?
 
  A fun game that allows you to bring a whole race anywhere you want by using a hand held machine! 
 Also, a great racing game and easy controls.
  
  3. Requirements
  Lots of intrest in racing, working brain, fast hands, lots of intrest for Mario, good eyesight. 
 
  
  4. What you'll see
  Mario characters, trees, race tracks, weapons, grass, stars, flowers, mushrooms, and more.
  
 
  5. Things you should know
  Mario and Luigi are plumbers, Daisy and Peach are princesses, coins are good, if your the victom 
 for a blue turtleshell your dead, and don't drive into banana peels! If there is anything else 
 that I didn't say and you NEED to know, PM me.
  
  Hope you like my review! : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  (First written: December 24, 07)
  Nintendo's last-gen lunchbox actually had a lot of masterpieces, and Mario Kart, they say, was 
 no exception. But because Nintendo was anti-online gaming back then, there was no online. Well, 
 thank Nintendo for cleaning up its act when it released the DS and the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, 
 because frankly, it's a ton of fun to race with people around the world.
  
  But before more of that, let's focus on the aesthetics first. Well, the graphics are actually good 
 for the DS and the action is smooth- very important for racing games. Plus, the kart designs, which 
 there are a LOAD of, are varied and their qualities are actually noticeable and different from 
 one another.
  
  Online is just the icing of the cake, and this one is a great game to play, even if you're alone. 
 There is actually varied gameplay here, from the conventional Grand Prix to the increasingly difficult 
 Missions as well as "Shine Runners" and "Balloon Battles". Well, the game will keep you busy for 
 weeks as there is a whopping number of stuff to unlock, like courses or karts.
  
  The courses themselves range from the boring to the extremely hazardous. I mean, I'll never forget 
 the many times I've hit that damn ball in the Waluigi Pinball course. But this makes for even more 
 varied gameplay. And if you got 7 more friends, you can race against them (even if they don't have 
 the game itself) .
  
  An irritating, but competition inducing feature is the power-ups and the quality of them. Actually, 
 you'll never feel as if you're gonna be in the lowest position for long, as the power-ups you receive 
 are better than what you get in the higher places. So if you get bombed by the opponent just inches 
 before the finish line, don't be surprised.
  
  Overall, the production value is apparently great for a DS game, the single-player campaign is 
 more than enough to justify the tag, but the addition of online play and 7 player, lag-free, no-card 
 multiplayer makes this game an excellently made one, not to mention addicting! After playing a 
 bit of Mario Kart DS, I have high expectation for the imminent Wii console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shark1dolphin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Being one of the DS's flagship titles, the expectations were great for Mario Kart DS. The series 
 needed to evolve, but not so much that we lose the arcadey, addictive gameplay. And that's exactly 
 what Nintendo have achieved with Mario Kart DS.
  Gameplay wise, it's much the same as Double Dash except with some slightly more aggresive handling 
 and a truly manual drifting system; the catalyst for some seriously quick play if you learn to 
 snake properly. But that's not to say beginners can't pick it up- an ever more expansive roster 
 of characters and items (such as the awesome high-tier item 'Bullet Bill') balances the races out 
 to a pretty much perfect standard.
  Each character has a choice of two karts uniquely designed for them, as well as the classic 'standard' 
 kart. In time trials, the karts with the greater number of mushrooms tend to be weaker (although 
 it's a matter of opinion) so choosing the right character/kart combination can be a real art (especially 
 with the unlockable ability to freely mix and match combinations later in the game) .
  As in previous outings, the game features a variety of game modes- the classic Grand Prix, Time 
 Trials and Battles, and for the first time 'Missions' (which are set goals such as 'drive through 
 all the gates' that you have to achieve within a certain time limit) and online WFC play via either 
 a wireless internet connection or a router from Nintendo (around 30) . These last two modes send 
 the game's replay value into the sky- what with the potential to be racing literally anyone from 
 anywhere in the world, from local friends to strangers in Japan and Korea. Online races are always 
 a lot of fun, and combined with the well balanced set of items you'll be coming back for more for 
 a while to come.
  Mario Kart DS's real triumph is how it offers such diverse and addictive content without it ever 
 really getting boring, which is what the series has really always been about. Locally, you can 
 connect to up to seven other DS systems for a quick race with friends, and compiled with the aforementioned 
 online service it's a multiplayer experience you'd be mad to miss. On the downside, the steep learning 
 curve for advanced techniques such as snaking can at times alienate online racers simply looking 
 for a fun experience, and with the all new inclusion of 'retro' tracks from previous games, races 
 on the older recycled tracks can often be determined by luck-of-the-draw items, or be just plain 
 boring. But these tracks make up less than half of the total roster, and some players love their 
 purity, so it's really an acquired taste.
  In the end, these minor flaws little dampen the superb racing experience that can be had from Mario 
 Kart DS. With a huge amount of new content it's certainly the biggest Mario Kart ever, and with 
 new features such as missions and WFC play you'll be playing for months, even years into the future. 
 All this is bundled with proficient graphics that never hinder the experience and sleek presentation. 
 Mario Kart DS is without a doubt the finest in its series, and one of the great racing games of 
 all time. Its pick-up-and-play attitude means anyone can join the fun, so if you own a DS it's 
 a game you simply must buy.
  
  Summary
  
  Good points: Superbly refined gameplay that allows anyone to join the fun; plenty of new content 
 with a large roster of characters and karts; online play gives the series a new edge; just the 
 right level of difficulty.
  
  Bad points: Advanced racing techniques can at times alienate beginners or those just looking for 
 fun; some of the retro tracks can be boring. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernalPhoenix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart may be old, but the fun out of this fantastic game hasn't faded! Mario Kart has many 
 different modes to play, each with it's own challenge. 
  
  There are numerous amounts of Karts to play with each character, each Kart is different depending 
 on the character you're playing; for example: A Dry Bomber with Dry Bones is very lightweight but 
 the same kart with Bowser is very heavy. 
  
  There is a Nintendo WiFi mode where you can play with 4 other people over WiFi. However, In Multiplayer 
 - Simple mode, you can have up to 8 players over a range, so that's why I have taken away 0.5 points 
 from the possible 10. In WiFi mode, many people 'Snake' which is a very difficult way to win on 
 tracks. what you must do is to drift but hammer down the Control Pad EXTREMELY fast to get a speed 
 boost and still, many people still do this but most prefer not to.
  
  Also, the weapons in the game go from absolutely rubbish (Banana) to the absolute best (Bullet 
 Bill) . and some weapons require you to be in a specific position in the race so don't worry if 
 you are last because you might still have a chance to reach the podium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnmmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best game for the ds, if u have a ds u should buy this game, it is so worth 
 it. mario kart for the ds has so much to offer, and it has some good wifi abilities to play with. 
 it has several of the classic mario characters and some other people. it even has r. o. b., which 
 is a good character to us. so if u like racing, like mario, and want to have a good game to play, 
 then pick up a copy of mario kart. this has to be the best handle held game around ever in history. 
 their are like 12 playable characters to choice from, with the likes of: mario, peach, wario, Dasie, 
 luigi, dk (donky kong) , dry bones, bowser, wluigi, toad, yoshi, and r. o. b. with these characters 
 to choice from it makes a great list of people to play with. the multi player so also very good 
 and adicting if u have a lot of people to play with u can go up to 8 people with one card but u 
 only get a few corses to choice from but if u have 8 game cards it is very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZIVX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart triumphs again, but this time on the NintendoDS. This is the first Mario Kart that can 
 actually go online with a Wifi so you will be racing against people against the world. This game 
 also features courses from previous gaming consoles like the SNES, N64, GBA, and the NGC. This 
 game might not have all of the characters you can get get in the Double Dash, but this game has 
 some new characters like the robot R. O. B. Also the controls seem a lot more controllable then the 
 joystick and drifting has never been so easy. There is also a new game mode called Mission Mode 
 which you have to complete a set of missions with boss fights at the end of each level. Some boss 
 characters are some of the evildoers in previous Mario games like Bomb-Omb King and King Boo. Time 
 trial also comes back and with being able to race the ghost of the staff of Mario Kart. I was a 
 little disappointed with the limited choices of stages during download play compared to the 32 
 courses in this game. Overall, this game is surprisingly fun and probably the best in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunchtiket
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome and a must have for ds owners. First of lets start with the graphics. The graphics 
 are simply fantastic and are one of the best on the ds. Next of the controls. The controls are 
 simple and eay to use. To me I think useing the control pad is a little easyer anolog stick. The 
 gamplay is very well done. the envirments and the items are also very well done. And last is how 
 it compares to the rest of the series. It is simply the best in the series. And because it has 
 some courses from earlyer games in the series. the new mission mode is cool to. But some missions 
 don't make sense. But it's mario a lot of stuff dosen't make sense. I also like how they put in 
 some bosses to. In the game there are tons of stuff to unlock like chacters, karts, and trophies. 
 One of the things I don't like about the game is that on150cc and 150cc mirror mode it's very very 
 frustraiting. Once I through my ds on the ground and scrached the corner of the outer part. And 
 the only other thing I don't like about it is that you can play as shy guy only in a download play 
 game. But other than that the game is awsome and simply the best in it's series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGroudon20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS has improved a lot since Super Circuit. A player can choose a special kart or a traditional 
 kart and you can also use every special item that Mario Kart Double Dash!! won't. First of all 
 the music to the game is tenacious. The Nintendo DS has always been the best portable device for 
 outstanding performance in music. I also like the idea that you can have access to the retro cups 
 from previous Mario Kart games, like Mario Kart 64, Super Mario Kart and Mario Kart Super Circuit. 
 The two new addtional items, the Bullet Bill and the Blooper because the Bullet Bill will help 
 you speed your way through other karts and putting you back in the right spot from where you dropped 
 down a few places and the Blooper spits ink at other players, reducing accuracy and will not be 
 able to tell where they are going. I have unlocked Dry Bones and Daisy but not R. O. B. The 50CC 
 class is easy but when you begin to spice up the difficulty to 100CC, things get a bit more out 
 of control and getting hit by multiple Blue Shells is an extreme pain in the neck. The 150CC, things 
 get more crazy and frantic, that is when i begin to lose it. The difficulty meets my expectations 
 and i can only say that it is fair. The graphics has been upgraded to a whole new fascinating level, 
 and I love 3D graphics. I have difficulty trying to connect to Wi-Fi with this game but overall, 
 it is a cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  You may love the original, the modern or the two player beauty but nothing is quite like Mario 
 Kart DS. Of course there are fewer items and graphics arn't brilliant but the sheer fun of this 
 game is overwhelming. Playing on one of the best consoles in history it is still hard to anjoy 
 motor games, as with driving comes detailed precise graphics so the simple graphics of a portable 
 console wasn't easily used for brilliant driving games.
  
  However Nintendo got round all its main problems starting with grahics, they are suprisingly passible 
 and even beet the 64's Mario Kart graphics wise. The music like all Mario Kart games is very cheary 
 and catchy almost F Zero good... sort of, not F Zero X good but close to the other two.
  
  The handling is simple and dosn't strugle to turn or drift too much at all, also 36 different vehicles 
 is pretty good, admitably 12 are the same but in different colours. Like F Zero GX you can also 
 design you're own emblem which is pretty cool.
  
  There is a lot to do from 4 different racind modes like 100cc and mirror to 8 grand prix's to 54 
 challenges and even 6 bosses... oh and theres Wi Fi and Time Trials so yeah, a lot to do and you'll 
 be playing for weeks if not months.
  
  As a whole this is the best DS racer but there is a couple of better racers out there, the main 
 being F Zero GX, buy buy buy, but you won't be dissapointed... much but it will take all you're 
 social life away... not that I have a social life so I had little to loose there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adel4
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I have pIayed this game a few times and it is pretty fun. Still i looked at the rating........
 
  look, it is worth the money, the game is standard and fun like any other racing game, it has great 
 multiplayer. still it a simple racing game and there is not much to offer to make it better than 
 other good racing games, besides the fact mario is in it. The controls are well, the picture and 
 graphics are great, there is lots of tracks and different weapons, turbo, great game for the ds 
 but not as great as they say. however it is much better than most or even all racing games in ds, 
 but can use some improvement. the camera and gameplay is good but it needs more to offer in a game 
 (as i said before) if you want a game for the ds i would recommend this game, but if you are just 
 looking for a racing game go for something else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS has great graphics. It really is a great style of racing. It's a good game, which will 
 impress those really picky moms out there. It has a great idea of putting some levels from the other 
 systems, which is smart. Nintendo really outdid themselves this time. It's great because it's portable, it 
 can be a little hard, but it's a good game. It has unique traps, good tracks, and good music. It's agood 
 type of game. You can have lot's of fun playing, and there are a lot of unlockables. Once you beat 
 the game, you may be a little bored, but it's got a great multiplayer style. It has missions, a nice 
 touch, and it has some new battle areas and some older ones. I think that you will enjoy it very 
 much. I definetily like it way more than Diddy Kong Racing, which is pretty stupid. I thank you for 
 reading this review and look for my other ones!
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the 2nd latest installment of Marios Racing franchise, in it you can take control 
 of a wide range of characters from Dry Bones to Bowser, almost every symbolic Mario character is 
 here, as well as a wide range of characters there is an enormouse amount of Karts too, altogether 
 there is a total of 36 Karts for each character!
  
  Mario Kart DS takes what was origianly a SNES game and plonks it on the handheld, did it work? 
 Well, lets just say it's sitting exremely comfortably in the drivers seat!
  
  The gameplay of Mario Kart is fantastic, there may not be any touch screen control when your in 
 races but this is good as otherwise it get in the way. The online is fantastic with up to 4 players 
 going head to head on any circuit they want. The graphics are fantastic for a Nintendo DS game 
 and really capture the growling faces of the other characters when bomb them!
  
  The battle modes from the previous games are back in all there glory, there are 3 types of mission, 
 in 1 you have to get as much coins as possible before everyone else and get theres of them, in 
 another you have to get baloons of the other players against you in a time limit, and in the other 
 there are sort of challenges like complete this course in this time, and defeat this guy by bashing 
 him into the lava, they all sound quite similar but they're not.
  
  The only problem like with all Mario Kart games is that there is'nt really a story, you just have 
 to do all the Grand Prix and unlock all the characters and Karts.
  
  Put together Mario Kart DS is an enjoyable racer that is probably the DS's best apart from a lack 
 of story mode this game is fantastic! 9/10!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamer400
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot of stuff I like about Mario Kart DS like the Multiplayer, Tracks, Characters, Battle 
 courses, and Missions!
  It is a fun game that can easily keep you playing it over and over agian!
  It's a preety easy 
 game but there is some challenges in it that a kinda hard even though I have beaten the whole game 
 and instead of a engine reving up and Mario saying "let's a go!" on my game it sounds like a race 
 car going by and Mario says "Yahoo!".
  There are many cool characters and the newest R. O. B.!
  There is also a cool and awsome new feature 
 where you don't have to have other players playing with you to play mutiplayer!
  You can play multiplayer on your own!
  And there is also a cooler feature Missions!
  There 
 are many fun and challenging missions to play including the hidden one where you have to get three 
 stars on all the missions before the hidden one.
  And this is the end of my review!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow! When I got this game I didn't expect so much! I was wondering how a DS can create such a great 
 game. This is certainly the best Mario Kart and probably the best game on the DS and it maybe will 
 stay that way.
  
  Graphics- 10 out of 10- The graphics are outstanding for a Nintendo DS game. I was like WOW when 
 I first played it.
  
  Length- 9 out of 10- For most of you guys you will play this at least every week for the next 2 
 months. However this game does have a habit to "Play it out." I hate that habit. It is when you 
 play a fame one day for about 6 hours and then you don't want to play it anymore.
  
  Multi player- 8 out of 10- This game does allow other racers to use DS download play but it only 
 allows them to use 8 maps. This is a big letdown. However if more than one person has the game 
 you can all play with your copy of the game and use all the maps.
  
  Online- 6 out of 10- The online dosen't really work out because you lag horribly and usually lose 
 connection. I have amazing connection yet i lost connection 95% of the time. If you are playing 
 with your friends this is usually not a problem but even people in the same region lose connection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paalkaaran
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a great game in which you can play on wi-fi, play against CPUS, or play with up to 
 eight friends! It does not take that long to learn how to play. You can try having a balloon battle 
 or do a time trial around a track. After you beat a different type of course, you may be able to 
 unlock a new set of four courses, a new kart for a character or even rarer, unlock a new character! 
 There are 8 characters in the beginning, but four more can be unlocked. Unlike Mario Kart for the 
 Game Cube, this game can't do Double Dash so players cannot work together, but they can still have 
 a lot of fun. This game is a marvelous game and it has all the secrets to a good, fun, and very 
 cool racing game that could be played on the DS. All in all, this was a great racing game and it 
 was very enjoyable and I believe that other people would enjoy this game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryBomber5
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart ds is definitely the best racing game on the ds. It's very fun, and you will be playing 
 it for a long time.
  
  Gameplay 9.8/10 - The gameplay is superb. The game has grand prix mode, and also the new mission 
 mode. Which I think is great, because they never had mission mode in the past mario kart's. When 
 you play the game, it's a lot of fun once you get use to it. No, the items are not un-balanced, 
 so if you are truly good at the game, you will most likely win most of the time. Overall the gameplay 
 is great.
  
  Sound 9.5/10 - I don't have much to say, in racing games, sound really isn't a big deal. The music 
 is great, and the characters voices are good also. Thats really about it.
  
  Graphics 9.0/10 - Now this is a ds game, so I can't really expect much. But I was a little disappointed. 
 The characters look very blurry, and it has an ugly look to them. But on the flip-side, the courses 
 look spectacular, and overall the graphics are great. 
  
  WI-FI 9.8/10 - Lets not forget about wi-fi mode! This is probably the best feature of the game, 
 and you will love it! For a ds game to have online mode, I was very impressed. Now when I say wi-fi, 
 i'm also talking about the multiplayer mode as well. In wi-fi mode, you can race up to 4 players, 
 which isn't that much. But hey, it's better then nothing. There is also a rank system, that shows 
 all the players how much wins/losses you have so far. Also, you can create an icon & a profile 
 name to show up as you race. It's a great feature, and i'm glad they added it. You can also race 
 your friends with friend codes, and the multiplayer mode is good to. You can race up to 3 other 
 friends, and the best part is that only 1 person needs the game card! Thats about it, I wrote way 
 to much, and overall online as you see is definitely the best feature of mario kart ds.
  
  This is a must have ds game, you'll be playing this for a long time, because theres a lot to do! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessYoshi
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Many words to describe this game. Boring is not one of them, nor is dull. Fun is more like it! 
 Though I havn't done to wi-fi part of it (I don't even have a wi-fi connecter... :0) the game has 
 a brilliant single player. I have tried about all of the versions, cept for the wii (don't have 
 one yet) the aren't as good as this. I had fun unlocking all of the characters and the graphics 
 are beautiful... I could go on forever! My favorite charaters are Yoshi and Luigi. 32 courses I 
 think is plenty, and thinkingthat you can play all of these courses in 4 modes... (50cc, 10cc, 150cc, 
 150cc Mirror) That makes (Hmmm) 128 ways to race! Wish I had pictures! Well, my 10cm stak of Homework 
 isnt going to to do itself! (Well, it might if I blackmail or bribe Bower, little bro) 
  
  
  END OF REVEIW THINGO WITH NO PICTURES... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MexRoy10
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  NON STOP FUN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  you can play anywhere you want and will never get bored of it
  The missions and battles are challenging 
 and fun 
  THERE SO MUCH FUN!! ok im done with 
  now for the review 
  Graphics: 10 
  Gameplay: 10 
  Controls: 10 
  Handeling: 10 
  Online: 9.8
  
  Everything: 10 
  
  Bad: 
 online gets lagging sometimes but its cool
  
  trust me this is like a Super Smash bros. (SSB) for the DS
  ITs so fun like SSB non stop FUN!!
 
  And also this is a game for every DS Owner to get! 
  its only like $25 if you get it off ebay 
  if you weant a new one maybe $30 or $35 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ipod999
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  This is a must have game in anyones ds collection it is highly addictive and i could hardly put 
 it down when i first got it and once you have completed the game you can just pop on to Wi-Fi and 
 battle and race against people all over the world. There are loads of charaters to unlock and loads 
 of replay value. The online play is brilliant and competitive and is really fun when your freinds 
 are round because you can show off how good you are. These charaters feature from donkey kong to 
 dry bones and even to R. O. B plus some extra karts for your charaters. The online is wear mario kart 
 comes into play but you can only play against 4 poeple online which i find really bad but otherwise 
 its a really good game. The graphics are really good for the DS and the gamplay is brillliant. 
 I reckon work more on the multiplayer next time and it will be a perfect mario kart
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3A3L3O
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Been there, done that... your kidding me right!!!! This game seems exactly the same as Double Dash 
 and the 64! Come on the graphics are the same and the only diffrence is the tracks karts and multiplayer 
 which is fun. But overall it feels like the same game!!
  
  Now i defently suggest Mario Kart Wii because with the wheel it feels completely diffrent! so overall 
 i dont like this game at all i played it the decided to go play double dash on my game cube... thats 
 how stupid the game was to me.
  
  Also the specail moves are the same and gets old after a few races. finally the tracks are very 
 difficult and hard to stay on the trak.
  
  Do not buy this game buy it when its wayy old and worth nothing dont waste the money on this game
 
  
  Here goes the part where i have to rambl on on random things about the game because i need to get 
 800 words but this time i dont feel like just rambling on about random things ok i think thats 
 800 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverwind1012
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This Mario Kart was a good idea. Again, all you do is race, do missions, unlock characters, etc. 
 But this game really improves in graphics, and Wi-Fi rocks! 
  
  Characters: There are many characters that you are familar with (and one you will be shocked to 
 unlock!) but they have special stats. You first choose a character, but can change the kart. You 
 have many stats which include speed, weight, etc. These are really helpful to choose from. If you 
 like to be the one who pushes people of the course, you are the kart with lot's of weight. If you 
 are speedy, of course speed. Now there are many characters to choose from, so you shouldn't have 
 a problem with "not enough characters"
  
  Racing: Racing isn't so much difficult. It depends how you play the game (as I've said speed, weight, 
 etc) Other than that it also depends on the course you are playing on, weither it be a snowy course 
 or a rainy course, you can be easier on those. So what I mean is racing can be easy or hard, depending 
 on what character and course you play on.
  
  Items/weapons: This is a classic. You find a mystery box, and it chooses a random item. You have 
 items like shells, bananas, bombs, etc. They all have special abilities. Like the red shell can 
 shoot a target 100% and they spin out of control a little, you have a banana which you can shoot 
 in the front, or set it so someone races across it, making them spin out of control again (like 
 a mime) and a bomb you shoot in front, causing an explosion that sends 1+ racers flying. So items 
 and weapons help you across the way!
  
  Missions: Oh yeah, the missions! These missions can be extremly hard or easy, depending if you 
 are good at it/what level you are on. There are many missions you have to complete to get new characters, 
 karts, etc. These missions can be very fun, though, so don't worry about them!
  
  WI-FI!!!: Wi-Fi is the best feature of all! You can use wi-fi to battle friends (you have to exchange 
 friend code's first) or anyone across the world! You can show of how great you are using wi-fi, 
 and that's what this game aims for :)
  
  This game is awesome, you should really get it. If you are a Mario Kart lover, consider this to 
 be in your top ten games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DK_47
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is probably the best Mario Kart game, next to MKWii. It has great graphics, entertaining 
 gameplay, online multiplayer, and great tracks. 
  The game has tons of karts and characters with different stat and advantages, much like Smash Bros. 
 games, so that anyone can find their favorite in a hurry.
  The games tracks are fun and memorable, and for the first time, we can replay tracks from our old 
 systems! The classic cups consist of 4 cups, each with one memorable track from each of the previous 
 MKs.
  The only issue with Mario Kart DS is the online multiplayer. Well, actually, the players. You wont 
 usually find it worth your time as a casual player to LOSE EVERY SINGLE RACE. You beat all the 
 Grand Prix modes; BIG WHOOP! These are no CPUs, and unless your extremely talented at drifting 
 and powerboosting, you wont find it worth the time to play strangers. Stick to local play or friends 
 over wifi. 
  Past the cruel online players, MKDS is a great game that every DS owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icym
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  This version of Mario Kart for the DS is quite possibly the best version out there to play. While 
 the older Mario Karts were great in your living room, there is nothing like playing with others 
 just about anywhere you want.
  
  Everything from the older versions have been grabbed and improved for you to play. The best maps 
 have been ported over for 32 tracks and the characters are the same with an amazing amount to choose 
 from with the karts. Many start racing in the slower 50cc class, but once you've mastered and unlocked 
 there, you'll never leave the 150cc class. The fun with items are just great with shells, bombs, 
 and mushrooms. The driving itself is such fun and easy, just enough real world physics. 
  
  In the end, you'll love playing Mario Kart on your own, but given the opportunity to play with 
 others you certainly will. With so many people with DS systems, and likely MK too, you'll find 
 many people, young and old ready to race you. Its a definite, must have in any DS collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngebreadman
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  This game is quite a disappointment considering the hype but is still a good play if you really 
 like racing games or Mario, but otherwise it isn't particularly amazing.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  Not particularly fantastic. There are two main areas to the game. These are 
 Time trial and Grand Prix. In time trial you are aiming to set as low a time as possible, pretty 
 self explanatory to anyone who has ever played a racing game. In grand prix you are put through 
 four races and you have to collect points to win the grand prix. The racing itself is quite fun 
 but shallow and incredibly easy. Without a doubt the easiest game ever. You drive the car using 
 the a button and can collect pick ups by driving into boxes. These are either tools such as speed 
 boosts, or weapons such as red shells. These are help and hindrances. They can help you overtake 
 people, but when they are used on you, you can go from first to last easy. The game has no lag 
 though and runs smoothly. If this game wasn't so pathetically easy and simple I would rate the 
 gameplay higher. 
  Wi-fi play is also good and it is easy to find players without lag. The best part of the game as 
 you can have fun with some competition. 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Very good for the NDS. It features the race on the top of the screen where you control the car, 
 and on the bottom there is a map of the track where you can see where your opponents are and where 
 items such as boxes or banana skins are. The graphics are better than N64 and it works well in 
 3D but isn't the sharpest graphics ever.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  The music is ok, but the songs don't vary much and are way too happy for my liking. Sound effects 
 are also boring and you will hear the same ones over and over. I prefer to have the volume off 
 when I play this.
  
  Lifespan: depends. If you only want to play single player, then maybe 5 -10 hours. If you go on 
 to wi-fi then maybe 10-20.
  
  Overall: 7/10. If you like games like this then you are much better off playing the PSPs Wipeout 
 Pure/Pulse. A decent game but too overhyped. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendofmario5
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The formula that Nintendo has decided to do with Mario Kart is: Wi-fi play+32 New courses+16 courses 
 you'd recognize from previous games+ New Mission Mode+High staying power= Mario Kart DS. Seriously, 
 this game rocks. Nintendo has finally decided to use Online play when it wasn't on Mario Kart: 
 Double Dash, or on any other Mario Kart Franchises. With over 8 characters availible, this game 
 also has plenty of bonus features. You now have the new Mission mode that pits you with a certain 
 racer having to complete a certain objective under a certain period of time. You also get the typical 
 Grand Prix mode also with Time Trial, Battle Mode, and most importantly, Multiplayer Mode. You 
 don't need to have a copy of Mario Kart DS, but it's certainately better to have one as you can 
 choose any of the characters or karts you've unlocked in single player mode. If you're looking 
 for a solid racing game, look no further. This is the superior racing game on the DS. Buy it, and 
 have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbyethumbs
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  So what's there to say about Mario Kart DS that hasn't been said before? considering that the player 
 review mark is well passed the 1000 mark, not much. There are more reviews for this game than for 
 games like Final Fantasy VII & Halo! and the percentage people who said it was less than "Good" 
 in the ratings wasn't even 2%.
  
  However, i'm going to ramble on anyway because it has to be said, however many times, this game 
 is great. Worth a buy for anyone who owns a DS, whether you like it or not depends on the individuals 
 taste, but just because some people wouldn't like the game DOES NOT MEAN it is a bad game.
  
  The Graphics; Not breath taking, but certainly good. Considering the amount going on on screen 
 i have yet to see a single jolt in the frame rate, even online this game maintains excellent visual 
 quality without a struggle.
  
  The Sound; No problems there. Crystal clear as far as i'm concerned. I never get tired of hearing 
 mario shout "HooHoooooooooooooo!" either.
  
  The Controls; Virtually no need for the stylus with MKDS. Simple control system. A to go, B to 
 stop, D-pad to turn. Then you've got the other stuff, R-trigger to jump/slide, Y button for the 
 map, and the X button or L-trigger to open up a can of Whoop-Ass whenever you pick up a weapon. 
 It's easy peasy!
  
  The Online & Multiplayer; OK i feel like the anti-christ for saying that i don't like the online 
 racing, i would do if it wasn't for all the "Snaking" other players seem to do. Yes i know it's 
 not technically cheating, but it's certainly maintaining an unfair advantage to other players. 
 I think i'll stick to a Moral Victory over Snaking Victory. If it wasn't for all the Snaking i 
 would say the online doesn't miss a beat, but for now, it's not the best.
  
  A Final Note According to the Guiness World Records-Gamers Edition book, MKDS is "the best selling 
 hand-held racing game" to date. If a game holds a world record like that isn't it worth a look?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  
  Besides for Mario's main platforming adventures, the most recent being Super Mario Galaxy, Mario's 
 best sports-take would be his very own racing titles: the Mario Kart franchise. The latest Mario 
 Kart title (not including Mario Kart Wii) is Mario Kart DS, and you guessed it; it's on the Nintendo 
 DS platform. Nintendo does a fine job of bringing their best racing franchise onto another handheld, 
 but how does it compare?
  
  When you start the game you will be greeted with a nice picture of Mario... jumping in his Kart 
 (not into his kart, but actually jumping while inside the kart) . Anyways, the karts themselves 
 look nice, especially when you're choosing which kart to go into in the Grand Prix mode. You can 
 easily find yourself killing time just to marvel at all the character's specific karts. However, 
 the characters just seems very bulky compared to their rides. Mario's hat should not be so pointy 
 and his fist should not be a square, but what can we expect from the Nintendo DS graphic-wise. 
 Also the big characters, Donkey Kong and Bowser, look rushed and not as polished as the others. 
 In my opinion Yoshi is the best looking character, but that's not important. When you actually 
 start racing though, none of that will matter as both the characters and the kart look very smooth. 
 However, the courses are often very pixelated, whether you're going full speed or just looking 
 around. You shouldn't even be stopping to look at the scenery seeing how it is a racing game.
 
  
  Does anybody remember Super Mario Bros.? Well, the people who composed SMB has also composed for 
 this game as well. Sound is one of Nintendo's specialties right next to gameplay and it doesn't 
 disappoint. The music is elegantly composed. The whole tune, including the menu, has a very Mario 
 Kart-vibe. The music isn't the only great thing about Mario Kart DS, but the overall sound is done 
 quite well. From Mario's "Here we go!" to Yoshi's "Ha-Hoo", the voice overs are spot on, though 
 we only really hear them when you use or get hit by an item. Speaking of items, their sounds entertain 
 as well. Even the banana's 'sploot' sounds funny. However, my favorite item sound is the blue shell. 
 It sounds like a bomb is about to hit you (and it does) . Before it hits you, you can hear the whistling, 
 a sign that it is coming for you and then suddenly an explosion erupts.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, it is your standard racing game, with of course the Mario twist. The objective 
 of each race is to finish each course, with a total of three laps, and try to get past the finish 
 line in first place. The thing that separates Mario Kart from all of the other racing games is 
 the idea of items. Within the courses there will usually be more than opportune times to see a 
 floating rainbow box. These rainbow boxes contain one of many different kinds of items. Mario Kart 
 DS also brings some new items to the table such as Bullet Bill and the Octopus' Ink Cover. In the 
 Grand Prix mode, you have the choice of choosing 1 of 3 difficulties, 50cc, 100 cc, and 150cc. 
 You can also unlock a 150cc Mirror mode, where all of the courses are flipped horizontally. The 
 Battle mode also makes a return where you control a character and try to pop each player's 3 balloons 
 or stealing them. In battle mode you can also play the Shine Runners, in which you try to collect 
 the most Shine Sprites. After the time runs out the person with the most shine sprites wins. A 
 new feature in Mario Kart DS is the mission mode, where they give you an objective that you must 
 complete. Snaking is also persistent in this this game. Snaking is essentially where you perform 
 drifts to get a turbo. The controls are simple. A to accelerate forward and B to do the reverse. 
 The R button causes you to drift and to snake repeatedly presses Left, Right, Left, Right on the D-Pad 
 and then release the R Button. To use an item press the L button. Very, very simple controls.
 
  
  With this many features, you'll be finding yourself stick your Mario Kart DS cartridge into the 
 DS every now and then. With the four Grand Prix options (50cc, 100cc,150cc, & 150 Mirror cc) , the 
 battle modes, and mission modes all in one cartridge you can find yourself playing this by yourself. 
 If you have friends over with a ds and mario kart cartridge of their own, You can race with your 
 friends and battle and everything the single player options let you do (except for Mission Mode) . 
 If you friend has a DS, but not a Mario Kart , DS game, you can use the DS download play feature 
 to do the exact same thing that you can do if they do have the game. The only thing that you cant 
 do if you use DS Download play is that anybody who downloads it cannot choose their characters 
 and are automatically Shyguys. Also, Mario Kart DS is the 1st DS game to implement Wi-Fi features 
 so you can battle and race with anybody online. You'll come back to this game over and over again.
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics: [8/10]
  Sound: [8.5/10]
  Gameplay: [8/10]
  Controls: [8/10]
  Replay Value: [9/10]
 
  Overall: 8.3
  
  Wiiniis-United. co. nr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfclee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  when i bought this game in early 2007 i began to play and was instantly addicted i never wanted 
 to stop playing this game was an instant classic for me and the way it uses the different characters 
 from all the different mario games makes it better as you have the chance to play as bad guys and 
 good guys. with all the different game modes in this game it is nearly impossible to get bored, 
 with the iniciative levels on the game and the different trophies and classes it is a great game 
 for people of all ages.
  mario has once again succeeded in being a brilliant game host and he knows how to rock the nintendo 
 it is a great game for everyone and i recomend it to all people who love and hate mario.
  a 9.5 out of 10 as it just misses the mark of a full 100% as it can get annoyingly hard at times 
 but overall it is a must have in your collection.
  a** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  First, the difficulty there really is no set difficulty on Mario Kart DS because Wi-Fi makes it 
 every single rating.
  A racing expierence like no other. It has fun crazy cars and a great deal of the characters from 
 the Mario universe. This game was what really got me hooked on the DS. It was fun, plain and simple. 
 It combined Mario with karting (again) while adding new items, tracks, and cars. (while also getting 
 rid of the disliked double kart double team thing) . While it does have a neat well "story" mode 
 the most fun will always come from wireless and Wi-Fi. This is where the game really shines, being 
 able to race anyone, anywhere, at (almost) anytime is fun. Don't really totally bother with cheap 
 knock-offs like Cocoto Kart Racer and the fun, but not as awesome Diddy Kong Racing. If you have 
 a DS, then you need to have this game. While it's amazing in everything, if you think seeing your 
 oppoents get blue shelled seconds from the finish line, then blow right past them to win then this 
 is the game for you. My only complaint about Mario Kart DS is.... Blue shells the only thing good 
 about them, is that they remind you that you are in first and who ever shot it is not. Mario Kart 
 DS brings home everything to love about Mario Kart racing, until Mario Kart Wii comes out this 
 April. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkjak95
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  This is a good alternative to playing need for speed. good graphics awesome gameplay and online 
 play! This has a great single player, having missions, specific objectives that must be completed. 
 grand prix 8 cups 4 difficulties. time trials, try to beat the best times set by you, a freind by 
 sending a ghost to their game or the staff times. vs a normal race whatever track. battle shine 
 runners, collect as many stars as you can before your opponents. or balloon battle pop all of your 
 opponents balloons with items. The single card is pretty good considering its single card. the 
 players who don't have the game are shyguys up to 8 courses are available aswell balloon battle 
 and shine runners. i havent played single card so i don't know anything about it . there is also 
 wi-fi ! make your own emblem for your kart to personalize the karts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waz-za
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  uhhh its gd but the computers r far 2 easy and ppl on wi-fi quit but wen they dont its gr8 uhhh 
 32 tracks is a gd number but maybe they could have made the computers harder they were far 2 easy... 
 and thats about it.... i just lyk saying the bad things about games but ye it was good overall 
 lots of things 2 do 2 keep u  
 (btw im just putting these dots in so that i can post it cos im not gonna put anything else  
 ummmm well uhhh uhhh uhhhh uhhh uhuhuh uhuh uhuh uhuh uhuh uhuh thats should do it : ) omg cmon 
 i want 2 post this its still not working but seriously theres not exacly that much 2 say unless 
 ur goin into gr8 detail which im not going 2 -.- ok that should do it (goes to submit it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbb_haller
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Its a step up from the 64 version and GC version. U can play on wi-fi. There 
 are tons of playable characters. The stages both old and new are fun to play on. There is also 
 battle mode where u can play two modes. In shine runnners, u go around stealing shines from eachother. 
 In baloon battle, u try and pop the rivals baloons by using items. My favorite is the mission mode. there 
 are 7 levels. playing race challenges and other coin challenges, etc. is what u do. Then there 
 is a boss after each series of challenges. My favorite boss is King Boo. In time trials, the nintendo 
 people have times on the tracks, and u have to try and beat them. you can create ur own emblem 
 to put on ur kart, also. it shows up on wi-fi. I gave this game a 10 because it is really fun, 
 and a great multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePimpEdwin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome in every aspect! This is obviusly a racing game and there are lots of chooseable 
 carts to pick from with a total of 12 players there are weapons in the game which make racing less 
 dull and it's even more fun playing with others the game offers 8 player local gaming with single 
 card however you can only pick from 8 places from the 32 tracks there are and that was the good 
 and the songs are pretty cool and they bring back the levels from th the mariokarts from the gamboy 
 advance, gamecube, SNES, N64 for old school gamers!
  The game can only play 4 players online not that that's a bad thing but you should be able to play 
 with 8 it doesn't have voice chat which is bad eventually after beating it itwill seem somewhat 
 boring but then if your'e 1 of the people who don't think so for me it is
  all in all, a great addition to the mariokart franchise it's a fun game to play andit get's extremely 
 competitive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo234
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is one of Nintendo's famous titles, so the DS version should have a lot to live up to, 
 and it lives up to it's name fine. This is definitetly one of the must buys for all DS owners. 
 As always you can race with all of the famous Nintendo characters, and also some of the less famous 
 ones. It differs from other racing games in the fact that you don't have to be that fast to win 
 the race, you can always knock your opponents away from 1st place with a few power ups. Also now 
 that you have a map on the touch screen it is easy to drive even when you get oil squirted in you 
 face (I don't know what the squid squirts at you) . The game gets progressively harder, but the 
 harder it gets the more karts you unlock and you will always be just good enough to beat the CPU 
 in the overall tournament, unless you really do muck up, which isn't all that hard actually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawel_9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome and easily the one of the best Mario games there are for the DS. This game 
 has Wi-Fi.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is solid. I like the attacks and the powers-ups like the mushroom and the 
 blue koopa shell. The controls are pretty easy and the game is lots of fun. You can also do battle 
 mode where you can play two different battles, with friends, or against the computer. These battles 
 are Ballon Battle and Shine Runners
  
  Graphics: Nice graphics for a DS game.
  
  DS Download Play: I enjoy playing Mario Kart DS with my friends. Whenever I play, my friends bring 
 surprises like shooting a red koopa shell on the last lap when I am a metre away from the finish 
 line and about to be first. Instead of being first, I am last. I really like playing with my friends 
 and you will too.
  
  If you like Mario games, add this game to your collection and if not, give it a try because you 
 might like it after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antthetitch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I've never owned any of the previous mario kart titles so I really didn't know what to expect. 
 Being a fan of mario games I was keen on getting this, especially when I read a lot of positive 
 reviews for it. So I got it and I'm very glad I did.
  
  The gameplay is awesome, 32 different tracks split into 8 cups, four of which are new, four of 
 which are remakes of tracks from the previous kart games. All the tracks are great fun to race 
 in and the graphics and detail are awesome. Theres also a great variety of characters and karts 
 to choose from. 
  
  There are 3 different difficulties in the grand prix, meaning you have to play the same 32 tracks 
 three times to unlock everything in the game but thats hardly a problem as the the game is so fun 
 you'd want to play it again anyway.
  
  Theres also mission mode, which despite being hard in some areas, is actually quite fun and gives 
 you a useful break from the racing. 
  
  But the best thing about this game is the multiplayer, you plan play with up to 8 players and only 
 1 of you need the cartridge so as long as everyone else has a DS is easy to have a great multiplayer 
 race. It's even got online play, although I never actually tried that out so I can't really comment 
 but it definately sounds cool.
  
  This is a brilliant game that I'd easily recommend to any owner of a DS, especially fans of Mario 
 or racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toriphilewill
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  This review is going to sound like white noise among the other praise reviews, but that is O. K. 
 I was bummed out after Mario Kart for the GameCube. Battle was horrible, tracks were blah.
  
  Here comes Mario Kart for the DS. Bringing back old battle maps, especially my favorite Block 
 Fort. Has a ton of retro courses, and some amazing new courses (both battle and GP) . What is better 
 than 4 player battle? 8 player battle! 
  
  Online play is fun, that is until you play against a cheater. I stopped playing online against 
 non-friends for that reason alone. 
  
  As with many Nintendo franchise games, there isn't much new here. This game is the same format 
 as Mario Kart 64. I happen to be a fan of the series; so my expectations are very high when a new 
 Mario Kart game is released. 
  
  I would give this a 9.3, but gamespot only allows 0.5 intervals. 
  
  
  One of the few games 
 worth of a 9.5 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troop01
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  what a great game! when im going on a trip or a place where i might get bored. i just bring this 
 bad boy with me and play it. time flys by so much fast. this is the best game outta the rest of 
 the series. other than double dash where you had two people on the cart, this one beats everything 
 else. great new tracks plus the later ones in the n64, gc, and gb advance. Ive always beatin my 
 friends in this game. theres very few that i have met that can beat me. i love getting on wifi 
 and playing around the world. it gives me a challenge and lets my true gameing skills come out. 
 ive gotten so many of my friends to buy this game. we have huge multibattles and races. it brings 
 back memories of the older games. if you own a ds, you gotta get this game. its by far one of the 
 top games for the ds. if you like mario, and you like racing, this is the game for you. maybe you'll 
 get as good as me. haha. GO GET IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Leading up to its release, Mario Kart DS truly did represent everything that DS gamers could possibly 
 want. In addition to simply having a new Mario Kart game, which is always a good thing, it also 
 sported fantastic hand held graphics and, most exciting of all, online multiplayer! I was slightly 
 skeptical, though -- I was sorely disappointed by Double Dash -- but I must admit that I was pleasantly 
 surprised once I powered up Mario Kart DS.
  
  What you'll notice first upon turning on Mario Kart DS is the jaw-dropping graphics. Despite the 
 fact that it was released nearly two years ago, it still stands up there as among the most graphically 
 impressive games on the DS. Everything runs smooth, environments are crisp and detailed, and items 
 (and explosions) look fantastic. When you place Mario Kart DS alongside the latest handheld Mario 
 Kart game (Super Circuit, for the GBA) , you may very well laugh out loud. The difference is astounding, 
 and while I believe that graphics are never a make-or-break point of a game, there's no denying 
 that the fantastic visuals in Mario Kart DS make it that much more enjoyable to play.
  
  One of the reasons that the graphics in Mario Kart DS are so effective is because there's such 
 a wide variety of courses. As you progress through the game, you'll race through haunted mansions, 
 sunny beaches, and gloomy castles. This wide variety of courses in and of itself is quite a feat, 
 and once you consider the fact that on each and every level the graphical quality is astounding, 
 you may begin to understand why Mario Kart DS is such an incredibly done game.
  
  If you've ever played a Mario Kart game before, then you already have a very good idea of how Mario 
 Kart DS is going to play out. At first, only a few races are open to you, on a low difficulty level. 
 However, as you win races, you'll slowly open up more races, more characters, and more difficultly 
 levels.
  
  One rather cool feature that Mario Kart DS sports is that there are two different themes of races: 
 the new stuff, that every Mario Kart needs, but also a ton of retro courses. There are eight cups 
 total in the game; four of them feature all new courses, but the other four feature popular courses 
 from previously released games. Each Retro Cup, as they're called, includes one course each from 
 the SNES, N64, GBA, and GameCube iterations of the Mario Kart franchise.
  
  Unlike many racing games, the focus of Mario Kart is not entirely centered around racing. Of course, 
 going fast is going to help you win, but items play an equally important -- if not even more important 
 -- role in crossing the finish line first. The DS iteration of the popular franchise includes many 
 classic items, such as red shells, blue shells, and bananas, but also includes some new additions, 
 such as Bullet Bill, which will transform you into a high-speed cannon bullet, and the triple mushroom, 
 which provides you with three of the speed-bursting fungi.
  
  The fun of Mario Kart DS comes not entirely from the racing aspect of the game, but more of the 
 battle-like focus of the game. As I've mentioned, making nice turns and avoiding obstacles is going 
 to be important, but you also need to be able to strategize with your items. Try leaving three 
 bananas around a tight corner, or pick off your opponents one by one with triple red shells. Not 
 only does this require some strategy in the game, but it also allows you to customize your game 
 play style to help cater to your gaming strengths.
  
  Another huge customizable aspect of Mario Kart DS is the character which you choose to use. A number 
 of characters from the Mario universe are playable; classics like Toad, Peach, and Luigi make appearances, 
 as well as newcomers, such as Dry Bones. Each character is highly specialized -- there are a number 
 of different racing stats, such as weight, handling, acceleration, and item quality. Each potential 
 karter has individual, specific stats, further allowing you to play to your strengths. Like to 
 be able to make turns easy and drive over rough terrain without slowdown? Try a light-weight racer. 
 Or do you prefer being able to bump people off the course? Try a heavier karter.
  
  In the tradition of just about every Mario game ever created, the music in Mario Kart DS is great. 
 There's a unique soundtrack for every different course in the game, and the vast majority of the 
 music is great. There are a few duds, as might be expected, but for the most part, the music and 
 sound effects do a wonderful job complementing the atmosphere of the course on which you're racing.
 
  
  Mario Kart DS does a wonderful job of going beyond mere single player gaming. One of the most interesting 
 additions to Mario Kart DS is what is called Mission Mode. In this mode, you essentially have to 
 complete a given task, on a given course, with a given character. There are 7 "worlds" (plus an 
 eighth for people who do particularly well on every other stage) , with 8 levels within each "world". 
 While it's not particularly difficult, it is a really great way to occupy your time, and is a really 
 neat twist on the Mario Kart franchise.
  
  Much to the delight of Mario Kart fans everywhere, Mario Kart DS sports some really great multiplayer. 
 There is single-card download play, but if you're looking for a real multiplayer experience, you'll 
 either need to play with your friends that have their own copy of the game, or you'll have to hook 
 up a router and get some WiFi action going. Download play is decent, at best, but multi-card play 
 is fantastic. Every course in the game is available for you to play, and it's a real blast being 
 able to play up to eight of your friends in any race you want.
  
  WiFi, while flawed in areas, is also a lot of fun. One of my biggest gripes with the WiFi mode 
 is that not every course is available to race in -- a lot of my favorites aren't on the WiFi list, 
 so I feel a bit discouraged when considering hooking up to the internet. Still, though, it's fantastic 
 to be able to play up to three different people anywhere in the world, whenever you want. As with 
 most online games, there are plenty of cheaters, hackers, and disconnecters -- however, if you 
 can overlook these people and enjoy the good races that you get, you're sure to be satisfied.
 
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is, quite simply, a gem. It runs beautifully, there's tons of customization, 
 and it's lots of fun devising a strategy to beat both computers and live players. As the Nintendo 
 DS's first foray into the world of online gaming, it has certainly set the bar high. Races are 
 intense, fun, and annoyingly addictive. There's tons of replay value, ensuring that you're definitely 
 getting your money's worth, tons of characters, ensuring that you can play just how you want to, 
 and tons of people all around the world just waiting to play you. So go ahead, pick up a copy of 
 Mario Kart DS, if you don't already own it -- you won't regret your purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargeMan1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Face it. Mario Kart DS is the best Mario Kart ever and the best racing game 
  
  Gameplay-9.5: Mario Kart DS goes back to it roots and I'm actually happy. This in my opinion is 
 the best Mario Kart since Mario Kart 64. There is tons of stuff to do. 
  
  Graphics-9.5: The player models look blocky but every thing else is amazing. The N64 courses look 
 even better than Mario Kart 64. The GC courses look very close to Mario Kart Double Dash!.
  
  Sound-10: The music for both the new courses and old courses are easily the best music I've 
 hard in a Mario Kart game.
  
  Value-10: Mario Kart games were always short. This one however is not. Play the game to see why.
 
  
  Overall-9.5: Fans of Mario will surely be pleased.
  
  Pros: amazing gameplay, stunning graphics, awesome music, online play, so much to do
  
  Cons: 
 150cc mode is really hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been the king of the kart racing genre. Its always featured the creativity, 
 speed, and overall addictive gameplay that sets it apart from all the other kart games that clearly 
 rip it off. And the Nintendo ds addition to Mario Kart is nothing short of awesome! You get plenty 
 of tracks new and old to play on. All your favorite characters (including one surprise) , and to 
 top it off - online multiplayer! Yes ladies and gentlemen, this is Mario Kart's finest installment. 
 For a Nintendo ds game, the graphics are quite nice, Mario and his pals look just as good as they 
 do on the consoles and the tracks (especially the new ones) look very nice. Most of the new tracks 
 are nice to play on, although some of the "classic" (not all of them are) are quite boring and 
 not exciting to play on. You can play in circuit mode with three different kart speeds, as well 
 as a mission mode, free-race mode, and battle mode, which is plenty of game to keep you busy for 
 weeks. But once you've finished them all, or just want something different, you can race friends 
 (and rivals) over Nintendo's (new at the time) Wi-fi Connection. (WFC) All of matches are lag free 
 and fun, although there are a few draw-backs. You can only do a standard race mode with 4 players, 
 (instead of 8 in single-player) , you can only race with the 50cc karts (the slowest tier) , you 
 can only play on select tracks, and joining matches can take a long time. (Keep a book handy.) 
 Other than that, online play is solid and addictive. Mario Kart is a perfect purchase for any Nintendo, 
 Mario, Racing, or Gaming fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart for the ds is great game to buy, its keeps you from getting bored from other ds games. 
 With Mario kart ds you could play 16 new maps and 16 old favorite maps from every console that 
 it was on. The good thing about single player that is you could unlock more characters like rob, 
 dry bones and waluigi. You could also in the beginning unlock some of the new courses for the game. 
 anyways enough of talking about single player there were other things you could play with like 
 missions you could do with your kart like driving backwards, getting all the coins, driving through 
 numbered gates and defeating a boss for every level. There's about 9 levels for the missions and 
 an extra 10 level if you get all stars ranks. The multiplayer wifi can be intense cause you'll 
 press down the a button for a long time and might drift at every corner. The bad side about multiplayer 
 wifi is that there is a 4 player limit. It would be better or crazier if there was a max of eight 
 like the single player races. Mario kart also brings ghost times and ghost creator's time challenges 
 which are a waste of time for some, but other people think its fun to beat. There also a cp driven 
 battle mode which you can battle out with cps and kill their balloons to win. The neat thing is 
 you can blow in the mic to pop up more balloons, (too hard easier with hold select) . There's also 
 a star collect battle mode which is not so good. The bad thing about Mario kart is that it doesn't 
 have these battle modes for wifi action; it would be greater to play wifi if these modes were online. 
 
  
  Overall this great game is always great to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup1113
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  People hoped for a good Mario Cart after the gimick of Double Dash well this one people were disapointed 
 and some people were happy with Mario Cart DS. This game is great by some things like that they 
 got classic tracks from the NES, N64, GBA and the GC. They add custom kart for each person. The 
 worst part of the game is the CPU cheat (Glich) every second when you are in hard mode. The graphics 
 are o. k for the DS thay can improve on them. The controles are basic. Another thing bugs me is 
 when your engine fails in the middle of the race. This is the first Mario Kart that is online, it 
 not fun online when people use Action Replay! They add a good amount os players to race with which 
 will keab you playing it for a while which is great. Well the Game is great and all but the createors 
 need the fix the Gliches and get rid of the blue shells! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracometeoslash
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The original N64 smash hit game is back! And now with new characters, all the old and some new 
 tracks, and more characters, it's the game everyone's talking about!
  I bought this game after my friend suggested it to me with the words, "amazing", "must-have", and 
 "so fun!". I finally got the game and realized that it lived up to its hype. You start by racing 
 on Grand Prix where you can unlock new characters and karts if you win gold cups. I have found 
 myself absorbed into this game even after two hours of the purchase. The graphics are totally realistic 
 and after awhile of the headphone surround-sound, you even forget that you're at home! You hear 
 the engines and the occasional blasting bombs. Where else can you use turtle shells or even transform 
 into a rocket and speed to victory? This is one of Nintendo's greatest achievements yet. There 
 are also multiplayer options so you can play with people over wi-fi or with people who don't have 
 the cartridge on a local network. Buying this will not be a mistake. Nintendo really went all the 
 way this time. Good job, Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Mario Kart game ever made. With a ton of courses, incredible graphics, 
 and ONLINE PLAY, there is no reason not to buy it. It does indeed have flaws but that should not 
 be much of a problem. So without further ado, lets go in-depth.
  
  GRAPHICS 10/10
  
  Okay compared to consoles, these graphics suck. But this is a handheld with last-gen graphics which 
 is incredible. This game has the best 3-D graphics so far on the DS. They never slow down either. 
 The characters and cars look very good, ditto for the courses. This is obviously the least important 
 area of any game so this is not what should make you buy this game. Nope not at all. This next 
 part however is.
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  
  This is what should make you buy the game. I cannot stress enough the brilliance of the course 
 design. The new courses at least. The retro ones are kinda meh, but they are still classic, being 
 changed very little. (But the cool shortcut from Yoshi Circuit (Double Dash!!) is gone!!!) But 
 back to the new courses, there are 16. Which is what you get in all Mario Kart games. Then there 
 is the 16 retro courses, making this the most massive Mario Kart game to date. Of the new courses, 
 several are VERY memorable. Like Waluigi Pinball, (A giant pinball table) Wario Stadium, (A massive 
 dirt track) and Rainbow Road. (LOOP THE LOOPS!!!!! Nuf' said) Then there is the awesomely addictive 
 Mission Mode, very fun, very challenging. (I still can't unlock the 7th set of missions) And of 
 course there is the battle mode. Gone is the junktastic battle mode from Double Dash!! and there 
 now is a battle mode similar to the one from Mario Kart 64. They even brought back Block Fort. 
 There is also a new team option in battle. The coolest thing about battle though, is that if you 
 play balloon battle (pop your opponent's balloons) you inflate the balloons by blowing into the 
 mic. Then there is the Nintendo WFC (Wi-Fi connection) but that will be talked about later. Truly 
 gameplay is where MKDS shines.
  
  MUSIC 9/10
  
  Nothing out of the ordinary here. Just what you'd expect from a Mario game. And that's a good thing, 
 and by itself insures this an 8/10. Why does this get a whole point higher you ask? Well the Mario 
 Kart theme. It has been given an AWESOME jazzy remix, that causes me to wait on the title screen 
 for several seconds just to hear the beginning. (the best part)
  
  SOUND 8/10
  
  This is rather good, especially the engines. The spiney shell makes an awesome noise too as it 
 swoops in to nab you. The karts colliding is good too. However the voices are somewhat unclear 
 sometimes. Fairly decent sound.
  
  MULTIPLAYER 9/10
  
  This is what the Mario Kart franchise is all about. Multiplayer Mayhem. The vs. mode is good because 
 you can play it with anyone who has a DS regardless of if they have MKDS or not. But there is a 
 catch. You can only do the first four new courses and the first four retro courses. If your friend 
 has MKDS however you get unlimited access. The only problem with the LAN vs. mode is that your 
 friend must have a DS. This causes serious problems for me, because none of my friends have a handheld 
 system newer than a Game Boy Colour! My sister however does have a DS, but is no good at playing 
 anything that isn't a basic RPG or a simulation game. So for me the vs. mode sucks. But if you 
 have friends that are equipped with the best handheld system ever (DS) you are going to have a 
 TON of fun. The battle mode is also extremely good, boasting 8 battle areas that are all quite 
 imaginative and equally fun to battle on. Some are new some are retro, (BLOCK FORT!!!) and its 
 a blast to play. There are two different modes to play. Balloon Battle and Shine Runners. Balloon 
 Battle is the basic Mario Kart battle mode, with a slight twist. You have 5 balloons. But you only 
 start with one inflated. To inflate more you blow into the mic. You can have a total of three balloons 
 inflated at one time. With Shine Runners, several shines appear around the stage you are battling 
 on. (I find the best one to play this on is Twilight House, because of its maze of rooms) There 
 is a clock ticking down at the top of the screen. Whoever has the least shines when the time runs 
 out loses. Then the time starts ticking down again until there is only one person left. You can 
 steal shines from other players too. Another large difference in multiplayer battle (and vs.) is 
 that 8 players can play at once. None of this 4 player stuff with the console games. 8 players. 
 Another thing about battle mode is that you can also play team battle for a real twist. Multiplayer 
 is awesome but somewhat suffers from the fact that you need to know others who have DS's. But thats 
 what the NFC was supposed to solve right?
  
  ONLINE (NFC) 8/10
  
  This is a wonderful addition to MKDS which is meant to get rid of some problems from Wireless LAN 
 play. That it does but it has its own problems. First of all, to connect to the NFC you must either 
 a) have a wireless router, or b) go to a Wi-Fi hotspot. This is not a problem for me, since I have 
 a wireless router, but most people don't seem to have one. So they have to go to a hotspot. Which 
 isn't that much of a problem if you live in the U. S. suburbs. But if you live in a rural area, 
 or downtown in a big city with parents that won't let you go anywhere, or in Canada (where I'm 
 from) , or in a lot of other places your in for some trouble. After you get connected to the NFC 
 you have four options: Worldwide, National, Rivals, and Friends. Worldwide lets you play people 
 of random skill levels all around the world. National does the same, but only within your country. 
 Friends pairs you up with your friends who are playing online. (Q: How can I get the friend code 
 of someone I just raced? A: You can't) These have to be real friends you actually know in the real 
 world. Rivals mode is great. This is what separates MKDS from all other online games. It puts you 
 up against people of your skill level. Very good stuff. So you chose an option and then you get 
 a screen that says its looking for opponents. This takes about 2-3 minutes. Which sucks. But when 
 the race gets started you'll be able to race on four courses without having ot wait anymore. Then 
 you pick the course (each person picks a course and it picks one randomly) and then the race starts. 
 With only four people. *sigh*. Now the biggest problem of all with NFC is that not all the courses 
 are available. Of my favourite 5 courses (Wario Stadium, Waluigi Pinball, Bowser's Castle, Peach 
 Gardens, and Tick Tock Clock) only 1 is available for play. This is just bad luck. Most courses 
 are available, just so happens my faves aren't. So you're probably reading this thinking HOW IN 
 THE HECK DID THIS SECTION GET AN 8 OUT OF 10? Well, quite simple. Despite the flaws NFC succeeds 
 in giving the game just what the Mario Kart franchise has always needed. It causes the game to 
 become better than good. It also solves the problem of unDS owning friends. You can play against 
 anyone else in the world who has the game. It is really incredible.
  
  PROS
  
  -Stellar graphics
  -Awesome Multiplayer
  -ONLINE
  
  CONS
  
  -Some problems with playing 
 wireless LAN and on the NFC
  
  BOTTOM LINE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ray_c7
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
  
  I LLLOOOVVEEE THIS GAME ITS SOOOOOOOOOOOO0000 AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME!
  AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! 
 AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME! AWSOME ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erkidu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  -Overview-
  
  Everyone is at least a little familiar with the Mario Kart franchise. Choosing from a variety of 
 classic Nintendo characters, you then jump on your own kart and try your best to cross the finish 
 line first. You have many tools at your disposal, such as speed boosting mushrooms and kart crushing 
 shells - which all culminate in joyous chaos.
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  The high point of any Nintendo franchise, the gameplay does not dissapoint in Mario Kart DS, for 
 the most part. My only gripe with the game is the inclusion of "snaking", or the ability to give 
 yourself a speed boost by triggering a drift using one of the shoulder buttons. On paper, it sounds 
 like a great idea - and it really isn't Nintendo's fault, but it's very difficult to enjoy a WiFi 
 race when the same person wins continuously by snaking his way past everybody else. As a result, 
 you actually have to snake to prove a formidable opponent online. This detracts from the replay 
 value greatly - but is a small complaint, and is overshadowed by the rest of the game.
  
  -Graphics-
  
  Very aesthetically pleasing and technically impressive for a first-generation 
 DS title. The tracks and characters are very colorful, and the animation is top-notch.
  
  -Sound-
  
  Outstanding music and sound effects all around. The music is track-specific and 
 entirely appropriate. The sound effects are equally appropriate and convincing.
  
  -Presentation-
  
  The navigation menus are fantastic and easy to navigate, and the WiFi functionality 
 is user-friendly, even for those with little or no experience in online gaming.
  
  -Value-
  
  The single-player mode alone is worth the price, and the online and local multiplayer 
 functionality only adds icing to the cake. Mario Kart DS is chocked full of initial content, as 
 well as a plethora of unlockable racers, karts and tracks. An outstanding value all around.
  
  
  -Overall-
  
  Mario Kart DS is a must for series veterans and newcomers alike. If you 
 own a DS - you should buy this game immediately, as it will, without a doubt, provide hours and 
 hours of continuous entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun832
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the greatest DS games ever made. With new modes and old favourites, this 
 is a must buy for fans of Mario Kart.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Many modes return such as Grand Prix and the Balloon Battle.
  The Grand Prix is about the same 
 as the first 4. You have 4 cups with 4 tracks each. The higher you place on a track the more points 
 you get. Whoever has the most points after the 4th track wins.
  The Balloon Battle is almost the same as the other ones where you shoot each other the burst all 
 of their balloons. Now you start with one inflated and 4 uninflated. You blow in the microphone 
 to inflate one or hold down select.
  In Mario Kart DS there is a new mode called mission mode. There are 6 worlds with 8 levels and 
 a boss in each. On each level you have to do a goal like eg. Break all item boxes or go through 
 all the gates.
  The VS mode also makes a return with a new option. You can split into 2 teams of 4.
  A feature 
 in this game is the ability to create an emblem to put on your karts and as an avatar when you 
 are online.
  The design of some levels are really unique. eg. A giant pinball machine. And, of course, there 
 is another Rainbow Road!
  The game uses both screens because the game is played on the top and the map is played on the bottom.
 
  Some items make a return such as the classic shells and bananas. 
  A new feature for each character is that there are multiple cars for each person with different 
 stats.
  In this game 16 tracks from the previous Mario Kart games are put in and called the Retro Cup.
 
  A problem with online racing though is that is the only thing you can do online. Just race.
  On an item called the Blooper with turns some parts of the screen black, the effect is ruined when 
 versing other people because you can easily see where you are by looking at the map.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are pretty much great except for the fact that some items don't seem 
 3D and it looks flat in some places.
  
  Sound: 
  
  This game has some nice music, sound effects and voices.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  With the mission 
 mode and online multiplayer and unlockables you will keep playing this game for ages!
  
  Final Note:
  
  This is a great game if your a fan of the Mario Kart series and a must have 
 if you have a DS.
  
  
  Scores:
  
  Gameplay - 8/10
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 9/10
  Replay - 8/10
  Overall - 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koyotecat56
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I you have ever thought about getting a racing game and you have a Nintendo DS then buy this. This 
 game is extremely unique in every way. I compared this to a lot of other racing games and I always 
 thought this was so much better. graphics wise this game is stellar for the DS. Unlike previous 
 mario kart title's this games map is quite useful, especially since it's not in the way of the 
 race. The items are really fun to use. Nintendo wi-fi is completely flawless except the fact you 
 there is no battle mode. The controls on this game are just right and have nothing to complain 
 about. Now that I think about it I think that this game has the most tracks out of any of the mario 
 kart games. All the new tracks in this are awesome. There are 32 tracks in this game that all look 
 very good on the DS. Altogether this is a completely solid title and is a must buy for anyone with 
 a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoregamerXX
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Not bad, classic nintendo junk  
 Good gameplay, good graphics.
  It has some good features. The races are very easy. Don't pay thirty dollars for it. Luigi is better 
 than Mario and don't say otherwise. It does get boring after awhile. The robot guy is weird. I 
 beat the game in like 2 hours. Everybody online is terrible. It's really funny. It has some good 
 features. The races are very easy. Don't pay thirty dollars for it. Luigi is better than Mario 
 and don't say otherwise. It does get boring after awhile. The robot guy is weird. I beat the game 
 in like 2 hours. Everybody online is terrible. It's really funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grndyfn19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Recommend ---Anyone willing to give it a shot
  
  Not Recommend ---Kart racing haters because there's a huge difference between those types of games 
 and actual racing games
  
  Mario Kart DS is the best Mario Kart game ever, on any platform, and will probably remain the best 
 in years to come. Mario Kart 64 was terrible in my opinion, Double Dash was ok, and Super Circuit 
 was decent, but this one really caught my attention. All the courses in the game are outstanding 
 and really fun to race on, as are the characters and the karts they ride in. Unlocking new characters/courses/karts/modes 
 is what you'll spend most of your time doing because there is so much you can do. Every character 
 can use any kart they want, they're not specific to a certain character. The stages are unique 
 as well, because there are new ones made for the DS version, and then remade tracks from previous 
 Mario Kart installments. This makes for a lot of variety when choosing which set of courses to 
 race on. As always, there is the 50cc class, 100cc class, and 150cc class. Then there is an unlockable 
 mirror mode which makes each class even HARDER! A new mode in Mario Kart DS is the Challenge mode 
 which lets you do things you wouldn't do in a normal race, such as boss battles, or avoiding certain 
 obstacles on a track, or drifting for a certain amount of time. You would think this mode would 
 just be a simple add-on, but it's just as fun as the regular races. Just like the other installments 
 in the series, there are the battle modes. You can play wirelessly with anyone who owns Mario Kart 
 DS or doesn't, but the real draw is the online wi-fi mode. Sadly, for some reason my Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 doesn't work and I haven't been able to fix it yet, so I haven't been able to use this mode. However, 
 I've played it at friend's houses and it's probably the best mode in the game since it has endless 
 replay value. Either way, this game has amazing replay value. The only drawbacks of this game is 
 that it can get boring after a while, but I mean after a whilllllle. But you're most likely going 
 to be playing this game for a while, so you might understand what I mean. Anyway, the graphics 
 are good (a lower quality version of the Gamecube version) and the sound is alright, but that's 
 not what's really important. It's the gameplay, and the gameplay is great :)
  
  Overall ---Amazing replay value... In the end if you own a DS, this is one of the games you should 
 definitely own for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnreaLuigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game has very superb controls. Its graphics arent the best but it still looks great compared 
 to mario kart 64. The characters look alright and the tracks are good looking as well. The tracks 
 are awesome and colorful and have great variety of environments and places in the mario universe. 
 The new items of Bullet Bill and the Squid add more to the arsenal of items you could use to hinder 
 your opponents. It was a very good thing that Nintendo did to have 'retro' tracks in the list to 
 allow for people who played the predecessors to experience the fun again. Also it allow new comers 
 to the series to see just how superb this racing series has been. Battle mode and the newly added 
 Mission mode are great to challenge yourself with something else other than just racing in VS or 
 GranPrix. Also the use of Nintendo's WiFi Connection adds even more lengevity to it by allowing 
 you to play friends or strangers from around the world. With new characters, karts, tracks, items, 
 modes and WiFi, this game will keep you busy and make you want to keep coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Mario Kart game to date, the best Wi-Fi DS game to date and the best DS 
 game overall to date. There are so many courses to play on, spectacular graphics that look like 
 something you would find on the GameCube and the best feature of all... Online Play. 
  
  Although I belive that graphics do not make a game what it is, this game has wicked awesome graphics 
 to say the least. The gameplay is the best you will find on the DS, it is jame packed with so many 
 features that will keep you busy for hours. You can choose from Balloon Battle, Shine Runners, 
 Time Trials, Mission Mode, and Race Mode, and more and all are just as fun as the next.
  
  This game has the best replay value then any other DS game I have ever played. The sound is awesome, 
 it seems like there is a different song for each and every track that you choose to race on. The 
 tracks you choose from are awesome as well, they went and brought back some classics that are awesome 
 to race on. 
  
  Overall, this is a must-have game for any DS owner, and if you are thinking about buying a DS be 
 sure to make this your first game purchase. You won't be able to put it down for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriobaKeys
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  The cars, the tracks, the items all add up to one kick ass game! So many cool, original and very 
 wierd but in a very good way. It includes old and new things so it's always suprising what's new.
 
  For a start the tracks have never been so fun to drive on, the good old Rainbow Road remains a 
 strong contender in the selection of tracks, with a few new wacky tracks thrown in to keep the 
 suspense going, the orginal SNES tracks, with the tracks from some of the previous games. Some of 
 the tracks seen in the original games have been tweaked a bit. All the tracks are 100% unique from 
 the other tracks apart from in Mirror Mode (people from Mario Kart Double Dash should recognise 
 this mode) . This all ties in to make the driving expierence for this game so new and exciting.
 
  The cars are incredible! All new, and very, very diferent and just so cool i can't explain it! 
 My personal favourite being Yoshi's Egg kart purely because it's so diferent and very suited to 
 Yoshi. All the characters have their own unique kart at the start and you unlock new ones as you 
 progress and achieve rewards. They are all wacky and new that are just a pleasure to drive and 
 look at, all with their own features and advantages.
  Unfortunately it can't be perfect so i need to point out the bad point. There are two characters 
 the robot and Dry Bones, who just don't fit in. They could have filled the spaces with original 
 characters, Baby Mario would have been a great addition with a little dummy kart, just a thought 
 any of the original characters would have suited. I just think these two characters sort of came 
 from nowhere and don't really impress me like the other ones do. However these characters are still 
 quite cool and have nice karts.
  The items are pretty much the same with a few extras thrown in, the bannana skin still remains 
 the main one. A nice addition to the game is 
  Wi-Fi, incredible fun with rewards, well not rewards but lets say reputation rewards, it's jsut 
 so much fun and lets you have no tress of having to get the trophy it's just great fun. Anouther 
 great addition is the missions to do, they are quite challenging but fun to do, and reward you 
 with karts.
  All in all this is a game you have to have! It's just a game that all DS owners need, no question 
 about it if you love Mario game and racing games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_Diablo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart. Definetly an amazing game. Although a little quick to beat (for me) if you are a mario 
 kart fan, this is amazing, the best in the series. Playing with your friends is really exciting 
 even if you are just playing download play. You never know what will happen, your in last then 
 your in first, the game is so unpredictable, making it a masterpiece! Even by yourself racing against 
 computers is still fun. Time trials are exciting, and a new type of battle was added which is pretty 
 fun. Including favorite courses from the previous mario karts, there are many new courses that 
 are very fun. A new feature where you can create emblems for your kart is also very fun, to go 
 online and show your emblem off and check out other players emblems. Another new feature would 
 be being able to choose karts which takes gameplay to the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojayosc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  mariokart ds well now ... a really fun game to play and a really easy game aswell it brings all 
 the mario characters into races on 8 different cups and 4 levels of difficulty. Mostly the game 
 is great to play but it can get a bit old if you keep trying to win a race aswell as if there's 
 some annoying person in front of you who always gets in your way. Also when your playing its a 
 case of how lucky you are because it is annoying when someone hits you with a blue shell then a 
 red shell then a green shell then a bomb then you trip over a banana and are in last place way 
 behind the rest of the pack. Some of the courses can also be tricky like the one i find most difficult 
 rainbow road which is a course where you can fall off at any moment and be left behind but while 
 annoying this also fun. The graphics on this game are also amazing it feels like your actually 
 in the game racing alongside bowser and donkeykong. This is an absolutely fantastic game and any 
 ds owner should buy it because its a racing game , crossed with mario what a combination!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is hands down one of the best games for the Nintendo Ds. The gameplay is sharp and amazing. 
 You can start out by making your own logo for your cart. Then you race... try to get three star 
 ratings to get really fun stuff. Anyways, the single player Gran Prix mode is definetly fun. There 
 are many differernt tracks, weapons, and carts that you can unlock throuh out the game. You might 
 think 'well I beet single player and now it's boring" ... don't think that! This game has the best 
 online play I have ever put my hands on. You have a record and get rated with stars so you can 
 show off your record to others. Also there's another game mode in single player were you use your 
 cart to do different things, like get through levels and defeat the boss. This game carries hours 
 and hours off fun and is defiently worth the thirty dollars I paid for it. So, if your new to the 
 Nintendo Ds I would reccamend this game, as your first. Thanks for reading and thanks Nintendo 
 for making such a great action packed, never boring game. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkanary
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I imagine there are two kinds of people reading this: those who know Mario Kart and those who don't.
 
  
  For those of you who don't know Mario Kart, this is probably the best version of Mario Kart for 
 you to pick up. Whether or not you'll enjoy it depends on the kind of gamer you are. If you like 
 Nintendo brand games, chances are you'll enjoy this. It's considered one of the best games for 
 Nintendo DS, and I can assure you that's not misplaced sentiment. This is a solid kart racing game 
 with a bunch of different racing modes (grand prix, vs, balloon battle, shine battle, etc.) . Plus, 
 you can race online via Nintendo's Wi-Fi against 4 people worldwide. Hey, when it comes down to 
 it, if you're the kind of person that would buy a Nintendo DS over a PSP, I can almost guarantee 
 you you will enjoy Mario Kart DS.
  
  For those of you who know Mario Kart, you know exactly what this game is. But, it does have one 
 trait the others don't. I can race people across the world on Mario Kart DS from my toilet. 'Nuff 
 said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baller10dw
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a superb game. It's just like all the other mario karts, and thats a good thing. 
 This is a wonderful racing game that everyone who ownes the DS should have. 
  
  The Good: Mario Kart DS has a great selection of tracks. It comes with 4 new cups and it has 4 
 retro cups from all the other game systems (for those who don't know, a cup has 4 different races 
 on Mario Kart...:) It also has more and better items in the ? boxes. This game comes with missions 
 too so you can do a whole bunch of different obstacals. It also has a great multiplayer. You can 
 play with a buddy in a whole bunch of different ways. There are mini games you can play, play on 
 a team, and a lot of other stuff. You can also download the game from a buddy if you don't have 
 it, just like all the other games for a DS. 
  
  The Bad: There isn't a lot of bad things about Mario Kart DS. I do think the missions are a little 
 short. The game takes only a couple hours or less to beat the game.
  
  Overall: A wonderful game that offers plenty of fun. Maybe a little too short but adddicting to 
 keep playing. Another great Mario Kart game that is more advanced in a lot of selections. A game 
 for every gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart franchise has been a popular one since Super Mario Kart back in the early 1990s. 
 But now it's gotten even better, and it's made a game that can't be beat by any other racing game. 
 Get ready for the best, wildest, most twisted, most enjoyable racing game out there.
  
  Your favorite racers are back, your favorite items have returned, and now, there are some brand 
 new courses along with some old favorites in this great new installment in the series. Grand Prix 
 and Time Trials are back. VS and Battle modes have been re-done for one person. And new Mission 
 mode awaits for you to put your kart skills to the test against challenging competitions. You've 
 also got multiplayer and Wi-Fi, where you can take your racing skills online to compete with other 
 racers.
  
  Everything, old or new, has been updated and refined. You've got your old favorite characters and 
 items, your old favorite modes, and throw in the new ones - they all add up to the fun. You wouldn't 
 expect it to be so fresh. The controls are a breeze and the style and feel of Mario Kart is the 
 same as normal, just better. Options also make it easier to play your way, such as a username and 
 even your own racing emblem! And to throw in even more, multiplayer is great, and there is even 
 the popular and entertaining Wi-Fi that'll keep you busy - and Wi-Fi is a great reason to invest 
 in this game.
  
  It only gets better with amazing graphics. Everything is sharp, crystal clear, and smooth. Top 
 it off with some great sound. The SFX are great but the music deserves an award - it's got some 
 of the best music I've ever heard in a video game.
  
  It's well worth the time and money to take your Mario Kartin' beyond limits. You'll be amazed and 
 very satisfied with what you get. I recommend it to everyone. Nothing has been taken to this level 
 of fun and excitement. Newcomers and old veterans of Mario Kart will enjoy the great new version.
 
  
  Simply put, the fun-filled mayhem piles up with this new Mario racing game. Racing doesn't get 
 any better than Mario Kart DS - guaranteed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devon_glanfield
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  It's a very addictive and fun game, the graphics and controls are really good, there is a good 
 selection of characters, different carts, and there is a good selection of courses. The difficulty 
 of this game is not that hard but the game is too short. 
  And after you beat the game and unlock all the characters there really isnt much else to do.
 
  If you want to play a game that is challenging and long this game is not the game for you, but 
 if your a Mario fan or really like raceing games then you should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  It's a very addictive and fun game, and the graphics and controls all work well, but it feels like 
 playing Double Dash with only one character. Especially when you're doing retro tracks. Retro tracks 
 are remakes of tracks from older Mario Kart games. There are tracks from Double Dash. These tracks 
 include Mushroom Bridge, Yoshi Island, Luigi Circuit and Baby Park. When you're playing on these, 
 you really feel like your playing a DS port of Double Dash.
  
  The characters have some cool karts and good graphics, they also put their arms up when their attack 
 hits someone. I respect these characters in a creapy way. o. O 
  
  The unlockable characters are cool, like Dry Bones and Daisy. Though Yoshi is fastest. The new 
 tracks are really cool as well. There is Yoshi Falls, which is extremely fun. 
  
  There isn't much Stylus use. Actually, there really isn't ANY Stylus use. The only time you'll 
 use it is for menu navigation, and that's how it is in every DS game. This stinks, because I was 
 looking forward to some cool Stylus features. Regardless, the gameplay is still fun, though simple. 
 The controls work okay and it's not frusturating to a point where you want to break your DS. I 
 beat all 8 cups on 50cc in about 10 minutes, which isn't too impressive, but nonetheless, it was 
 fun.
  
  Pros: Good graphics. Good unlockables. There are some cool characters and karts. There are some 
 really fun tracks. Retro cups are fun.
  
  Cons: 50cc can be beaten in about 10 minutes. Almost no stylus use. Some of the cooler characters 
 are slow.
  
  This game is a must have for Mario Kart fans. People who aren't Mario Kart fans should try the 
 game too, but they probably won't enjoy it as much as fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acurban
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I just bought Mario Kart DS for my daughter but i havent hardly let her play it yet. I am already 
 finding myself addicted to it. It has a grsat pace with just hard enough races and some fairly 
 difficult race tracks as well. The action is exciting on many levels and i will be enjoying this 
 game for a while. (i hope)
  Its also nice to see a game that doesnt have any cheat codes. I havent tried the WIFI networked 
 races yet but plan to ASAP. This seems to be a very good version of Mario Kart. I also like the 
 fact that they have brought forward different tracks from other versions of past. very cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the fifth installment in the Mario Kart series. Only this game is more addictive 
 than any other Mario Kart game in the series. Since there is no storyline in this game, there's 
 really no need to talk about the story.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the graphics are great for the DS. The steering controls are 
 also great. I love the fact that the player can go the other race tracks from the other four installments 
 from the days of SNES, N64, GBA, even the Gamecube. Great Wi-Fi matches.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that it is game is so addictive, you'll forget what you are 
 doing.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is the best handheld racer out there. Really fun. Very addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkcomments
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game, it's pretty cool, but many people are claiming this to be the best game 
 on the ds? that's dumb, and it's a racing game.
  graphics: Great :)
  control: really good, way better then some hard, crappy real life racing games (forza)
  sound and 
 stuff: Great :)
  crapcrap: I have no idea, some people just elaborate, so I'm just going to sum this all up with 
 control, graphic, and sound.
  People made a big deal out of this game because it's the first online game for the ds. All you 
 do is race, that's it, online, or offline. It's good, there some items and stuff. Race around in 
 circles is boring. BORING. But, this game is cool, but metroid prime could've been the number one 
 game in wifi. It's not simple as the ds, fine stick to your gameplay, kiddy, and fun theory, while 
 I stick to my ITS THE OUTSIDE THAT COUNTS AND I TRY 2 ACT KEWL! WHICH MEANS I FRICKN' LOST THIS 
 BATTLE  : ( ( ( (.
  I have no idea what I'm trying to get.
  So, this game is fun, but I didn't expect to be that popular (internet wins against the real world, 
 and  wannabes/listener (which they always buy a psp w/o 
 a thought, because they think they think something so expensive with good graphics, plays mp3, 
 watch movies can really be fun, with cool gameplay, HA!!! THE DS CAN DO THAT it's a secret people 
 from the real world can't figure it out.) ) .
  Go try it out,
  I rate this game a 5.75, if it's possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercoolgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  It may not be high speed racing, but it's racing with a lot of neat additions. Throw items, play 
 for your favorite Nintendo characters, choose from a variety of original stages, and more. Especially 
 now, with the DS version of this classic game. 
  
  Now, you can play online, go through missions, and even more stages. Is this game worth getting 
 even if you already have Mario Kart Double Dash? Definately! This game is worth getting for anyone 
 that has a DS. If you don't have a DS, get one! This isn't the only great DS game.
  
  Play against friends online, or with wireless connection (you only need one cartridge for this) . 
 Race and battle for as long as you want. With Mario Kart DS, the fun stops only when you stop playing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wario_Kid
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Mario kart has been one of the best video game series ever. And the DS version is argueably the 
 best one. With 16 all new tracks and 16 recycled from predecessor games there is sure to be a track 
 you love. Not only all the tracks, there are 12 drivers to choose from, and 36 karts to pick from! 
 Also the game features a wi-fi option so you can race people from all over the globe. My favourite 
 feature is the battle mode, were you can be on your own or in a team driving roud various courses 
 trying to hit opponents with items to burst thier balloons. You also have to blow into the microphone 
 to blow up your balloons. This is definetly my favourite DS game and if you have a DS but sont 
 have this game, I highly reccomend you get it! .
  
  Gameplay 9
  
  Graphics 9
  
  Sound 7
  
  Value 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best in the Mario Kart series to date. There are more characters, more courses 
 (including several from the other installments in the series) , more cars, and awesome multiplayer. 
 If you like Mario Kart, then you will not be disappointed by this game
  
  The single player in MKDS is the same as the others, although it does have an extra bonus. You 
 play through the different cups that include four courses each. There are four cups with new stages 
 and four cups with classic stages with updated (or, in the case of the GameCube courses, downgraded) 
 graphics. While the grand prix mode contains nothing special and no particular difficulty, there 
 is a new mission mode, where you are given an objective to complete on a certain part of a course 
 (or on a different area) within a certain time limit. They start off easy, but become very difficult 
 later on. There are even boss battles! The mission mode is pretty fun and was a nice addition to 
 the game.
  
  The multiplayer in MKDS is the best part of the game. Up to eight players can play with a single 
 game card, with multiple game cards, or some with game cards and some without! Eight player races 
 are a blast (I've played them!) , and there is also a battle mode with two different modes within 
 it. Balloon Battle has you racing around a stage shooting items at eachother until everyone runs 
 out of balloons, but now, you start with one balloon and blow up the rest by blowing into the DS 
 microphone. Shine Runners is a race to collect and keep the most shine sprites. The best part of 
 MKDS is the Wi-Fi play. Up to four players can race eachother from all over the world. The Wi-Fi 
 play is random search only (including the friends search) , but it was Nintendo's first online game, 
 so you have to cut them a little slack for the lack of depth in the online. The online play was 
 also very glitchy and you often see a guy fall off the edge then reappear right in front of you 
 (unless that's hacking) .
  
  Mario Kart DS is a great game. It had a huge online 'community' for quite a long time and people 
 still frequently go on Wi-Fi to play. While the single player won't hold your attention for too 
 long, the online play will make you want to play more and more, and if you have access to Wi-Fi, 
 then this is a definite, absolute, must-own game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lisalover1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I remember that I used top play this game on the bus to school every single school day for 2 years. 
 This is just an awesome game with lots of options to boot. The multiplayer is probably the best 
 part, but let's start with single player mode. The first thinhg you will notice is the shockingly 
 large amount of tracks; more than any other in the series. There are 8 cups to compete in, but 
 only 2 are accessable at start. I guarantee that you will have hours of racing before you even 
 put the game down for the first time. As you complete tracks, you will unlock cars, characters, 
 tracks, and options. When you finally beat everything in the game, things get a lot more interesting 
 in multiplayer. In addition to single player cup-mode, there are battle matches, and fun "challenges" 
 to plsay and try to complete. The challenges are difficult and fun, and will keep you entertained 
 after normal racing has become tiring. Finally, the multiplayer. This IS the reason to buy this 
 game. Up to 8 people can race at a time in this mode, allowing for awesome races. It doesn't stop 
 there, though! The nintendo wi-fi connection allows you to see how good of a racer you reaqlly 
 are. So what if you beat everything on mirror mode? That doesn't mean you can stand up to some 
 kid in Japan, Canada, Mexico, or anywhere else in the world! In conclusion, if I could only have 
 1 game for the DS, this would be it. It has given me years of fun, and still is! If you haven't 
 played this game, go out right now, yes, RIGHT NOW, buy it [not rent it] , put it into your DS, 
 and get ready for the gaming experience of a lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irvine78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Racing touches something in the inner core of almost everybody. It's such a simple competition 
 that even the most primative of our ancestors probably would grasp the fundamentals of Mario Kart... just 
 get to the end before the other people. And that's what makes this game so universally appealing, 
 because even if you stripped away the visuals and the multiple unlockable tracks and characters 
 that will hook you into playing this until your DS gives you the red light, you will still want 
 to race. And when you've unlocked all that you've sought, take a spin online. Having human opponents 
 who remember who launched that blue shell that boned them out of first in the last race and will 
 be more than happy to return the favor makes this a blast. Some people have complained about the 
 lack of voice support in online play, especially for a platform with a built-in microphone, but 
 a well placed shell can speak for itself. Mario Kart DS is an absolute blast, and anybody who just 
 got themselves a shiny new DS Lite for Christmas would do themselves well to start here when looking 
 for games to keep themselves occupied well into 2008 and beyond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii -- x360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the most recent Mario Kart game to date and the best Mario Kart game too. Mario 
 Kart DS is the best racing game for the DS when it was 1st released in 2005 and to this today in 
 2007! So the game has been able to survive the test of time. Mario Kart DS has a huge asorment 
 of courses including courses from Mario Kart 64 and Mario Kart double dash, plus it also has introduced 
 brand new courses exclusively for the DS. Unlike its presider Mario Kart double dash, Mario Kart 
 DS each kart has only one character per kart. Which is a good thing because brings back the classic 
 Mario Kart formula. The game also introduces new items for the DS such as the squid that squirts 
 ink on the DS screen. Mario Kart DS also includes online play so you can play anyone in the world, 
 regional, and people from your friend list. Even if you don't have online there is enough stuff 
 to do in single player such as the newly included boss battles and missions. The game also has 
 to kind of battle modes balloon battles and shine sprite battles. There is also a ton of aold and 
 new battle courses such as my personal favorite brick forts. This game never gets old and you will 
 be playing it over and over again. A must have for anyone with a DS and the best part is that the 
 game appeals to every age of gamers not just kids. The game is an instant classic and a masterpiece. 
 My score is a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxybillo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games that any could ever release for DS! It is an outstanding game 
 with great graphics. Even when you think that you've finished the game there is still more to come. 
 As probably everyone who is an expert about Mario Karts than they would already know that there 
 is 4 different speed levels (There is one to unlock) . I have just recently unlocked it and it is 
 the best yet. Please everyone who is new to DS than buy this game as it is the best out of all 
 of them! I suggest that every Ds that anyone buys should automatically come with this game as it 
 is DA BOMB!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is one of the best racing games and one of the best DS games you can find out there. 
 It doens't really change from its preddecessors, but the move from the N64 and gamecube to the 
 DS is great. You can just pull out anywhere and you can still enjoy it. The singleplayer is fun. 
 The multiplayer and Wi-fi is seriously awesome. You can just keep playing for 2 hours and you won't 
 get tired from it. The graphics is one of the best on the DS and its a must get for graphic junkies. This 
 game is litteraly the best on the DS and a must have for noobs or people who are looking for a 
 great racing game and loves Mario. I highly reccommend it and advise players to run to your retail 
 store to buy it. Its that good, people. you will enjoy it after 5 years or so. Its highly replayable. 
 You can just flip it out and just show it to your friends. They would be fascinated too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raffage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The single player is very challenging:
  Mission Mode and Grand Prix can likely be finish by everyone try to earn 3 stars on them and you'll 
 find they can be difficult.
  
  The Multplayer is the best it's ever been:
  This time all you need to do is find 7 people with a DS to have a full non-computer competition. 
 Download play makes it so that the other players don't have to get the game but everyone with a 
 DS should have this game, really.
  Battle Mode has 2 modes: Balloon Battle - the classic Battle mode and Shine Runners - the guy with 
 the most shines wins. The computer can get very difficult here.
  
  The Tracks best out of all the games:
  This game has a tons of tracks and the most creative of 
 the series. It even has some Old school ones from previous games.
  To bad it didn't have "Rainbow Road" from "Super Mario Kart".
  
  The Online is definitely lacking:
 
  -Friend codes
  -Random Matchmaking makes for disappointing races.
  -No Battle Mode.
  -Some Tracks aren't playable.
  -There is nothing to keep people from just dropping out of the 
 game.
  -Allot of people like to use a un-beatable thumb torturing method to win races called snaking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the graphics, the graphics are some of the best that the Nintendo 
 DS has to offer. There are many new tracks, there are enough new tracks to keep you playing, and 
 then there is this retro mode, where you can go to some of the best tracks on the older mario kart 
 games, some include "Mario Circut 1" "Baby Park" "DK Mountain" and many more. The racing gameplay 
 has been the same for every mario kart and goes same with this one, you go around tracks, picking 
 up items to screw up your opponents and use those items to your advantage to get 1st place, then 
 you go on in cups and get new tracks unlocked, even though it has the same formula, it works. The 
 multiplayer is amazing, the cool thing is, your friends dont have to have the game to play multiplayer 
 with, you can just have them DS Download, and then you can battle, race in a GP, and many more 
 things. This is one of the first game for the DS to have Wifi play, and the wifi works out really 
 well and its easy to get connected, its mainly just playing multiplayer but just with a person 
 who is a lot further, but still, it is fun. The touch screen can really come in handy, you can 
 look at it too see where you are at in the track, to see the items that are laid on the track, 
 and if someone used the "Blooper Item" on you, instead of looking at a "sludge filled screen" you 
 can look at the bottom screen and you can see the track with no sludge. The mission levels is one 
 of the best things added into the games, they are really cool and if you beat them all, you can 
 face the boss, which is really cool and adds into the games. The bad parts of this game is that 
 some of the missions are a big pain to complete, some are timed and if you are a beginning player, 
 you might think that they don't give you enough time. Overall, this is a really fun game, certainly 
 one of the best games on the Nintendo DS, and one with some of the best graphics, a must have for 
 any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS it's just one of the games that I must have. Let's review it:
  Graphics: They did the best they could have done in the Nintendo DS, so:
  9/10
  Difficulty: 
 This game must entertain you for a long time, that makes it difficult to finish at the 100%:
  9.8/10
  Addiction: If you can enter the Nintendo Wi-fi, this game makes it really competitive 
 and addictive, but you need friend codes to fully play 8 players mode, without friend codes it's 
 only 4 players, anyways, solo and multiplayer modes are also addictive, and for me, the most fun 
 it's the single card multiplayer:
  9.9/10
  Gameplay: Easy, like in any Mario Kart ( except the 64 version) :
  10/10
  Variety: Like for 
 different modes, many characters, 3 cars for each one, extra features like mirror mode, and nintendo 
 wi-fi:
  10/10
  Total:
  9.7/10
  Conclusion: This game it's one of the games I recommend, and one of the 3 best reviewed games by 
 me, so pleaso stand up, turn on the car, and go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themixta43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the fifth title in the long running Mario Kart series, one of the many spin-off 
 genres of the Mario Franchise. The basic premise of Mario Kart DS, and the whole Mario Kart series 
 is to have popularised characters from various other Mario related games race each other in their 
 own specialized carts.
  
  The game play in Mario Kart DS is very like the other games in the series. You pick a character 
 and race other characters to the finish line and several laps around it. There are a few things 
 that the DS rendition does to make it unique to the other games. There are many modes and options 
 to play with in Mario Kart DS. First off there is Grand Prix mode like usual, where you race against 
 other CPU opponents in a variety of different circuits to eventually win the assortment of cups 
 on offer. There are four difficulty levels with each one having eight cups on offer, with four 
 tracks to each cup. That's thirty-two tacks in the game, a solid number of tracks that should see 
 you satisfied for a long while. As usual, there is the 50cc difficulty, the 100cc, the 150cc and 
 a new addition (as far as I know) , the 150cc Mirror. This is just the regular cups and tracks played 
 backwards, going from the finish line back to the starting line opposed to the other way around. 
 This is a pretty cool feature and a very difficult one at that in my opinion; I'm still yet to 
 clear the 150cc mirror circuits.
  
  The characters on offer are the usual lot as well as a few new surprises. There is Mario, Luigi, 
 Peach, Yoshi, Toad, DK, Wario and Bowser like usual. Then you have the extra unlockable additions, 
 Daisy, Dry Bones, Waluigi and R. O. B the Robot, a nice surprise for anyone out there. Also even 
 more options to choose from, your characters carts this time around. Your character has three individual 
 carts and eventually is able to use every other characters cart as well. The carts are graded on 
 Speed, Acceleration, Weight, Handling, Drift and Items. Each cart has a varied amount of stats 
 in each category and players can pick one of the thirty-six carts at will to suit their playing 
 style. Another way to further customize and personalize your cart is to add on your emblem you 
 can make in the options menu. You can draw anything and it will show up in a little space on any 
 chosen cart.
  
  Also present in the game are the modes Time Trial and VS mode. Time trial is, of course, a single 
 player effort to get the highest Lap/Track time on any given track in the game. Your ghost data 
 is eventually save and you can compete against your previous efforts to better yourself in the 
 future. Another nifty feature is that when you get a good enough time, you unlock the ghost trial 
 of a Nintendo Staff Member, which will test you and bring out the best Mario cart player in yourself. 
 Also, before I go on I must talk about the items. There are the usual items like Mushrooms, the 
 Power Star, Red, Green and Blue shells, bananas and also a new assortment of different items introduced 
 such as the Blooper that squirts your screen with ink, the Bullet Bill which can shoot you ahead 
 of your competition and many more items also included. Another old favourite is present, this being 
 battle mode in which there are two ways to play this time around. First off you have your regular 
 Balloon battle introduced in Mario Kart 64, where you can attack your opponents with the various 
 items in the game or you can simply ram them with your brute strength if you are a heavy set character 
 like Bowser. The new way of battling present in Mario Kart DS is called Shine Runners, based off 
 the shines found within Super Mario Sunshine on the Gamecube. The aim of this battle is to collect 
 more shines than your opponent and adds a bit more game play wise. Just to add there are six different 
 battle arenas to play in this time around.
  
  The final mode I must mention is the new Mission mode in which you have to complete various tasks 
 set by time limits. There is a huge assortment of missions for you to complete, sixty-three in 
 total. These range from driving through rings, collecting items and getting to a point in a quick 
 enough time. Also, to conclude each of the levels is a boss. These boss battles add a lot to the 
 game and provide to be very fun and definitely have that Mario boss feel to them. The Mission mode 
 is a great addition to the game and you'll be striving to get that three star ranking on each of 
 the Missions and Levels.
  
  The actual game plays whilst you are playing Mario Kart DS feels great just like the previous instalments 
 to the series. The driving is really smooth and has that great arcade feel about it, the items 
 provide a competitive feel to each race and the handling and just whole driving experience in general 
 is fantastically set out and a joy to play. You can do turbo-charge drifts during the game by holding 
 the R button and alternating between left and right D-Pad button presses. This adds a bit more 
 variety to the racing game play and is a great addition.
  
  The graphics and sound in the game is also a sight (and sound) to see (and hear) . The characters 
 look great, better than they did on the 64 renditions of the series in my opinion. It really does 
 show what the DS graphics are capable of and sets a benchmark for future (or current now) DS games 
 to follow. The stages also are very differed and look fantastic. The fact that they brought in 
 stages from each previous Mario Kart game is a great little feature and they really made the stages 
 look great. It's very colourful and cute. The sound in this will be very familiar to anyone who 
 has played at least one Mario game in their lifetime. It consists of happy little themes that seem 
 to fit in with the given environment your in during the game whether it be a frosty snow land or 
 a scorching desert, these themes really seem to capture these areas brilliantly. Also the voice 
 samples and sound effect present in the game fit in great, with your character beeping their horn 
 and talking smack to their opponent, it really shows how they make it a much better experience.
 
  
  Mario Kart DS has proven of how much the DS is capable of, and has a whole lot of new features 
 that should appeal to a wide variety of people out there. Also with the inclusion of Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 online play, it makes for a much more competitive game when you are totally owning them noobs with 
 your silly snaking strategies (as you can see I'm bitter because I'm not as good as them) . This 
 version of the Mario Kart series will leave you feeling great and if your wanting more, this game 
 is the best of the series to come back to and play again and again. Mario Kart DS is a joy to play 
 and I'm proud to say I own it; you should also have this privilege too. If you don't already have 
 it, just get it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I have waited a while for Mario Kart DS. This game my favorite Mario Kart game because there are 
 so many things for you to do. There is mission mode, cup racing, multi-player, and online! 
  
  Graphics are very nice. They are not hideous, but not great. Controls are absolutely solid. 
 There are plenty of characters to unlock, and missions, too. Even after you unlock everything, 
 there is still the online to rely on. I must say, if it weren't for the online, I would not enjoy 
 the game as much as I would Double Dash and Super Mario Kart because it is on the small screen, 
 which can prevent others playing with you if they don't have a DS. This game has the classic Super 
 Mario Kart gameplay, but with a lot more to do. 
  
  If you liked ANY Mario Kart game in the past, then by all means, check this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a must have for any DS owner. The game design is brilliant, and Nintendo has made 
 it so you won't be sick of playing after the first 20 minutes. Like Mario Kart Double Dash, you 
 have the chance to unlock new cups, vehicles, and of course characters. The newest editions being 
 R. O. B. and Dry Bones. A new feature though is missions. There will be a series of missions for 
 you to complete and be graded upon. The only reason I can think of doing this is for fun. Or to 
 get that annoying C off of there.
  
  Mario Kart DS is the first Mario Kart that uses Wi-Fi. You'll have a blast racing against people 
 from around the world, except when you come in dead last. At least the people don't know you. But 
 the main part of the game is just to have fun. Karts have their own specific stats, so choose wisely 
 when picking. When your ready to start, just lett all hell loose. Throw a couple shells, throw 
 some bananas, and crush Toad. Really crush Toad.
  
  I almost forgot. This game lets you customize your own emblem using the stylus. Make whatever you 
 want, then stick it on your kart for the world to see. If you're not the best artist, choose a 
 pre-drawn shape. Basically, Mario Kart DS pulls the best virtues of all the other Mario Karts together 
 (and more) to make a truly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyroxm5
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS, what a game, this is definitely one of the best hand held mario games i have ever 
 played, it has good a gameplay which you wont get bored off that easy and that you can play with 
 friends all around the world. It has many characters and tracks to play on which makes it more fun, it 
 also has other types of gameplay like time trials and battles so you wont get tired of just racing. There 
 are a lot of unlockables to incourage you to pass the game, and the wi-fi gameplay is just a load 
 of fun, to be able to play against many different rivals with unique skills that will give you an 
 extra challenge. So if you like mario games and/or racing games try this game out and you wont be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robot_Managy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game. No letdowns! Just a good, well rounded game. I first got this maybe 
 almost a year ago. I couldn't belive it! I played the Gamecube versions of Mario Kart but this 
 was way better than those. With this on DS, you can just sit down and enjoy yourself when you play 
 this. I did think though, it didn't have much interaction as a DS game usally does. Another thing 
 I liked was all the features. You can unlock all kinds of characters. If you find yourself at a 
 store that sells games, you should play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qualosfaded
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Nintendo made a good choice on producing this game, and keeping it as fun as it is. I'm not a huge 
 fan of the DS at all, but this is probobly the best game in my opinion so far. As far as racing 
 games go, its not as realistic as what might appeal to you, but after you get into it. its hard 
 to put it down. This game features download play, and tons of different multiplayer modes that 
 will keep you and your friends addicted for pretty long time. The graphics are decent, and there 
 are tons of addictive maps to race, along with the characters and karts to unlock. It'll prolly 
 be a while before being hit by the bordombomb.
  
  Qualo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theman64
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a kart racing game from the folks at Nintendo. You've most likely heard about 
 the series by now, since it started around a decade and a half ago. Mario Kart is all about racing 
 around a track in a kart while shooting items at your opponents in hopes of reaching the finish 
 line first. Basically, if you've played any of the older Mario Kart games, you know what to expect 
 from this installment. However, there are some serious changes that are made in this game that 
 change the series for the better and create the best game in the series all at once.
  
  First off, Mario Kart DS takes advantage of the handheld's capabilities. Although the touch sensitivity 
 is only used to navigate menus and create your own designs for your kart, the dual screen aspect 
 of the system is put to great use. Here's how it works; the top screen is where all the racing 
 happens, and the bottom one holds a map, similar to that found in Super Mario Kart. This map is 
 very helpful to detect shortcuts and see where you're going when a Blooper attacks you (more on 
 that later) . The racing is controlled via the directional pad and face buttons, and you can power 
 slide using the right shoulder button. The control interface is quite similar to that found in 
 previous installments in the series.
  
  There's your standard Grand Prix mode, along with a VS mode where you can play against CPU opponents, 
 there's Time Trial, and now there's Mission mode, where you're given a mission to accomplish in 
 a certain time limit. This mode is a great addition.
  
  There are also new items included in the package; you can now turn into a Bullet Bill and speed 
 your way through the competition and launch a Blooper to your opponents to spray ink on their screens 
 to temporarily block their view. Any character can now throw Bob-Ombs as well. There are also plenty 
 of selectable characters, even a few unlockables.
  
  All of this is nice, but the best part of the game is the multiplayer mode. You can now race online 
 against people on the other side of the world, against your friends, against people who live in 
 your country or against people who are about as skilled as you are. Online racing is always fun, 
 despite a few glitchy moments. You can also play via local multi-card in racing and Battle modes, 
 the latter being improved over older Battle modes. You can now actually blow into the mic to blow 
 a balloon whenever you need one, as long as you still have some left. You can even practice Battle 
 mode by yourself with computer opponents. The game even supports DS Download Play for multiplayer 
 races.
  
  MKDS looks great, with nice character models and detailed backgrounds. There are also some cool 
 graphical effects, like mean explosions after being hit by a blue shell. Characters have unique 
 expressions on their faces at the end of a race, depending on how well they fared.
  
  Sound is also pretty solid. The character's say a sentence at the end of the race depending on 
 their position, or they'll just make a cheerful or sad sound. The music is decent, very reminiscent 
 of Mario Kart games of past. Overall, good sound design.
  
  MKDS is definitely worth the money, when considering all that content you're getting. Online play 
 alone is enough to warrant a purchase. This game should be a very important step forward for an 
 already great series, and all the new modes it introduces should be crucial to the franchise's 
 future success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best remake of a game for a handheld system. This is classic Mario kart racing. 
 This is Mario kart DS.
  
  Basically, if you have yet to play a Mario kart game, I shun you, but I don't hate you. For hate 
 is a strong word. And so is this series. Starting way back on the NES, going to N64, game boy advance 
 and game cube, these games has a long line of fun kart racing.
  
  The object of Mario kart is to race against 7 other racers (characters from various Nintendo games) 
 and get to the finish first. You can use several different weapons and tecniques to help you do 
 this, but in the end it all just comes down to knowing the tracks. This sounds easy. Well... it 
 is. And it's tons of fun too.
  
  The DS version is no different . Well, it is different, but just in good ways. Newly added is WiiFii 
 which is wireless internet. If you have a wireless internet connection in your house, then your 
 set. If you dont, they aren't too much money ($20) and are easy to set up. Yet if you don't want 
 to be bothered with all that, just go to a local starbucks or anwhere else u know that supports 
 wireless internet connections and game on.
  
  Ok so theres 
  
  GP (Grand Prix)
  Missions (Which are very stupid and menial, but unlock cool stuff)
  Vs (you and a friend sitting 
 next to each other)
  Timebattle (Racing against the clock)
  Or internet (playing those kids in Japan is really tough)
  
  The weapons are the same as they 
 have been for decades, yet they still feel right at home
  
  Bananas
  Tracking shells
  Normal shells
  Stars (fast + invincibility)
  Mushrooms (speedbursts)
  Lightining (the coolest)
 
  
  and a few others
  
  So if you ever like sitting down and playing a fun game for hours and hours just to have fun and 
 not level up or really get anything out of it, then this game is for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icehearted
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  When the original Mario Kart game was released for the SNES I was skeptical. Until that game had 
 been shown to the public I had mostly only seen racing games that essentially had me running in 
 circles. When I had finally broken down and gave the game a try, with it's array of wacky weapons 
 and mode 7 landscapes, I was pretty shocked. I really hadn't expected something so obscure to be 
 so much darn fun. I played it constantly at the time, only able to wrench myself away to get in 
 some action with Street Fighter II, also on the SNES.
  
  This latest iteration of the series continues the tradition of Mario Karts passed, from the masterfully 
 inventive first one, to the high speed action of the Mario Kart title on the Game Cube. Wacky weapons 
 make their comeback, and the tracks, which include among others a Haunted House and giant pinball 
 machine, are a blast to play. You have quite a selection of vehicles, some with better handling, 
 others are faster and so on. Lots of choices to suit pretty much any sort of player.
  
  So what's my problem? Well, the AI is a little fishy. Like a lot of other racing games out there, 
 rather than having the non-player cars challenge you based on good AI and good sense (or mapping) 
 of the tracks they went the cheapy route and preset computer controlled players to run an invisible 
 rail that cannot in most cases be disturbed. It's a bit like racing a man tied to a moving vehicle. 
 You can trip him all you like, but in a few second he'll be right where he would have been otherwise, 
 almost as though he'd never fallen to begin with.
  
  The game includes an online mode, where you can challenge other players to races by connecting 
 to the internet via WiFi. This should have been one of the game's best features, since as good 
 as the computer players may be, a human player should offer a better challenge and more excitement 
 overall. Rather than giving you a good challenge however, a larger part of the game's online community 
 prefers to exploit the game with a mechanic that, while totally usable, breaks the balance of the 
 game play. This dirty little exploit is called snaking, and what it has done to the online player 
 base is discouraged average or casual players from playing the game online altogether.
  
  Snaking involves exploiting the power slide capability offered in the game which allows you to 
 get a small boost if properly executed. As you get to a turn, you use your handbrake button at 
 just the right moment to begin sliding a little bit at a sideways angle. This allows you to get 
 a little more speed and cornering during the turn, and can be pretty satisfying when successfully 
 performed. Power sliding in this game goes a little further by allowing you player to wiggle your 
 thumb quickly in the opposite direction as you are sliding, then quickly back. If done properly 
 you will get an even faster boost. You can do this twice once you begin you power slide to attain 
 maximum cornering and speed during a turn. If successful you will get a small but helpful boost 
 to you speed for a few seconds, and sometimes that can be just enough to get an edge on your opponents. 
 Again, this is pretty fun and rewarding when performed correctly.
  
  Snaking players will do this regardless of where they are on a track. A "snaker" will perform the 
 power slide move by first moving to one side of the track, the power sliding to the other side, 
 then back again. Each time they complete their power slide in one direction they get that aforementioned 
 speed boost before beginning another power slide almost immediately after, thus creating an almost 
 constant speed boost. When done, this will allow them to pass any vehicle regardless of their stats 
 or the player's skill.
  
  So what you get are players that can lap you or win by a wide margin no matter how well you play. 
 The only thing that can beat a snaking player are other snaking players. Honestly though, I just 
 don't see the casual player bothering with such a thing, since it can wear out your thumb and your 
 DS pad (which you use to steer your Kart) , and most casual players will find zig zagging all over 
 the place kind of tiresome. The fun can get sucked out of the game pretty quickly when you run 
 into snaking players, and that has unfortunately driven off just about everyone else.
  
  From what I've seen most people will either begin snaking right away, or they will do so if I've 
 gotten a good lead on them. Snakers have been otherwise unable to really beat me regularly, which 
 only further feeds the idea that the only way to win is by exploiting a game mechanic that is clearly 
 not intended to be used in such a fashion. It's cheap, it's annoying, and after about two weeks 
 of trying to eke out some good online fun only to see most of the other players star sliding all 
 over the place I've abandoned the online play altogether.
  
  Don't let this dissuade you though. Mario Kart DS is a terrific game, and worth every penny. I 
 recommend it to any Kart fan, or even racing fans looking for a little bit of something out of 
 the ordinary. Just keep out of the online mode unless you can find a community of players dedicated 
 to play the game without cheating. They're out there, but they can be hard to come by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  It's a really fun game to play single player but it excels in multiplayer with great download or 
 multicard or wicked wi fi! I've played it so much. It's really fun and doesn't lack in length of 
 play single player takes quite a while to complete. Time Trials are really fun especially to beat 
 other people's ghosts. But Multiplayer is really good. Wi Fi Is really fun. And with a wide choice 
 of tracks and characters it's really top class. There's some of the old tracks which are fun to 
 race on. The graphics isn't that great but that really doesn't bother me at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cman8467
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the ultimamt potable game. the gameplay the graphics, and most impotantly the entertainment. This 
 is probably the most fun game of all time. And yes i siad ALL TIME (well not really i loved super 
 mario strikers that game is so fun) ! The mutiplayer mode is THE BEST! It is the most fun mutiplayer 
 in all DS games and of all games. POTABLE MARIO KART RULES!!! PREFECT 10!!!!! I recemmend to everybody 
 who is not familier with the series, to people who love the series, and to people who even hate the 
 series. You will have so much fun with this game! Even if you beat it it is still the best game ever (it 
 has unlimited replay value) . SO GO OUT AND GET THIS GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS
  DS
  
  Finaly Mario Kart on the DS, This Mario Kart is the same as other Mario Kart game you race in the 
 cups and win stuff. The bigest feature in this the online play bit where you can race around the 
 world with other people or your friends.
  
  The gameplay is nice and smooth, The graphics are well done and look awsome. This Mario game has 
 a challege mode where you do missons to unlock stuff.
  
  The game has over 30 karts and over 8 characters, The games has a few new character like dry bones 
 and some old ones like Roby the robot.
  
  Overall this is the best Mario Kart game ever, with the abitly to go Wi-Fi the player will have 
 alot to do. THe game is must have Ds game so go down town and buy this game if you haven't already. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarymovie5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game is fun, if you have a friend to play with or can play 
 on wi-fi. Don't get me wrong, I like the multiplayer but only once through then I'm done. Mario 
 Karts has something about it that makes it fun to play the sequels (yet it's slightly repetitive. 
 Although I havn't quite figured it out yet, I know one thing for sure, there will be more Mario 
 Kart sequels on the way if Nintendo keeps it up. The graphics in this game are some of the best 
 on the DS. So you should definately fasten your seatbelts and take a ride with this game, a fun 
 combination of the old and new.
  
  Gameplay- 8.5/10
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  
  Replayablity- 8.5/10
  
  Overall- 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWD98
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Mariokart DS is a great addition to the mariokart series and it is the first mario kart to have 
 online play also being the first ds game to have online play. In single player you have 5 different 
 modes: Grand Prix, Time Trial, VS, Battle and an all new Mission Mode! They have 32 courses, 16 
 all new ones and 16 courses from the previous mariokart games which I think was pretty awesome 
 but I would have picked different courses. In the mission mode you actually get to face boses where 
 you race or battle under certain objectives. I think the single player mode is a little to easy 
 though.
  
  Multiplayer is better than ever now that you can play each other wirelessly and up to 8 players 
 can play at once. The bottom screen can be used to see how far the players are behind or in front 
 of you and what items are coming in at you. You can also play battle mode and shine runners just 
 like in the Gamecube version.
  
  Online play is also really fun where you can play against 3 other players on 20 selectible tracks. 
 I wish they would have a leader board that would tell the top 10 players of the day and so what 
 your rank is sort of like mario strikers charged. The other problem is people exit out alot if 
 there losing badly. Overall this is the best game for the ds without a question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  the game is absolutely incredible... i've been playing this for a long time now and it nevers gets 
 tiring. The controls are very responsive, which isn't surprising as Nintendo always puts a lot 
 of focus on this aspect. The visuals for a DS game are probably the best avaliable for the handheld... even 
 more so than Zelda: PHG. There are tons of unlockables, many riders can share many different karts 
 which is GREAT! And considering there's 8 CUPS to master (generally there's 4, doubled with classic 
 tracks) makes this a Mario Kart fanatics dream come true. I myself am still a bigger fan of the 
 dual-riding kart from Double Dash but the mechanics work extremely well... the addition of online 
 play makes this a MUST OWN. As perfect as you can get for a driving portable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin_64
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  
  This game is very well done in each aspect of the game. It didn't appeal to me that much, I only 
 bought it for the wi-fi. But then the stupid snakers ruined that, so it's pretty much useless to 
 me now, considering I didn't really like the single player races.
  
  8/10 GAMEPLAY
  
  Not much to say here, I mean, it's a racing game. There are many different modes to choose from 
 such as grand prix, time trial, vs mode, battle, and missions. That's just the single player. As 
 for the multiplayer, there is download play (single card and multi card) where you can do battles 
 and races, then there's wi-fi, where there's just racing. Wi-fi sucks though because of snakers. 
 A snaker is a person who cheats by doing the turbo boost everywhere instead of just around the 
 corners where you're supposed to do it.
  
  8/10 GRAPHICS/SOUND
  
  The graphics are very good, maybe better than the N64 version. It is very clean- cut, crisp and 
 colorful. The sound I can't really say anything good about but can't say anything bad about either. 
 The music is average and so are the sound effects. Nothing special.
  
  9/10 PLAYTIME/REPLAYABILITY
  
  It took me about a week to finish the grand prix, and another 
 week to finish all the missions. So I'd say it satisfied my playtime needs. There's also a lot 
 of replayability packed into this cartridge. All you need is three trustworthy friends who you 
 know won't snake, and wi-fi and you're set.
  
  FINAL RECOMMENDATION
  
  You should only get this if you have, like I said, three good friends who won't snake. Even then 
 I don't know if it's worth the $45 I spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vatterott
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  [|||||] When I think of Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64 and MK DS come to mind right away. Then comes 
 memories of losing again and again to my older brothers.
  
  The Good:
  -Awesome Graphics
  -Lots of courses
  -Multiplayer is very well done, not to mention W-Fi
 
  -New items, like Bullet Bill and bombs
  -Courses from previous games included
  -Has good replay value
  -Matchmaking on W-Fi is quicker than some other Wi-Fi games
  -Easy
 
  -Has Mario written all over it
  -More than just racing and time trials
  -Lots of karts to choose from
  
  The Bad:
  -Didn't include MK64's course with the huge jump
 
  -Only four players on W-Fi
  -Easy
  -Baby Park
  -Only certain maps on W-Fi
  
  [|||||] The first thing that got me going about Mario Kart DS is the graphics. They are (just by 
 a little bit) the best graphics on the DS, coming out on top of MPH, NSMB, and SM64DS. Playing 
 as Toad (this may sound weird) , his head really looks sharp. Another thing I noticed was the attention 
 to detail on the karts. Dry Bones' tank looks good, as well as Mario's kart on the front of the 
 box. The colors are vibrant, and everything is eyecandy except for a few things.
  
  
  [|||||] On the bad side of graphics, shells and bananas look pretty bad. They could have made them.... more 
 polished, or at least 3d. Another thing on was that all the karts have the same tires. If there 
 was some variety that would be great. These are trivial, and don't effect anything at all, really.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  [|||||] Sound is almost used subtly in this game. You don't notice it unless you think about it. 
 I can't say anything bad about the sound. It all adds to that Mario feel. The music is especially 
 well done, resulting in the menu being left on to be listened to. The sound really brings feelings 
 of nostalgia and just a fun air.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  [|||||] The gameplay is essentially the same as other entires (I haven't played Double DS very 
 much and I thought it was O. K.) . It is very polished, though. Not only do the items make it almost 
 continuously exciting, they bring different flavors to people's style. Which way will you throw 
 the banana? When will you use that Bullet Bill? Another thing about the gameplay is that each kart 
 has specialties. Of course there are ones that are flat out bad, but again, they really bring different 
 flavors in. Balanced kart not your type? Want good items? There are several karts to choose from 
 for even that one reason. It's amazing the amount of combinations of drivers and karts there are. 
 I can't really say anything else, except the fact that there are not many short cuts. More of those 
 would be really cool.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  [|||||] The replay value is not amazing, but it is good. Unlocking new karts and drivers, as well 
 as the mix and match everyone unlockable, really drive you forward. If it weren't for rankings 
 on Grand Prix and W-Fi, the entire game would probably last 15 hours. Yes, I see that I have played 
 over 40 hours, but remember that that number has accumulated for at least 8 months. What really 
 gets the hours high is how addicting it is. It does get old kinda quick, and is not as fun the 
 second time if you know what I mean.
  
  Replay Value: 8.5/10
  
  [|||||] Overall, Mario Kart DS comes off as a very fun game. With minor flaws and superb gameplay, 
 you can't go wrong.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: njfire
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game is great. There are many new levels and new characters. The way they made a lot of new 
 carts was a great idea. The amount of sales sold for this title shows how great of a game it is. It 
 has great online play and isn't easy nor hard to beat. Balloon battle is a great game to play with 
 your friends. The extra battle missions were alright but didn't do much for me at all. The controls 
 were descent and the new items they added were fair. I've beaten the game twice and I am still playing 
 it. If you have a"DS"then you should have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Here is a game that any Mario Kart fan needs to have for their DS. I have gotten countless hours 
 of fun from it and even if it remained my only DS game for all time would justify the $140+tax 
 I paid for the DS. There is much to do including wi-fi with friends, unlocking karts and more in 
 single-player, all in many different modes.
  
  The single player mode is deep enough to take a decent amount of time if you pace yourself. There 
 are usually eight cups to beat on four different engine classes. Once you get gold in all of them 
 there is still more that you can do by going back and improving your number of points and times 
 to unlock things you didn't the first time around. If single player isn't your cup of tea, try 
 multi-player. Playing with human players, especially friends sitting next to you is fantastic and 
 almost addictive. It can get very competitive and is a treat for all. There is stat tracking that 
 will show you not only your overall record for wi-fi matches, but will show you how you have done 
 against specific human players. It should be known that there is very limited use of the stylus, 
 and none of it I happens in game. You just use it, if you choose, on the menus to pick your racer 
 and mode, etc. This isn't really a complaint, but when one of the main features that separate the 
 DS from other handhelds is not being used, it kind of makes it seem useless. The dual screens are 
 used though, and used well. The map for your course is displayed at the bottom so you can keep an 
 eye on how close other racers are to you and what is being fired at you. The only people who might 
 not like this game are those who are fans of only pure simulation racing like Gran Turismo because 
 you can race a perfect race, not hitting any walls, but you can't always outrace a blue shell or 
 red shell.
  
  I am never the best at grading graphics that are more of a style, like Mario. If it's supposed 
 to be realistic, let me at it and I will tear it apart and pick out the best parts, and the worst. 
 That being said, Mario Kart DS is good enough that I never really felt the need to complain to 
 anyone, although from what I remember of Super Mario Kart Advanced, it doesn't really improve over 
 much. The one complaint I can come up with is that there is lag when playing with a few friends 
 over wi-fi but it doesn't happen too often and doesn't last too long.
  
  The sound area is good enough. The music isn't annoying and each item fired usually has it's own 
 unique sound. I know the sound of a blue shell anyday, and it's music to my ears. Besides that 
 nothing really stands out or gets you amped up for Mario Kart.
  
  The lasting appeal of this game is damn near perfect due to the amount of fun to be had with it. 
 I play with my friends usually four nights a week while their at work. It never gets old for us 
 and never gets stale. Each race is different and can have a different outcome. The only thing I 
 would of liked more is the use of internet over normal wi-fi. That way Mario Kart users could find 
 many more online matches to play in. I don't blame the developing team, that's the design of the 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  When you pick up this game you look at and you think I'll give it a try. You start playing and 
 suddenly you can't stop. Instantly you will love this game!
  It is one of those games that is not to easy and not too hard (I have always hated games that are 
 too hard) but is easy. You'll probably get through fifty cc very easily but then it starts getting 
 a bit tougher. It now as 150cc mirror but not only that this game has so much improved stuff in 
 it. There is now new missions that are really fun. Balloon battles are back and there is also now 
 shine runners. And with the new wi-fi you can have fun online versing your friends. The only bad 
 thing that I have to say about this game is that it takes way too long for the wi-fi to actually 
 get four people to verse. 
  Gameplay: the gameplay is very good with alot of new things to play as i mentioned before 10.0
 
  Graphics: suprisingly good graphics for this with a very good image when your only playing on 
 a DS and not a PS3 10.0
  Sound: Lots of new soundtracks which are very good but some of the soundtracks can get very annoying. 
 9.0
  Value for money: definitely top scores for this if you buy a normal DS. If you bought a lite you'll 
 have to pay full price for it. 9.5
  Overall this game is very good and has suprisingly good graphics. I loved this game from start 
 to finish!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Martio Kart DS is one of the best DS games around so far ( and to come ) 
  Once you start this great game it is very hard to stop playing and putdown for awhile. 
  Graphics: 
 This game has suprisingly good graphics some places are great some places are Ok. The characters 
 show each detail differance. This game won't give you a head-ache because of bad graphics unlike 
 some other games. 9.5
  Sound: Sound quality is good and loud and clear when-ever the characters talk. 10
  Music: Alot 
 of diffrent music for each course ( except waluigi pinball & wario staduim and a few more having 
 the same music.) The music can be fun and enjoying and matches each course it's put in. 9.5
  Tracks/Courses: The game has thirty-two diffrent tracks, each one with a specail design & some 
 music. There's alot of room for the karts to go on and some tracks you can bump other people of 
 or hit trees, walls, ect.
  Normally everyone has a favorite track and a disliked track, to there own advantage and disadvantage. 
 Not to mention diffrent cups you can win. 10
  Multiplayer: This game has got to have one of the best multi players:
  Wi-Fi where you battle 
 other Mario kart users around the world, and you get to pick where you want to search.
  DS-Download play when another person with a DS who doesn't have Mario kart with them can download 
 and play with you, on 8 courses being Shy-Guy ( Whom downloaded ) Including Shine Runners & Balloon 
 Battle. 
  If another user has mario kart you can race on all thetrakcs the Host has unlocked. You can have 
 all Shine Runners tracks & more. 10
  Mini-Games: Shine runners where you have to get the most shines before time runs out, person with 
 the least is out untill there's only one player left.
  Balloon Battle where you have to pop the other players balloon before yours get destroyed. 
  
 Boss Battles are a new feature that helps the game where you have to do missions to unlock the 
 bosses. 10
  Overall: This game is great and i suggest it to DS users and to people who are thinking about buying 
 a DS. This is a Must Have DS game. 10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaya_k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  its a great game. really funny. its good for any age group. :D love it, buy it. the graphics are 
 great and the sounds are awesome. the mini games are really fun too but some are kinda tough. i 
 havent done a multi-player yet but i can only imagen how much more fun that would be. buy this, 
 for your kids, your spouse, your parents. anyone can play this, its fun and easy. there a few unlockable 
 characters and cups. and you can play them as many times as you want. its just a great mario game, 
 like pretty much all the other mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariorulesalot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DSs many modes make it a really nice game which should keep you entertained for a surprisingly 
 long amount of time. If you are already familiar with the Mario Kart series of games, this has 
 enough additional features, modes, and improvements to make it a must have.
  
  One of the coolest things about Mario Kart DS is definitely Nintendo Wi-Fi. Even though waiting 
 to find an opponent can easily take a long time, it is very cool that there is almost always someone 
 to play. There are several modes of play in Wi-Fi, so you can choose to play just your friends 
 (people with a copy of MKDS who tell you their friend code) or anyone on the planet, no matter 
 how far away they are. However, along with waiting a long time to start a game, there are some 
 annoyances with Wi-Fi mode. First, if your signal strength isnt great, sometimes your opponents 
 movements become a little choppy. Second, less than half of laptop-compatible Wi-Fi spots work 
 on the DS (same with any other Wi-Fi game) . Third, you cant drag power-ups, like bananas, behind 
 you. Finally, you cant do battle mode in Wi-Fi : (
  
  Besides the occasional annoyances of Wi-Fi, the other features of the game really give it a tremendous 
 amount of value. There are five single-player modes: Grand Prix (16 new tracks and 16 from older 
 Mario Kart Games, a nice touch; new power-ups like the bullet bill, which lets you zoom past your 
 opponents, can really come in handy and make the game a lot more fun; three difficulties, and a 
 fourth unlockable one, where you race in mirror-images of the tracks) , Time Trials (race alone 
 with nobody else on the track, can get boring, but if you get fast enough you can race one of 
 the makers of the game, really cool and hard) , Versus (like Grand Prix, but you can practice individual 
 tracks in order or at random) , Battle (attack your opponents with power-ups instead of racing; 
 balloon mode, kinda like having several lives, and shine runners, where you have to run around 
 stealing and collecting shines, VERY fun, but gets a little too easy) , and Missions (complete missions 
 to unlock more; creative; 48 levels and 6 bosses total, with a seventh unlockable world adding 
 8 levels and another boss) .
  
  This game also takes advantage of the DSs special technologies, making it a good game for people 
 who just got a DS (good choice!) . For example, balloon battle uses the microphone to inflate balloons, 
 giving you more lives. A multiplayer mode lets you race or battle wirelessly with friends nearby 
 who have DSs, even if they dont have a copy of Mario Kart. Also, you can use the touch screen 
 as a useful map with two view modes in races, and you can even draw your own emblem that others 
 can see in Wi-Fi mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deej34
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  You know that was the best Mario game I have ever played. This game has all these cool features 
 and everything! I unlocked a lot of new karts and it was really fun! Lots of the karts go really 
 fast. You can attack each other and you feel good when you get first in a race. It was cool when 
 I beat the game, and it was just so fun. This is a great DS game I recomend to buy. It is better 
 than the other version on Gamecube. This game is really fun! Next few words: fun, cool, fun, awesome, 
 violent! Perfect game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewit_Gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart is brilliant. Playing multiplayer is fantastic. You can play up to 8 players with a 
 single game card.
  
  The tracks are great with many shortcuts too. Grand Prix, Battle, Vs, Time Trials and missions 
 are brilliant.
  
  The difficulty is great: 50CC, 100CC, 150CC and 150CC Mirror.
  
  There are many things to unlock too such as Level 7 in the missions. The tracks on the game, characters 
 and loads more.
  
  They have added missions and they are great fun and some get you pretty annoyed.
  
  The top 
 screen shows you racing other opponents and the bottom screen shows the map.
  
  This is definetely the best Mario Kart game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game, and I was hyped! The game was absolutly coooool! Mario comes back with lots 
 of stuff to attack, and you're in for the best racer game ever!
  
  The graphics are very sweet! They'll make you wonder what the Mario Kart Wii graphics will look 
 like! The Music is just awesome! It is well put in.
  Speaking of which, the sound and audio were mixed pieces of coolness. They are perfectly hatched 
 into the game to make perfect quality.
  The camera and control is Xing!
  It also has numerous features, like courses from previous mario kart games, multiplayer and more!
 
  
  This game is my favorite on the DS. It's one of many classic Mario games on the Nintendo DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygame2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  OMG OMG OMG. Those where the words when i put this game into my Nintendo ds. This game was amazing 
 and i loved playing it, even after i had finished it on every cup i just wanted to come first and 
 unlock mission 7. Which i never did btw but i mate did. When i first started it up i knew this 
 was going to be good just by mario on the start menu. The graphics for this game where amazing, 
 well they where amazing for the ds. The gameplay for this game was fantastic and the ai was superb. 
 i cant wait fr Mario Kart wii.
  
  AMAZING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrrydaqcumber
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart was anticipated as a great game and thats exactly how it turned out. With cool unlockable 
 characters like R. O. B this game is awesome. This game isnt too hard but it is very addicting, I 
 know because I found out the hard way. I love the Wi-Fi feature to this game the most. I play this 
 game non-stop for hours if my mom lets me! If you own a DS and not this game, something is wrong 
 with you. Even if you dont have a DS but have a past Nintendo system get the Mario Kart for that 
 system they are equally fun I am a die-hard Nintendo and have mastered everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke141eels
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has made Mario kart SO SUCCESSFUL since it started. Mario kart ds is one of the best ds 
 racing games. Play through 50cc easy 100cc med and 150cc hard to win all different kinds of courses. 
 There are many missions you can do to test your skills where you can do all different kinds of 
 mini games to play.
  
  Also a great multi player game with wifi enabled with multi player play 2 different mini games 
 or you could play 50cc 100cc 150cc against one of 1 to seven more friends it is a great game and 
 a great multi player game with unlockables like another level of hard and a new character in multilayer 
 one of the best ds games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jehovanny
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS can currently be considered the best in the series. With 12 Playable characters, 
 36 Karts, 32 courses, Wi-Fi and more you'll be playing this title for a very long time. The game 
 features a Grand Prix mode, Time Trials, VS mode, Battle mode, Missions, and of course Wi-Fi. The 
 title stands up to its name and delivers hours of fun. After beating the Grand Prix mode you'll 
 want to race other players worldwide to test your skills. Even if you dont have Wi-Fi you can still 
 have fun with everything else the game has to offer. You can even race eight friends with only 
 one cartridge although your limited to eight courses. Overall this game is a fine addition to the 
 Mario Kart series with great graphics and music along with new and classic tracks from previous 
 Mario Kart games. This game is hard to put down once you pick it up and is well worth your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  gettign this for xmas was amazing, and those graphics, whoa! i played and played it, it was addictive 
 and not to metion fun with ffriends, but one day i saw snow boarding kids for &pound;!2 and brought 
 it. i was hooked, so mario kart was tosed away, but we'll get back to the compearing then a little 
 later
  
  time trials i never used so there is not really much to say but exploreing the levels, so that 
 was pretty fun
  
  you then get the grand prix, which is basically the longest mode, with 50cc, 100cc and 150cc, the 
 only diffrence in diffacult, will keep you going for ages, not even i have done it all and i have 
 had the game 10 months. why not? because its so repetative, its just boring TBH. and repetative.
 
  
  next up is battle. omg so fun and not repetative. so there is ballon battle, which is fun and its 
 a battle to pop ballons. the other is shrun runners, which is kinda crap all you do is collect 
 shrunes before other people and steal theres by hitting them with weapons
  
  so snow boaridng kids has better controlls in my opion and when i went back to mario kart yesturday, 
 if ound the controlls clunky and hard to controlls
  
  its your chose both are great, snow boaring kids will be rare and cheap just to let yuou know 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoGNT4rocks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I love it! I love the controls. I love the stages. I love the karts and characters. This game is 
 highly lovable! The only reason I didn't give this a 10 is that it didn't have enough interaction 
 with the touch screen. They could have been able to draw a path for a shell or control your Kart, 
 not just change your map. My favorite racer was Luigi. My favorite stage is the Baby Park because 
 it involes so much drifting. Before I forget I alo loved how each character had such a Kart selection. 
 I can't wait till the Wii version comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakirbydude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is simply an awesome game. You will find the game difficult to stop playing once 
 you start. It has a decent single player not to mention a great multiplayer. The single player 
 has more cups than previous Mario Kart games which really helps. Its also good to come back after 
 you beat it all to get a star rank on every course so you can have a star for multiplayer. Ive 
 done that and its very rewarding. The multiplayer in its own way is simply amazing. Its one 
 of the best for any DS game, with VS and battles only, not to mention wifi. This game easily earns 
 itself a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasper061992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Mario kart DS a a fun racer for near all racing fans, it has weopens, tracks based on the platform 
 level series, characters from the mario universe etc.
  
  This game has like 30 tracks, all of which varies in difficulty, all of which is really exciting 
 to race through, Bowser's castle, luigi's mansion etc. The Weopens in this game add to the excitement 
 (like blueshells that aims for the player in first places smashes down to you with massive impact 
 to even nearby racers) . Bullet Bills you can transform into that allows you to smash through anyone 
 in your way!
  
  All cars have Pro's and Con's. One car can have fast acceleration, but another may have better 
 topspeed, One can have nice control, but another may have better weopen chances.
  
  The game has online play (limited to 4 players) that can continue the enjoyment of this game, you 
 can face people in your own continent, play people that has the same skill, play people that is 
 on your friend roster, or play all in anywhere in the world. The graphics are pretty decent with 
 it's constant 60fps framerate, the art fits the game perfectly, although some areas and cars are 
 pixeled (thanks to the DS's lack of proper texture filtering) , The game looks blocky at everything, 
 but fits the game very nicely so that a plus. But aside of that, the graphics are great in total.
 
  
  The game has battlemode that allows you to collect the most stars, (but i didn't try that balloon 
 one yet so i can't comment) . Pretty and nice addition to the game.
  
  This game has a very decent replay value because of online play where you can also build up your 
 number of wins or loses, the fun of single player, battle modes, etc.
  
  So all in all, this game is a must for DS owners, Racing fans, or Mario fans, so all in all, i 
 recommend this game :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnFangs_Endes
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Forethought: Mario Kart DS is a very enjoyable game. It has a plethora of tracks; mini-game modes; 
 Racers, and Karts.
  
  It has varied difficulty settings; such as 50CC, 100CC, 150CC, and Mirror Mode (Mirror Mode is 
 basically 150CC with the maps reversed, so it should give you some added challenged, unless per 
 se, you memorized the tracks layout's, and suddenly developed dyslexia) .
  
  It also has quite a few unique maps such as: a track based off of Pinball, or a track that's essentially 
 a Clock.
  
  -
  
  -Gameplay: This game has rock-solid gameplay; which is always a good thing! It introduces some 
 new features to the gameplay-mechanic, while retaining many of the old features.
  
  Boost-The ability to gain some considerable speed right from the starting gate, all the way to 
 using the Mushroom's for a momentary burst of speed.
  
  Drifting-The ability to speed around corner's and come out of the turn faster.
  
  Drafting-The 
 ability that if you stay behind another racer for long enough, you get a respectable boost in speed.
 
  
  Items-The one thing that will definitely never leave Mario Kart; and what makes it unique: the 
 Item's; ranging from the Mushroom's that give you a boost in speed, to the Shell's that hunt you 
 down.
  
  -
  
  -Graphics: The graphics look very good for what was capable at the time, and still stand up to 
 newer titles. They did a good job here; from the major aspects of the game, to the little things 
 like when you drive through the water and kick-up a small spray; or when you go onto the grass/dirt 
 and kick up some grass/dust.
  
  -
  
  -Sound: The sounds in this game are varied and go together very well. Whether it's to make it feel 
 more fun, or more intense; they're used brilliantly.
  
  Effects-It has good sound-effects, such as: When you bump past another's Kart and they honk at 
 you; to the Engine Sounds; to the somewhat appropriate sound effects that are synonymous with the 
 items.
  
  Music-It has the obvious enjoyable tunes that Mario games are known to have. It's usually fun and 
 light-hearted around the 1st-Lap, gets a little more excited around the Middle-Lap, and more intense 
 on the Final-Lap. The music just about always matches the appropriate stage perfectly.
  
  -
  
  -Value: This is a very good game. Not only does it offer a very beefy amount of play options 
 in the offline mode, but you can also play it online with friends/rivals to extend it's livelihood.
 
  
  -
  
  -Tilt: I've had many of countless fun hour's with this game; and it's one of my favourite DS games 
 as of right now; and most definitely a good racing game.
  
  =
  
  -Afterthought: This is an enjoyable game. No glaring problems with play mechanics, and it's usually 
 very fun.
  
  My one tip to you if you haven't played it yet is that if you see the Blue-Shell in someone's inventory 
 on the bottom screen, let someone pass you before it's launched off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Yoshi_Man89
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  The Fifth edition to the Mario Kart series, Mario Kart DS proves to be an out standing hit. Mario 
 and co. come back for another round of racing and this time, it's much more awesome. The DS's split 
 screen divides you on the top while placing the map on bottom, therefore making it easier to veiw 
 upcoming characters, items or obstacles in your way. There are also new items, such as the Bloober 
 (which sprays ink on the top screen and makes it harder to see for a short while) and the Bullet 
 Bill (which transforms you into a Bullet Bill and rockets you past other players, knocking any 
 out if you hit any) . This game features a mutlitude of tracks, they even pulled some out from the 
 prievious games from the SNES, N64, GBA and the GCN. But what makes this game really awesome, is 
 the Wi-Fi ability. You can challenge any racer from your region or even worldwide. Also, you can 
 add your friends who have this game and challenge them there, too. Overall, this is one of the 
 greatest Mario Kart games of its series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastheace
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds is so cool for the DS is a very, very good game. But the best feature is multiplayer. 
 You can't fully enjoy the game until you've tried it. With players that don't own the game, Vs. 
 racing stinks. With players that have it, the expanded course selection is better. You can't do 
 the good course with one game pak. Now Ballon Battle and Shine Racers are ok either way, but they 
 aren't the main features. But still very fun. Wi-fi Racing is incredible. Racing people from other 
 countries is fun. Especially when you win. But if they use cheats like action replay, then it is 
 just plain horrible because you don't stand a chance (usually) . Overall, a great game in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DynamoFan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, well, well. Who would've thought Mario Kart DS would be the best Mario Kart? Well it is, 
 and it's racing to stores near you. If you find this game, pick it up at all costs! With Nintendo 
 Wi-fi, an all new mission mode, and 8 player wireless/ download play, a must have! You will spend 
 hours at this game trying to figure out every shortcut there is! Balloon Battle and Shine Runners 
 make for action packed wireless/ ds download play! Wi-fi can support up to 4 players in vs. mode! 
 You even get your own win/loss sheet! With customizable avatars called emblems, you can show everyone 
 your unique style! Make your own username or use your ds name for every one to know who's beating 
 them! Friend codes are not required for wi-fi! With unlockable characters and cars you'll show 
 everyone you can unlock them if you use one during a race! On your mark, get set, GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal132
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! I would recommend this to any one who either A. likes mario
  B. likes any racing game with weapons
  and C. Who likes v. s. against people around the whole world.
 
  
  Thats right you can challenge people around the whole world and it doesnt even take that long to 
 do it. There is also alot of levels including ones from old mario karts from the nintendo to the 
 n64 version to the game cube one and super circut and a whole bunch of new ones! There is also 
 alot of unlockable characters. You can even put your own design on your car that you are racing 
 with. There is also a battle mode where you throw weapons at the computer. My personal favorite 
 there is even missons that you can do in this game!!!! Now thats a Mario Kart!!!!!!
  
  So if you like mario kart or any racing game buy this!!!!
  
  p. s. if your mouth dropped from 
 that whole review than you should also buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  their are so ma ny different things to do from races at different difficulties to a balloon wars 
 where you blow in the micropho ne and blow a balloon and hit someone with a mushroom to steal there 
 balloons. there are so many different items tracks characters tracks and tons of items countless 
 hours of play the graphics are pretty good with the different items you could go from eight to 
 first if you get the right item
  this game was worth every dollar and so much more unfortunetly i sold it and i miss it
  a must 
 for any ds owner
  check out my blog for funny family guy videos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper9-07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart for the DS is a very, very good game. But the best feature is multiplayer. You can't 
 fully enjoy the game until you've tried it. With players that don't own the game, Vs. racing stinks. 
 With players that have it, the expanded course selection is better. You can't do the good course 
 with one game pak. Now Ballon Battle and Shine Racers are ok either way, but they aren't the main 
 features. But still very fun. Wi-fi Racing is incredible. Racing people from other countries is 
 fun. Especially when you win. But if they use cheats like action replay, then it is just plain 
 horrible because you don't stand a chance (usually) . Overall, a great game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyo_ichgowa
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  This game is just that, it's only ok. I don't really think that they added many new tracks, and 
 it's cool that they keep the old ones but come on. And I think that the graphics are just awful, 
 the turtle shells don't even rotate anymore for crying outloud. I do like, however, that the red 
 shells can curve around your opponent and hit them from the side ( thus ending the annoying blocking 
 defense lol ) . As for the online play, I have yet to actually get past the starting line because 
 people keep frickn disconnecting. But the game it self is very easy, especially if you've played 
 all of the other mario kart games. Worth buying? I wouldn't say for 20$, maybe 10... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patriotsrule47
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  this game is good but does not show much things that are different from other mario karts. this 
 to me only deserves an 7.0 because the only way that it could be fun is to race other people or 
 when you try to unlock everything but the racing really isn't that fun. a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a woops rated it high 
 by accident. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariokartfreaky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This is no doubt the best racing game for Nintendo DS. It has amazing graphics and you can play 
 as so many characters from all the Mario games. It has a huge lifespan because it has 32 track (some 
 new and some from previous games) . It has 3 different engine types (difficulties) and has over 50 
 missions. Multi-player mode is hilarious fun and it is Wi-Fi compatible too. There is hours of fun 
 to be had. Bashing rivals with so many different weapons is so much fun. Each character starts 
 off with 2 different karts one standard ,one other and one unlockable. This game has a time trial 
 mode too which allows you to save one ghost per track. There are staff ghosts to unlock too. If you 
 have a DS then I recommend you by this game! and if you have a wireless modem I strongly suggest 
 you use it for Wi-Fi!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Ghost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Usually a lot of DS games have pretty bad graphics. They are usually just slightly better than 
 GBA graphics. Mario Kart DS proves that the DS is capable of wonderful 3D graphics! There are many 
 characters to choose and there are some that are locked. Some of the levels are imported from other 
 Mario Kart games with better graphics and some are original. If you've got internet connection 
 you can race against people around the world. The game isn't too difficult, but the staff ghost 
 in time trial mode is extremely hard and will probably take you a very long time to beat. The game 
 runs really well and races are fun. You can use items to speed yourself up or slow your opponents 
 down. Mario Kart DS is one of the best and popular games on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  All i can say is its a game for utter idiots or its just a party game and nothing more. Mario kart 
 on the Advance (Super Circuit) was the last best Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, Double dash were rubbish 
 IMO of course, very high scores on revew sites say otherwise but hey, why? Catchup. Why the game 
 designers thought it was fun to give back markers weapons to destroy the person in the lead is 
 any bodys guess. We used to love playing Mario Kart on the SNES and Mario Kart on the Advance as 
 it was total skillz. If you were good, you were out in front. Time Trials meant something on these 
 two games. The games after super circuit, TT meant nothing. Daft stuff in the track, some really 
 odd power dash and generally geeky controls.
  
  This game however (back on topic) is the next best one after supercircuit / mariokartsnes, it does 
 have its ok bits, battle mode of course, there are no complaints there but the damn racing is ruined. 
 Ive found the best position to be in for the laps is 3rd with 1st in view. this way you can get 
 any of the weapons and you always get 3 red shells . . .so you noob ur way to first half way through 
 the last lap . .this however isnt always guaranteed as you get that death shell get u just before 
 the finish, its horrible. You could be the fasest in the world but it doesnt matter. you get no 
 reward for being fast at the tracks as you could get noobed inches before the line. I remember 
 playing Mario Circuit 1 and the Doughnut Plains (pretty much all of Mushroom Cup) with my mate 
 (we were equally as good as each other) and we were side by side al of the time. Brilliant. We 
 both agree now that the magic that was Mario Kart has been ruined and we look towards games like 
 Forza to get our toe to toe back. .wtf . . erm, we are talking fun games not sims . . we treated 
 Mario Kart ike a damn sim the racing was so fair.
  
  All I can say is if your totally unskilled you get Nintendo factored with this game, meaning there 
 are no losers in Nintendo land, its just too easy to win. Nintendo must take pity on the person 
 in last place so give them massivly overpowered chances to catch up. I have been last to first 
 in this game so many times against a player who is easily my nemesis, nah, its just not cool and 
 boring. sorry, how dare i say this about a Nintendo game. well . . .i just said it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chic531
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  this is one of the only mario games i'll ever play and i would like to count this a fave. with 
 great levels and awesome multiplayer boards, you would enjoy this immensly. wi-fi is great and 
 has kept me playing for hours on end. you can also unlock bonus characters like bones and Rob. 
 if you like racing games and have not tried this yet i suggest you get it.... its loads of fun!!!!!!! 
 you can also design and emblem to give your car its own look. (that can be seen when playing multiplayer 
 and single) i also was happy that they had a wode varities of characters and cars. (my main character 
 is Yoshi) sooo... if you have not tried this game yet you should buy it and i can garentee you'll 
 love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratina667
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart has always been a simple (albeit effective) formula that DS finally seems to have mastered.
 
  
  Gameplay: The same at it's core, but it does things DD could do but didn't.
  there's no longer 2 people per kart, but the kart is now less cumbersome to handle, even with a D-pad. They 
 also fixed one problem that's been bugging most since MK64, they now have individual unlockable 
 characters, as well as new sets of karts to unlock, as well as a modified version of the classic 
 kart, the addition of new items also helps the game slightly, making the game more appealing to veterans 
 and newcomers. There's also a fun mission mode, though they could have awarded the player something 
 for it.
  Wifi, unfortunately been mucked up by people called "snakers" who abuse the turbo boosting mechanic (it 
 allows one to get a boost across corners in normal play, though some courses give the opportunity 
 to do it on straightways, which snakers abuse.) The tracks are large, well rendered and varied, from 
 a giant pinball machine to a castle to a suburb and back. Karts, like tracks karts are highly varied, only 
 adding to the depth.
  Overall this game has done what most other racing games have failed to: create a surprisingly deep 
 and fun experience that makes up for it's price tag.
  
  Graphics: decent for a DS game, no complaints on my part
  
  Sound: the sound is also decent, music 
 is catchy and fitting of the situation.
  Character voices are blurry however, but they aren't heard often enough for it to be much of a problem.
 
  
  Overall the game is probably the best in the series, and people who haven't played before at least 
 need to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Mario kart ds is probably the best version of Mario kart to date. It includes tracks from most 
 of the old versions of the game as well as some new ones of it's own. It also has the largest amount 
 of racers with a sizeable 16 including all your old favourites such as Mario and Luigi. You can 
 race as shy-guy if you use multi-card play which is a good incentive to do so.
  
  Gameplay wise it's what you would expect from a Mario kart game but if you don't know what that 
 means let me explain. Mario kart isn't your typical kart racer. Unlike most game characters who 
 have kart games, Mario is actually able to pull it off and as such has kept the Mario kart series 
 going for 15 years now. The gameplay involves up to 8 karts on track at one time racing around 
 tracks based around the Mario universe. Different tracks have different hazards that you have to 
 look out for. For example in the Luigi's mansion level there are moving trees that you have to 
 dodge. Now on to the items. Scattered around the tracks at specific intervals there are item boxes. 
 Drive through one and you'll gain a random item. These include.
  
  Red mushrooms- These give you a speed boost for a short time and can be found by themselves or 
 in threes.
  
  Red shells- These home in on other racers when fired and hit them causing them to spin for a second 
 or two.
  
  Blue shells- These will hit the lead racer when you fire them even if you are the lead racer. They 
 cause you to fly up in the air and there is a blast radius that will do the same to other racers 
 who get to close.
  
  There are numerous other items as well. You can get a speed boost if you drift well for a few seconds 
 or if you get in another racers slipstream for a few seconds. When drifting you will know if you 
 have a speed boost ready if first blue sparks and then orange sparks fly out of your wheels.
  
  Game modes are varied and every single one is exciting. The main mode is grand prix mode. Each 
 grand prix consists of four races against the AI and whoever has the most points at the end of 
 the four races wins the grand prix. Winning grand-prixs unlocks harder difficulties and more racers.
 
  Offline there is also single race, time trial, mission mode and battle mode. Single race and time 
 trial are self explanatory so I will just describe mission mode and battle mode.
  
  Mission mode consists of a variety of wierd missions and each one must be completed to move onto 
 the next. They're fun enough but you'll probably be to stuck in to the other modes to bother with 
 them much. The final single player mode is battle mode. There are two types of battle mode. Firstly 
 there is balloon battle in which you have as many balloons as you can blow up through the ds's 
 microphone and these are basically your lives. You lose balloons by being hit by items such as 
 red shells and you are out if you run out of balloons. Secondly is shine runners. In this mode 
 you collect shines and the player with the most shines at the end wins. You lose a shine if you 
 are hit by an item such as a red shell.
  
  Online mode is in my opinion the best mode on the game. You can take on up to 3 other racers from 
 around the world in a series of four races. The normal rules apply and it is just mind boggingly 
 brilliant fun to race against other real people rather then just the AI. The only problem with 
 the online is that it lacks battle mode but it's only a minor gripe.
  
  Graphically the game holds up well for a handheld game. It is jagged in places but that is to be 
 expected. The sound quality from the three, two, one go beeps to the car engines is great but not 
 brilliant. The game has tons of replay value and you'll be playing it for years to come. Overall 
 it's one of the best games on the ds and the best Mario kart yet.
  
  +Brilliant online play
  +Will you keep you coming back for a long time
  +There isn't one bad 
 track
  +The gameplay is simply superb
  -Lack of online battle mode
  Graphics-9
  Gameplay-10
  Sound-9
  Value-10
  Tilt-10
  total- 48divided by 5= 9.6 which rounds to 9.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameraider07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  this is your typical mario racing game it an instant classic theres not a story to this game you 
 just race and of coures win to unlock stuff like new courses and characters and their karts and 
 also new carts for the characters you already have its a great game so why not BUY it if you have 
 a ds it came with the limmited edition Mario Kart edition of the ds when it was hot on the market 
 i got the last one they had in the whole town of Rocky Mount! so they arent selling those editions 
 any more so now its just lites and the normal core system pack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongkingkong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  The head honcho of the DS line-up Mario Kart DS more than deserves the 9.2 and Editor's Choice 
 badge Gamespot awarded it. With 16 brand new race courses and 16 classic courses from previous 
 iterations of the game, theres pleanty of race in this tiny cartridge. 4 difficulty modes and pleanty 
 of unlockables on the single player mode to preoccupy yourself with. Other modes like Versus, time 
 trial and battle are still there. However, the twist lies in the brand new wifi and internet multiplayer. 
 Play with up to 8 DS's locally with one game cartridge, or go against players online anywhere in 
 the world for the first time on a mario kart game. The classic charcters, zaney gameplay and fast 
 paced ruthless powerslides will keep you amused on and offline for a long long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  This game is realy great. When you first get it you wont be able to stop. Sadly after a month or 
 so the game realy loses some of its funness. But thats just typical for a videogame. Especialy 
 a handheld. But dont let that stop you from getting this game. It realy is one of the best ds games 
 out there. Here is how I rated it.
  
  graphics:9 out of 10. Amazing graphics for the ds however the items look realy flat. (especialy the 
 shells)
  
  Gameplay:9 out of 10. Some realy good courses make this game the best in the series!
  
  contols:10 
 out of 10. The pad actualy works better than a analog stick.
  
  overall:8.5 out of 10.
  
  This is a phenominal ds game and a must have to all ds owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffgothic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Remember the good ol SNES days, when Super Mario Kart was released? For those who remember these 
 times, wasnt the game addictively fun? Well, nearly fifteen years later, the same can be said 
 for the latest iteration of the Mario Kart series on the Nintendo DS.
  
  From the gameplay aspect, it all feels very polished in Mario Kart DS. If youre familiar with 
 the series or even a complete newbie, theres nothing to be skeptical about. Mario Kart games have 
 always offered an easygoing pick up and play experience, and this time its really no different. 
 However as you progress through the several kart classes, races noticeably become more challenging. 
 A fairly new gameplay mechanic in Mario Kart DS is power-sliding. This is performed with the L 
 and R buttons on the DS and a turbo boost can come as a result when simultaneously pressing left 
 and right on the D-pad. Some players may become confused on how to do this, but itll become second 
 nature to pull of fairly quickly. An improved map also provides as a helpful tool, while making 
 a simple but effective use of the touch-screen. You can switch between two map views on the fly, 
 a zoomed out version, showing the entire track and what racer is in what position, then a zoomed 
 in perspective, giving you a more vivid idea of how far you are in front or behind.
  
  Another huge aspect of Mario Karts gameplay has always been the items. Bananas, Koopa shells, 
 bomb-oms, stars, and item stealing Boos all make a return. Several new items include Bloopers, 
 the squid-like foes in most Mario games, whom blast an area of dripping ink on the screen, slightly 
 hindering the vision of other racers. Additionally, you can transform your racer into a Bullet 
 Bill, and make your way to the front of the pack at near hyper-speed. All the items are pretty 
 fun to utilize and help the player in their own unique way. However, I did find myself sometimes 
 getting the same items repetitively using most characters, and that kind of got annoying after 
 a while. Races consist of up to eight participants. In the grand prix mode, there are three classes, 
 50CC, 100CC, and 150CC. Inside each class exists 8 cups with four races in each. Now that alone 
 adds a strong bit of variety in the games value. In fact, variety is the strongest attribute of 
 Mario Kart DS. Time trials and a battle mode serve as good add-ons, but the one game mode that 
 stands out greatly and makes this version of Mario Kart a classic is the mission mode! It spans 
 over six levels and youll complete challenges like: driving backwards through a number of gates 
 in order with an allotted time of forty-five seconds. Progressing through these small missions 
 leads up to an unlockable boss fight on each level.
  
  While much is served on the single-player side, the greatest thing about Mario Kart DS is the multiplayer. 
 Without question, this entry in the series delivers the best multiplayer action in any Mario Kart 
 game to date. All game modes can be used in the multiplayer component. With the Nintendo Wifi capability, 
 take your kart online with folks from around the world. You can even connect to players wirelessly 
 within thirty feet of you, and them having a copy of Mario Kart DS isnt even required. They can 
 simply download a mirrored version of the game. The multiplayer is widely and easily accessible 
 which extends the games overall value.
  
  Mario Kart DS contains a pretty decent presentation. Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach and the rest 
 of the gang are all here, with a few unlockable characters. The graphics are in 3D and look pretty 
 much exactly like the N64 Mario Kart. Whats great is that most of the tracks are a collection 
 of the best and most memorable ones from previous entries in the series. The sound isnt too shabby; 
 in a nutshell its all the sound effects and music from the Mario universe recycled.
  
  In summation, Mario Kart DS is clearly the best Mario Kart game out. With a solid presentation, 
 traditionally good gameplay that is significantly improved on, the load of extra content and game 
 modes, and some of the best multiplayer around, its a must own for those with a DS. In essence, 
 it maintains and at the same time expands on what made the original Super Mario Kart a classic 
 back in 1992. Addictive and great fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioguy12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is AWESOME!!! It was my first DS game, and it is still my favorite game ever!!
  
  GAME PLAY: 10/10: The gameplay is great!! The new items are good, and all of the courses are 
 very fun. The controls fit perfectly!
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10: Graphics are good, but some of the characters are kind of weird- looking. It's 
 good looking for a DS game!
  
  SOUND: 10/10: The sound is always awesome on Mario games!!
  
  VALUE: 10/10: All of the cups 
 to beat and extras to unlock takes you about a month, and then you can have multiplayer races! 
 It is a lot more fun if you have wi fi access.
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhcash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best racer on the DS yet, and probably forever, not only becuase of it's fun 
 maps, great handling, good graphics, and simply the causual feeling of the Mario license, but it 
 also has online, which throws away the fact that the game is casual yet really easy even on 150cc 
 (the hardest difficulty) .
  
  Mario Kart DS is filled with fun times especially if you are playing multiplayer (in the same room) 
 with friends. It works like any other Mario Kart game: you choose from many characters from the 
 Mario universe choose from more than 5 karts for each character, and race to the finish line using 
 over 10 different unique power-ups to help you get into first place. The game is simply fun. The 
 game is packed with new features, inculding the new Mission mode, where you complete particular 
 objectives, like complete a race before Bowser or drift 15 times. There are even boss fights at 
 the end of each level! (each level consists of 7 seperate missions, there are about 8 levels) The 
 most memorable boss fight using Mushroom boosts to push a big black round ball with horns (I forget 
 it's name) into the lava. Mission mode is innovative and challenging, I was even stuck on some 
 of the missions! Missions also give you a rating based on how fast you complete the mission, which 
 is a fun addition.
  
  Other than the new modes, like the just mentioned Mission mode and the already existing Battle 
 mode, Time Trials, and Grand Prix, there are also 16 news racing maps to play in for Quick Race 
 and Grand Prix (Battle mode maps are totally different) . The new maps are themes of games of the 
 Mario license, including Super Mario Sunshine. The maps are big, fully detailed, and filled with 
 obstacles that can slow you down or speed you up. It's a challenge to try to get on the booster 
 at the right time so you don't end up stuck in the mud, trying to get across. Not only does Mario 
 Kart DS contain 16 news maps, but it also contains 16 remade old maps, 4 from each Mario Kart game 
 from the past. So that means 4 maps from Super Mario Kart (SNES) , 4 maps from Mario Kart 64 (Nintendo 
 64) , 4 maps from Mario Kart: Super Circurt (GBA) , and 4 maps from Mario Kart: Double Dash (GameCube) . 
 All the retro maps are completly redrawn and re-programmed specially from Mario Kart DS.
  
  Don't think the touch screen went to waste! The touch screen is used a lot. The main use of the 
 touch screen during a race is the map. From the map, you can see the basic outline of the characters 
 faces, the actual racing area, obstacles (like pipes, boosters, banana peels, fake power-up boxes, 
 etc.) , and other things like that. The touch screen map work so well that you can actually cover 
 up the top screen and race using the map on the touch screen if you want. Also on the touch screen, 
 to the left of the map, is a little roster showing who is in first place, second place, third place, 
 etc. It also shows what power-ups people have on them (if they do at all) . this can be usful. If 
 you are in second place you see that Mario, who is in third place, has a koopa shell, you can prepare 
 for the koopa shell by holding L to hold a banana (if you have it as a power-up) behind you without 
 dropping it, so when the koopa shell comes at you, it will hit the banana peel instead of you. 
 There are many strageties you can use, like if you have a like of weight (like Bowser) you can 
 push someone who close next to you into the lava or sand or some obstacle that can slow them down. 
 You can also use a mushroom boost to get across a sandy shortcut (if you don't use the mushroom 
 across a sandy shortcut, which there are many of, you will end up slowing down and you would have 
 been better off using the regular road in the first place) . There are many strageties that I will 
 have you figure them out yourself.
  
  The only really problem of this game is the AI. The AI isn't balanced and aren't very smart. Normally, 
 every set of races, there will be a difficulty for each AI character for a race. For example, if 
 Luigi is in 8th place to start, he probably will never go past 7th place in any set of race. Same 
 goes with everyone. Normally I'm only competing with one or two AI charaters for 1st place. Yet 
 again, this problem is fixed with the decent, but not perfect online.
  
  The game is definately worth buying if you're the type who enjoys a casual, nearly flawless fun 
 time. Wait, I think we're all that type! Thanks for reading my review of Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart 64 was one of the first games Ive ever played, and I had loads of fun even though I 
 always got last place. This game is like Kart 64 only portable, and with more stuff. It includes 
 all the maps and modes that I enjoyed from the other versions and puts them here. The gameplay 
 is easy and you get used to it really fast. Using your weapons is fun too. The multiplayer is 
 fun and really easy. The graphics and sound are great too. If you have a DS, buy this game because 
 if you dont, youre missing out on a fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great racing game in every way. There are levels from the older Mario Kart game 
 as well as brand new ones. The graphics are good for a DS game, and the environments look good. 
 What's also great about this game is that characters can pick any one of 36 vehicles. Multiplayer 
 is great with your friends, but on Wi-Fi, this game is a blast. You can race people via the Internet 
 on your DS, and it is highly addictive and fun. What's annoying on Wi-Fi is when people cheat. 
 I don't know how they do it, but they can. This is one game no DS owner should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icup01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and this game makes sure it doesnt come in second place to other racing games 
 like Diddy Kong Racing . This game is fun that instead of learning in skool, we play muitiplayer 
 with my pals, and i always lose, I've one a couple times but still, we have fun. i mostly spend 
 my valueable time playing this game casue i love it, the only thing i dislike are people who snake 
 on WI-FI, but, hey, even a cheater can be beat. For the moment i dont have a wirless connection 
 cause i recently moved but if you want, message me and well have our selfs a good race once i get 
 a wireless routher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemist19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  ________If you own a Nintendo DS then this is a must have. Not only is this one of the best racing 
 games you can get for the DS, but this is also one of THE best games on the DS, period. This game 
 has 32 tracks to race on, some new tracks and others are tracks taken from other Mario Kart games 
 like Baby Park from Mario Kart Double Dash and even some tracks from the SNES version of Mario 
 Kart. You can get up to 12 characters to choose from, some of the characters being R. O. B. and Dry 
 Bones. Grand Prix is the main bulk of the game with 4 different modes; 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and 
 150cc mirror mode. As you beat the different modes you unlock new things like characters and karts. 
 This mario kart has some cool little extras along with its racing that makes this game have great 
 replayability. In single player mode there are missions you can do in this game. These don't unlock 
 any extras or anything like that, but are just fun to play. All they do is give you different tasks 
 to do from going through gates in a limited time to racing the huge catipillar Wiggler. Another 
 extra is you can create an emblem to put on your kart, just a picture you draw will be placed somewhere 
 on your kart, depending on which kart you use. There is also battle mode and a new mode called 
 shine runners where you collect as many shines as you can before anybody else.  
 for the multiplayer portion. This is where than game can get very exciting if you have up to seven 
 other friends with DSs. When playing with other friends wirelessly you can have up to seven, the 
 only drawback is if they don't own a copy of Mario Kart than you can't use all the tracks, also 
 only one person will be able to chose a character while everybody else will have to use shy guys 
 as characters. Being a shy guy doesn't hurt the other players because shy guy is a pretty fast 
 character. If everybody does have Mario Kart though, then everybody can chose their own character 
 and all the tracks are availiable to race on. In Wi-Fi mode you can race four people considering 
 their are four other people playing Wi-Fi, sometimes you will only get one or two other people 
 to race. Unfortuately their are some drawbacks to Wi-Fi. First of all you can't race on all the 
 tracks in Wi-Fi mode, but there are a good number of them. Another is sometimes just waiting for 
 the game to find three other opponents can take a couple of minutes and get kind of annoying. Finally, 
 just the some of the players themselves can be annoying because they will quit on you if your winning, 
 but that is just something you have to expect when it comes to Wi-Fi. If you got really good ranks 
 on all your races in single player mode and also on missions mode like one, two, or three stars 
 then that will show up above your character. You have to have at least one star on every race and 
 mission for this to work. You can check to see if you have stars by going to records on the main 
 screen. Stars don't make you any faster, they are just a status to show other players how good 
 you are. In Wi-Fi you have four modes; worldwid, regional, rivals, and friends. Worldwide just 
 lets you race pretty much anybody, regional just lets you race people in your region, pretty obvious. 
 Rivals is a little different from worldwide and regional because unlike the latter two modes where 
 you race random people, rivals has you racing people that are really good, usually two or three 
 star people. Friends is just where you can race your buddies over Wi-Fi considering you have their 
 friend code and they have yours. That it for Wi-Fi, I only wish Nintendo had put battle and shine 
 runners on Wi-Fi.  all in all 
 Mario Kart DS is a great game that can keep you playing for hours on end. If you have Wi-Fi you 
 could play even longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Charlie_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  The graphics are good down to the last detail on each character. The new maps are creative and 
 fun, and using the old maps from previous mario karts is a great idea as it is not only a fun little 
 extra but it also enables you to compare each of the maps from previous mario karts to the current 
 ones.
  
  The battle mode is really good as you can play it on your own again CPU's unlike other titles where 
 you need other players.
  
  The game is extremely addicting and excellent fun. I have only one problem with this game, they 
 should include Todette/ Baby Mario/ Baby Luigi/ Birdo ect. instead of R. O. B. Only because i prefer 
 the classic characters.
  
  But otherwise the game is great. And a MUST HAVE for any Ds owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowzzr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS. graphic wise, mario kart ds is one of the best on the handheld device so far, and there 
 isn't much wrong to say about it. the game is smooth and you wont have a problem racing because 
 of it.
  
  SOUNDS. sounds are great, it gets you engaged in the gameplay. although in some stages, such as 
 luigi's mansion, the music doesn't really help - because of such annoying musical scores, it somehow 
 brins down and makes you forget the fact that you are racing.
  
  GAMEPLAY. no problem here, just fun, same style of other mario kart racing games.
  
  mario 
 kart offers A LOT of things for you unlock. there are 8 cups, 3 cc's + 1 mirror cc. once you beat 
 all of these cups with the corresponding cc's you still have the battle mode + the missions and 
 versus modes.
  
  BATTLE MODE. classic shoot your enemy (ies) . this time, unlike the N64 version, you can play battle 
 mode against the CPUs in team mode as well. there's two battle mode modes: BALLOON BATTLE or the 
 SHINE battle. in Shine type of battle mode you shoot your enemies and steal their shines - whoever 
 gets the most number of Shines win (s) .
  
  MISSION MODE. offers different missions for you to accomplish, and of course, whil using your cart. 
 very fun when you're not in for racing.
  
  VERSUS MODE. you may opt to race with the CPU as teams.
  
  *SIDE-NOTEs.*
  
  SPECIAL EFFECTS. 
 the game lacks a bit on the special effects part, graphics and gameplay-wise. what am i talking 
 about? im talking about the explosions and the little flames when you shoot a shell.
  
  Back in n64, when you shoot a shell, that gets emits a flame from behind it. although this is admittably 
 a minor detail, of course, this also brings some nostalgic feeling into the game, especially for 
 those classic players. this time around, however, the red shell is actually more reliable as it 
 hits the target quite more often that it was programmed to in n64 mario kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This was definietly a step up for the mario kart series. With new characters, karts, new modes 
 such as mission mode and online this is simply a great addition for the nintendo ds! Also there 
 are 32 tracks, battle mode and racing up to 8 players wifi connection or multi/single card play. 
 This game was easily the best game in the mario kart series. Even though this game has been out 
 for a while, its still one of the best ds games. I definietly recommend this game to everyone who 
 owns a nintendo ds. If u dont have this game then go to the store and buy it right now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Saibot
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS just like all the Mario Kart games out there, except better. MKDS' online features 
 are what really makes this game, being able to battle against your friend half way around the world 
 is really cool. The power slides are a cool new feature but can be annoying when people use it 
 for snaking online. There is also a mission mode where you must perform tasks in a certain amount 
 of time and fight some of the bosses from other Mario games. The only thing I didn't like about 
 this game was that after you have finished the game there really isn't much left to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetSurfer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  As we all know, Mario Kart DS has been around for a pretty long time. Though there has been many 
 sequels in Mario gaming history, this has got to be the best of the best in Mario. The wide variety 
 of tracks and karts keeps you playing for a long long time
  
  Mario Kart's gameplay is fairly easy, the A button is to go and the rest is to stop and shoot out 
 your weapons. The game has 16 new tracks as well as the old ones all the back to Super Nintendo 
 which is refreshing to new players and keeps the long time players happy, as well. I happen to 
 enjoy Delfino Square but that's just me. Also, they kept all the same characters from the old days, 
 all the way from mario, to wario, and from Luigi, to Waluigi. Also, you can create and/or design 
 your own symbol that will be shown on different parts of the kart you choose as well as on the 
 WiFi battles. Speaking of WIFI, Mario Kart DS was one of the first games to have WIFI. The WIFI 
 option is pretty impressive, it is easy to find different opponnets regionally (not so sure about 
 worldwide) . Probably takes about 2-3 minutes to find up to four people (that's the limit) . With 
 a wide variety of tracks and the WIFI option, I give gameplay a solid 10! The game's graphics are 
 very nice and clear. Mario Kart DS probably has absolutely no glitches at all! Which is pretty 
 hard to say for most DS games. Also, most of the way you use your weapons is pretty fun. I mean, 
 who doesn't like smacking people with shells or blasting someone while going 10000 miles per hour 
 with a bullet bomb! I give graphics a 9 because though the graphics are fun and clear, there seems 
 to be something... something missing.... The game's sounds are crisp and clear the way I hear it. 
 There's really not much to say about the sounds. Though it is pretty cool to hear when you get 
 hit by a shell! Oh Mario! I give sounds a 10. In conclusion, Mario Kart DS is a wonderful gaming 
 experience and will keep you entertained for hours on end like, for example if you are in a long 
 drive to somewhere it's nice to have one of these games around so you won't fall asleep. The game's 
 value deserves a 10. Nintendo did a great job on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philiptroaca
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  the game is pretty good and its alot of fun. after you finish the one player mode which takes a 
 while you release all the cars and characters. so when you play multi player you can chose any 
 character with any car. this makes it good when you like eg: Mario but love Yoshi's car you can 
 do this.
  
  the game is awesome when 2-4 player when you like VS some of your friends. Its cool because when 
 you vs multi player you can be on teams and vs the computer. if you want to know more of the game 
 please contack me (philip troaca) e-mail me at this address philiptroaca8@bigpond. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart ds is perhaps the best in the series. The game is large and has many different types 
 of gameplay modes. First off, you will probably go to the Grand Prix. It is simple at 50cc and 
 near impossable when you get to 150cc mirror, but is still fun nevertheless. There is the nitro 
 cup, which is new tracks, then the retro cup which consists of tracks from the previous mario kart 
 games. There is an all new mission mode which consists of simple levels and a boss fight. It is 
 fun, but really doesn't fit in. There are multiplayer combat modes, too, which is fun. Playing 
 with friends is more appealing then annoying NPC racers. The modes other than just racing are lame, 
 but that is still ok. This game is great, but just another typical mario kart nontheless. It has 
 new karts, new/old racers, many tracks, but in essence, just Mario Kart. But it doesn't matter. 
 It's still good :) - - skalokos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirLithix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has no flaw. If you dont have it, then go and get it. It has all of the major mario characters 
 with some others thrown in. There are a lot of tracks and arenas, and it has the best multiplayer 
 of any game. There is wi-fi, single cart, and multi cart play. This game is pure genius. Blah blah 
 blah. I dont know what else to say so... get it. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W 
 X Y and Z. now i know my abc's, next time wont u sing with me? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a firm favourite with Nintendo fans. It has always been the best karting series. 
 This gives you everything from the previous titles and more. It is an amazing acheivement. Old 
 tracks like Yoshi Curcuit, Baby Park and Luigi Curcuit but the new ones look brilliant. Bowsers 
 Castle, Waluigi Pinball and Wario Stadium are really good curcuits.
  
  Mission Mode you havce to do certain missions in the game like acollect a certain Number of coins 
 or drive as fast as you can or beat an opponent in a race. Grand Prix Mode offers 50cc,100cc,150cc 
 and Mirrior Mode. You can now play battle mode against the computer and up to eight players. Online 
 Mode is where the game offers you to play anyone in the world or Rivals, Friends or Regional. You 
 can get stars by your name if you beat all the time trial ghosts get star rankings on mission mode 
 and get star ranking in all grand prix modes. Do all that it shows up when you play online
  
  There are some new items also like bullet bill and blooper. The touch screen isn't used but 
 you get a map of the curcuit so if a blooper covers the screen you can see where your going. There 
 are two new characters ROB and Dry Bones. You can also create your own emblem as well. Snaking 
 is talked about alot it's where you do a mini turbo but I think it is fine.
  
  There is so much to do it is worth getting a DS simply for this. Mario Kart has never been better. 
 It is the greatest Mario Kart game ever made. It has superb graphics and over 30 different karts 
 this is a Mario Kart that every Mario Kart fan wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkothephenom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  this is the latest mario kart game in the series. though it took out the ability to use two characters 
 per kart the gameplay is as smooth as ever. the game now gives you the ability to power slide (Drift) 
 around conors and that adds a completely new stategy to the series. also there are new power ups 
 this time around. you got bullet bill in which u turn into bullet bill for a short amount of time. the 
 graphics look really terrific. it gives you an oldschool vibe but with clean 3D graphics. the audio 
 is also pretty impressive. the music and sounds are great. but the single player is a bit lacking. there 
 is a cup mode which is pretty short. there is also a mission mode which is quite intersting but 
 it just feels like they shoved it in the cartridge. multiplayer is were the game really shines. there 
 is single cart multiplayer were u can play with up to eight players using one cart .there are restricttions 
 but its still really cool. online play is fun but when played online the game does not let you 
 drag your weapons. this a a big dissapointment cause most people usually drag there weapons. overall 
 this game is great but if you can't play multi-player then you won't have a lot to do in the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  What a game Mario Kart DS is. This game is definitely one of the greatest handheld games ever made. 
 When I heard of Mario Kart DS while playing my Super Mario 64 DS, I thought it was going to be 
 another port of another 64 game, Mario Kart 64. But after I heard all of the news, and how itll 
 be online capable, I never even thought about it being a port again, and I thought finally, a sweet 
 DS game coming out, I cant wait! Mario Kart DS has to be one of the best Driving games out there. 
 People might not think the same way Im thinking, but come on, those driving sims suck, Mario Kart 
 is where its at, word. Joking, but Mario Kart DS should still be considered one of the best racing 
 games, because it really is.
  
  Theres not much of a story in Mario Kart DS, but a grand prix with 16 new courses, and 16 old 
 courses from NES, N64, Gamecube, and Game Boy Advance is good enough for me. Once you beat certain 
 cups, you can unlock new cups, or new characters. There isnt much to say other than its other 
 options of Multiplayer, Battle, Time Trials, and Wi-Fi.
  
  Just like one of my friends said, Wow, I thought the graphics werent going to be very good, but 
 once I played it, they were actually quite swell. and I agree. When I first thought of a DS Mario 
 Kart game, I didnt think the graphics were going to be that good, but I played it, and they were 
 really good for the DS. The characters are pretty smooth besides the pointy parts of them, but 
 its barely noticeable if you had lots of fun, like I did. Every character looks like theyre supposed 
 to, the tracks are magnificent, and the karts are totally awesome. I love the graphics, they suit 
 the style of game, and I wouldnt even want realistic graphics because the graphics in the game 
 are fine.
  
  Mario Kart DS has perfect sound for every course and every character. Like when you pass someone 
 in a race, you make a little cheer, like Mario says, Yeah! or Yoshi says Yepee!, or something, 
 if you know what Im talking about. Also, the music is amazing, and it gets you going. All of the 
 levels have their own set of tunes which really go well with the environment youre in. If youre 
 in Bowsers Castle, its the old Bowser Music from the Mario game. If youre in Peachs Garden, 
 the music is all cheery and beautiful while Bowsers is dark and mysterious.
  
  The gameplay in Mario Kart DS is nothing short of amazing. No doubt about it. The buttons are in 
 the perfect places for the game. Hold A to accelerate/action button in menus, Y to use item, B 
 is brake/reverse/cancel in menus, R is to hop, and the D-Pad is to move the menu cursor, and move 
 your kart. Theres Grand Prix, Vs., Battle, Time Trial, and Missions on the 1P options. Theres 
 also Download Play, which is two player, and theres also Nintendo WFC. Wi-Fi was amazingly fun 
 when it first debuted, but after a while, people start snaking all of the time, the lag when your 
 facing people in Japan is annoying, everything just gets frustrating. But overall, I think the 
 Wi-Fi is a good idea, and it turned out good, but it couldve been a lot better. Its easy to play, 
 just connect to a USB Adapter, a Wireless Router, or a Hotspot, then face a friend or random people, 
 wait for people to connect with you, pick a level, then face them, easy.
  
  Mario Kart has lots of Replay Value. Wi-Fi, Time Trials, lots of Grand Prix and characters to unlock, 
 this game has some serious Replay Value to it, and it should, or the game definitely wouldnt be 
 as good. The only downfall is once you beat all of the Grand Prixs, unlocked all of the characters, 
 and got bored of Wi-Fi, theres nothing to do, I havent played mine for a while. You also can't 
 use every course on WiFi which is very disappointing.
  
  Mario Kart DS is an amazing game, like I said, one of the best racing games out there. It's no 
 doubt the best Mario Kart out there, even if the online isn't amazing. If you dont have this game, 
 but you have a Nintendo DS, go out there and buy this game now. What are you waiting for? Mario 
 Kart DS is the real deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XlpranksterlX
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The Mario kart series has always been about taking your favorite characters from Nintendo's games, 
 putting them in karts, adding a bunch of power ups on the track and then duking it out. Mario Kart 
 DS is no different. I played it back on the Nintendo 64 and enjoyed it very much. Yet, this game 
 is a different story, mainly because it feels so much like a port of that game, and fans of the 
 series may feel a little bored with this. However, if you have never played Mario Kart, this a 
 fantastic way to get acquainted with the series.
  
  There are many single player modes, the main of which is the grand prix mode, in which you do the 
 races in four track increments. For example in the Mushroom cup, you race on the Figure-8 circuit, 
 Yoshi falls, Cheep Cheep beach, and then Luigi's mansion. They keep going until all the game's 
 32 tracks are unlocked. About half of the game's tracks are original, others are ports from the 
 old games. In reality they all play fairly similarly but there are few that really stand out, such 
 as rainbow road, that have speed boost all over and can provide for some action packed races.
 
  
  Once you've completed it you can go through it again in a different engine class, which really 
 doesn't do very much other than make the AI a bit more aggressive. The AI isn't terribly good, 
 and it really doesn't provide a very good experience. It's too easy to win on the first two classes, 
 and even when you crank up the engine class, the AI never puts up a good fight, and doesn't provide 
 a satisfying racing experience, always wining by something that feels more like a stroke of luck 
 than real skill. Add to that the way the AI works, selecting one kart to be your rival and the 
 others to be pretty much drones on the track, leaving the competition fairly dull. To add insult 
 to injury, the game's controls aren't very good. They are what you would expect, A button to accelerate, 
 B to brake, ect. But the DS's small face buttons are uncomfortable to use for extended periods 
 of time, and are not customizable in the least (I would have liked to switch the A button with 
 the shoulder and rework the face buttons.) As if that wasn't enough, the touch screen is barely 
 used. During racing the bottom screen shows a surprisingly accurate map, and if it is tapped, a 
 zoomed version of it is displayed. It's not even possible to use it after a face is finished in 
 order to bring up the menu and select the next race. That is completely illogical, not even having 
 it available in what is basically a menu. The rest of the game's menus can be navigated with the 
 stylus though. The DS's hardware maybe limiting the interaction with the game, but it certainly 
 isn't limiting its presentation. Mario Kart's graphics are top notch, running smoothly no matter 
 what mode you are in or how many karts are on screen. The game sounds good too, with a different 
 soundtrack for each course (there might be a few reused but it's not noticeable.) It's good that 
 the game looks good because there is so much to do that you will be looking at the screen for quite 
 a while. On top of the main single player, there is a mission mode, that asks you to do certain 
 tasks, a battle mode where you face off against computer controlled or human opponents over wi-fi 
 (local only,) a time trail mode, and a very basic but competent online mode. Players can race on 
 twenty maps online, there is only a straight up race mode, but there is match making, and I haven't 
 run into any lag yet. Nintendo uses friend codes and there is no feedback system, but considering 
 it's on a portable platform, it's mostly forgivable. One feat that Mario Kart was able to over 
 come, quite impressively I might add, is balancing. There are floating boxes on the track at certain 
 locations that when hit, give the player a power up. These range from koopa shells that track other 
 karts to lighting blasts that temporarily shrink other karts and reduce their speed to a brand 
 new one that morphs players into a bullet bill from the Mario games and allows opponents to knock 
 each other off the road. These are very well balanced, with players in the lead getting less useful 
 ones, and players in the back of the pack getting better items to use, giving them a fighting chance 
 at the lead (although on lower engine classes, or with very skilled players, being in the lead 
 often results in boring less useful items.) The quality of items also depends on your karts ability, 
 with each kart having special attributes. Two of my problems with the game are seen here. For one, 
 most of the power ups are taking directly from the N64 version of the game. Also, Mario Kart DS 
 lacks a real sense of speed, no matter what character and kart configuration, you just move slowly 
 in this game. One of the power ups is a mushroom that lets you go faster, but in reality all that 
 it does to convey any real sense of motion is give you some anime like wind lines. They feel cheap 
 and out place, and are a band aid on a problem that hurts Mario Kart DS at its core. All in all, 
 Mario kart is an amazing value, especially if you haven't played any of the previous ones. For 
 those that are experienced with the series, I doubt there is enough here to makes this a worth 
 while purchase. Those who are looking for a long lasting portable game can rest easy, since there 
 is so much variety in this single cartridge. But those looking for a competent racing game by today's 
 standards will be disappointed in Mario kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammerbrodude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Ok, I may be a little biased, as a fan of the series. But it IS a good game, we can all agree on 
 that, right?
  
  Ok, Gameplay: How much simpler could it be? The game even practically tells it to you: once you 
 beat 50-150cc, you will get another, mirror. It is almost TELLING you to continue. And when you 
 go online, visiting mk fansites, you just may play forever, trying to beat world records. Mission 
 mode also exists, and you can get three stars in every one. I am one of those people, sadly.
  
  Graphics: Nothing special. Sound: I love the rainbow road tune, and can be found humming it 
 at times. I love the sound. I really do.
  
  Value: You have A massive single player, and a semi-massive multiplayer. Whats not to like?
  
 
  Tilt: I love this game, and im sure that you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Well overall i think this game is better than double dash. Its real addictive, the game play is 
 so superb it plays way better than double dash, the handling is way easier, they did really good 
 on the scenery of the game but in my opinion i think the graphics are a little poor on the characters. 
 I think that if u have a ds u need to get this game, it really shows off what the ds can do. i 
 think its better than all the other mk games and maybe even the new one coming out on wii, if ur 
 a mario kart fan u will never put the game down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RRR23
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is another Mario Kart game. Mario Kart DS has everything from double dash and more. 
 Mario Kart DS has missions were you have to do something like collect coins or race something. 
 This Mario Kart lets you race with 8 people local with game or without game and you can now play 
 against your buddies around the world with the Nintendo Wi-fi connection
  You can race people world wide, people in your country, rivals, or you friends if you have each 
 others friend codes Great game for the DS you will like it if you liked the other Mario Karts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aries8269
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely one of my favorite games that I own. Crisp detail and excellent control 
 is sometimes two of the hardest things to nail down on a handheld game and this one does it in 
 style.
  
  Gameplay: Each of the tracks gives a unique twist with each turn... more so than in previous itterations 
 of this series. The controls are top notch as each character and cart has their own control sceme 
 that you must master. Unlocking new characters as you win 1st place in the different cups and unlocking 
 cups as you progress. I say that the difficulty is just right as you can choose which CC you wish 
 to participate in thus setting the difficulty. If there was anything I would have a minor gripe 
 about is the power slide and initiating it. You have to take your thumb completely off the D pad 
 to hit the left and right arrows in quick succession. Most of the time, I try sliding my thumb 
 across and I end up taking longer to go into the power slide (but in this instance, that is on 
 my skill... not the controls)
  
  Graphics: The graphics are colorful, vibrant, and crisp. Somewhat hard to do on a handheld, kudos 
 to Nintendo. The only issue that couldnt be completely resolved was Rainbow Road. I loved the layout 
 of Rainbow Road thoroughly. Corkscrews and loops... who wouldnt love those. The problem came in 
 where the camera either couldnt keep pace with the loop/corkscrew or the DS engine was having a 
 hard time processing the loop/corkscrew. in either case, it caused uneven animation. If you got 
 knocked off while progressing through a loop/corkscrew, the camera would do some really funky things. 
 If that issue can be hammered out... future games with the same engine will be an increadible sucess 
 as more tracks could have more dynamic effects like loops.
  
  Sound: Very upbeat and quite true to the Mario name. The sound effects were also quite good. Each 
 of the different attacks, the engine sounds, the tires squeeling... everything was top notch.
  
  Extras: Aside from the number of tracks that are included with the game (immediately playable 
 and those that can be unlocked) , theres also the mission mode that can offer a couple hours of 
 enjoyment where you must meet specific goals that require increasing skill as you progress through 
 the levels. There are 6 mission worlds if you will however it is rumored that there is a 7th... gotta 
 find it yourself though =P. On top of all that, you have the battle mode. The battle mode is by 
 far my favorite (definitely was my favorite in the original Super Mario Kart but the biggest problem 
 with it was that I had to have someone to play against) . In this itteration, you dont have to wait 
 till you can find people to play against, you can play against the computer (which can still be 
 fun) . The battle mode itself has two different game styles: Tried and true balloons and new game 
 where you must collect as many giant coins and hold onto them... most wins. There is always the 
 time trial mode where if you are good enough... ghosts from the past can be drudged up. Rumors say 
 that they are ghosts of the creators of the game but none can say for certain.
  
  Value: One of the best abilities this game has is the ability to reach out to Nintendo WiFi network. 
 You can race your friends or 3 random people in your area or around the world. Each person chooses 
 a track to race on and one is randomly chosen. Each DS unit along with a central database logs 
 each win and loss of each player. The only problem that comes in are lost signal/disconnects. During 
 a race, it happens from time to time that the connection is lost and you cant finish the race. 
 The way this has been taken advantage of is if a player is loosing and doesnt want that loss on 
 his/her record, they just simply turn the DS off cutting the connection.
  
  All in all, this is an incredibly solid game. With four classic cups containing circuits from previous 
 itterations of the Mario Kart series, four new cups containing all new stuff with some pretty wild 
 twists, four circuits per cup, I think 5 unlockable characters, and many unlockable karts for each 
 character (in which each kart has their own stats) , crisp graphics, excellent sound... Nintendo 
 did quite a number on this one. It is definitely worth it to get and add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeram
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  (Rated E For Everyone) Mario Kart DS Review by Princeram (5th Review)
  
  Great Game definitely get it! You have wi-fi which is the best part! Also Don't forget the 50-150 
 cc races and the Mirror race! And don't forget Balloon battle and star battle (or star catcher something 
 like that) . Then we also have multi player which is the best you get to choose from star catcher, 
 balloon battle and races. So please don't waste your time get Mario karts DS!! Also Once You get 
 it play me and see who wins on Wi-Fi!!
  
  
  -Princeram (5th review)
  
  P. S. Thanks for reading my Review :) And Also Check out my other Reviews there great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Okay first thing its an awesome idea I will agree but the little story thing very shallow, short 
 not that much fun but the best thing is wi-fi and battling aaainst your friends thats so cool defenitley 
 the best Ds game. I got my Ds bunndled with Mario Kart so that was really kool but oreral its an 
 okay game but any gamer will fing this very addictive but I would wait till it goes down to $20 
 or buy it used! Anyways if you own a Ds go get this one! But do not go buy a Ds to have this one 
 though! Well the best thing is probably sound in my perspective it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I love Mario Kart! The series has always been lots of fun for me! When i tried out this one, i 
 just thought Can this get any better? 
  
  Mario Kart is a racing game that features most of the mario crew along with lots of karts, side 
 missions and multiplayer madness!!!
  
  Mario Kart DS isn't missing anything besides graphics that could be improved more and more interesting 
 music... everything else is just perfect!
  
  There's a range of courses also featured in the game that will keep you hooked for ages! The DS 
 hasn't been the most loveable gaming device, but anyone who picks up Mario Kart DS will think otherwise!
 
  
  If you have a DS this is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  The point of this game is to beat all the missions and all the tournaments.
  
  The gameplay in this game is awesome, you move around smoothly and there is a lot of missions and 
 tournaments for you to enter. There are different difficulty levels in this game (50cc, 100cc, 
 150cc and 150cc mirror) . The easiest is 50cc the second easiest is100cc then it is 150cc and finally 
 150cc mirror. In 150cc mirror it is the normal 150cc except everything in the level is on the opposite 
 side. Like if you normally turn left in a certain part of a level instead you would have to turn 
 right. In each difficulty level there are the same tournaments. In each difficulty level there are 
 eight tournaments. There is also a battle mode where you can either do shine runners or balloon 
 battle. In shine runners you have to collect things called shines. Who ever has the most shines 
 at the end of the battle wins. If you get hit by an item you lose a shine. When you lose a shine 
 you see the shine come out of you an see it fly somewhere else. There are a few different places 
 where you can do these battles. In balloon battle you start of with one ballon. You see four other 
 balloons in the top right corner. They are like your lives. You blow in the microphone to get another 
 balloon. When you get another balloon you lose one of the balloons on the top right corner. If 
 you get hit with an item while you have one balloon left you are out. So when ever you have one 
 balloon left you should blow in the microphone to get another one. Once you run out of balloons 
 in the top right corner you can not get balloons anymore so you should be careful. There is a thing 
 called vs mode where you can do any races that you have beaten. In vs mode and battle mode you 
 can get teams. The only proplem with that is that you can't pick your own teams.
  
  The graphics in this game are awesome as well. Out of all the DS games i've bought this game is 
 the best graphiced. The graphics are very clear and detailed.
  
  The sound in this game is pretty good. The characters voices in this game are pretty accurate.
 
  
  This game took me a while to finish. I would of said it takes 10 hours or less if it wasn't for 
 the missions.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is spectacular. You can do balloon battlle, shine runners and you 
 can also do vs mode. The only problem with vs mode is that you are only allowed to do two tournaments.
 
  
  Overall this game is a great car racing game that i would recommend to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_of_Hyrule
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  For all you ds owners this is the must have game. It is truly the best game for the ds. This game 
 has great gameplay. It has the best levels out of any mario kart game yet., three karts to each 
 character which are mario, luigi, yoshi, toad, bowser, donkey kong, princess peach, daisy, dry 
 bones, waluigi, wario, and the newly invented R. O. B. It's a mario kart game so you can expect the 
 same music at the start of each race and of course a special song for each track. There arent any 
 errors or glitches that i can tell. So there are no problems with the sound. The graphics in this 
 game are right next to metroid. They are absolutely beautiful and especially beautiful for a handheld. 
 It has great enviroments, great vehicular design, and the characters are top notch. This game has 
 a lot of value to it. It has a good long single player which involves 4 different classes of racing 
 in grand prix, time trials, vs mode, battle mode, and missions. It has a local wireless play that 
 allows the host to pick levels and race his friends or foes for competition. This game also has 
 wifi which is really awesome. It is tied with metroid as my favorite games on wifi. You can truly 
 have great competition either local or worldwide and in your rank or any rank. Wifi is truly great 
 i would recommend it to anyone. Overall this game is just amazing. It has great gameplay, great 
 graphics, great sound, and absolutely amazing value which is why I give it the perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0starter0
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Before I get to the real review I'll say that this is one of my favorite DS games. It's the first 
 Mario Kart that has a real single player in my opinion, and the first to have online. It's really 
 ground-breaking for the series and really is a must buy for DS owners.
  
  Mario Kart DS is a kart racing game starring Mario and his pals, the fifth installment of the series. 
 Like any racing game whoever gets 1st place wins. Except with Mario Kart you'll get shells, banana 
 peels, mushrooms, bombs, and more. You use all these items to attack, set up traps, and to give 
 you the extra push to help you win. And with a total of eight racers, except for online, which 
 only four players can play, things can get pretty crazy with all the items. There are a total of 
 twelve characters each with a thirty-six karts to choose from, all the characters share the same 
 thirty-six karts though, and some characters and karts need to be unlocked. 32 tracks are also 
 available once you unlock them all.
  
  Single Player has 5 different modes: Grand Prix, Time Trials, VS, Battle, and Missions. In Grand 
 Prix mode you'll eventually unlock 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and 150cc Mirror. Obviously the higher the 
 number, the faster and harder the game gets. There are eight different cups each with four different 
 tracks. The only way to complete Grand Prix is to get three stars on every single cup on every 
 single difficulty. If you don't know how to snake this can be VERY difficult, even impossible 
 to get three stars in the later difficulties and cups, but knowing how to effectively snake can 
 make it quite easy. Time Trials is a mode to see how fast you can complete a course. If you're 
 fast enough you can unlock Staff times and see if you can beat the Staff. Additionally you can 
 send and receive ghosts to and from your friends. VS on single player is very basic. All it is 
 is racing against the computer, but you can set the difficulty, teams, CC, ect. Battle on single 
 player is again very basic. All you can do is balloon battle, which is attacking each other and 
 who ever keep their balloons the longest wins, or shine runners, which is who ever collects the 
 most shines in a given time wins. Again you can set it all up to your preference but even on hard 
 I find this very easy. Now, Missions mode is one of my favorites on single player. You get 8 missions 
 and have to defeat a boss for every 7 levels, all increasing in difficulty. For each mission youll 
 have to complete a certain set of requirements. Again, the only way to complete Missions mode completely 
 is to get three stars on every mission and boss. Once you have got at least one star on every grand 
 prix and mission you get a star next to your name when you go online. You can get two or three 
 stars next to your name if you get at least 2 stars or at least 3 stars on all the grand prix's 
 and missions. The only problem I have with single-player is once you master snaking you can beat 
 the computer easily.
  
  Now, moving on to the Multiplayer part, if you have Mario Kart DS but your friends don't, you can 
 have up to an eight player match with eight different courses. If you and your friends have Mario 
 Kart DS, eight of you can race, play balloon battle, or play shine runners. If, which I stress, 
 you can find seven other people with Mario Kart DS this multiplayer mode beats every other DS game's 
 multiplayer and even Mario Karts own online. But the chances of you finding seven other Mario 
 Kart DS owners are pretty slim.
  
  Wi-Fi on Mario Kart DS is my favorite DS online-ambled game. To play on the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection 
 first you'll have to set up your connection. It's pretty fast and simple if you have a wireless 
 router. To play a game you have to go and pick from Rivals, (which from my experience, all it does 
 is find players that are as good as you or better) , Friends, Region, and Worldwide. I find playing 
 with friends online is better than random people since they are less likely to leave during a race 
 while youre winning. If someone does leave theyll get a loss added to their record. All in all 
 online and the wireless multiplayer adds to the replay ability a lot. You can also create an avatar 
 in the options menu that people online can see. The only problem with the online is most gamers 
 like snaking, which is fine but youll have to learn how before you go online or youll lose 
 miserably. Anyways, this will easily be your favorite multiplayer game and possibly single player 
 game.
  
  It's time for the technical part of the review. The graphics in Mario Kart DS are surprisingly 
 good. It is one of the best looking 3D games currently on the DS, but some parts of the levels 
 and the items are 2D, and sometimes it's really distracting. And while some textures are low resolutions, 
 the overall style and frame rate are great. The sound is good, nothing really special in this department, 
 but what do you expect from a Mario Kart game anyways? It's a pretty long game with tons of replay 
 ability and the game play is really fun and addicting.
  
  Mario Kart DS really shows the potential of the DS. My only complaint is that it doesn't take much 
 of the DS's advantages except for being able to see items and opponents coming up behind you on 
 the bottom screen. Its a must have and in my opinion the only decent racer on the DS right now 
 and its probably the best Mario Kart to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KickstartYOSHI
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a real hit with all mario fans. This is a really wild game where anything is possible 
 when it comes to racing. As a whole range of weapons come into play, blue shells red shells, green 
 shells, ghosts, bullet bill and loads more. It's 32 gruelling courses come in a range of difficultys 
 for u to master - 50cc, 100cc, 150cc and [The unlockable] 150cc Mirror. From Bowsers castle to 
 the heights of Rainbow Road, each character has their own track which they specialise in. Your 
 fav Nintendo characters of all-time are all here such as: Yoshi, Princess Peach, Toad ... etc... 
 and more unlockable characters and karts.
  
  Being the first Mario Kart game to benefit from the wireless internet connection [wi fi] It has 
 perfected this feature giving players four wi fi gaming options: Friends, Worldwide, Continental 
 and Rivals.
  
  FRIENDS: Gives players the chance to add other players to their DS' by taking the friend code.
 
  WORLDWIDE: Lets players race againest anyone else over the whole world connected to wi fi.
  CONTINENTAL: Lets players race againest anyone else connected in their continent.
  RIVALS: Lets 
 players race againest players of their ability level [This can be upgraded by ranking better in 
 grand prixs
  
  Mario Kart is a brilliant game giving u the oppertunity to develop your own techniques such as 
 snaking.. etc
  
  This game was one of the first games out on DS and it owned the other firsts this is an essential 
 for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultamite-Ninja
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I loved playing through it the first time, but once I unlocked everything and 
 did all the missons it just got boring. I don't have Wi-Fi so I have never played online, but with 
 all the talk about cheaters makes me not want to play with anyone. The single player was only good 
 the first time after that it was just holding the A button turning when needed and throwing shells 
 or banana peels. Some of the tracks are to straight foward. The CPU is to easy once you get too fist 
 place no one can pass you. The point I am trying to make is that this game is too overrated just 
 because it's Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duffman_X86
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  The wi-fi makes a great addition to this. If it wasn't for that, this game would've gotten boring 
 and short. The next you'll know is that there are gonna be loads of pre-owned mario kart DS boxes 
 on shelves in a games store! The graphics is brilliant for the ds as well! Just compare it to the 
 graphics on lets say........ Need for speed: most wanted. Graphics are barable on that but then 
 when u play this, You'll think wow... what was i thinking of when playing this crap?! 
  
  It would have been better if it was like double-dash (gc) and control two characters.
  
  This 
 game is easy to get used to as well. The controls are spot on. On the top screen, you see your 
 character racing. On the bottom screen, you see the circuit you're racing on, another great reason 
 for the ds to have two screens! All in all, a must buy for all ds owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperpuppy03
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Wow. At first when I walked into the local game store, I was just going to take a peek at the game. 
 I looked at the box, having mixed feelings. The Mario Kart for GameCube was just okay, but I also 
 had done some research and found that this game got a 9.2. I thought I better check it out so I 
 went ahead and bought it. DO NOT MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE. BUY THIS GAME TODAY IF YOU DON'T HAVE IT 
 ALREADY. It is THE best DS game ever created. The graphics are good 3D and the courses are amazing, 
 my favorite being Waluigi Pinball. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawny-boy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first games i got for my DS and by far the most enjoyable. I highly reccomend 
 it for all DS owners.
  
  I gave gameplay a 9/10 because there are 4 classes of play, all very fun with different difficulties. 
 Also, connecting with a friend wirelessly is awesome. There are also other modes of play that are 
 equaly addictive.
  
  Graphics got a 9/10 because all the new tracks looked very good, even though they were on a small 
 screen. Also, the tracks from previous games looked just as good as the new ones.
  
  Sound was a 7/10 because some of the music was nice but, it got annoying quickley.
  
  I gave 
 value a 9/10 because the game never gets old. I've beat the whole thing once and am on my second 
 time through.
  
  Finnaly, tilt got a 9/10 because this has been one of my favorite games on the DS. If you have 
 a DS i definitly think you should have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panda360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Well apart from the fact that the carts can get about 10 red shells in a row
  
  but multi player and wifi are the best bits, also the grand prix is fun and the unlockables are 
 cool!
  
  im gonna type alot of 'oinks' so it will let me submit this
  
  
  oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink 
 oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink 
 oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink 
 oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink 
 oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink 
 oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink 
 oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink 
 oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink 
 oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink 
 oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink 
 oink oink oink oink oink oinkoink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink oink 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caat1985
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a wonderful blend of new and retro, with tracks from previous versions of the 
 game to choose from alongside the recently-designed ones. It was fun to play a more 3D version 
 of the SNES and GBA tracks I wasn't able to handle that well before due to the Mode 7 system playing 
 havoc with my eyes.
  
  The game's graphics look rather like their MK64 counterpart, but with a difference. I still find 
 this true 3D eye-boggling to see on such a small system. Additionally, the DS's lower screen makes 
 an invaluable tracking system to see what is on the road ahead or what someone might be firing 
 at you from behind. If you learn to use both screens to your advantage, you'll be difficult to 
 beat.
  
  Sound is fine, with all the usual noises and cries from the even greater roster of characters to 
 choose from (including Rob, the NES robot add on) . I can't say this soundtrack was my favourite, 
 it has yet to beat the MK64 one. There are one player mode features, and of greater variety than 
 in previous games. The Mission mode can extend the play time for those without anyone else to play 
 with. But like with most multiplayer-driven games, Mario Kart DS's chance to shine comes in the 
 form of its four player matches and online play. I was pleased to see the addition of one card 
 play which naturally gives the racers a more limited number of tracks and characters to choose 
 from. The multi card wireless play was also pleasing. However, the internet play was somewhat of 
 a let down. This could be due to lack of progress in the networking technology, maybe, but you 
 are only allowed to have four players compete in a wi-fi internet match. Also, the tracks you can 
 play on are limited (possibly to lessen the chances of lag) .
  
  Despite these little setbacks, online play offers the chance of a wider and more skilled variety 
 of player. Just watch out for the sore losers who disconnect before the match is over and those 
 who snake the entire course.
  
  All in all, a highly recommended game for racing on the go. If you'd prefer more online opponents 
 and shinier graphics, however, you might want to wait for the Wii version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been one of the most fun racing games of its time. From the SNES to GCN, 
 it set the mark as far as graphics and fun on the Nintendo consoles. The only other portable Mario 
 Kart racer was on GBA. It was good for GBA, but not too impressive, even for it's time.
  
  Mario Kart DS is by far the best Mario Kart game of the whole franchise. It has a whole new set 
 of 4 cups with 4 race tracks a piece. It also has 4 cups with 4 races a piece for the Retro Cups. 
 The Retro Cups include a track from each of the 4 Mario Kart releases prior to this one on each 
 Cup, including GCN. It really is fun to play and the engine feels great. The colors are very crisp 
 and the picture is sharp.
  
  Another notable thing is its ability to successfully pull of wireless online gaming on the go. 
 If you have a wireless router at your home, you can hook up with your friends through wi-fi, just 
 as easily as a Wii. Locally its really fun too. If you have a copy of the game but your friends 
 don't, they can download off of you and play anyway. If your friend has a copy of the game too, 
 you can play battle mode with bots on really unique levels.
  
  Graphically, it is really clean and crisp, notably in the new cups and GCN tracks. Its no current 
 gen console, but it really kicks the crap out of anything you probably would expect coming from 
 a Gameboy. It obviously looks best on a DS lite. But it easily beats any game you can buy on the 
 PSP hands down. In fact I am still trying to figure out what to buy for my PSP. But thats another 
 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneviveFox
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  I loved Mario Kart for the orginal console system and so when I finally got a DS, it was my FIRST 
 purchase for the DS. *drum roll* And it is awesome. I love the fact that it has old tracks and 
 new tracks plus I can play with others in the whole world using the WIFI system. I am just someone 
 who seems to have more fun when I'm plaing against other real people instead of the AIs. What more 
 can I say? Well, that would be PLAY. Buy it and PLAY!
  
  I did notice that my skill with playing the heavier characters hadn't changed, but where as Luigi 
 was my best in the console system, I seemed to have picked up playing any of the ones who are heavier 
 than he. But if you love Mario games and you like driving games, Mario Kart is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I usually love the Mario Kart games, especially Mario Kart 64 and Super Mario Kart (the best in 
 the series, in my opinion) , so I assumed I was going to absolutely love Mario Kart DS. However, 
 despite all the rave reviews from gaming critics, Mario Kart DS falls short in too many places 
 for it to be considered truly great.
  
  Obviously, you race in Mario Kart DS using characters from the Mario universe. Each character begins 
 with one kart (you can make your team insigna that appears on the kart you're driving, which I 
 think is a pretty cool idea) with two more karts that you can unlock. However, I found some of 
 these unlockable karts to be pretty annoying and found that they actually made most races harder 
 to win in.
  
  Like most Mario Kart fans will know, the races are sectioned out into cups, but Mario Kart DS has 
 an extra set of cups with classic tracks in it from Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Mario Kart 64, Mario 
 Kart: Super Circuit, and Super Mario Kart. It was fun revisiting some of these levels, and this 
 is quite possibly the best aspect of the game. There are also some newer tracks that are interesting, 
 most notably the Luigi's Mansion track. However, I found that some of the newer tracks are designed 
 poorly to play on a handheld.
  
  The wireless multi-player mode works rather flawlessly, and is the better part of the game, though 
 this can get extremely boring and wear on you pretty fast.
  
  There are three modes in Mario Kart DS that does give it some replay value, including Balloon Battles 
 (which are better played in multi-player) where you basically go around popping balloons using 
 the various items available to you and you can blow up your balloon using the DS microphone. There 
 is a mode called Shine Runners where it's a collect-a-thon to get the Shine Sprites originated 
 in Super Mario Sunshine, but you can lose a Shine Sprite by getting hit or falling off a course. 
 The aforementioned modes can be played on three fields, including a giant dessert, an old DS floating 
 in space, and a strange caged-in area. Sadly, these levels are the only thing available for these 
 modes, and the matches can end pretty quickly, without the ability to prolong them.
  
  The other mode is a Mission Mode, which gives you a special task to complete. These missions are 
 pretty simple and easy to accomplish, and usually culminate with a boss battle at the end where 
 you need to knock a boss into a pool of something. A couple of these boss battles can actually 
 get pretty difficult, but with a little practice you can master the Mission Mode pretty easily.
 
  
  Of course, there is online play, which is the main seller for Mario Kart DS, but since most of 
 the modes are pretty damn boring, I doubt you'll really feel the need to play these online with 
 other people.
  
  One thing that really impressed me with Mario Kart DS were the graphics. I found very little graphical 
 problems, and the game is the best-looking I've seen on the handheld thus far. All the racers look 
 great, nearly GameCube-esque graphics, plus the tracks look great. I wish more developers would 
 push the DS to its limits like Nintendo does.
  
  Since there really isn't that much replayability (save the aforementioned modes, and an unlockable 
 mode that's nearly impossible where you race against the saved data of the game's developers) , 
 the overall game is short and boring, plus the multi-player isn't all that great, Mario Kart DS 
 ends up being an under-whelming experience that could've been great if it had pulled the extra 
 weight for a few tune-ups. Hopefully the next time around, Nintendo adds some more interesting 
 features and add some extra modes that more fully utilize the DS's unique capabilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dillgamr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Ds is just amazing. There are more courses than the Kart on n64 the gaphics are also 
 surprisingly impressive. I bought this game because i wanted a fun racing game. Well this is that 
 plus more, not only racing but challenges, missions, wi fi, and battle. Any mario lover would love 
 this game. It has classic coursees from the super nintendo, n64 etc..
  The controls are easy to learn. The more you win the more features you get like characters and 
 courses. Mario Kart ds is a flatout awsome game, a great way to have fun and waste any amount of 
 time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GspotDeluxer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game is full of things to do. There are grand prixs, missions, time trials, online WI-FI, 
 local multiplayer, and the game keeps track of all your racing stats. There is almost no end to 
 things you can do in this game. Once you are done with grand prix mode you can go back and try 
 to star all of the races for a higher rating. Then you can have a star while you are on WI-FI that 
 everyone can see. You can also make costom emblems. This why i still play this game almost 2 years 
 after it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This was definetley the best in the series. IT includeds stages from the pervious games and the 
 orignal gameplay was back. Double Dash was fun but wasn't the same. Single kart seemed more fun 
 but double was cool. So it went back to the classics and had classic stages. The graphics weren't 
 half bad too. The single player had tons too do and cool charcters. They even had R. O. B the robot 
 from the NES days! (He's my favorite person to use) This game was also one of the first one to 
 have Wi-Fi online. Oh and that Mcdonalds thing was stupid on gamespots part. You can go online 
 at Mcdonalds hospot, wi-fi nintnedo usb connector, and Router. (duh! how do they go online anyways) . 
 You could make a emeblem to represent you online or between friends. You could play 8 friends with 
 one game or mixed. You cna play a normal gmae when everyone has the gmae and thier charcter or 
 simple when people download play and be shy guy's. Then the online is fun and it's a blast playing 
 with friends plus the emeblem making is fun. This is a definite pick up for any racing fans or 
 gamers period. Arcade gameplay and classic mario put together makes this a game all. The one things 
 I didn't like about this game though is... the shine sprite and ballon battle modes didn't have 
 much stages but was still fun and a good amount could have been more though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart isn't your average racing game. The graphics aren't meant to be realistic, nor is the 
 gameplay. Have you ever seen a banana skin dropped from the back of your car or a blue shell fired 
 to hit the person in the lead on Need for Speed? Didn't think so. Mario Kart DS is the fifth game 
 in the series and is the first to use online abilities, which it uses perfectly and makes what 
 was already a great game, a superb game.
  
  There are several modes in Mario Kart DS, the main being the Grand Prix mode. You compete against 
 seven other computer-controlled racers in two separate Grand Prixs, each consisting of four cups, 
 and each cup consisting of four tracks. That's thirty two tracks in total. The first Grand Prix, 
 Nitro GP, has sixteen never-before-seen tracks while Retro GP contains sixteen tracks seen before 
 in previous Mario Kart instalments. There are three difficulty classes to pick from: 50cc, 100cc 
 and 150cc. You can also unlock a 150cc mirror mode which, hence the name, mirrors the tracks and 
 makes it that bit harder. When you complete a cup you get awarded a trophy based on how well you 
 did. Scoring high in the cups can unlock new characters and karts.
  
  A second mode is entitled Battle Mode which is split into two different games: Balloon Battle and 
 Shine Runners. In Balloon Battle the main objective is to knock out other players by popping their 
 balloons (hitting them with a weapon) or stealing them for yourself (mushroom at them) . This game 
 makes use of the DS' microphone as you have to blow into it to make your balloons inflate. Shine 
 Runners has you trying to collect the most amount of shines from around the course or stealing 
 them from other players, in hope of becoming the player with the most shines at the end of the 
 round. Both of these games feature five unique courses not seen in the Grand Prix.
  
  There is also a mission mode which has you completing missions such as going through the gates 
 in order or picking up all the coins. When you complete each mission it will rate how well you 
 did out of three (stars) . If you get one star or more on each mission it will unlock six more, 
 previously hidden missions. Time Trial mode also features which is just you racing alone trying 
 to beat the best time set on that course.
  
  Obviously the DS has two screens and Mario Kart makes good use of both. The top screen shows the 
 race in full 3D. The graphics are some of the best on the DS, which is always a good thing. The 
 bottom screen shows the whole course (birds-eye view, 2D) and where everyone is on it or you can 
 change the display to show a close up (still birds-eye view and in 2D) of your player and the weapons 
 and course nearby.
  
  A big part of Mario Kart is the weapons and the DS version doesn't disappoint. There is the banana 
 skin that you can fire and try and make another racer slip up on it, the red shell which you can 
 fire to take out the person in front of you, the blue shell which takes out the person in first 
 place, Bullet Bill which turns you into just that and gives you a limited time to race around as 
 him, knocking people out of your path.... the list goes on. The weapons are picked up in question 
 mark boxes and whatever weapon you get depends on your characters stats and your position in the 
 race.
  
  There are thirteen characters in the game, three of them new the series. All the usual characters 
 return such as Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi and so on. Three new characters are Dry Bones, R. O. B. 
 and Shy Guy (who is only playable via DS Download Play) . Daisy, Waluigi, Dry Bones and R. O. B. have 
 to be unlocked, however.
  
  As mentioned earlier, Mario Kart DS is the first of the series to have online capabilities. If 
 you are with up to eight mates you can play all the courses in the game or you can race on eight 
 tracks using DS Download Play if some people don't have the cartridge. Sadly, the eight tracks 
 aren't the best ones of the game and you'll be happier if everyone has the game.
  
  If you aren't with any of your friends, you can play via the Wi-Fi connection. Up to four players 
 can play at once on twenty of the tracks (some aren't playable due to high animation, which is 
 a shame) and you will get awarded with a win or loss after each race. The game hardly, if ever, 
 lags which gives you great, seamless kart racing experience! Mario Kart DS is easily the best Mario 
 Kart so far due to the fact it has online play, new weapons and characters and the fact it is just 
 downright fun. A must-have for all DS owners, whatever the gender or age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Branzolis
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart was always a great game for the Nintendo 64 and Gamecube but now that they have remade 
 it for the Nintendo DS makes it better. Mario Kart is a fun and addicting game and i would say 
 it is the best game so far created for the Nintendo DS. I love Mario Kart DS not only because it 
 has multiple single player modes like Missions, VS, Battle and grand Pris but also because it has 
 amazing multiplayer! You and up to seven more friends can just pick it up and play and also dont 
 forget about the best multiplayer..... yes it also has wifi connection and is great on wi-fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom_brawl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds overall is a pretty addictive game, they've made some massive improvements since 
 the mario kart 64 but i don't think it's perfect, it's missing something. i think u should be able 
 to customise your kart, who thinks that's a good idea. mario kart ds is still the best racing game 
 on the market and even though it's been out a long time there is still online opponents. all my 
 friends still play it, we have tournaments and all that. for anyone who just bought a ds buy mario 
 kart ds and if u have some leftover money buy pokemon diamond or pearl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: DS download play is superb, new single player modes and plenty of unlockable content, 
 online play is a blast, graphics and sound are superb, great new tracks along with old favorites, 
 new powerups
  
  The Bad: online play is a bit limited
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  If you have ever owned or played a Nintendo system before, chances are that you are familiar with 
 the Mario Kart series. The beloved racing franchise pits players in a competitive race filled with 
 powerups and their favorite characters from the Mario games. Mario Kart is constantly evolving, 
 and although the cooperative racing from Mario Kart double dash has been discarded the introduction 
 of online play represents a leap forward.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There are a variety of modes in Mario Kart DS, but the meat of the singleplayer game lies in the 
 grand prix mode. Here you go for the gold by taking on a series of races across 32 tracks. Its 
 essentially unchanged from previous Mario Kart titles and even includes some of the best tracks 
 from the GBA, SNES, N64, and gamecube iterations. By completing each circuit, you are awarded with 
 new characters, Karts, and tracks; all of which are essential to being successful in online mode. 
 With three difficulty classes, and the ability to play it in small bits at a time, you will be 
 playing the Grand prix mode for a long time.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In addition to the Grand Prix mode, there is also a new mission mode which has you completing 
 specific tasks. The missions can range from collecting coins, driving through numbered gates in 
 the correct order, and destroying all powerup boxes. There are also boss fights against goombas, 
 or other familiar characters. There are also the usual time attack, time trial, and versus modes 
 carried over from previous titles. The battle mode is also back with the added twist of getting 
 to reinflate your balloons by blowing into the DS microphone. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Without the powerups that the series is known for, the Mario Kart series would be just another 
 racer. The familiar arsenal is still here along with the addition of the bullet bill, squid, and 
 bob-omb. The bullet bill is by far the best, instantly transforming your character into a bullet 
 bill sending you flying down the track, pulverizing anyone who gets in your way. The squid spits 
 ink on the screens of your opponents, basically rendering the top screen of the DS useless; and 
 bob-ombs can explode on your foes.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Mario Kart DS really shines when used for download play. With download play, one copy of the game 
 can allow up to eight other players to play against each other. Its obviously more limited than 
 playing against people with a copy, but is still tons of fun.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The online options, as welcome an addition as they are, feel rather limited. Setting up a game 
 is easy, but only four players are allowed to complete in a race. On top of that, the battle mode 
 is not available online and the friend code system severely hinders your online enjoyment. The 
 only way to add someone to your friends list is by exchanging friend codes, therefore you must 
 know the person in real life. The people that play online are also an issue. Its not a big deal 
 at first as the sheer joy of playing Mario Kart online will sustain you, but once you encounter 
 people who use the snaking technique, have very laggy internet connections, or turn off their systems 
 when their future is bleak it becomes very frustrating.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gorgeous graphics and crisp sound is an ever present feature in the Mario Kart series, and this 
 version is no exception. The graphics are easily as good, if not better than the N64 game, and 
 the framerates are flawless. The sound is largely composed of engine noises, weapon effects, and 
 remarks from other racers as you overtake them or attack them with one of your powerups.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The greatest thing about Mario Kart DS is its accessibility. Its simple to understand the races 
 and have fun, and there are also advanced techniques like power sliding for more hardcore players.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is one of the best things to happen to Nintendos newest handheld even 
 a year after its initial release. The game plays just as well as its predecessors, and the addition 
 of new single player modes, gives this game lasting value even you dont want to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiirdawgs
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  if you have played any other mario kart before this one then you will know mario kart ds had a 
 lot to live up to. mario kart for gamecube was an awesome game and my first gamecube game. so when 
 i first found out there was one for ds i thought another one holy crap nintendo wat is there to 
 improve on. but then i played and im like wow this is kool so i bought and played online and thought 
 how great is this mario kart online this is sweet. the only problem with multi player is that there 
 is no way to communicate with other players that i know of. but other than that i can't really 
 find fault in this game. so u should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devoo55
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This is definitly the best game for the nintendo DS! There is so much fun to be brought out of 
 this game it isn't even funny.
  
  Gameplay:
  So fun! You can race just about anything you want! You can race the computer, your best friend, 
 random people on WiFi or yourself through ghost mode! The single player has alot to do by itself. 
 You can do the normal races against CPUs, time trials, missions or just plain fun battles with 
 the CPU! There are tons of characters you can race with or race against. There is also 32 karts 
 to unlock!
  On multiplayer you can race against a person that doesn't have the game, or a person that has it! 
 On WiFi you can either play against your friends or play against random worldwide opponents. Also, 
 there is a full record system with all of these multiplayer modes except the single card download 
 play.
  
  Grphics:
  Great! The graphics look very nice for the Ninetndo DS. All of the characters are done well and 
 they all look like the classic guys that you all love.
  
  Sound:
  Fun sound. Some times I get pissed at the music if it drives me crazy because I am losing against 
 my brother all the time. I always get mad at the music. :p
  
  Value:
  Not the greatest. I payed $44.99 for this in canadian money. But of course that is the normal price 
 you pay for a Nintendo DS game.
  
  Reviewers Tilt:
  Don't even know what that means so I gave it at 9/10 anyways because this game just owns!
  
 
  Well, that about sums it it. This is definitly the best DS game that I have played. I don't care 
 that I payed that much money for it because the fun out of it just owns. If you do not have this 
 game yet, you should definitly start thinking hard about it. You really don't even have to think.. 
 just get out there and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  What can't Mario do???? He's been a plumber, super hero, tennis player, basketball champion, soccer 
 star, party animal, and much more, but none of them are as good as my favorite; a race car driver.
 
  
  The MarioKart franchise has been one of Nintendo's best. Can MarioKart DS follow his proceed-ers??
 
  
  THE GOOD: Good graphics and sound, awesome gameplay, solid characters, classic and new tracks, 
 the best multi-player and Wi-Fi out of any DS game.
  
  THE BAD: All of the racers cars seem somewhat childish, the gameplay hasn't changed much, we could 
 use some more weapons.
  
  OVERALL: This is the best Mario Kart game in the series, you definitely need to by this game if 
 you own a DS or loved the old MarioKart games, I absolutely cannot wait for a 'Kart game for the 
 Wii !!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Mario Kart DS has some great new features. Features such as the Online Multiplayer, and the event 
 mode. Other than these new features however, there's nothing new for fans to see. But however, 
 it is still the fun Mario Kart we've been playing since Super Mario Kart came out back in 1992. 
 This is a spoiler-free review so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  Multiplayer over the net, new characters, includes past tracks.
  
  THE BAD
 
  Not enough characters, no adventure mode yet, some ugly karts, Rainbow Road sucks in this one.
 
  
  Graphics
  Quite blocky and not as impressive as Super Mario 64 DS, but still a good attempt for graphics.
 
  9/10
  
  Sound
  Pretty good, but not as good as MK64.
  9/10
  
  Gameplay
  Kart racing games always seem to impress me and seem to be a lot more fun than original racing 
 games. The Mario Kart series is an example. Mario Kart DS has the same old gameplay as the previous 
 MK games, but feels different. The graphics have completely changed.... again and the tracks have 
 also completely changed. There are some past tracks you can access though, a variety of tracks 
 from Super Mario Kart to Double Dash. Therefore, there are 8 Cups in Mario Kart DS, instead of 
 four; Making Mario Kart DS probably the longest in the series. But wait, there's more. There's 
 this new event mode which is similar to an adventure mode, but please Nintendo do me a favour. 
 Put Adventure Mode into the next MK game! In this new mode, you can play these random test games 
 and see if you can do weird actions such as breaking all 8 boxes in the level. There's even a boos 
 at the end of every Chapter. But this is a lame excuse for an adventure mode! We want a proper 
 adventure mode!! Now onto the Multiplayer. I've never played Wi-Fi but I have played offline multiplayer 
 with MKDS, and it is great! I have a feeling online will be like original multiplayer, but online. 
 So that's good. Another con about the game is that there are hardly any characters. In Double Dash, 
 there were plenty. But there aren't enough in DS. There are only two new characters. However, Mario 
 Kart DS has some excellent gameplay which should be famed.
  9/10
  
  Character Design
  Just the usual Mario characters, but we have the R. O. B. this time around!
  10/10
  
  Controls
 
  They are good and realistic, but I think we should've had the SMK controls.
  8/10
  
  Overall
  Mario Kart DS is great and is a must have for any DS owner. Not the best MK, but close 
 enough. A must-buy!
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best games out there for the DS, and when it came out it was one of 
 the most anticipated. Not just because it was Mario Kart but because it would launch the DS's online 
 capabilities, and it got fans hooked. When I bought this game I bought it with the network adapter, 
 and the single player is just as fun as the multiplayer. The classic tracks are fun but, I wish 
 that there would have been more levels, but it is kind of cool to see SNES and GBA tracks transformed 
 into 3D levels. If you own a DS you must play Mario Kart DS
  
  The Good:
  +great graphics
  +online multiplayer
  +lots of new and old tracks
  +controls very well
 
  
  The Bad:
  - the classic tracks are not the best ones in my opinion
  - the game could sound better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DuNN-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Gameplay is good, if you like mario racing. You can still sell it on eBay at a good price. 
 The graphics are as good as they can get for an animated game. You can play your friends with a 
 single game card.
  
  Cons: Game is short. Online multiplayer is full of people who cheat with snaking. No online battle 
 mode.
  
  Not really my kind of game, not big with mario type racing. The games multiplayer is pretty good, 
 but ruins it for the true players, who don't snake. The multiplayer could have added a bit more, 
 like battle mode for example I thought would be a key attribute to making this game really great, 
 I'm talking about wi-fi not wireless DS play. Graphics are pretty nice not too bad, it is animated 
 so can't really go bad. I think they just need to add a bit more to the game, it's like the same 
 as mariokart 64 just a bit dressed up. Not too many new modes, atleast not modes that are good. 
 Also the game is very short to beat and extremely easy. I know people who have beaten this game 
 in a day just very short game.
  
  -DuNN- Review#3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm usually not a big fan off racing games, but the Mario Kart series was always an exception, 
 and this one is no different.
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed from its previous installment, but it's still as intense. A is to accelerate, 
 B is to brake, X is to change the map (it's on the bottom screen) , and Y is to use the weapon ( the 
 Left shoulder button does that too, which I recommend you use, since it's easier to reach) , and 
 the Right shoulder button makes you do a slide. You have to use these moves to your advantage, 
 which, when used properly, you will have a 4 second lead (which is good) against the other racers.
 
  
  The graphics look like the game is on the N64, which is pretty good for a handheld game. There 
 are some blocky looking trees in a few of the racing courses and a few lines on some of the racing 
 bumpers, but it's not too bad. I'm just surprised that the graphics look like the N64 (I guess the 
 next gen of handhelds will have PS2 graphics) .
  
  The sound is very well done, and doesn't get on your nerves (they're actually Ipod-worthy) . Hearing 
 items getting used and the voices of other racers, gets annoying after awhile.
  
  This is a good racing game for the DS, and if you're a racing fan, you should get this. If you 
 have a DS, you should get this too. You won't regret getting this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I've loved Mario Kart since the 64 iteration but this DS game tops my experiences with it. The 
 whole idea is that you portray one of the characters from the Mario universe and race around in 
 your choice of kart. But in this game there's so much more to do then race. You can partake in 
 stylized missions which will have you running through gates, collecting coins and defeating bosses 
 from previous Mario titles. There's also two different battle modes, the familiar Balloon battle 
 and a Shine Collecting battle.
  
  Also available is a nifty little program to make your own emblem and have it slapped on the kart 
 when you play in single or multi-player. Ah yes, Multi-player... it is one of the most refined 
 thing's about Mario Kart DS. You can play with other people through one cartridge if they happen 
 to be around you. Doing so brings the ability to play against anyone and have the ability to race 
 or battle them. The same options exist for those who have the cartridge on-hand. But Wi-Fi is where 
 Mario Kart DS takes off. Being one of the first games to offer Wi-Fi from Nintendo I was expecting 
 a more lackluster effort. But Wi-Fi just works on the DS and isn't complicated in any manner. Unfortunately 
 however, you can only race against those in Wi-Fi. The inclusion of a battle mode would have been 
 amazing. Graphically, Mario Kart DS is a strong showcase of what the DS can do. And being that 
 this is one of the first games on the DS I an only hope to expect better in later games.
  
  Sound on the DS is more than I expected from a handheld. It can do not only stereo through its 
 built in speakers but it simulates surround sound as well. You hear something and know exactly 
 where it is. Overall Mario kart DS is the greatest Mario kart game to date and somehow has an addictive 
 feel to it. The game ahs also given me a lot of hope for the longevity of Nintendo's little DS 
 against other portable gaming devices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkmaster46
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Second best racing game ever. First best racing game on the ds. I love drybones from mario baseball 
 and now we get to use him in race. Yah. I also like luigi. Luigi is way beter than any of his brothers. 
 Way beter than mario and Waluigi. I love the mario kart series and now its on a handheld system 
 awsem. It went from Super Mario Kart (SNES) to Mario Kart 64 (N64) to Mario Kart Super circuit (GBA) 
 to Mario Kart Doubledash (Gamecube) to Mario kart DS (NDS) . This series will just keep on getting 
 beter. I hope they make mariokart Wii. It would be awsem with the wii sensitivity. We would hold 
 it sideways and use items with B. I think the characteers would be Mario, Luigi, Wario, Waluigi, 
 Toad, Boo, Drybones, Peach, Bowser, DK, Koopa, Paratropa, and Shadow mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop_1717
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart is one of the best games on the ds. It is totally the best ds racing game. The single 
 player will last you for a long time. There are 4 different classes you can choose from. 50cc, 
 100cc, 150cc and 150cc mirror. The first 2 are pretty easy but then it gets a little challenging 
 on the last two. There are over 10 characters to choose from and 32 different karts. There is a 
 good range of tracks also to choose from including ones from previous mario kart games. The wifi 
 is very fun. You can race up to 4 different people from around the world. After you complete the 
 game this is a great extra thing to do. Also of you do good in the single player it will show however 
 many stars above your name in wifi. The controlls simple and straight forward by just using the 
 d-pad to steer and the a button to go and b to stop and also the touch screen in used, but just 
 on the main menu and sub menus. The graphics arn't anything special but are good enough to play. 
 Well acually the graphics are pretty good i have to admit. If you are looking for a great game 
 that is fun and lasts a long time you need to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeHedgehog
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  It wasn't long ago that Nintendo spoke about making games more accessible for the casual audience. 
 What this discussion eventually boiled down to is that the hardcore gamers (the ones who had been 
 playing games since the NES) were alienating the casual gamers (the ones who only begun gaming 
 recently) . Nintendo wanted to make games that everybody could enjoy; old and new gamers alike. 
 This obviously gave birth to hardware like the Nintendo DS and the Nintendo Wii; these systems 
 re-write the rules of gaming so that there is a leveled playing field between hardcore and casual 
 gamers. But it also has lead to changes in the way Nintendo games play, too. Some games became 
 easier; some games became more forgiving. In the case of Mario Kart DS... well, we'll get to that 
 in a moment.
  
  I would like to begin in saying I love Mario Kart. Mario Kart 64 with my buddies ranks up there 
 with Goldeneye in most enjoyable multiplayer experience on a game console . And, right out of the 
 gate, I can honestly say that Mario Kart DS is probably the best in the Mario Kart franchise. It 
 has beautiful, crisp graphics, running at a silky smooth framerate. The controls are perfect; tight 
 and responsive. And, best of all, there's a ton of courses, karts, and drivers to choose from. 
 Even better: Not only does this game introduce 16 new tracks, but it brings back 16 classic tracks 
 from previous Mario Kart games, remastered for the Nintendo DS. As if that wasn't enough, the game 
 also houses a Mission Mode and, perhaps the most impressive of all, it features online multiplayer 
 - which is not just a first for Mario Kart, it was a first for the Nintendo DS as well, when this 
 game launched. Quite simply put, this is the most varied, polished, content-packed Mario Kart game 
 to date. And it would be great if I could end my review there. Unfortunately, despite being the 
 best Mario Kart to date, there's a considerable amount that still needs work. Let's start with 
 online. As what has become a theme in online-enabled Nintendo games, the online mode in Mario Kart 
 DS is severely crippled. The bulk of the new multiplayer modes and options are available only in 
 local wifi mode; when playing online, your options are limited to only the most basic, simplistic 
 options. There is very little room for customization or variety. When you go online, all you can 
 do is race; and you only can race against four other players. No battle mode, and no shine runners; 
 not even any CPU racers to fill out the roster. The list of tracks available in the online mode 
 is limited, too - certain tracks (usually ones with more complicated game mechanics, such as Waluigi 
 Pinball) cannot be played online. As mentioned previously, this is a theme with most online-enabled 
 Nintendo DS games - the bulk of the multiplayer options in Pokemon: Diamond and Pearl, for example, 
 are only available through local wifi; the only online multiplayer options are straight up battle 
 mode and trading. Even worse, once online you have to contend with the act of what has become known 
 as snaking . As of writing this review, over half of the races I played online contained people 
 who used this exploit to win. For the uneducated, in Mario Kart DS, power sliding around corners 
 correctly can give you a short, temporary boost of speed. Snaking occurs when a racer initiates 
 the power slide boost even in straightaways (by power sliding side to side across the track, like 
 a snake slithering) - effectively chaining together a never-ending string of power slide boosts. 
 For a player who does not snake , it is impossible to catch up and they fall so far behind that 
 even most items become worthless in slowing down a snaking player. These races generally degenerate 
 in to contests to see who can snake the most to win a race, rather than playing Mario Kart DS as 
 it was originally intended. It's snake or be snaked. And then we come back to Nintendo's strategy 
 to make their games more readily accessible to the casual gaming audience. Essentially what this 
 boils down to in Mario Kart DS is punishing you for being in first place. The game contains more 
 unavoidable super-items than any Mario Kart to come before it; while in the lead, expect to get 
 hit by plenty of blue shells, lightning bolts, and more. Even worse, the game incorporates the 
 ability to accidentally drop the item you are holding - should you get hit by a lightning bolt, 
 blue shell, or simply bump in to a stage obstacle, you will drop whatever item you are currently 
 holding. This becomes exceedingly more unforgiving as you work your way through to the harder difficulties 
 of the game; though the drivers themselves don't really seem to get any more intelligent, the frequency 
 of them acquiring an item that totally screws you over increases exponentially. By the final lap 
 of a race in 150cc, expect to be hit by a constant stream of blue and red shells so large, it won't 
 matter how far in the lead you were. This wouldn't be so bad, but defending first place can at 
 times seem almost impossible. Ignoring the fact that there isn't a defense against Blue Shells 
 or Lightning Bolts, even defending against something as simple as a Red Shell is tricky, as red 
 shells have a habit of going around item you may be holding behind you as a defensive measure. 
 All of this is only compounded by the fact that you can no longer stop the item roulette; it gives 
 you a completely random item every single time it spins, meaning you have to make do with what 
 it gives you - and in a game where one item can make the difference between winning and losing, 
 this can be immensely frustrating.
  
  Quite simply put, Mario Kart DS often favors unpredictable chaos over real skill. This might be 
 fine against your 7 year old cousin who's tired of you kicking his butt in every other game, but 
 there's only so many lucky wins you can take before it starts to get on your nerves; and the higher 
 you set the difficulty, the more unpredictable and chaotic races become. I've actually reset my 
 DS and started the cup over simply because the dice did not roll in my favor in a particular race. 
 It wasn't anything to do with my skill, it just so happened that luck was not on my side and I 
 lost due to factors I had no control over. Imagine coming around the final corner of a track - 
 first, I get hit with a lightning bolt, and then directly afterwards, a blue shell nails me quickly 
 followed by a red shell; none of which I had any defense against (any defense I did have was knocked 
 out of my hands thanks to the lightning bolt) . The minute I get my momentum back up, Donkey Kong 
 boosts straight through me; his weight knocking me off the track where I am slowly forced to get 
 back on the road. By the time I do this, I finish in 6th place. Upon quitting and restarting, I 
 get first place in all races without even breaking a sweat. Similar situations like that come up 
 for me in Mario Kart DS way more often than they should, all because of how heavily the game relies 
 on luck (rather than skill) to balance things out. These are, however, minor complaints in the 
 face of a game that is, overall, still a very good game and a very worthy addition to anybody's 
 DS library. They never really ruin the game, they simply make it a little more frustrating, from 
 time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redchina
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best times you'll ever have on your DS.
  
  The racing mechanics feel excellent. Control is perfect.
  
  The sheer amount of content will 
 keep you busy for a LONG time. Unlockable characters, a ton of tracks, and depth of options help.
 
  
  The graphics are seamless and fluid. The colorful Mario art style looks brilliant on the DS.
 
  
  The audio is great, with upbeat and memorable tunes and excellent sound FX.
  
  Mario Kart DS's best feature is the online play. It's not perfect, but it works.
  
  Only 4 
 people can race online, and it is very easy to get connected as long as you have a Wi-Fi router 
 somewhere in your house.
  
  Getting into a game is as simple as pushing a button, and you will be randomly assigned other players 
 from around the world.
  
  Unfortunately, what ruins the online experience are cheaters who use snaking to win races. It's 
 unfortunate that this problem cannot be solved, and quite honestly the only way to beat a cheater 
 is to cheat yourself. Thankfully, this does not apply to all racers, and you will find people who 
 will race fairly.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is a superb handheld racing game. Everyone with a DS should own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  even though i just got this game i have already fell in love with!!! the online play is amazing 
 and never the less it was the first DS game to featurre online gameplay via wi-fi. this game is 
 a load of fun and yet challenging at the same time. if you have an extra $35.00 laying around i 
 highly suggestion you buy this game. gameplay-9
  its fun but yes theres cheaters online ---watch out ;)
  
  Graphics- 9
  Simpily amazing for 
 a hand-held system. look like N64-GC graphics --somewhere inbettween
  
  Sound-9 Great sound. amazing effects and yes probably the best sounding DS game i have.
  
  
 Value- 9
  totally worth paying $35 dollars for!!!
  
  tilt-10
  this game is just itchin me to go play it right now but what can i say im addicted and tring to 
 break a bad habbit by going on gamespot.... GET THIS GAME RIGHT NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  It's no kidding the Mario Kart series hasn't evolved much in correlation to its underachieving 
 GameCube rendition in Double Dash. But it's still one of the most adorned series that conspicuously 
 vends a large consumption, although very few elements have been patently embellished over the years. 
 And while Mario Kart DS hasn't necessarily embellished the basics, it's approach on racing has 
 been anything less than nostalgic, bringing back many aspects from Mario Kart 64, the first game 
 to fully ripen the series. In the end, however, the main refreshment confides deep within the many 
 first-time attributes that complement the stellar gameplay.
  
  There are eight characters to choose from in the beginning, but most Nintendo advocates should 
 know that the lineup will grow steadily throughout the course of the game. You can also choose 
 between two carts for each character, one being a new model, and the other being a classic model. 
 Eventually, every character will have up to three to choose from. In addition, there are two different 
 types of races, a Nitro Grand Prix, which contains the latest in race-terrain, and a Retro Grand 
 Prix, a sedated step to the past that flaunts previous courses derived from the entire series. 
 Each type of race features two cup events; two more can be unlocked after achieving the gold medal 
 for each prefacing event, and this cycle remains consistent throughout each difficulty (50cc to 
 150cc) .
  
  The Nitro Grand Prix boasts a very solid assembly of new tracks containing blueprints of handed-down 
 adventures, such as the tick tock clock level of Super Mario 64, and Luigi's Mansion from the game 
 of the same name. Many other proverbial locations are also emblemized as new tracks to race on, 
 all of which fit their position in a cup event. Unlike previous games of the series, where some 
 of the more difficult cup events would display one very tough track, one rather simple track, and 
 two generally average tracks, Mario Kart DS presents a formula that pits the difficult tracks with 
 the difficult tracks, and the simple tracks with the simple tracks. The retro division of tracks 
 consists of many memorable locations scattered all over the series, such as Moo Moo Farm from Mario 
 Kart 64, the Sky Garden from Super Circuit, and Donut Plains from Super Mario Kart.
  
  Surprisingly, the first-player modes are far from over even after unlocking all of the characters 
 and tracks. You can partake in time trials, versus modes with computer opponents (the idea is the 
 same as a regular event race, but you can pick any single track you want instead of having to race 
 all four of them) , battles against the computer (as well as friends via friend codes) , and even 
 missions. The time trials allow you to send your ghosts to friends through online compatability, 
 and vice versa. Unfortunately, there are only two battle modes in Mario Kart DS: Shine Runners 
 and Balloon Battle, both of which are quite straightforward, but the CPU obtains a lot of handicaps; 
 primarily they'll always have more balloons than you, and sometimes they'll work together, even 
 though it's an every-man-for-himself concept. With missions, there are six overall levels, each 
 of which exhibit eight missions and a boss at the end. The idea is to complete on-road tasks in 
 various tracks before time runs out, similar to how training simulations will pop up in console 
 racers. Once all eight missions are complete in a level, you can challenge the boss. You'll run 
 into a few familiar faces, such as King Bob-omb, King Boo, and Eyerok from Super Mario 64, and 
 your goal is to knock them off a platform surrounded by a pool of nasty liquid with your go-kart 
 alone.
  
  The gameplay still doesn't stop there. In fact, the straight answer is that it'll never stop, because 
 online play is a never-ending sequence. If you have a wireless router or AC adapter handy, you 
 can play against people from all over the world at any time of the day as much as you want. Online 
 play in Mario Kart DS is strictly formatted in the aphorism of expecting the unexpected. Naturally, 
 so many things can go right or wrong during an online race  even the most experienced players 
 can lose to novices any time, because red shells, blue shells, and other unfortunate mishaps take 
 place at any point of the race, especially if it buckles down to you and the finish line. People 
 tend to drop out of the following race, but the match doesn't end; in fact, they never do unless 
 you eventually drop out.
  
  While there's a new slate of faces and tracks, the weapons are also on the growing side of things. 
 You'll come across Bloopers that obstruct your screen with ink, as well as bullet bills that automatically 
 maneuver you through the crowd of frantic drivers ahead. On the other hand, you'll come across 
 a lot of familiar items as well, such as the banana peel, lightning bolt, and most infamous of 
 all, the red shell. There are plenty of strategies that will enable a player to temporarily sustain 
 an advantage when it comes to brandishing items. A player may hold off using an item until the 
 opportune moment, in case there's a red shell closing in from behind (a banana peel will mar it) , 
 or if there's a Gooper Blooper spraying ink on your screen (a super mushroom will zoom right through 
 it) . You'll also want to keep in mind the dynamics of your go-kart: its drifting, control, weight, 
 and acceleration are all key characteristics that will inevitably determine your fate and whether 
 or not you upheld those characteristics well in your performance.
  
  With the proper application of drifting, it's possible for one to "snake" around a bend in the 
 road. This convenience has been delivered courtesy of Mario Kart 64 and the ability to hop while 
 on the road. Snaking is a special drifting acceleration that enables you to maneuver through sharp 
 turns much more expediently. And while you can drift, you can also draft: a technique used in NASCAR 
 that fends off the wind by staying right behind the driver in front of you. In Mario Kart DS, you'll 
 get a sudden rush of speed if you can manage to stay behind the lead driver long enough.
  
  Considering the Dual Screen's underwhelming proportions, Mario Kart DS delivers the best presentation 
 graphically than any other game in the series, and by far one of the best to appear on the DS. 
 One of the first things you'll notice is the brightness it has to offer: everything is so illuminating 
 and colorful. Before a race, the setting is shown through both screens as the cameraman rushes 
 through part of the course, which is one of the more impressive visual conceptions. The touch screen 
 is mainly used to show yours and your foe's locations on the map, but it also displays incoming 
 weapons and other hazards that surround the level. Surprisingly enough, the classic tracks have 
 been refurbished to look and feel almost modern, including the lineup of Super Mario Kart's onset 
 environments. Most distinct of all, the 3-D atmosphere depicts everything from characters to items 
 to the road in general with unprecedented continuity. Habitually, the graphics border a late Nintendo 
 64 to early GameCube look, but none of it looks too old to re-adjust to.
  
  The audio is nearly as captivating on all fronts. Each individual track has an exclusive tune that 
 fits the environment perfectly. Some songs have even been recycled and revamped from earlier games 
 to associate better with the area. While there isn't a big amount of voice acting, it's a lot easier 
 to hear people's cheers and cries, although they don't sound as good as the rest of the game. Most 
 importantly of all, you hear all of the warnings that precaution you for the inevitable. Blue shells 
 may land without fail, but you can still hear them before they actually reach you, leaving the 
 door open for a strategy, such as bumping the nearest driver, slowing down so both drivers are 
 hit by the shell, or allowing the second place driver to pass you, ultimately feeding him the shell.
 
  
  You'll get your money's worth out of Mario Kart DS because of the stellar gameplay and online compatibility. 
 Since the single player campaigns make up most of the game, and you only race, unlock, race, and 
 unlock some more, you'll find more value in other games. Similarly, unlocking the amenities can 
 be a pain, especially when you're on the verge of winning, and suddenly a red shell knocks you 
 off the course, causing you to start from scratch again. For some, though, the challenging pace 
 is what makes Mario Kart a better series than most other gimmicky Mario games.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is a fantastic experience for anyone who's affiliated with Mario or racing 
 in general. Essentially, it's one of the better portable racers out there, and one of the best 
 games the DS has to offer.
  
  -Tish- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digxxbitty
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a surprisingly fun, classic racing game. We all know and love the Mario characters, 
 and this game lets them duke it out on the racetrack. While there's plenty of races and missions 
 for you to do, playing online and with your friends is where it's really at. It's always great 
 smokin' your friends with red shells, or speeding by them right at the finish line. It's highly 
 addictive and always satisfying.
  
  GAMEPLAY: If you're new to the game, you'll find the easiest difficulty just right. You should 
 be able to take home the gold, but it won't be a stroll in the park. You'll have to make good use 
 of items and have overall good driving skills. By the time you beat the 8 Grand Prix's (4 races 
 each) you will be ready to take on the next difficulty. It will present you with a new challenge, 
 and you'll need to master the art of Drifting/Power Sliding. Gaining a boost around the corners 
 is key to victory. Even though you play the same tracks, it'll still give you a thrill. The third 
 and final difficulty will really test your skills; you'll have to make minimal flaws and play smart 
 to defeat your foes. Once you finally triumph, only one challenge remains: beating your buds who 
 are equally as skillful and determined. The multiplayer allows up to 8 to play wireless, and 4 
 via WI-FI. This is where you make-it or break-it. Your multiplayer record will show how you fare 
 against the best in your class and the best in the world. You may find yourself breaking into laughter 
 or breaking into tears, but you won't be able to put it down.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are quite good for the DS, they get the job done. Characters, vehicles and 
 especially courses are colorful and innovative. The 3D look is very well done, and you will be 
 amused by the characters reactions to events on the track.
  
  SOUND: The sound isn't particularly outstanding, it is always there, cheery and upbeat, but nothing 
 jumps out at you. I don't usually notice if I have the sound on or off, it would have been nice 
 if there were little sounds when you passed someone or hit them with a shell.
  
  VALUE: Mario Kart has great value, tonnes of unlockable characters, vehicles, courses and missions. 
 You will be rewarded after completing each Grand Prix, and once you're done that, there's plenty 
 more to play. You race the best times recorded by creators of the game, try the battle arena or 
 take up some peculiar and crafty missions. You may need to practice and practice to beat that ghost 
 time, or try a mission over and over to get that 3-star rating. Whatever you do, it's an easily 
 replayable game, constant with new unlockables.
  
  TILT: I liked Mario Kart a lot more than Diddy Kong Racing, probably because of the items and drifting. 
 Even if you are in last down the home stretch, never give up hope, a good item can pull you through 
 to first in a split second. I really love the levels, each has a unique twist that brings out strengths 
 and weaknesses in each character. The multiplayer is what really draws me in. It's always a challenge 
 and even more satisfying to win, and even more disappointing to lose.
  
  I've only had the game for two days, but I've logged close the 15 hours, mostly from the intense 
 multiplayer battles at lunch or after school. I still have plenty to unlock and I look forward 
 to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veeblefester
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  While this game may fun and addicting at first, after you've unlocked everything, it gets rather 
 repetitive. Don't get me wrong though, this is still the best Mario Kart game of the franchise. 
 Wi-Fi mode is a blast, but the randomness of your opponent's skill level is disapointing. Sometimes 
 it'll pair you up with a total newbie who hasn't even raced over Wi-Fi yet. Other times, It'll 
 have you racing against someone who hasn't lost a single race. It's also disapointing that some 
 tracks aren't playable over the internet. However, It's nice to see that battle mode is no longer 
 limited to just multiplayer. This game is a must have for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phat_tonyca
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the 5th release of its genre and is easily the best of its genre. Not only does 
 it include online play, Nintendo has decided to include 4 extra cups to lengthen the process of 
 finishing the game called Retro Cups .
  These Retro Cups include races from previous versions from the SNES, N64, GBA and Gamecube. Mario 
 Kart DS is easily the best of these because it also includes online play! While some racers online 
 will cut your pleasure by drifting throughout the race, Mario Kart DS is also fun within a LAN. 
 Just recently the game was used as a time killer during a road trip.
  
  A must-buy for anyone one that has a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a very very fun games. Suitable from the age range 7 - 14. Of course, people who 
 are looking for games with good graphics wouldn't appreciate this game. Anyway, I love this game 
 and I don't know why. I just love going on the tracks and drifting and drifting. And whacking my 
 opponents with turtles and rockets!! Its just fun. It's even more fun playing online via WiFi because 
 the opponents are smarter.. and they are not.. programmed and there are also many cars. I always enjoy 
 this game! Filled with tons of weapons that are cool and nice! All DS owners (and DS Lite owners 
 too) should get this wonderful game!! MUST HAVE IT.. MUST HAVE IT! You won't regret it (well.. i can 
 guarantee.. hehe) !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The core gameplay concept is kart driving (really, it is) . In my opinion, they've removed the flaws 
 from previous Mario Kart games, and perfected the concept, thus making my favorite racing game 
 AND favorite portable game of all time. You get to choose from Mario or one of his 11 kart-drivin' 
 friends, and you eventually get to choose from a whopping 36 different vehicles (in fact, only 12 
 of those are karts) . In Double Dash you didn't have much to choose from when it came to vehicles, 
 and they all pretty much played out the same, and in the other Mario Kart games all karts have 
 the exact same stats. But it's like they've made one type of vehicle for each type of player. If 
 you're like me and you drift all the time, rarely crash and rely heavily on items, Bowser's vehicle 
 Tyrant would probably appeal to you. If you never get the hang of drifting, just pick up a vehicle 
 with terrible drift in favor of better handling. They've added, edited and removed several items, 
 and now the items are really perfected. You always compete against 7 other racers in this game.
 
  
  There's a number of game modes to choose from, and I'll list them here:
  Grand Prix - A cup with 4 different tracks, there are 8 cups total.
  Time Trial - Can you beat 
 the staff in Time Trial mode? Get an excellent time on a track, and you might unlock staff ghosts 
 to race against.
  VS - In this mode you can customize a number of game rules, and you can choose any maps you like.
 
  Battle - Choose from Balloon Battle, where you have a certain number of lives, and you have to 
 bombard your opponents, or Star Runners (or something like that) where you have to get most stars 
 before the time runs out.
  Mission - The only weak part of the game. Thankfully, you're not required to play trough this part 
 to unlock anything. Missions in a kart game? Bad idea, but still it's a nice diversion from the 
 other game modes, so I won't let it ruin the 10!
  
  You can also play any of your friends with a DS, even if they don't own a copy of the game (in that 
 case they get to play as Shy Guy, who does not appear in the single player game) . But you want 
 to convince them to get this game, because you're limited to only 8 tracks.
  
  The WiFi mode is also fun, but less than half of the tracks can be played online, which is a huge 
 minus. But I don't really care about the WiFi options, as I usually only play DS when I'm outside 
 my house.
  
  Graphics:
  Top notch, these graphics are stunning for a DS-game. Compare this to graphics in Mario Kart 64, 
 and you'll notice that the DS-version has far superior graphics.
  
  Sound:
  Lots and lots of different soundtracks, and each of the characters have stuff to say when different 
 events happen. Some of the soundtracks appear on multiple tracks though, which is not cool.
  
  Value:
  This game lasts virtually forever. With 32 different tracks, a number of different 
 and customizable game modes and a rock-solid multiplayer part, this game is a sure winner. You 
 might not sit in your room and play this all day, but that's not what the DS is about either.
 
  
  Tilt:
  An interesting feature which I really love in this game, is that you can make your own logo which 
 appears on your vehicle. You can make it pixel by pixel, which is great fun, and it's a great little 
 addition to the series.
  
  If you own a DS, and you don't own this game, shame on you. Go buy it as soon as possible. Even 
 if you don't usually like racing games, this game is so much more than just a racing game, and 
 will surely satisfy everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisyman
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 31, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  the games graphics just sucked so much and its all changed from the origanal. gameplay was just 
 awful i dont know how i could have got through it all. learning it took like two seconds to learn. 
 the game was so easy to beat that there was no point in play. the sound and music was the same 
 as everything else. just complete junk. so any one thinking of buying this game rethink it cause 
 this sucked. go spend your money on some thing thats worth buying like halo 3 or crackdown! cause 
 i realy hate this game and im already turning it in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Roluyo
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is definitely the best in series. The single player mode is great, but the multi 
 player its even better !!!. The game have a fair character selection and a great course selection 
 (you can select courses from SNES to 64) . You can choose one of 7 different cars in the game. There 
 is 2 things i dont like about the game. One is the sound, that its kindda low quality. The other 
 thing its the sense of speed, even in 150 cc you feel that toy are driving like your grandma... 
 But in overall its a great game and I definetly recommend toy to do one thing... Buy it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unr3al39
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  All I can say since I picked this game up about a week ago is Wow. I have been a fan of the Mario 
 Kart games for quite some time now and this is definetely no exception. When you play this game, 
 you get everything you could possibly want and then some. This one is going to be a classic for 
 me for sure.
  
  That being said, there are two ways you can look at this game. One, from the classic Mario Kart 
 fan perspective. It's as if Nintendo took all of the very best features from each previous game 
 in the series, fine-tuned them and made a complete package of it. Same favorite characters and 
 new ones to unlock as well, same classic items and a few additions such as the havoc-wreaking bob-ombs 
 and my new personal favorite, the bullet bill. All new content has been added to the game, making 
 things possible that were never there in the other games, like more car choices, which adds a lot 
 more depth and a whole new level of strategy and fun to the game. One thing about the game is that 
 the items really do add lots of chaos to the gameplay, and can easily turn the race around for 
 one player or another, This can be a good thing or a bad thing at times, and very frustrating, 
 but it keeps the game fun for everyone and it sticks to the MK formula.
  
  You can also look at the game from an average gamer's perspective, or maybe just someone who has 
 never had a chance to try out the series. There's at least a few things in this game that anyone 
 could find appealing.
  The game itself felt a lot more balanced than its previous counterparts and there was more customization 
 as well. The added feature of being able to draw your own logo and put in on your car was great, 
 and not to mention the superb multiplayer experience the game has to offer. Whether it's the single-card 
 8-player mayhem or being able to utilize Wi-Fi and go online against some of the best challengers 
 in the world as well as rivals at your own skill level, I'm sure the multiplayer aspect had something 
 fun and new for just about everyone. The gameplay was just great.
  
  As far as graphics go this is without a doubt one of the best-looking DS titles we have seen so 
 far, even considering that it has been out for quite some time now. It takes full advantage of 
 the DS's 3D graphics hardware, and looks great. The only issue I had was some of the courses added 
 into the game that were originally from the older games, that didn't quite look as beautiful or 
 nearly as detailed as some of the other courses, and the courses themselves were just not as great 
 to play. But it's really not much of a problem seeing as this game as more courses than any of 
 the other MK games to date (as far as I can remember) , and four difficulty levels to play them 
 on. The sound was alright, again, not the best I've ever heard, but it seemed to suit the mood 
 of the game just fine, not to mention that the quality of the sound on the DS was great for being 
 a portable system.
  
  In conclusion, one way or another I have to say once more that I do honestly recommend this game 
 to anyone everyone who owns a DS, so if you can, go out and buy the game, it's a great value for 
 its price and it's an overall great game, or at least try it out by renting or borrowing from a 
 friend. When you do get around to playing it , I have to say you'll definetely be in for a treat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMSHAWN
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a wonderful game with unbelievable course designs. They were created really well. 
 The characters are all the same but the Karts are all original and greatly made. The versus and 
 battle modes take a great step upward with the introduction of bots and mission mode is genius. 
 Well, the boss fights anyway. The gameplay is more of the same which is great and actually the 
 d pad works better than a joystick. really the D-pad IS easier to control. Although this game was 
 relatively easy to beat it's insanely fun to pick up and play. Buy and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS may have the series Mario Kart title, but it is definately not like the rest. This 
 is the best Mario Kart game on console or handheld ever! Let's look at what makes this game so 
 great:
  
  Gameplay: This game has great single player options, an awesome 2 player mode, and great Wi-Fi. 
 The controls are fantastic and the levels are as fun as they ever were. There is so much to do 
 in this game it is unbelievable. Wi-Fi made it's first major appearance on this game, and has proven 
 to be a great host of it. All the good reviews are correct on this one.
  
  Graphics: Not the best I've ever seen, but great for the DS and great for a Mario game. I have 
 no complaints here.
  
  Sound: All your classic item sounds, character voices, and level music are back. No sound in this 
 game sounds ugly, so nothing else to say here.
  
  Value: Worh every penny and more. If you like playing Wi-Fi as well, this is a must. It has amazing 
 replay value as well.
  
  All I have to say here is this game is a must for anyone who has a DS, whether you like Mario games 
 or not. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuskLord
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 26, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  SNES version was a killer at the time. N64 version was kinda pretty, but made you sleepy soon. 
 DS? Combine those two versions and this is what you get. It has almost nothing new. All the weapons 
 are the same as earlier. Nearly all the characters are the same. Half of the maps are recycled. 
 It stinks like a retirement home. But it still is propably the best in series. I just can't rate 
 it higher since you just don't get enough to match the amount paid.
  
  The visual side... We're given decent and smooth 3D graphics, the other screen shows the map which 
 works well, you can actually complete a race by just looking at the map, it's accurate enough. 
 But yeah... That's just not enough. I can't say anything else about this game. I guess you could 
 enjoy it for a while over wifi, unfortunately I can't try the feature out without the USB dongle.
 
  
  Never played Mario Kart? Oh come on, it's somewhat of a must. And this one's perfect for newcomers 
 of the series. But for ones who know the roots of the series... Should get bored with it relatively 
 quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer_of_thor_
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  As the majority of DS owners know, there are many top-notch games available for the system. Mario 
 Kart DS could easily be thrown into the top five. Most people have played at least one of the Mario 
 Kart games before, so they will get what they expect, a fairly simple kart racer game, that is 
 very fun multiplayer. The reason this game is fun multiplayer is mainly due to the ability to get 
 different items and hurl them at your opponents to slow them down, or use them to increase your 
 speed or something of the like. This formula has been used with each game in the series, and has 
 worked well.
  
  This was also one of the first games to utilize the Nintendo WiFi Connection Service. This allows 
 the player to play over the internet with people around the world, making it the first online Mario 
 Kart. This can be very fun, but is often ruined by playing against snakers . This refers to the 
 people who take advantage of a glitch in the game where you are able to drift back and forth and 
 get speed bursts, in a snake like pattern. Some people believe that this is cheating, others think 
 that it is a skill. Regardless, there are still many people who play the game as it was intended, 
 so do not worry.
  
  There are great visuals in this game, it definitely looks great on the DS. It doesn't overly use 
 the two screens, one is showing the gameplay, the other displaying the course for the most part. 
 Which overall isn't too bad, but I'm sure that they could have come up with something more creative.
 
  
  Overall, anyone with a DS should by the very minimum, take a look at this game. Even though it 
 isn't one of the cheaper titles, it is well worth the full price. You can spend countless hours 
 playing this game, be it single, or multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watzup555
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 23, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  One if my favorite games for the ds is Mario kart ds. I just love it. U can play on 16 new and 
 old tracks. The old tracks come from all the pervious games. There is a new mission mode where 
 u can do mission, battle mode, vs mode, time trials and grand prix on the single plsyer part. Then 
 there is LAN and Wi-Fi multiplayer. One problem with Wi-Fi is that one 4 people can race. The game 
 devolpers should have made it the eight player Wi-fi. otherwise everything else is good. You can 
 make emblems wich are the pics u seeby the racers name in wi-fi mode. This is the perfect game 
 for ds. If you dont have this game, go and buy now. It is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, A great racer with some twists. Fun variety of items to choose from while racing. And 
 long enough to please you. Alot of difrent races that will keep you racing for a long long time.
 
  
  Graphics, great... yeah better then the Nintedo 64 one but a little bit worse then the Gamecube 
 one (Double Dash) Good enough to keep you happy.
  
  Sound, refular Mario Kart sound if you have played Mario Kart before. If you have not played Mario 
 Kart before it is just desent music with some old classic Mario music.
  
  Value, Yeah... great racer great variety of items/weapons and a new feature the mission mode! It 
 is great and this game is awesome for Wi-Fi and with friends. It whould be better If it wasn't 
 for all those modders but what you gunna do..? Totally awesome online play and 1 out of 10 u will 
 find a modder so very rare.
  
  Tilt
  
  The Good, A variety of cars, race tracks, characters, items and such.
  
  The Bad, some glitches 
 you will find. And the AI can get really annoying sometimes. They fire at you like there all on 
 a team agenst you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizzvalve
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  MArio Kart DS was the most enjoyable Mario Kart I have ever played. The gameplay is very good. 
 All The race tracks are very innovated like the pinball race track. Some of the race tracks from 
 the other Mario Karts are in this game as well like Moo Moo Farm and Yoshi Circuit. The multiplayer 
 is very good, but it could have been 8 players instead of 4.
  
  For the graphics they are very impressive for a DS game. They have a good art style to them. The 
 racers move very fluently. Overall this game is fun and is the start of a collection of good games 
 for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enix165
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  WOW. This game is amazing. The graphics are great compared to other DS games (the only good DS game 
 I've played that has graphics this amazing is Super Mario 64 DS) , the gameplay is fantastic (8-player 
 multiplayer is great, the addition of 1-player Battle, the increased stat display, the Retro Cups, 
 the return of Block Fort and the Standard Mario Karts are great too) , the sound is nice, the character 
 selection is good again (Yoshi is back to being a track favorite, unlike his appearance as probably 
 the worst character/kart in Mario Kart Double Dash and Toad's a free character again) . The online 
 experience and emblem-maker is also wonderful. The only thing that could make this game better 
 is a track editor. GO MKDS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertoML
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Wow. This is my reaction to the newest Mario Kart game. The game continues the tradition of Mario 
 Kart games and features most of the upgrades made to the Mario Kart formula by previous games but 
 the inclusion of two characters per kart. In this game you can choose a driver and then a kart 
 from a variety.
  
  The game is composed by Grand Prix, Versus, Battle, Time Trials and Missions. You have two cups: 
 the Nitro Cup and the Retro Cup. The Nitro cup is all about 16 brand-new tracks. The tracks where 
 you'll race are good and fun. Track designs are very good, and can be compared even to those from 
 N64 and GameCube, to some extent. Most tracks are shorter, though; I think this was great since 
 the game was designed to be played for quick sessions, as handheld gaming is all about it. The 
 Retro Cup is where I've had the most fun, hehe, since the game features 16 tracks from all previous 
 MK games, from SNES, N64, GBA and even GameCube; the retro tracks are great, and very memorable 
 - just being able to play in the Donut Plains or Koopa Beach brings great memories from childhood!
 
  
  Versus is great, being able to compete wirelessly against rivals with or without the game. I've 
 played it with buddies and it's very easy to start racing, no lag or anything. Battle is great 
 too, no complains on that either. Mission mode is cool but not that great, most missions are more 
 of the same and I think it was made only for practicing for newcomers, as most of those missions 
 were very very easy.
  
  But the real deal here is connecting to Nintendo WFC! Joining races is relatively quick, sometimes 
 it takes awhile but almost always will you be able to join a race. You can race against someone 
 randombly or against a friend. If you choose randomly, you can choose by territory (in the globe) 
 or people with similar skills to you. The bad thing is you can't get those guys' Friend Code if 
 you wish to race against them later. Also, most of the time you'll race against snakers, and I 
 really hate that because those guys keep doing miniturbos all race and you just can't beat them 
 unless you do the same, and for me doing that all the race is boring, I mean, it takes away the 
 real competitiveness of the game, and a lot of times you'll race against these guys, that is the 
 bad deal of this, but otherwise you can race against friends and this won't matter. All races I've 
 joined are lag-free and run super-smooth, no complains on this.
  
  I found control scheme a little awkward, since the A button, which is used to accelerate, is way 
 too far on the DS, it's on the edge, and it's a little difficult for my hands to press this button 
 that is so on the edge of the console, it would have been better to use the B button instead, or 
 use a control scheme similar to the SNES. At times I found controls a little unresponsive, making 
 it a little difficult to perform miniturbos, that's the only complaint on controls, but other than 
 that they're greatly balanced and perfected from previous games.
  
  Graphics are very good, all tracks feature a lot of detail and even the Retro tracks got minimal 
 makeovers to look updated but not altered. Races are always very fluid and framerate never ever 
 drops. At times it's a little difficult to distinguish some objets but this is due to the low resolution 
 of the screen, but it doesn't greatly affect gameplay. Sound is great too, all the noises you'd 
 expect, like engine noises, the drivers' voices and others. Music is cool and I liked it more than 
 the GC version, music is a little less childish (as in the GC) and a little more like the SNES 
 and N64.
  
  Anyway you take a look at this game, you'll get a great package for your money. 32 tracks, wireless 
 multiplayer and online gameplay. If you were a fan of old MK games, you'll find some here, and 
 if you never played them, you'll have a History class here. I think this is the most balanced MK 
 game and the inclusion of online gameplay only makes this great package even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidy3k
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 13, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  to tell u the truth this game is actually good but you would get very addicted to it but later 
 if you beat it you will get bored of it includes differents race traks from the nes gamecube n64 
 and even ds origonals so this game isn't all that bad actually its not bad at all this game will 
 have u up on a saturday night playing online with other people better thatn u but then again it 
 depends wgi you pick like say i pick yoshi and his cart it is very fast but if you pick dk and 
 his slow car its gonna cost you sumthin unleess you have some strategy and also i really like the 
 mission modes leaves you playing for ever and ever even when yoiu beat it cuz youll always wanna 
 come back for more anyway s this game isn't really a game to go buy its a game that u would like 
 to come with ur ds so thats it see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a really great racing game and most likely one of the best Mario Kart games made yet:
 
  THE GOOD: Lots of new tracks mixed in with old tracks, fun online, lots of characters, lots of 
 choices to play, creative
  THE BAD: horrible online load times, CPU's can be a bit too easy.
  
  now for my overview of 
 the game:
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is like all of the other Mario kart games, race around select tracks collecting items 
 and trying to win the match. It seems like the regular, run of the mill racing game, but it is 
 much more than that. The special items and wacky levels provide for a fresh, fun feel. I mean, 
 do you see giant piled balls with faces walking around in Forza?!
  gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are really good for a DS game. The colors are blaring and is really nice. 
 Sometimes the pixel squares are seen but that barely takes away from the game. Overall the graphics 
 are pretty nice
  graphics: 9/10
  
  SOUND:
  The music is awesome. Each map has its own music so you never get tired of the same old redundant 
 music. The title screen music is catchy and I oft find myself snapping my fingers to it. The in-game 
 sounds are also good as you hear a turtle shell wizz by your car or an invincible car rush by you. 
 Its a nice collection of the two
  sound: 8/10
  
  CHARACTERS/AI
  the characters to choose from are varied very widely. With 16 characters to choose from after unlocking 
 it gives you a lot of options. Unfortunately, Shy Guy has been banned to the no-cartridge side 
 of the DS download play area. I found that depressing because I think shy-guy is awesome.
  The AI is pretty good, but I find them quite easy most of the time. You almost always take the 
 lead and never see any of them ever again in the race. Its still good though.
  Characters/AI: 8/10
  
  Overall this game is probably the best game on the DS. If you want a 
 great, and I mean great, game for that touch sensitive system of yours, Mario Kart DS is a must 
 own!
  
  actual score: 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_revolution
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 10, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Fun gameplay and powerups, colorful graphics, multiplayer is great.
  BAD: Nothing new here, only 4 player online
  
  The mario kart franchise has now impressed on 
 4 platforms. Now portable and online. but removing the 2 characters per kart gameplay from doubledash. Single 
 player is dissapointing which gives ou task that just serves as a distraction. But luckily there 
 is new power ups like the bullet bill which rockets you into the front of the pack. This is the 
 best power up so far in the series. You and your friends can link up to 8 via local wireless. How 
 ever only 4 players can play online. Mario kart DS is a solid experience and wont dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EGGNOG4073
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  the one big let down is the short campaign mode, which is typical for most racing games, after 
 beating the mission mode and all the tracks in mirror, the singleplayer is essentially worthless. 
 The multiplayer is fun, but tends to get a little tedious when you face players that snake courses, 
 other than these things, the game will keep you going for a long time. Over other racing games 
 on the nintendo DS, i would highly recommend this one to anyone looking for a fun, long lasting, 
 multiplayer racing game. The LAN enabled modes are very fun, consisting of the classic battle mode, 
 taken straight from the N64 with a few new twists to the touch screen, a shine mode, where players 
 collect shines, and of course a racing mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  Not just for the DS but also for the PSP , this is the Best handheld online game. Single player 
 is kinda short and other modes really make this a boring game alone sometimes for long sessions. 
 Graphics are Great and although no texture filtering it still looks better than Mario Kart 64. 
 This game is best Mutiplayer if you got friends or Wifi this is by far the best game to have for 
 fun matches and endless gameplay.
  
  It's not 4d but it's pretty damn good with Friends or Online. it Sounds really good and the combat 
 in the game gets really competitive. Nintendo does make there Multiplayer games very well by giving 
 better power ups to those in last so you can be lapping some newbs and in the last lap they get 
 Blue shells and the guy who was last wins.
  
  This doesn't hurt the game because that won't happen every lap and the best racers don't stay in 
 first place the whole race in fear of the blue shell. Heck one time it was me and one guy left 
 and when we saw one had a blue shell we would get in the back in the last moment and it would actually 
 hit him when he passed me.
  
  It's stuff like that that make this game so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnimaqq
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a very good game in my opinion, it has great 3d graphics, a wide selection of 
 characters, use of items, and the most exciting thing is WI-FI online... The game itself is very 
 short in career mode but offers a range of missions to choose from. Some things that can be quite 
 annoying of mario kart is that the NPCs karts will always seems alot faster than urs.. For wifi 
 online, it lets you compete with people that have your friend code ONLY and this game is the only 
 everlasting game that doesnt get so repetitive over time, it a must buy for DS owners!!! In my 
 opinion this game is very good and LONG if you have wifi so get it today and no holding back!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: your__face
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this simple, this game is awesome! It keeps tracks/karts/racers from previous 
 mario kart games and also adds brand new content which makes up about 2/3 of the game. I think 
 which makes this game stand out is that its better than all the old mario kart games, and now its 
 handheld, allowing the player to play this wherever he/she may go. Also has Wi-Fi games!
  
  Good:
  - Graphics, better than the old games
  - Sound, classic mario music can be used in better
 
  - Gameplay, I dont no to say anything other than 10/10
  BLAH BLAH i dont need to repeat myself.
  
  Overall:
  I believe that ANYBODY with a DS should 
 buy this game. If you are a old fan its a great way to experience the fun again. If you are fan 
 its a must have. And if your new to the whole mario kart games this is a great way to abord the 
 mario kart express. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of MK since the N64 release, and I still can't get enough of it! I LOVE this 
 game more than the others even if a little bit is the same! The tracks are Frkin awesome (especially 
 the Waluigi pinball course) What made me buy this game was the WI-FI feature, but there are a few 
 bugs while playing online or that your opponent is ''cheating'' or something I didn't know that 
 some of the tracks from earlier MK games were going to be there. I was more interested in the Gamecube 
 ones.
  
  Anyway, this MK is different from the other MK games because the other ones were just to pass the 
 cups, get the trophy and thats it. This one It includes passing the cups, getting trophies, new 
 characters along the way and the missions really impressed me a lot.
  
  This game is a must-have, recommended to all Nintendo-lovers and obviously MK fans... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iused2bahippie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  (PRO)
  Well when you start off this game, you are wondering what you should do first, it all seemed so 
 fun. I loved blasting through the levels and missions that awaited me in this game that combined 
 16 tracks from the mario racing games before it into 4 specific cups. The levels were colorful, 
 interactive, and all around awesome. Pretty much the game was fun, how it was supposed to be.
 
  (CON)
  The A. I. in this game is all over the place, the easy mode is childishly easy, the medium mode 
 requires so much practice that it is so much of a step, that you will be more angry at your ds 
 then ever before, and hard mode is impossible. And this is not a game for starting online play, 
 the people who race in online play are so ridiculously challenging that you have to think that 
 the graduated college with a professional degree in mario cart. but it all around a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamespotEXE
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I've had Mario Kart DS since the day it was released, and it has been a loyal and faithful companion 
 in my game collection. I've always been a fan of Mario Kart, and when I heard it was coming out 
 on the DS, I was overly excited! The game I received was not at all what I expected, in some ways, 
 good and in others, bad. Still, it's a Nintendo classic and can certainly be described as a charming 
 racing game that's a must-have for any DS owner and/or Mario Kart fan. With its 3D visuals and 
 fantastic gameplay both online and off, Mario Kart DS is a solid racing game. Gameplay: 8/10 | 
 Gameplay was excellent, although I felt that Mario Kart was somewhat lacking in this category. 
 That is, it was solid and well off in the game, but it wasn't at all revolutionary. The only thing 
 that was really new about the game was that it added a few new items like the blooper (a. k. a. squid) 
 and there were new tracks (that, unfortunately, seemed like the creators just took bits and pieces 
 of other tracks and put them together like puzzle pieces) , too. There were also a few problems 
 with lag on multiplayer and online play. However, it was still an enjoyable experience.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 | There are superb 3D visuals and backgrounds are well-detailed to give you the 
 best gaming experience possible. Both new tracks and old looked 'polished' and redesigned quite 
 beautifully. However, I thought perhaps a few cutscenes here and there and an intro movie could 
 be added to the game to make things more...'sophisticated'. XD In-game visuals could've been smoother 
 and less jagged, too, but graphics were generally very nice.
  
  Sound: 8/10 | As with gameplay, I found nothing new here. There could be a ten here, if it weren't 
 for the fact that some of the music of the newer tracks (I'm not blaming the retro cup but the 
 nitro cup) seemed like cut-and-paste, the only new feature being that it was a sort of remix. Disappointment 
 may have reared its ugly end for me, but throughout the game, music is quite pleasing.
  
  Value: 10/10 | Perhaps the best feature of Mario Kart DS is its value. You'll get a game that'll 
 keep you busy for hours on end with great replay value, too. You'll very rarely get bored, and 
 it'll be extremely fun! It's just difficult to get tired of this game, plain and simple. Tilt: 
 9/10 | A great game that'll keep you busy for too many hours to count while pleasing you in unison, 
 Mario Kart DS is perfect for game players of all ages.
  
  Overall: 8.8/10 Great | Mario Kart DS is an extremely memorable game that is quite difficult to 
 stop playing once you start, highly addictive it is, in fact. Beautiful 3D visuals and great (multiplayer 
 or single player) gameplay combine to give an unforgettable gaming experience. Missions, unlockables, 
 staff ghosts, etcetera will keep you busy for too, too long, and that is the reason why this game 
 is so solid and tough to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minus_273
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I have not really played Mario Kart since the original on the SNES. I did play the 
 GBA and GC ones a couple of times, but this is the first Kart to get me sucked in completely since 
 the original. Nintendo has done an amazing job with this game and frankly, I cant think of a single 
 complaint. I know people dislike friend codes, but considering the type of people who populate 
 the internet, I am glad that nintendo has gone this route. There are far too many minors playing 
 online and a completely unregulated system is not appropriate. There is a reason why people are 
 not complaining about predators on mario kart like they do about xbox live. Back to the game, this 
 is amazing. I find myself compelled to play every day in a way few other games have before. The 
 level of balance is also incredibly well thought out. For example if you are losing you are more 
 likely to get a rocket, star or lightening. If you are leading you will never get those, all you 
 get are bananas . This make it so that anyone playing can mess up and then shoot from 8th back 
 to first place if they are good enough. It also gives novice players a chance to enjoy the game. 
 I have a love hate relationship with the blueshell. I love it when i use it, I hate it when i am 
 hit. Overall, this game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the newest game in a now 15 year old series. This is the first game in the series 
 and the first game for Nintendo to ever have online multiplayer (its about time) . That is the 
 real winner in this game. There are lots of options in this game, including Vs., Grand Prix., Mission 
 Mode, and Time Trial, and Nintendo Wi-Fi! Finally Nintendo has jumped on the online band wagon 
 and has started making online games. Up to 4 people can go head to head online for free. The only 
 thing you can do is race, there is no online battle option, well there is but it is a glitch and 
 I do not know how to do it. There are many different options and the character selection is great. 
 There tons of carts that you can ride, and for online play you have your online name and you can 
 also make your own little avatar with the touch screen. The avatar thing is pretty nifty and if 
 you look it up online you can actually find people who have mapped out how to draw specific things. 
 The graphics in this game are top notch and are some of the best I have seen on the DS. The sound 
 is pretty nice; you can hear a shell coming up from behind you and other stuff of the sort. Although 
 the best feature is that the bottom screen is a real time map, so you can see if someone is coming 
 up from behind or you can see how close you are to someone, it also shows what items everyone has, 
 and that is a pretty clever feature. Overall this game is pretty darn good, and is a must have 
 for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axel-Roxas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  this has got to be one of my favourite DS games ever.
  choose from your favourite mario characters each with thier own unique carts and stats, race through 
 weird and wacky tracks such as waluigi pinball or bowsers castle. if you thought this was a normal 
 race to the finish and whoevers fastest wins your wrong, items give the game an extra bit of fun 
 and could turn the race around in the blink of an eye as soon as you have the finish line insight 
 a blue shell could come speeding up from behind and you could find yourself coming 5th!!!.
  the graphics and colours are bright and well thought out
  mario cart DS has a supurb multiplayer 
 system so you can race and battle your friends which makes for some fierce racing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  It's a pretty unanimous decision that, thus far, this is the best game on the DS. Mario Kart DS 
 incorporates all of the simple fun of the original Mario Kart released on the Super Nintendo years 
 ago with a healthy dose of strategy, great 3D graphics, and the best track designs that the series 
 has ever seen.
  
  Mario Kart DS will keep you occupied. In addition to the 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc modes, there's 
 a clever mirror mode that is, despite just being mirrored, a bit harder than it sounds. Characters 
 to unlock, karts to unlock, grades to make, and times to beat. When you're done with the new tracks, 
 there are the retro tracks to beat, which are -- you guessed it -- a series of classic tracks from 
 the series' past games. And then there's the multiplayer. Oh, the multiplayer!
  
  Who would have guess that the best game in this series would be released on the DS? It's amazing. 
 It's got the best gameplay of the series, for sure, and the tracks are _amazing_. Kudos to the 
 developers; this is truly an wonderful achievement.
  
  P. S. the new Rainbow Road is insanely fun (while still being challenging, of course) . Best track, 
 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supaman007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Some people may say that Mario kart is to easy and that you can complete it within a day, they 
 are right but there also is a multi-player mode so the people who say that it's to short, have 
 no life or just no friends.
  I've played Mario kart for over a year now, and i'm still not bored because my friends an I play 
 Mario kart so much together and when none of your friends isn't around you can go on wi-fi.
  Mario kart is probably so popular because the multi-player mode.
  So Mario kart is worth the 
 money even if you just buy it for multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Forget all about that mediocre GBA mariokart game, pretend the cummy gamecube and N64 additions 
 never happened and go buy Mario Kart DS. This is the first time since the original that mario kart 
 has been pretty damn good. For those of you out there that actually didn't mind playing mariokart 
 after the SNES original you even get a selection of 20 classic tracks from every previous entry- 
 that makes for a total of 40 tracks to enjoy AND for the first time in the series history you get 
 online play.. through the admitadly stupid friendcode setup but online play nonetheless. There's 
 not really a whole lot else I can say here, if you like or have ever liked mario kart then buy 
 MarioKart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay ~ 9/10 // This game reminds me of Mario Kart 64, it was such a good game, but this one 
 almost 'one-up's' this game. It is enjoyable when you have so much control over the way your vehicle 
 looks and who is on the vehicle. If you are for instance Daisy, you can take one of her 3 different 
 cars out onto the track. Overall an amazing gameplay dept.
  
  Graphics ~ 7/10 // The graphics are pretty good considering the DS has such different graphic capabilities. 
 They are probably not as good as N64, but I would say good enough to be enjoyable
  
  Audio 6/10 // Nothing special
  
  Overall great game, and fun to play online! Grab this one 
 if you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is back on DS. This time he's bringing some new characters, some old and new stages, 
 and finally online play. Its a surprise that the best Mario Kart would wind up on a portable. (espeacialiy 
 the DS, which hasn't seen action in years) but with.............. online play!
  
  The graphics are fully 3-D, but suffer from some flat, jagged surfaces. So in all they could compare 
 to the N64 version, but the N64 version is much more solid. Still the best graphics on DS (the 
 new DS games look like GBA games, I don't know whats up with that.)
  
  Sound is pretty much what you expect, but hearing the sounds of the classic stages is the best 
 part. The music is still here, so don't worry about the classic stage getting some crappy subsitute.
 
  
  Finally online. Online mode takes a little while to load, and once you play your oppenents, they're 
 gone forver. Also no battle mode online, no commuication what so ever. So online really brougt 
 down the score. Some times your oppenents Snake so they'll win every time.
  
  Its still Mario Kart, the game I reserved 6 months beofore it came out, and skipped school to play. 
 So its still fun to play this every once in awhile, but no matter what, this games a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  If you own a Nintendo DS I highly recommend you buy this game without a moment's hesitation. This 
 is one of those games that redefines a console. It shows the true potential of the Nintendo DS. 
 Okay, so it is about racing but there's more to it than that. This is one of the most accessible 
 racing games, and arguably best racing game for the DS. It does away with gimmicky touch screen 
 nonsense and concentrates on the pure gameplay that has made the Mario Kart such a success.
  
  After the disappointing Mario Kart Double Dash for the Gamecube I was worried about Mario Kart 
 DS. Would it try to be gimmicky by adding a feature that no one wants? Would the karts be slow 
 to respond and lose that unique kart feel? Would Mario Kart DS be a major disappointment? The simple 
 answer to all of these questions is the basic 'no'. By returning to the core elements that made 
 Super Mario Kart special, Mario Kart DS is indeed special and is the finest Mario Kart game available. 
 Is it better than Super Mario Kart? It could well be. Is it better than Mario Kart 64? Absolutely. 
 Is it better than Mario Kart Double Dash and Mario Kart for the GBA? Outstandingly better than 
 all of the previous Mario Kart games, better than most other wannabes in fact. So why is it the 
 best racing game on DS? Well first of all it does away with all the touch screen functionality 
 of a supposedly functional steering wheel. There's no flashy touchy gimmicks. It's the D-Pad and 
 face buttons all the way for this outing. Put that stylus away, you won't be needing it. Secondly, 
 you're a lone ranger again. That's right, you're the only driver! No confounded or convoluted system 
 of swapping partners just so you can use their weapons! Hooray! And thirdly, this game is great 
 fun and is instantly accessible from the get go in any mode you're playing. The Mario Kart series 
 is well known for having such a weak single player mode. There's only so many times Time Trial 
 can retain your interest, there's only so much you can do with the Grand Prix before you unlock 
 everything and don't bother with the single player ever again. But for once, Mario Kart DS has 
 a worthy single player mode that's just as good as the multiplayer. The Grand Prix is where you'll 
 go to unlock new racers and karts. There's three engine sizes to choose from; 50cc (easiest) , 100cc 
 (moderate) and 150cc (challenging) . There's two categories (Nitro and Retro Grand Prix) , each category 
 has four cups, and each cup has four tracks. So in total there's 32 tracks to race on with three 
 difficulty settings. The Grand Prix has a mixture of new courses and previous Mario Kart courses, 
 which brings back some great memories for Mario Kart veterans. Time Trial once again returns and 
 is great fun. Beating your own time record is still thrilling and with the added bonus of Staff 
 Ghosts for each course, it's both a challenge and a nightmare, a nightmare for being so challenging. 
 Then there's the new mission mode.
  
  The mission mode is the finest addition to the franchise. Rather than just race, you're assigned 
 missions and objectives; ranging from collecting all the coins to racing through tyres in numerical 
 order. These missions are extremely challenging but absurdly brilliant. There's six worlds as such, 
 each with 8 challenges to complete and then a boss battle once all the missions have been completed. 
 That's right, a boss battle! In Mario Kart! The bosses are either beating them in a race or pushing 
 them off a circle arena a la Super Mario 64. This is perhaps the most challenging single player 
 mode in the game, but it's also the most rewarding and a whole lot of fun. But to get the most 
 out of Mario Kart DS, the reason why the Mario Kart franchise is so fundamentally brilliant, is 
 it's multiplayer. Once again, you have the racing between friends, balloon battle and the new Sprite 
 Runner. Each mode is fun to play, the two battle modes have specially made arenas to fight in and 
 you'll quickly find your favourite. Balloon battle is all about popping three of your opponent's 
 balloons before they do that to you. You actually start with one balloon to your kart, with four 
 in reserve, and you have to blow up the other balloons through the microphone. Though I find it 
 easier and quicker by merely holding onto select (you do have to be stationary of course) . Shine 
 Runner is simple, collect as many shines as you possibly can before the time runs out. The game 
 features 8-player single-card and multi-card LAN play. Single-card play can be played with a mix 
 of players with and without cards. However, players who do not have a copy of the game must play 
 as Shy Guy (who is not otherwise available) and are not allowed to select another character or 
 kart. The colour of the guests' Shy Guys depend on their selected DS's favourite colour.
  
  Mario Kart DS marks the debut in the franchise to feature online multi-player, and what an excellent 
 debut it is! It's so simple to use and getting online is child's play. You can race your friends 
 and rivals (provided you have their friend codes saved) , across the continent and worldwide. It's 
 also relatively lag free and is just stunning fun. The only downside or weakness is that the Wi-Fi 
 multi-player only supports four players and you can only race. But because it's so fun and so accessible 
 this more than makes up for it.
  
  Mario Kart DS is no slouch in the graphic department. Everything zips by at 60 frames per second 
 and there's virtually no slowdown to be found. The race track designs showcase the graphical capabilities 
 of the DS elegantly. There's loads of cool neat little details added such as rolling boulders on 
 the track and the character models cheering when their weapon has hit someone. I don't know what 
 else I could possibly write about the graphics, they're just gorgeous!
  
  The sound is great, though not as strong as the visuals. Don't get me wrong, the music, sound effects 
 and voice acting is great. It's just that the music is not as good as the previous Mario Kart games 
 (excluding some retro courses of course) , the sound effects are more or less recycled and voice 
 acting becomes irritable after a while. However, that's not to say I don't like them. I do, but 
 it could have been better. Just more interesting music, perhaps have the sound effects a little 
 more loud and more different catchphrases for the characters. Maybe I'm being too picky to find 
 a flaw for this game, but there's no denying the fact that the sound, the sound effects in particular, 
 are pretty weak. This game has unlimited longevity thanks to the multi-player. The lifespan for 
 the single player is probably over twenty hours and offers a great challenge from all of it's modes. 
 The multi-player is the crux of the game though, and if you have no one to play it with or you 
 can't get online then you won't get the full enjoyment of the title. Mario Kart DS is a title you 
 must own for the Nintendo DS. This is the essential title, the title that shows what can be done 
 on the DS. It's also a brilliant game to play on your own, or more importantly, with friends. The 
 Wi-Fi is handled superbly, especially being the first game to introduce the Wi-Fi feature. Oh what 
 are you doing reading this, just buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamilton280
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  MarioKart DS is really fun on multiplayer. It will never get old when your playing against your 
 friends. Nintendo made this one on of Nintendo DS's best games yet to come out because it is still 
 $35.00 and it was one of the first games out. It is a defently must have and is worth the money. 
 The graphics arent so good with DKs face smashed in but the gameplay is incredible. It is and exciting 
 and fun game to have. It doesnt take long to learn and is addictive on story mode. The fun mini 
 games and the challenges are also addictive which will have you playing more than an hour. The 
 main thing is that this game is fun with good multiplayer and online action that you should get. 
 This game is both enjoyable and fun, it is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicsludge56
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is definately the best racing game on the DS to date, it may also be the best DS game 
 altogether so far.
  
  Mario Kart has been on many platforms but comes to DS in lets say, style.
  The 32 tracks provide 
 so much for the gamer, not to mention the missions and battle. Whilst playing through the game 
 you unlock more characters making a grand total of 12 playable characters. There are also 7 levels 
 of missions to play through.
  
  Overall mario kart just can't be beaten by its many racing game competitors.
  
  I would highly 
 recommend Mario Kart for all DS gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amansk8_volcom
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  a sick game for beginer and pros they best damn racing game ever it deserves to still be 35$ and 
 the wi fi and i cant believe how Mario cart is so damn fun i cant believe it I LOVE THIS GAME!!!! 
 I LOVE THIS  LOVE THIS GAME!!!! I LOVE THIS  
 LOVE THIS GAME!!!! I LOVE THIS  LOVE THIS GAME!!!! I LOVE THIS 
  LOVE THIS GAME!!!! I LOVE THIS  
 LOVE THIS GAME!!!! I LOVE THIS  LOVE THIS GAME!!!! I LOVE THIS 
  LOVE THIS GAME!!!! I LOVE THIS  
 LOVE THIS GAME!!!! I LOVE THIS  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliwam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The Super Mario series is most recognized for it's great platformers. Though after that genre, 
 the next most recognized genre would be racing. The Mario Kart series is a great series of super 
 racing action. The goal is simple. Try to win the gold cups in the Grand Prix while throwing items 
 like shells and bananas against opposing racers. This is a successful formula, and every Mario 
 Kart game brings out a good level of enjoyment. Mario Kart DS is no different. It does not make 
 much use at all of the touch screen, but that's good. It remains your classic Mario kart game, 
 just that it's heading upwards on the scale of greatness.
  
  The gameplay remains simple, but there were additions. There is a variety of different karts for 
 each character. There are new characters added on, such as Dry Bones and ROB. There are ofcourse 
 16 new courses, each being well designed. This game also includes 16 courses from previous games 
 (4 from each of the previous 4) . Even though this game does not really use the touch screen in 
 any major way, it does take advantage of the fact that there are two screens. On the top screen, 
 it has the regular 3D racing screen which you would be regularly looking at (unless if you're abnormal 
 or want a challenge) . On the bottom, it has the map screen, and also shows the place of all characters 
 and the items, if any, that they are carrying. With the map, there are two versions. One is a simple 
 map of the whole course. The second one is a more closer up detailed look of the course. If you 
 learn to take advantage of this, it can really help you.
  
  There are several game modes, though most of them are just same old, same old. The grand Prix isn't 
 any different, except that there are two of them (one is for the 16 DS courses, the other is for 
 the 16 past courses) . There is the classic time trial, which I don't think I need to explain. There 
 are the battle and vs modes. They aren't anything new, except for the fact that you can do them 
 on your own in this game. One nice addition are the missions. There are 6 levels, and 8 missions 
 within each, plus one boss battle in each level. Most of them are pretty repetitive, like collecting 
 coins or driving through gates, but it gives you a nice alternative to your tasks. Though maybe 
 in future Mario Kart games, we can see Nintendo possibly expanding on this? Well, it's a possibility. 
 Another great addition is the WiFi. It lets you play online with people around the world. That 
 is a good thing almost all of the time. That is about it in terms of game modes. Though these game 
 modes can keep you playing for a long time.
  
  The mechanics of this game are absolutely awesome. The controls are very smooth. They are easy 
 to learn, but difficult to master. That is a very good thing, because it automatically adds replay 
 value. The graphics are sensational. The graphics are almost, or maybe even as good, as the Gamecube 
 Mario Kart graphics. Well, they aren't as smooth, but the visuals can be rivals. That's saying 
 something, since this is a portable game only one generation after that console. The sound is very 
 good. I believe each course has it's own little composition. None of the music is outstanding, 
 but they are all pretty well made. The sound effects are really great. The characters make good 
 noises and sound just like themselves (though sometimes they do get annoying, especially Daisy... 
 grrr...) . The cars all make good sound effects to, and you can hear the tires sometimes screech 
 on the ground. Also, you can know when there are shells near by since they too have their own sound 
 effects (though they don't really sound like shells) . You can also hear the blue shell coming so 
 you can embrace yourself for the almost unescapable dooming impact that punishes you for hogging 
 the top spot. There are also sound effects for when you're struck by lightning or are using Boo 
 (they mess up the music of the course for the while that they are in effect) . Overall, the mechanics 
 are a great contributing factor to this game.
  
  If you're somebody who's buying a DS and needs to know which game to get, or are already a DS owner 
 and is looking for a new game, then I am quick to recommend you this game. With so much to do, 
 great multiplayer, and overall providing a great experience, this at least has got to be one of 
 the must-own games on the DS. This game keeps that great fun formula of the previous Mario Kart 
 games, and adds in a few nice things to really enhance the experience of the game, and pushes the 
 series in the right direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalwar7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a awesome game that you wouldnt expect to be on the DS. First of, the controls 
 are great. I've beaten the game and now am on WiFi alot, so I've gotten used to the controls, but 
 even before that I thought the controls were great. As an example I'm normaly in first place when 
 it comes the the DS version of mario Kart. I dont have the game cube version so when I went to 
 a friends house we started to play it. The first thing I noticed about the gamecube on is that 
 the controls were slippery, no not the actual control, but the turning. Second of all the drifting 
 was horrible.
  
  Possibly the only thing I liked about the gamecube one was the graphics. But im not here to say 
 how much better mario kart DS is than Double Dash.
  
  ok,
  
  After the controls i have to say the graphics are good for a DS game. Nothing else to say there
 
  
  The different modes and unlockables for the DS version is something to look forward to and when 
 I finish something I always find an excuse to come back and play, like beating my old time trials 
 records.
  
  I dont know what else to say except, this is a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smb333
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  this game is a brillant game to add to the mario kart series. i think anyone who hasn't played 
 this game. should get it and play it. its fantastic any mario kart lover would agree with me there 
 i uses the ds functions to make it an awesome racing game. you can a wide variety of character 
 such as your favorites mario peach and yoshi. you have also all your favorite tracks from each 
 and every other mario kart game .i would reccomend it to anyone. i would give it a 9.6 as it brillant 
 well worth the wait for nintendo to create this game and i cant wait for the next mario kart game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericG717192
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game, if anything, I would have to admit is under rated by 90% of the reviews. a 9.2/10 is 
 an understatement for a game of this caliber. For a Nintendo DS game, the graphics are absolutely 
 beautiful. I have never seen a DS game with graphics as good as this game. So if your a graphics 
 freak, you got no worries about this game being an upset in terms of this category. Even the sound 
 in this game, is very good. When I would be playing, I would constantly have the volume on, and 
 never off. In most games you would accept it if its volume is classified as Not Annoying , but 
 in this game the music is accually good, which In my opinion is a change within every other video 
 game I have ever played. The graphics and sound in the game is only a small fraction of how good 
 this game accually is. What really makes this game how good it is, is the Replay Value. This game 
 has so many different techniques that can make you better, so you can win in wi-fi and get a nice 
 record. With all the different techniques, you will have a craving to learn to use all of them, 
 and to be the best. Also, the great gameplay adds to this amazing replay value.
  
  The gameplay is extremely fun. It is what makes the game what it is. The In game physics are stunning, 
 the best you will ever come across, and with the tons of different game option, whether you want 
 to beat the missions, get some stars beside your name or just get a gold trophy in every grand 
 prix. There are also so many secrets and unlockables that you wont be able to quit this game will 
 you get it all.
  
  All in All this game is amazing. Theres just so much to do, and it isnt so bunched up and calaberated 
 into one simplistic little mode, like most other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petey3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Wow this was truely a very fun game. There are many improvements from the previous titles but still 
 kept that original vibe. When you start the game you get the usual players but there are more you 
 can unlock. Just like the old mario karts you go through each cup to improve your rankings and 
 recieve stuff for it. The karts abilitys also differ from what ever character you put in it which 
 leaves you with many possible combinations. There are tons of races events which you can compete 
 in. They also have retros cups which takes levels dated from the original mario kart. They also 
 added an event feature which you complete the given task and then fight a boss at the end of each 
 challenge. Ok the best part of the game has to be the multiplyer. You can play with your friends 
 via ds download or wireless play and wifi which lets you play with anyone by a wireless internet 
 connection. They also kept my favorrite multiplayer map Block tower. Overall mario kart ds is flawless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS takes everything from the previous Mario Karts and perfects it!
  
  The gameplay is excellent. There is nothing bad about using the d-pad to turn. Also, you can do 
 power-slides by holding down the R button, and pointing in the opposite direction in which you 
 turn 3 times to get an extra boost. The touch screen isn't used at all, but you really don't need 
 it in this game. Instead, it is used at a map so see where your opponents are and what items they 
 are using.
  
  The graphics, in my opinion, are better than the graphics on the N64. Everything looks nice. There 
 are no muddy walls or grounds. It's some of the best graphics on the DS.
  
  The sound is usual Mario Kart sound. There is a nice, Mario-ish music during every level. Nothing 
 to really brag about. Every Kart person makes their own distinctive sounds when they are hit or 
 passed. It's just regular Mario Kart music.
  
  One of the best features of Mario Kart DS is the online. Now you can play anyone in the world. 
 It's not hard at all to jump into the fray! This adds for hours more of fun. You will never run 
 out of tough competition once you go online. Unfortunately, many players online use *cheap* tactics, 
 as they will abuse the power-boost in a move known as 'snaking.' It's not easy to beat these opponents, 
 but it IS possible.
  
  Mario Kart DS is one of the DS' best games. It is definitely a MUST OWN for the system, and one 
 of the best racers you can find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Easily the most polished game in the series; extensive single-player; good implementation 
 of online features; great single- and multiple-card multiplayer; great graphics and sound.
  
  The Bad: Inability to toggle off randomness and irritating items; cheaters online; not all 
 36 courses are available online.
  
  Mario Kart DS is, without a doubt, the greatest game on the DS for a variety of reasons. As the 
 fifth game in Nintendo's celebrated series, there is a lot of experience behind it, and the big 
 N has certainly learned from past mistakes. There is a great single-player mode, a killer multiplayer, 
 and even a solid online mode to boot. The game also looks great and sounds appropriate for a Mario 
 Kart game.
  
  It is not without its faults, however, though they are few and far between. The most fundamental 
 of these flaws is the simple fact that there's the random element there's always been in Mario 
 Kart. Picture this: you're racing at the top of your game, you've hit every powerslide perfectly 
 and hit every speed boost, but right as you're about to win, you get hit by an undodgeable blue 
 shell and end up in fourth place. Believe me, it happens, and it's infuriating. The option to toggle 
 off various items would have been very much appreciated.
  
  Also, the online mode is great and all, but the fact that there's tracks that are unavailable online, 
 and there's the new snaking ability which is meant to help out novice players, limits the amount 
 of fun that can be had. However, on a side note, single-card download play is excellent, featuring 
 8 playable courses out of the game's whopping 32.
  
  All in all, this game is easily recommendable to anyone who has a DS. To those who do not have 
 a DS, this is reason enough to buy one. It's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best Mario Kart game to date and it features online play.
  
  Graphics in Mario Kart DS are good and colorful and they are that same Nintendo style you know 
 and love. Sound effects are also familiar from previous Mario Kart games and they work well. Music 
 makes a happy atmosphere in the experience.
  
  Gameplay is where Mario Kart DS starts to shine and there are many different game modes to keep 
 you busy for a long time. There are 32 different tracks to choose from and 16 of them are old tracks 
 from previous games in the series (SNES, N64, GBA, GCN) . About half of the tracks and four characters 
 out of 12 have to be unlocked so youll spend a lot of time just playing through the Grand Prix 
 mode. But that is just one game mode in Mario Kart DS alongside mission mode, time trial and battle 
 mode. Controls are accurate and theyre easy to learn so the learning curve here is pretty much 
 non existence.
  
  Nintendo has finally added online play and playing with other people is the highlight of this game. 
 But even if you dont play online there is still lots of single player stuff for you to find and 
 play with.
  
  Playing Mario Kart DS is just fun and win or lose it leaves you with a happy feeling. If youre 
 interested in racing games you should check out Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zatchbell101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Bye far the greatest kart racing game to date. Gameplay: Really fun. Lots of tracks to choose from. 
 But some tracks can get boring. Lots of weaponas to choose from. My favorite is bullet bill. The 
 only unfair object is the spiny blue shell. Sometimes it can beuseful sometimes it will piss you 
 off. Lots of tracks some from the Nes, snes, and the gamecube. Sound: Is great I hope they keep 
 making the sound like this. When the Wii version comes out this Summer I hope the music is still 
 great. Lots of great sound on the tracks some are remixes from the past Mario Karts
  
  Graphics: Arne't that great some just completely suck. Some are quite beutiful. Overall they could 
 be better
  
  Value: I say it is worth the money I bought it the day it came out and still playing it till this 
 day. $35.00 for a game that will last you a long time.
  
  The game is really great some graphics need to be improved but overall the game is the best of 
 all the Mario Kart. I don't if the Wii version will be as great as this one or better. If you dont 
 have this game get you lazy but up and go to the store and pick up a copy of Mario Kart Ds trust 
 me it will last a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I prefer the GC version of Mario Kart the most, because it seems to have a little better 
 handling of the cars and it has more power ups and better tracks, IMHO. Not to say this DS version 
 is bad. It just seems to be more straight-a-ways and less action in this game. There are some cool 
 new power ups here, such as the bullet and ink thing. The tracks are cute and decent, and maybe 
 I'm biased since I just haven't played the DS near as long as my GC version, but the GC tracks 
 are more fun to me. Though this game has it's share of great new tracks, some of my favs are Peach's 
 Garden and the new Bowser's Castle, and of course the Yoshi's Waterfall one. This game has lots 
 of content also that make it a TOP notch DS game overall. Besides 16 brand new tracks, you can 
 also play a Retro Grand Prix, that features 16 old tracks, 4 each from the SNES, N64, GBA, and 
 GC versions of Mario Kart. They seemed to pick a lot of the circuit tracks though, which were always 
 my least favorites. Especially from the GC version, they seemed to pick the worst tracks from there, 
 not the best. By worst , I mean basic tracks (like the Baby Park and Luigi Circuit, etc) that don't 
 have alot of variety in them. (How about DK Mountain or the Dino Land one, or any other for that 
 matter) . Besides the Grand Prix modes, available in 50/100/150cc as usual, this game also features 
 Vs, Time Trial, Battle, and Mission modes. All of these can be played single player against the 
 CPU. Battle mode features the balloon mode and the star stealing one. My favorite addition to this 
 game is the Mission mode, which has 54 levels of small things you need to do to complete each mission, 
 such as collecting certain coins, defeating bosses with your kart, driving through check marks, 
 powersliding, etc. They serve as great practice and a great way to get your feet wet when starting 
 the game. And the best for last. The online play, which is what all the hype is about surrounding 
 this game. The good thing is that it's very fun when you get connected and have players willing 
 to race you. The bad thing is it's not too easy to find online opponents. You don't get to go to 
 chat rooms and such like EA games have their online play. It auto connects you to Regional or Worldwide 
 opponents, unless you have friend codes and such. So sometimes it's hard to get 3 other racers. 
 (Online only supports grand prix mode, and only allows up to 4 racers at a time) . And when you 
 do, alot of those players dropout in the middle. And as just mentioned, the options for online 
 play are extremely limited. Even if others drop out though, and even if you can't find 3 othrs 
 to play with you, you can usually always find at least one player to finish a cup with you. And 
 even racing against just one human player is still VERY fun. :-D Graphics: Very nice, comparable 
 to the N64 version of the game. I'm so used to the crisp version on my GC, it was hard to get used 
 to the graphics here, but for a DS game, the graphics are awesome. Sound: Still pretty good here, 
 but not as exciting as some of the fast-paced soundtracks in the GC version. Value: Well, I mentioned 
 all the modes above, plus the regular unlockable courses and carts, plus the extravaganza of online 
 play, and BAM, you have probably the most content on any DS game out there. Tilt: Suprisingly, 
 I think the gameplay is a tad overrated for this game. I say that if you've already played previous 
 Mario Kart games (especially the GC version) , you won't miss anything by not getting this game. 
 Well, that is if you don't expect to play it online either. BUT, if you love Mario Kart already 
 and want the handheld version, this game won't let you down, and especially if you do plan on playing 
 online, this is probably one of the best DS games out right now to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeartBroken13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  There is a line that has been drawn when it comes to racing games. Many are realistic and few are 
 cartoon-like. Well, I noticed that Mario doesn't like to walk much anymore, therefore, he uses 
 a Kart, hence Mario Kart! There has been the games of Mario mixing it up with the Kart in the past 
 such as Mario Kart Double Dash for the Game Cube. That was a fun game, but the idea that I would 
 only get one character to drive and throw weapons, really made my mind wander in the game would 
 be the same. Well to those of you who are thinking about the same question, think no longer, for 
 I have the answer. The game is just as great as its predecessors. With the vairety of a multitude 
 of your favorite characters, you race through different worlds, familiar only to those who have 
 played them before in previous Mario games. 16 new tracks such as Bowser's Castle, Tic-Toc Clock, 
 and Peach's Castle, there is never a turn that you do not have to keep an eye on your map and watch 
 for a shell or a banana peel on the ground. At the same time, there are older tracks fromt he previous 
 Mario Kart games on here as well. Such tracks as Yoshi's Island and my personal mayhem favorite 
 Baby Park have yet to die. There is a new idea on the side called Missions that make you face different 
 challenges and 6 different bosses. Each of which test you at your best in the aspects of driving. 
 Do Not Use This Game As An Excuse For Your Poor Driving In Reality!!! Never the less, this game 
 is not one-of-a-kind, instead it's just what I wanted from the series, another game to keep me 
 occupied and keep me addicted. GAMERS HAVE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romanator
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  Mario kart has always been fun for it nature of creative racing and it
  has every right to be. Creative tracks, good karts for the characters,
  and mostly a good selection 
 of characters.
  
  Mario kart ds brings more of the same to the ds, with allot of added
  courses from previous games. They could of been a bit polished up
  for the ds, but if people 
 wan't to stay retro looking, thats their choice.
  Mario kart ds feature good sound effects and music, alot of the
  tunes keep to the mario universe.
 
  The sprites have been polished up to ds standards, but the enemies
  on the course are still 2d, which shows that nintendo were in a rush
  to release this game. The 
 off course objects, trees etc. could of
  been more polished aswell, but what can you do..
  Mario kart ds also features a mission mode, where you are put to the
  task of completing various 
 missions which normally take 20 seconds
  to complete. There are difficulties and bosses as-well to keep the
  replay factor up.
  I like 
 Mario kart ds alot, but for what is and nothing more.
  
  
  
  (no-one bother with the silicon valley review, i must of been stoned) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobtralizer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  When i got this game i was all like, Hey! Its mario kart! So i got it and accendently i beat it 
 in 3 days. Dont think this is a short game. I spent a crapload of time playing this game. This 
 game is really really good and is really rewarding to win a single race. Its a great game for all 
 ages i think. You can also spent a crapload of time on multiplayer online or LAN. Both amazing! 
 This game is undoubtably the best game in the Mario Kart series. It was a great buy and I highly 
 encourage this game to all as i said before but now i need 100 words to submit this so oh well... GO 
 MARIO KART!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta_Fish
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is what gaming is all about; playing single player to unlock special rewards , using 
 those rewards to show off and defeat your friends, and to have fun. Mario Kart DS has included 
 a couple of new courses to race on as well as most of the old courses from the previous games in 
 the Mario Kart series. Supporting the new Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection Mario Kart DS takes multi-player 
 to a whole new level. Mario Kart DS also brings its own new mode into the Mario Kart scene which 
 is mission mode. Overall Mario Kart DS is a great choice to pick up at the nearest store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2robot
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  ok I only like 2 write review for cool game and games that are not worth buyin this game is worth 
 buying definitley I have 3 games mario kart new super mario and brian age but out of all 3 of them 
 mario kart is the best (brian age was my mothers idea) lol but any way back to the review this 
 games is very fun sound is ok game play is preety fun cause when u get tired of getting bet in 
 wifi u can plat agianst some cpu's ok first I will tell u about gameplay, then graphics, then wifi 
 my favorite, ok game play they have three options at the main screen single play, multi player, then 
 the other one I thing wifi, so normal game play is ok to me it get boring after a while espicially 
 the unlockable 2 me they are hard 2 get now I know u think the unlockables are important and I 
 need them so I can beat people on wifi well u are wrong you dont need them I beat pleanty people 
 on wifi without the unlockables ps: I STILL DONT HAVE THEM........ graphics are good....... ok wifi...... TO 
 TELL U THE HONEST TRUTH IF I DIDN'T HAVE WIFI ON THIS GAME I WOULD PROBALLY SELL IT BACK...... but 
 I do have wifi so im not ok let see first thing my favorite is emblems ok on this game the emblems 
 are shown before u start the match and when people are behind you while racing ps: my emblem says 
 im the master cause thats the only thing I can write lol but u can put anyhting I will show u a 
 link for any example just copy and paste http://dragongirl269. tripod. com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/mario_kart_emblems. gif 
 ......... and this are make able images ok know u can add friend codes and race agianst people awesome 
 huh I lose a lot lol and I will not tell u anything else about wifi cause I dont want to spoil 
 it cause it is so awesome...... I recomend buying it cause u can never get bored in my opinion......... I 
 hope u enjoy my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadly-brute
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart ds i think is one of the best ds games out so far that will keep you busy playing by 
 yourself or with other people around the world. The multi-player on mario kart is really pretty 
 cool. and it gives you choices to play regional or worldwide. other than the multiplayer playing 
 by yourself can be fun too. i'd say the graphics on this mario kart are better than the Nintendo. it 
 is a great game to take on the go or play for a short amount of time. to tell the truth though i 
 think after beating all the mini games and races it gets boring after a while. other than that it 
 sure does pack the heat of a real mario kart racing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMA-Demon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Making his racing career debut back in the days of the Super NES, Mario and his kart racing franchise 
 have been around for some time and has picked up quite a following along the way. After nearly 
 ten years, and multiple platforms, Mario Kart makes it's way to the Nintendo DS with the appropriately 
 titled Mario Kart DS. Beginners and long time fans of the series will all surely find something 
 to love about this entry in the Mario Kart universe.
  First off, the gameplay: Fans of the series certainly know what to expect here. All of the classic 
 modes of play return, from Grand Prix, to versus, to battle, and time trials. Grand Prix offers 
 your standard Mario Kart tournament style racing. The game sports two cups each with sixteen different 
 courses (32 in total) and 3 engine classes (50cc, 100cc, and 150cc, all scaling in difficulty respectively) . 
 The first of which is the Nitro cup which offers 16 original tracks. The second cup, known as the 
 Retro Cup is exactly what it says. Sixteen retro courses from various Mario Kart games from the 
 SNES, to the Nintendo 64, and even tracks from the GBA and GCN titles. Versus mode works much like 
 a quick race mode, where you choose your racer, kart and track of choice and proceed to duke it 
 out with the AI. Mario Kart DS also offers a Mission mode this time around. The missions in Mission 
 mode are a series of challenges that you must complete and a boss to defeat at the end of each 
 level. These challenges are actually quite fun and add some lasting value to the game.
  Another thing to note in Mario Kart DS is it's multiplayer. Mario Kart DS takes full advantage 
 of the DS Wi-fi capabilty and integrates it flawlessly into this game. It is incredibly easy to 
 jump on to the Wi-fi network and begin playing with challengers across the globe. Issues like lag 
 and such are rarely, if at all, a problem. Poor latency it seems, is almost nonexistent while playing 
 Mario Kart DS over the Wi-fi network. With all the little features stuffed into online play such 
 as; scorekeeping among you and friends, custom emblems, etc. it's hard not to give it a shot. With 
 the option to play with players around the world, it's also never difficult to find opponents at 
 any given time of the day. If online play isn't your fancy, but you just want to race or battle 
 some friends, that is also an option via the DS wireless connectivity and download-play feartures.
 
  Graphically, Mario Kart DS looks better than ever in the palm of your hand. Images are crisp and 
 colors, vibrant. It's never hard to distinguish between objects onscreen. The karts are all very 
 unique and well designed as are the courses. The game sounds quite well, too. Every character has 
 his or her one-liner, whether it be a laugh, snarl, or just simply saying their own names. Everything 
 sounds clear and the music is suprisignly catchy, to boot.
  All in all, Mario Kart DS for the Nintendo DS is probably on of the easiest games to recommend. 
 Fans of the series don't need a review to know that the Mario Kart franchise will live up to its 
 name in this title and titles to come. For everyone else, Mario and racing fans alike, Mario Kart 
 DS is a must buy. With all of the features and different modes packed into this tiny cartridge, 
 everyone will surely find something to love about it. If you want a great game with tons of lasting 
 value for your DS, then definitely pick up Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_ballin_cory
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any ds owner. This is by far one of the best games out for the ds. 
 The graphics of Mario Kart ds are just amazing. The game has fun game play, and has missions to 
 complete. Most missions are boring but the boss fights are pretty fun. This game also has great 
 multi player. There are 3 types of game modes for multi player (shine runners, battle, race) All 
 three of these game modes are available in single card play but are limited. In single card you 
 only have access to 1/4 of the levels and 1/2 the battle tracks (six in all) Of the three you can 
 play only one is any good, also you don't get to pick the level so you get to play a good level 
 every third time, which is pretty annoying. Otherwise single card is pretty fun, but multi card 
 is so much better. The only thing I do not like about the race is the blue flying shell. As if 
 the regular blue shell didn't piss me off enough. This games pretty damn fun but has a few annoying 
 problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Beyond belief i have never played a better game and probably never will, on the DS at least, if 
 you are thinking of getting it don't think and just get it. It's got wicked multiplayer and top 
 class single player with an addiction that is plain scary. Good graphics, cool gameplay and good 
 but a bit repetitive sound. i don't think that you're going to find a much better sporty mario 
 game for a while on the DS. A Mario game is always expected to be good but this is beyond that, 
 and you can play loads of players from around the world over the internet. Overall it's just plain 
 addiction and amazement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like the GCN verision of Mario Kart Double Dash, there I admitted it. A lot of people 
 seem to think other wise but I don't. I have to say that I have been a long time Mario Kart fan, 
 from the SNES verison, to the current DS verison. The DS verison is the best of the Mario Kart 
 series and couples all of that was and is of the series. The graphics are typical DS and almost 
 put the GCN version's to shame, but are on par with the N64 verision. The music is typical Mario 
 Kart, light heared and right on. The sounds are great and harken back to the days of yoar that 
 is olde school Mario.
  
  Now to the controls. While the DS has the revolutionary touch screen, Mario Kart makes little use 
 of it, instead the two screens become more of a monitoring system that make it easier to keep an 
 eye on you opponants and know the tracks a little better. I feel that they could have utalized 
 the touch screen more. But the main attraction to the Mario Kart DS is the multi-player, particularly 
 the WiFi. It's fun, catchy, and once you beat all the track (hard as it maybe) you have more options, 
 characters, and karts. While I dis the lack of touch screen options, the WiFi is nicely used and 
 the hardware is certainly pushed to it's limits. All of the other basic controls are the same as 
 prior installments of the series. They got rid of (thank you) the two character swapping, and allowed 
 for the typical weapon usage. Also there are new and fun weapons that are avaliable. This is one 
 of the best games on the DS and the best of the series of Mario Kart (aside from the N64 verison) . 
 Pick it up, play with yourself, play with your friends, but just have some plain all fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariodeath
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  Awesome!! 
  
  When you play this game the first time it gets addictive and you'l never want to put that game 
 down ever again!!!! Even if you dont like mario you can still kick it out on the race track and 
 burn rubber. The wi-fi just makes everything better in Mario Kart, by racing others online. This 
 game is just pure awsome!!!!!! I love this game. It has a lot of special feature that keep me busy. 
 This game is suitable for everyone. I still play on wi-fi more than single player on mario kart 
 today. to rap it all up it does not even compare to mario kart (the old version.) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  First off the game is a great racing game. It is pretty much the same as the Nintendo 64 version 
 but with more features such as online multiplayer, mission mode, new cars, new locations, and more.
 
  
  The gameplay is great. You pretty much race while using cool items to defeat and slow down your 
 enemys. You got a mission mode to drive around in your cart and do stuff like collect coins, drive 
 backwards through a course, or battle a boss like Bomb Bomb King.
  
  The graphics like every game aren't perfect but they are great. The graphics for this game are 
 better than the Nintendo 64 version as well.
  
  Multiplyer is great. You go on wifi and press regional or worldwide if you don't have friend codes 
 to race with people. Or you can exchange friend codes with your friends to play with them.
  
  Anyway it is a great game and you should buy it if you want a good single/multiplayer racing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best racing game of all time. With wifi, multi-player, and tons of single 
 player content, the game is a must buy for all DS owners.
  
  The single player has 5 different modes, Grand Prix, VS., Battle, Time Trials, and Mission. The 
 grand prix is the best of these and definitely where you'll be spending most of your time. With 
 32 tracks it will take awhile to beat all grand prixs in the 4 different engine classes. Mission 
 mode is brand new to the series and is definitely a welcome addition. It's fun and challenging 
 but not too challenging giving it the perfect difficulty. The multi-player is also a lot of fun, 
 you have 3 different ways to face people. You have an 8 player single-card race mode, 8 player 
 multi card race mode and finally the 4 player wi-fi. They all have their ups and downs, but they 
 definitely are all worth playing. Single card lowers the options down to 8 courses and only being 
 able to be shy guy. Multi card gives you everything except grand prix, which is kind of a letdown 
 since grand prix was always fun in the old games as multi player. But being able to play with 8 
 players more than makes up for it. Wi fi despite being the newest addition to the series, wasn't 
 all it could be. You can only play VS. mode with 4 players on only 20 of the 32 courses. Some of 
 the courses were many fans favorites so it's will get you mad especially when practice the hell 
 out of one of the 12 missing courses only to find out you can't play it. But wi fi is still fun 
 and will keep you entertained for days.
  
  Overall, the game is a must have, and definitely a smart buy, I recommend it to all DS owners world 
 wide!
  
  -Poe Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  mario kart ds is with out a doubt, the best in the series. previous games were great though, dont 
 get me wrong. but the graphics and game play are so smooth and keep you comeing back for more. and 
 when you think your done playing it. your gonna find it again in about a week.
  
  GAMEPLAY: the raceing just like the previous games are pheanomanal. the skidding is better than 
 before. the speed is not as howd that guy catch up to me' type of thing. if you know what i mean. 
 but the kart selection matters alot when you choose your kart. i dont know if thats good or bad. but 
 overall the gameplay is nothing to complain about.
  
  GRAPHICS: great. gamecube standard, PSP standered. couldnt ask for more with that spot. both characteres 
 and levles look great
  
  SOUND: theres nothing really to say. its sraight forword decent, not out standing.... but solid.
 
  
  VALUE: get it, no ? ns asked. worth the price tag. great wi-fi. you could hate mario and still love 
 it.
  
  im reidwii1, look forword to som NEGATIVE reveiws im gonna do soon. but of course good ones to. 
 im out till next time. later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bomberman72
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review hooray! Well lets get this started. Mario Kart DS is the latest installment 
 in the Mario Kart franchise. It retains the same fast pace action fans of the franchise love. The 
 game is fun and the online works fine. Oh how I love to pwn online noobs on the Rainbow Road. Then 
 right has I'm about to pass the finish line they bail out. Damn you Luigi93 I will get my revenge! 
 Now I'm getting off track. The game has some down sides the fun battle mode isn't playable online. 
 Not all the race tracks are playable online. And Mission Mode is kinda lame but, despite this the 
 game is awesome and fun. And is a must buy for Nintendo fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raudeldormr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  And the award goes to... 
  Well of course its Mario Kart finishing first. Nintendo has not failed us here. There is nothing 
 exceedingly bad about this game. The only things I can think of that are baddish are the 2D items, 
 obstacles and creatures. Otherwise this game is perfect in my eyes. Its got the seriousness of 
 a racing game with all the fun and games that you'd expect from a Mario game. The addition of tracks 
 from earlier Mario Kart series was one of my favourite parts. Emblem editing is also very cool, 
 along with the ability to connect to Nintendo WFC for online play. Another good part is the mission 
 mode. A series of challenges that you must complete to unlock the boss for that world . Overall 
 it's a great game, good for single play or against friends. If you don't own this game already, 
 go and buy it, NOW!!!!! What are you waiting for? GO!   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZACK860
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game absolutely the best ds game to date. What proves that is that people still play it on 
 wifi today, even though it came out a year and a half ago. the wifi on this game is great , and 
 if youre ever on it hit me up 094581-347491. (shameless plug yea i know)
  But this game is really good. Thats an understatement. There are tons of unlockables, 4 characters, 
 mirror mode, the last 2 levels in all 4 modes. And i just learnt this the other day, if you get 
 at least 1 star in every level then a star goes above your name on wifi, 2 stars in every level 
 then 2 stars above your name, and the miraculous feat i have yet to see, 3 stars in every level 
 then 3 stars above your name. I highly recommend this game to anyone thinking of getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart seems to make an appearance in every Nintendo console. Super Nintendo was the first 
 time Mario was racing in his go karts. Then it was N64 Game boy advanced, G cube, and prob there 
 will be one for wii. But so far this game tops all of them.
  
  Mario and the usual gang is here again (Mario, Peach, Luigi, etc....) But This game also has Dry 
 Bones and who is this ROB. Yes ROB the Little Robot that you got for buying the Nintendo. I thought 
 i ever see him again but we did. It just shows you that your not playing the same guys over and 
 over. There is also a kinda special character. Its Shy Guy. He is only playable when playing single 
 card Multi player. The guy without the game plays as him. You would have liked to pick your guy 
 but having a guy that is really cool like shy guy does not hurt.
  
  This game has very good Graphics. The sense of speed is very good and its very fun to play with 
 friends off and online. Overall this is the best mario kart game with a lot to do and fun levels 
 both new and old and is a game you can play over and over and over again. Breakdown
  Gameplay: Racing in kart game that is extremely fun and the levels and weapons are well made
 
  Graphics: Speed of light and great sense of speed makes this one of the best looking ds games 
 out there
  Sound: The music is back and they are all very good
  Value: Can play this game for a while without feeling bored Overall: The Mario Kart game to buy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gecko6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Do you know what absolutely BUGS ME ABOUT THIS GAME?!?!?!!?!?!?!?!?!
  I feel that Mario Kart DS is an exact remake of the Super Nintendo, N64, GameCube and Game Boy Advanced 
 Mario Karts with a few new tracks (only 10 or 12) , new controls and multiplayer and wifi races.
 
  Yes we have been here long enough to play the 4 Mario Kart games before this.
  gameplay- its fun using the DS control scheme which is new to us wifi is
  fun too (probably my 
 favorite thing in this game)
  graphics-depends where youre your racing n64 cube and ds tracks have great graphics, but snes and 
 game boy are TERRIBLE karts/carachters look OK
  sound-what do you expect from a MARIO KART game?!?!?!?!?
  annoying mushroom kingdom noises (dont 
 forget mama mia) thats 
  
  well, if you ask me, for a DS racer i would rather pick NFScarbon, burnout legends or even diddy 
 kong racing ds, which is just as bad. If your a Mario Kart fan, or someone who wants to see how racing 
 is on the ds, you should give it a try, but otherwise i might steer clear of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jcbx3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  So far to me it is the best in the series not jus cuz of the wi-fi but the way it is they bring 
 the old with the new. I raced on tracks that I Ioved on N64 while racing sum one on-line its jus 
 perfect like that. Though the computer races during the grand prix get really easy depending on 
 how U do will show up on-line to show how good you really are. online there are a number of cheaters 
 that like to snake . The missions are kinda jus there as a sort of miniquest thing but if you do 
 well it will show up on your rank on wi-fi once again so you are kinda stuck wit them if U want 
 to look good. The ability to choose ones kart is perfect. Really the whole race can depend on your 
 style of racing and the kart which gives you a sense of individuality. that way there is no one 
 who races exactly like you do except if you are one of the cheaters that like to snake . Though 
 battle on-line would be nice but the race is where most of the game is put any way. all and all 
 this is mario kart DS in a nut shell for me tell me what U thin so that I can revise it and make 
 it better for you guys out there
  
  
  ya boy,
  Jcbx3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vesivilo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart a acompa&ntilde; ado a todo videoadito, como yo, que se halla educado con nintendo, desde 
 sus inicios en el supernintendo a tenido mucha aceptacion en la comunidad nintendera. Muchos han 
 querido imitarlo pero no han podido capturar esa escencia magica que el juego encierra, me refiero 
 a que no es lo mismo jugar con personajes diferentes a los que desde peque&ntilde; os hemos conocido; 
 mario, luigi, bowser, peach y demas han estado alli con nosotros desde la infancia.
  
  Uno de los aspectos que lo diferencia de las demas versiones es la opcion de escojer el coche de 
 tus adversarios para competir, obvio tenes que desactivar esta opcion.
  El juego te ofrece una variedad de modos de juego en los que puedes mostrar tus destresas al volante 
 nintendero.
  El modo un jugador te ofrece otros sub modos de juego como el principal modo GRAN PRIX que te transporta 
 al mario kart clasico, correr con tu personaje favorito en una variedad de copas que debes pasar 
 para desactivar otras. El modo COTRARELOJ en el que puedes ensayar esas pistas que te estan dando 
 dificultad, o puedes ensayar las que no conoces para que no te tomen por sorpresa. VERSUS es donde 
 podras armar partidas a tu gusto. BATALLA aqui podras escojer entre BATALLA DE GLOBOS que trata 
 de estallarle los globos a tus adversarios, y donde puedes interactuar con tu coche inflando los 
 globos al soplar en el microfono de tu DS, o CARRERA DE SOLES donde juegas a robarle los soles 
 a tus adversarios. y por ultimo el modo MISIONES que es donde esta la mas notoria diferencia entre 
 esta y las versiones anteriores, aqui podras hacer diversos retos que te ponene como correr en 
 reversa atravesando unos aros, cojer monedas en cierto tiempo, romper cajas y derrotar jefes.
 
  
  El modo multijugador podras jugar con tus amigos por wireless o con gente de todo el mundo por 
 wi fi.
  
  Los graficos se notan a simple vista son sorprendentes, muestran de lo que es capas esta consola, 
 los coloridos exenarios le agreman mucho mas de lo que se podia esperar en mario kart. Los personajes 
 se ven perfectamente detallados pudiendo ver la cara de bowser por ejemplo o la expresion al ganar 
 del mismo. El movimiento de los personajes te ayuda a disfrutarlo mas y mas.
  
  El sonido es de lo mas divertido y te transporta al juego asiendote jugar horas y horas, bueno 
 hasta que aguante la bateria. tiene muy buena diversidad de canciones para cada pista y obvio no 
 faltaba el acelere de la melodia a la ultima vuelta, dandole mas emocion al final de la carrera, 
 siempre y cuando no vallamos de ultimos.
  
  La opcion de crear tu propio logotipo es muy innovadora ya que puedes identificarte y a tus amigos 
 atraves de el.
  
  por ultimo digo que si eras fan de mario kart querras tener este juego y por el vale la pena tener 
 una DS, si no eres fan pues seguro te volveras al jugarlo. Es para todo tipo de persona desde ni&ntilde; os 
 hasta adultos y es uno de esos juegos que al comprarlo dices GUAU NO VOTE MI DINERO A LA BASURA 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiman23
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  awsome game, everthing u hav ever wished 4 from a mario kart game. not only does it hav very good 
 gameplay but it also haz WI FI which iz awsome. the graphics could be better but when your playing 
 the least of your worrys will be the graphics u will b to distracted by the awsome gameplay. so 
 now u know how good the game iz so for anyone who doesnt hav it shood get it at any chance u got. 
 this is the best mario kart game of the series so if u hav a chance to get this or mario kart double 
 dash for the gamecube choose this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thriftymutt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  So ur bored so u want to play a game so theres a mariokart cartridge nearby. Why must it be that 
 u will pick it up insert it into the slot and begin the ultimate gaming experience. I'm sure u've 
 all heard the details so I will give u the scoop on this game. May it be known that this game pwns 
 all kart games and why wouldn't it, after all it is the original. Not to mention one must have 
 fun pwning others whilst others pwn others at the same time online thus creating a string of pwning 
 that can only be calculated by our greatest of scientists. Yes yes u heard it here 9th this game 
 rawks. And if u beat it and get bored pwning others u can always learn to snake. Yes wuts more 
 fun then beating a dead horse (your opponent) into the ground in a manner that is considered cheating 
 by many and watching as ur opponent disconnects cuz his tears fell into the circuitry of his ds 
 and created a small power outage within it =) . Anyways get this game u won't be disapointed and 
 tell bowser that thriftymutt sent u and pwn, pwn away =) . Oh wut ur back for more well u get 12 
 characters and each of them have 3 individual karts. One is a standard kart and the other 2 well 
 original karts that have to do w/ that character. Anyways u have to unlock the new characters by 
 winning races. U can also put characters in other characters' karts. Also a new character Rob who 
 looks like the robot in short circuit if u've seen the movie. I think this game has 32 tracks not 
 sure though but its somewheres around there. Each track more chaotic than the previous. But beware 
 half of these tracks are retro and u'll be sailing along in a track that u've already experienced, 
 be it a track from snes n64 or gamecube. In my opinion this game can be played by both young and 
 old and still be jus as much fun. The skills required to snake by the old and the plain old racing 
 and using items for the young. Also by the good or evil types there is mario and friends for the 
 good and bowser and freinds for the evil so do not dispare. The tracks r usually short and sweet 
 they take about 30 seconds -3:00 minutes each and 3 laps so u won't have to sweat it out and play 
 for hours at a time to experience a full circuit race. This game is a legend and many ppl love 
 it so why don't u buy it up and get ready for a chaotic race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdllcsr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The game play is fun, nothing hard just racing and going forward. The graphics are superb for a 
 DS game and it looks exactly like a N64 game! The music soundtrack is catchy and original however 
 some levels could use more vivid music, but overall the sound is perfect from the kart to the level 
 backgrounds. The game is worth its price because of the gameplay and special criteria. I give Mario 
 Kart DS a 9.1 because its just a fun game to play with 3 gameplay modes and battle modes, and wi-fi 
 for wireless racers, this game is perfect for anyone wanting a good racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds is amazing thats just the word theres time trial mode normal mode multi player mode 
 and battle mode story mode mission mode itll hold u down for about 2 weeks.
  theres 7 missions in mission mode but in those seven missions theres like 10 missions in the seven 
 misions so theres 70 misions. levels from previus games are in this too alot of charactes and karts.
 
  
  this game is not difficult at all.
  i played it for about 2 weeks
  learning curve right when u sit down.
  this game is amaizing and elite in all ways then one.
 
  
  multi player is weak when u ds download play only 8 levels available and u have to make them use 
 a shy guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baghdig
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The Best Mario Kart ever. With 32 Racing levels it couldn't get better. And the online multiplayer 
 just crazy. It also has lots of missions. The battle levels are well chosen too. 16 new levels 
 and 16 old ones. From Snes to GC. From Gba to N64. This game is surly a game to buy. The SNES and 
 GBA levels are more 3D now and much more better. The controls are awesome. And You could play with 
 other people around the world with the WIFI connection. And the multiplayer can be played with 
 up to 8 people. Now that is cool! the graphic is a lot better than the N64 but not as detailed 
 as the GC. But still stays as the best one in the series. You get to create you own nickname and 
 emblem. So are you ready to take on the world? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebtko
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is one of the best games for the Nintendo DS!! dont even bother going out to buy need 
 for speed carbon for ds or any other racing game other than Mario Kart!! The online play is amazing!!! 
 If you think your good against the ds cpu then hahah go ahead and play online against other great 
 ppl across the world.
  
  The first 3 games i bought for the DS were New Super Mario Metroid Prime Hunters
  Mario Kart 
 DS out of all the games i would say Mario Kart is a lot of fun.
  
  I WISH THEY HAD MARIO ON THE PS3 OR SONY FOR THAT MATTER!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher78714
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the mario kart series since the Super NES mario kart. However in my opinion 
 this is the best mario kart game ever made. This game has everything in the previous games, in 
 fact there is a whole cup set based on them, and great new additions and characters. The WiFi is 
 amazing and thows you into a match almost instantly. I would recondment this game for anyboy who 
 have played the previous games, and for those looking for something new. So just take my advise 
 and go out asap if you do not own this game yet. It may even be reason enough to buy a DS. You 
 will be unable to put it down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BGCD
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful graphics and sound; fun online; has enough to keep you going for a while.
 
  
  The Bad: Mario Kart purists might be disappointed and angered by online snakers and disconnectors.
 
  
  Mario Kart has been around for a while now, starting with the SNES' Super Mario Kart , one of the 
 first Mario sport games. The game introduced the high speed thrill of racing games, and combined 
 it with a fun element - the ability to pick up items and use them for your advantage. Thirteen 
 years later, the Mario Kart series is still alive and a new game has been released...
  
  Mario Kart DS
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Mario Kart DS still carries the same gameplay as previous Mario 
 Kart games. You press A to accelerate, B to reverse, R to drift, and L/X to use items. The items 
 are set around each course in rows of five, and consist of the same items as last games, with a 
 few new ones (like the Blooper that limits your opponents' view) . There is a... semi-new ability, 
 though. Introduced in Mario Kart Double Dash!!, you can now snake . Snaking is when you repeatedly 
 power boost from left to right so you can get infinite boosts and can go faster. Many MK purists 
 might find this cheating , but many new players also find this quite fair, since everyone can do 
 it with some skill.
  Score: 9
  
  GRAPHICS
  Mario Kart DS is a beautifully-made game. Each level is colorful and greatly created. Many of the 
 courses are based on previous Mario games, like Mario Sunshine and Luigi's Mansion, and they all 
 look amazing. The character's 3D models are pretty good too. Some parts may look a bit blocky and 
 out of place, but those are minor imperfections. Another small complaint would be that some of 
 the designs are just flat 2D images, such as the Goombas, koopa shells, and some more, but you 
 probably won't notice them.
  Score: 8
  
  SOUND
  This is one of the high points of Mario Kart DS. Each different course has a catchy tune and they 
 sound great. Some of the soundtrack is remixed versions of classic Mario tunes and some are brand 
 new. Each level is completed by not only the great visual style, but also by its stylish music. 
 They provide exactly what matches the stages, and you can hear even the crowd chanting in Delfino 
 Square, and a little background upbeat music when you have a Starman. And you're probably gonna 
 find yourself ramming into enemy karts just to hear the beep beep sound coming out it.
  Score: 10
  
  LASTABILITY
  Mario Kart DS will last you ages. Even though it's basically the 
 same game, it has many additions. It has now included a mission mode, where you have to achieve 
 a certain goal in a certain stage with a certain kart, within the certain time limit. When you 
 finish each level of mission (8 missions in each level) , a boss appears, and you have to battle 
 him. There are four unlockable characters to be gotten from Single Player mode, one Cicuit Class, 
 and a special kart secret that will surely help you. For each Cup you beat, you get a ranking, 
 same goes for each mission. If you manage to get at least one star for each cup in Single Player, 
 a star will appear over your character online. Same thing with two stars, and three stars, which 
 is really hard to get, but at least you can show off when you play against newbies online. The 
 newest addition is the online play. You can choose to play with people on your region, the whole 
 world, or people that share similar rankings as you. If you register people's friend code (can't 
 communicate during the game, so you'll have to do it in real life or on a website) , you can play 
 against that specific person. You can play with up to 3 people online, and 7 people offline.
  Score: 9
  
  OVERALL
  Mario Kart DS has great gameplay, beautiful graphics, quirky and memorable 
 sound, and will last you a very long time if you let it. In conclusion, if you're a Mario Kart 
 fan, get this game now. If you're a racing games fan, get this now. If you have a DS and a brain, 
 get this game now! Trust me, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Racing, bombs, all game tracks put into 1, Wi-fi, Mario........... . All these put into 1 makes 
 the perfect Racing 4 the Nintendo 'DS yet! This Game is obviously a racing game. Its got most Mario 
 charictors. Its even got Wi-Fi. Thats right ppls and fans............. Wi-fi. A great game needs 
 Wi-fi. Whenu look 2 but a new game and u want it 2 b a bestseller. Its gonna come with Wi-Fi. Now 
 I know that ths isn't a review 4 wi-fi but I just wanted 2 point that out. U have a limitless amount 
 of fun, u have Rasing, combat, missions, time trial. everything u want in a game, pretty much. 
 U have over 36 tracks 2 choose from. You can never get tiered of this game 4 there is so much. 
 I have nothing bad 2 say except this: There is only racing in Wi-Fi but not combat. And the last 
 thing I can tell u is that if u win almost everything with a A+ and above u get new cars, tracks, 
 and suprises. THE BOTTOM LINE: Buy this game or u don't own a fun collection of DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogameplaya2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is probably the most exciting racing game for the ds. The single player mode takes 
 about 15-20 hours to complete, but even after you beat that it is not boring. I think the Nintendo 
 Wifi Connection is probably the best feature on this game. I haven't gotten bored of it yet, and 
 I have owned this game for about half a year.
  
  If you have liked any in the mario kart series then you will definitely like this game. If you 
 just want a solid game just get this game. You can also play wirelessly with friends near you. 
 You can play balloon battles, regular races, or shrine games. After you unlock everything though 
 the single player is kind of boring. So overall buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christ4ever9889
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  People say this game is great. And it is but it's not to great. It's way to easy for starters. 
 I beat every cup on every cc first try. Yep you heard me right, first try. The hardest part was 
 the missions and they were not hard either considering it only takes a couple of seconds maybe 
 a minute each. The hardest part was getting *spoiler* mission 7 by getting at least one star on 
 every other mission *end of spoiler*
  
  game play was alright but what bugs me is the items. some were great but the blue shell was awful. 
 really automatic one hit unless you dodge it I mean give me a break if I ever lost a race it was 
 because of the blue shell.
  The gameplay still takes a while to find your done with it but because all the hoops they make 
 you jump through you usually want to just do battle. battle the best part of the game. I have probably 
 used like 8-10 hours just playing balloon battle. but after a bit it gets old once you can beat 
 hard on every course. to blow up balloons you can either press select button which takes forever 
 or blow in to the mic which is'nt bad but a bit annoying at times. I still play balloon battle 
 even though i can beat everyone it's still pretty addicting. Balloon battle you get 5 balloons 
 which you can use to your advantage but it would be better just to have everyone automatically 
 start with 3 and maybe have 2 you can blow up. Shine runners the new installment now this is fun. 
 You can just own people by running in to a shine sprite. It to is like balloon battle and gets 
 boring pretty quick but harder than balloon battle.
  
  graphics just plain great on the new courses. The old courses could have been done better on a 
 few of them but they are still great
  
  multi player great on wi fi and on multi card play. It's ok on single card play but you get very 
 few courses and the person without game card has to be a shy guy who owns
  
  sound is great but could have been better. On some of the courses I find that they just don't bring 
 out some of the sound that should have been. it's still great sound for a DS game but just the 
 few noticeable things brings it down a notch
  
  tilt i got no clue what that means so i just left it at seven
  
  all in all it's ok and you 
 will be mysteriously brought back to it but still don't get it unless your a true die hard fan 
 like I was until I played this now it's only ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadMoonX
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series has been a very successful brand for Nintendo and an array of very enjoyable 
 games for us gamers. Mario Kart DS is not only the best in series, not only the best DS game ever, 
 but also the best handheld game. Ever. Okay, along with SMBDX.
  
  From sound to graphics, from graphics to gameplay, everything about this game is perfact. I couldn't 
 even find a glitch! I am speechless. I haven't got anything bad to say about this game.
  
  The graphics are amazing, you 'll feel as if you are in a full motion cutscene! Well, not exactly, 
 but the facial expressions, the character designs and the genious tracks are still awesome.
  
  Also, the music in this game is spectacular. The sound effects are perfect, the voices are perfect, 
 basically everything about the sound is perfect! Some tracks do have strange music, though.
  
  I cannot describe the value. If Gamespot had the 1000000 or more hours , I would have put it 
 in here! You 'll be so glued to this game, that you wont leave it until you have earned a triple 
 star! It also features so many awesome modes (Battle, Missions, Grand Prix...) that you 'll want 
 to play them until your hands hurt!
  
  The multiplayer is the best feature this game has! It has Wi-fi for countless hours of epic races 
 and a multi-single card, so you can play with a friend and pwn him, haha.
  
  In conclusion, this game is the best racing game you can find these days. All I can say is: Buy 
 it, buy it, buy it!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jensen_slipknot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game is the best mario kart ive ever played! Theres sooooo much to do. Well, first theres 
 50cc 100cc and 150cc as always but then theres mirror mode and lots of extras. The couple new items 
 are awesome too, but theres not that many new ones. Wi-Fi is the best part, it never gets old! 
 You can play safely with no cheaters which is awesome cause cheaters ruin games. Mario Kart DS 
 is an awesome game if you have played all the mario karts of if its your first. I think mario kart 
 is one of the best DS games there is and its worth every penny!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Corndog
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  2003's Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, with its gameplay departures and innovations, felt like a step 
 in the wrong direction for many Mario Kart fans. Mario Kart DS scraps the two-person-per-kart formula 
 to give players a game that plays more like a standard Mario Kart. In addition, the game offers 
 new modes, loads of karts and racers, and, most notably, online play. Unfortunately, the gameplay 
 itself has been dumbed down somewhat, The game plays more like Mario Kart 64 than Double Dash!!, 
 and in most fans' eyes, that's a good thing. Item dragging is back, as are orbitting green and 
 red shells. However, changes have been made to the formula that mostly hurt the game. For instance, 
 the item selection in this game is one of the poorest the series has yet seen. Most of the new 
 items from Double Dash!! are gone, and many items that are in single player aren't available for 
 versus matches. There are some weapon imbalances, too. Red shells are ridiculously good at tracking 
 down enemies, so much so that using one takes no skill, and hence isn't very fun, either. The green 
 shell, on the other hand, after having finall been made into a viable weapon in Double Dash!!, 
 has been completely neutered for this game; it's almost impossible to hit anyone with it.
  
  The new tracks are, for the most part, great. Among them are a track modelled after the flying 
 ship from Super Mario Bros. 3, a nifty pinball-themed level, and the best Bowser's Castle to date. 
 Unfortunately there are some stinkers, too. Yoshi Falls is a bland oval-shaped track, and Figure-8 
 Circuit is a level so boring, they didn't even try to make the name sound exciting. In addition, 
 the game features 16 tracks from past Mario Kart games, giving this title a whopping 32-track selection.
 
  
  The racing itself is fun, but doesn't feel as fast or exciting as it did in Mario Kart 64. Battle 
 mode, on the other hand, is perhaps the best it's ever been. Battle mode now supports up to eight 
 players at a time, plus team play. Now you can get enough players in a battle game to make use 
 of all the space in the Block Fort level (which makes a reappearance in this game) .
  
  Drifting has been so poorly executed in this game that it deserves a topic of its own. The powerslide, 
 introduced in Mario Kart 64, was a means of sliding through a turn while losing minimals speed, 
 and, if done right, would give a speed burst at the end. The maneouvre was simplified this game, 
 to the point that one doesn't even have to be sliding through a turn to use it. All you have to 
 do is hold are, press the D-pad a couple of times, and whoosh! you're zooming ahead in an extra 
 burst of speed. This can be done even in straightaways, and has given birth to a technique called 
 snaking in which a racer drifts throughout the entire length of the track. Snakers get so much 
 speed this way, they can win the race without using a single item, even against a good non-snaking 
 opponent. Snakers are abundant on Nintendo's WiFi service, and their presence seriously mars the 
 online experience.
  
  Speaking of online, it, too, is less than it could be. Even given the shortcomings of this title, 
 online play is still fun, provided you're up against opponents who value good competition over 
 winning. Unfortunately, there are only 20 tracks available for online play, and some of the best 
 new tracks have been ommited.
  
  The graphics are good for a DS game, and the returning tracks look noticably better than they did 
 than on the original systems, even the tracks from the N64. The music, which as been declining 
 with each new Mario Kart since the N64 version, is the worst it's ever been; the only tunes that 
 aren't completely forgettable are those from the SNES and N64 tracks. Sound effects are adequate.
 
  
  All in all, Mario Kart DS is a fun entry in the series, though the oversimplified nature of the 
 racing makes it less appealing than previous titles. Online play is nice, but no substitute for 
 local wireless play with friends, given the limited options available online. If you enjoy Mario 
 Kart, you'll probably like this, especially if you have friends with a DS and a copy of their own. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioCartDSv4
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Like I said this game is amazing. Its online play is great. But like all games it has its faults. 
 There are flaws, but what game doesnt have flaws? This game is one of the best on the market now. 
 I hope they keep going with this series because i am looking forward to the next one. So in conclusion, 
 this game is one of the best you will find for the DS right now. I definetly recomend this game 
 to all gamers who have a DS. I hope this review has done alot for you and i hope you consider buying 
 it and facing me in the near future... good luck future mario karters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micoor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: If you have played any previous Mario Kart game you'll get the idea of the game very 
 fast. For those that hasn't played any Mario Kart game you'll get a nice Mission mode that allows 
 you to practice your skills and become familiar with the concept of the game.
  
  Compared to previous games in the series this one is about the same. You have the standard Time 
 Trail, Grand Prix and VS modes and the new Mission mode. Graphics: The graphics of this game really 
 fits its purpose. No flashed out animations or anything like that. You have no problem to see distance 
 objects or anything like that. Sound: The game uses the standard sound effects you've come to expect 
 from a Mario Kart game. The music and all that is great. Value: I can guarantee you'd get some 
 fun out of this game as it is a really great game to play. Say it's 15 minutes or an hour. You 
 can still pick it up and enjoy it. There is so much to do in the game that you will spend hours 
 trying to complete the different modes. And if you've done that there is always the WiFi waiting 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anarchy95
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  It's Mario Kart. How could it not be good?
  
  Mario Kart, back in the days of SNES, redifined kart racing. It added new, wonderful aspects that 
 were greatly accepted.
  
  And every time a new Mario Kart comes out, it manages it to do it again.
  
  This time, Mario 
 Kart DS adds great features such as online play, new items, and completely new tracks.
  
  New items and new tracks are standard with each new Mario Kart, but something entirely new is the 
 online play. I'm not saying it's great online, but it's a start. Getting into a race is difficult, 
 and the system is far from free of cheaters, but it could turn into a great gaming experience with 
 future releases. However, if you can get into a race without cheaters, you can spend more than a 
 few minutes stomping someone a new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahj911211
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a racing game where you can have hour upon hour of entertaining races, play 
 with your own unique style, and play over wifi, look no further. Mario Kart DS is by far the greatest 
 racing game I've ever played.
  
  Gameplay: There are several different single player modes to choose from, including Grand Prix, 
 Time Trials, and the new Mission mode. In the Grand Prix mode, you race in one of four classes: 
 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, or 150cc mirror; with 50cc being extremely easy, and 150cc being more difficult. 
 You race on one of 8 cups, each containing 4 courses. That makes 32 different possibilities for 
 Grand Prix, and 32 different courses in the game. Once you get really good at the Grand Prix mode, 
 you can try and get a single, double, or triple star rating on each Grand Prix. If you manage to 
 get a certain number of stars in all of the Grand Prix, that number of stars will appear over your 
 name in multiplayer and wifi (I have all 3 stars) . In the Time Trials mode, you try and complete 
 3 laps on a particular course as fast as you can. If your time is good enough, you unlock the staff 
 ghost. The staff ghosts are very difficult to beat (there's 9 of them I still haven't beaten) . 
 In Mission Mode, you have to complete certain tasks within a time limit. The faster you do it, 
 the better your ranking. If you manage to get at least a star ranking in the first 6 levels, you 
 will unlock level 7, which is the last level of mission mode.
  
  In addition to the single player, there is a great multiplayer, with the chance to race people 
 all over the world through wifi. Wifi mode is very fun to play, and can be more challenging than 
 single player.
  
  Graphics: The appearance of the karts and tracks is very good, the best in a Mario kart game so 
 far, but not perfect. Overall, I think the graphics of MKDS were done very well, and make the gameplay 
 even more enjoyable.
  
  Sound: Mario Kart music has always been those fun tunes that can easily get stuck in your head, 
 and are very fitting for the track youre on. Same goes for Mario Kart DS.
  
  Value: With extensive single player, and unlimited hours of multiplayer, this game is easily a 
 10 in value.
  
  Tilt: The controls for this game were set up well for smooth racing and good powerslide turbos. 
 Having played this game on both the regular DS and DS lite, I have found the controls quite a bit 
 smoother on the DS lite.
  
  All in all, I would say that this game is really fun to play and has many different modes to play 
 in. If you haven't tried this extremely entertaining version of Mario Kart yet, you really should. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truk1600
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  if your a fan of the Mario Kart games this is the best one of them all: the best graphics, the 
 best new tracks and the best silection of karts.
  thare aer some changes to the game from the others, youdont need to colect coins during the race 
 and ther are no limit to haw many times you can crash or get off the track.
  But the best feture of this game is the WI-FI racing, if you think you can take on the world at 
 this game this is somthing that you may want to try.
  unlike many other games you dont need to know the people your racing, you could be racing a person 
 in china for all you know. (witch is awsom!!) But like other games you can race your friends with 
 your Nintendo WFC Friend Coad.
  I recomend that you get this game if you like good racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: passentry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  As I've suggested in the title, Mario Kart DS is the best Mario Kart at the moment.
  
  This isn't an understatement. The DS has been out for about three years now, and several solid 
 games have been released.. but none are as addictive or enjoyable as Mario Kart.
  
  Since it's frustrating to read long paragraphs, I'll make it short.
  
  Gameplay is short and 
 sweet. Most races last three laps and all three laps are challenging as the AI constantly engages 
 the player with item attacks and boost. The vehicles are well balanced, and all karts have a different 
 feel to them. You may need getting used to each one. Gamers should also try the various missions 
 and battles in the game.
  
  The graphics are solid. All karts are rendered in 3D, with only minor details in 2D to allow the 
 DS to run smoothly. The game will nearly always run at 60 fps with hardly any slow down.
  
  Sound is memorable, but I wouldn't say it's a masterpiece. The small sound effects like the bling 
 SFX when you get an item is rewarding, but the music for the races isn't especially memorable. 
 The sound is great, but not perfect.
  
  All in all, Mario Kart DS is a must-have if you own a DS, and I don't see kart racing games getting 
 any better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I just got my DS yesterday, this was the first game I bought and I love it. The gameplay is top 
 notch, with weapons that are fun and imaginative. The graphics are insane for a portable system 
 nowadays. The sound is cool with all the racers making their own sounds, the engines flaring, and 
 the weapons exploding on contact. The replay value is high. But the thing I love most about this 
 game are the levels. Whether it be Luigi's Mansion or a giant pinball machine. And the retro courses 
 bring back memories. The thing I like a lot are the missions, which require you to play a certain 
 way.
  
  Overall this is my favorite handheld game I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is the best Mario Kart yet. The gameplay is great, the multiplayer is great, and it 
 is has a lot to keep you playing for a long time.
  
  Every gameplay aspect is fine tuned in Mario Kart DS. Powersliding is used by pressing the R trigger 
 and is used to get around tight corners, (and snaking.) The L trigger is used for throwing items. 
 All of the items are from previous games and there are some new ones like the Bullet Bill. Throwing 
 items works very well. A is used to accelerate and B is used to back up. Y is used to change between 
 the two maps on the bottom screen. One of them shows you the whole track and where everyone is, 
 and the other shows you the part of the track that you are on and who is near you. What makes this 
 map better is that you can see any items that may be coming your way.
  
  The multiplayer is really fun too. You can have 8 players play with 1 cart. The game also is the 
 first Nintendo game to officialy go online. There are 32 tracks. Another thing that makes the game 
 last long is the mission mode. That is basically bunch of simple tasks like collecting coins. Battle 
 also adds to the lasting appeal.
  
  Overall Mario Kart DS is a great game. Its fun, the gameplay is great, and it lasts a long time. 
 It is the best Mario Kart yet. I highly reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hularoo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  easily the best nintendo ds game on the market as of now. in my opinion the best series on the 
 market. its one of those games where you never stop learning and you can always find a way to improve. 
 it is a game with mixed emotions at times you get so lucky you can't believe it and at times you 
 get robbed and are very mad about it. theres just something about this game that keeps pulling 
 me back to keep on playing! nintendo keep on bringing them and i will definantly keep on playing 
 them! IN conclusion if you read this and you are thinking about buying it but you aren't sure i 
 hope this review has convinced you it is the best game for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortenjohs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Whereas my DS-library has been consisting of excellent games from a wide range of genres like turn 
 based strategy, action-adventure, platformer, puzzle and *kremt* petsim for quite some time, it 
 has been lacking a hit in one of my favourite genres; racing. Untill now. Friday the Big N launched 
 their first go at online gaming (Nintendo Wifi-Connection) with Mario Kart DS. An impressingly 
 polished and fun arcade racer.
  
  Like TrackMania for the PC, this game offers no realistic racing experience. At all. For those 
 of you not familiar with the Mario Kart-series, heres a small conceptual outline; Mario and his 
 friends and foes from various other games, like Wario, Luigi, Toad, Bowser and Donkey Kong, compete 
 in racing go-carts against each others. To help them, and make life for each the competition less 
 bearable, they have a wide range of weapons - from classic turbo-boosts and missiles to ghosts, 
 shrink-rays and squids. Before each race you choose a character and a cart for him. All the carts 
 have different caracteristics like handling, acceleration, weigth and speed, so each of them fit 
 a different playing style. To add to the arcade feel to the game one can do power slides in curves 
 by jumping into them. Fun!
  
  The most appealing single player mode is Grand Prix. This consists of eigth series each of four 
 circuits. 16 of the circuits are brand new - designed spesially for the DS-version of the game. 
 These ones are my favorites. (The Flower-series is just excellent!) The other 16 are a collection 
 of the best tracks from previous Mario Kart-games. (It is interesting to see how level design has 
 changed throughout history by necessity of hardware limitations. The SNES and GBA-tracks are totally 
 flat with very basic graphics, the N64- and Gamecube-tracks incorporate hills and more flashy themes)
 
  
  You also have a mission-mode (where you have to collect so and so many coins in so and so many 
 seconds or bump the big bad bomb into the water using turbo boosts, for example) , a battle mode 
 (two battle oriented playmodes against the AI, or preferably; friends) and a time-trial mode (where 
 you can race your or others ghosts - transferable via wifi) .
  
  Then theres the online mode. Nintendo WiFi-Connection (NWFC) is really a snap to set up if your 
 router is supported and you havent secured your network with WPA (WEP works fine, though - a questinable 
 choice, I must say) . Once online one can search for friends using so called friend codes (assosiated 
 with each copy of the Mario Kart) or let your opponents be chosen automaticly for you by NWFC either 
 by continent, by skill level or just anyone in the world. This is all done very simple. When (or 
 if) it works, that is. I have to say that in 75%, or so, of my tries, this has been a failure. 
 Lets hope these are problems that the newborn NWFC will outgrow
  
  Another thing that might turn some players off is that winning a race sometimes feels a bit too 
 much like a matter of luck. The power-ups one get are determined randomly (semi-dependent on your 
 position in the race and which cart you play) and can really change the outcome of a race. This 
 is part of the concept of fun in an arcade racer like this.
  
  Mario Kart DS does use most of the bells and whistles of the DS; the two screens (The top one for 
 the main action and one for a overhead map of the track. The squid-wapon temporarily puts black 
 ink in your top screen, so youll have to steer mainly by the map. Nice!) , the wifivity, the colourful 
 3D-graphics, stereo sounds, the touch screen (to draw small logos for your carts and to manouver 
 in the menus) and even the microphone (solely to inflate balloons in one of the battle-modes) .
 
  
  All in all this is a game that will instantly appeal to most people, due to its easy access gameplay, 
 but the game grows and grows as one gradually discover the depth Nintendo has put into it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendogamer94
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS looks like a cool game. I dont have it yet but I have played a demo of it. I cant 
 wait to get it. I have Diddy Kong Racing right now and its pretty fun. It also has wifi. Wifi is 
 really fun because you can race people around the world. I like to get new wifi games like DKR 
 or MKR. I would give it a thumbs up and four and a half stars. I also like it because you can be 
 any one of your favorite mario characters including Yoshi, Toad, and everyone else. MKR is a must 
 have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llamanu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I thought nintendo did a good job on this one. It consisted of many great things like; amazing 
 graphics (for the ds) great gameplay and incredibly addicting online play. The graphics were really 
 well done, at least for the DS's capability. The graphics hardly consisted of 2-d sprites which 
 was a real surprise if you were expecting the same old stuff from the other games. The gameplay 
 is really good also. It consists of (my favorite) awesome drifting, 4 different cc's with 8 different 
 courses in each, plus one is a mirror world cc wich is quite fun. And last, the online play my 
 favorite attrabute to this great game. i dont know what it is about it but if you have a ds and 
 wifi; BUY THIS GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camzo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  You have not played anything like this before! The previous Mario Kart games really surprised. 
 There was nothing more satisfactory than flying forwards with a Chain Chomp or blasting the leader 
 with a blue shell in Mario Kart: Double Dash. But this really takes over. Firstly, there are new 
 tracks, in addition to the best tracks from the SNES, N64 and GameCube Mario Kart Games. It is 
 much more challenging than the other games and also a lot more rewarding, with many karts, tracks 
 and characters to unlock. The classic multiplayer balloon battles and Shine Runners along with 
 standard races make it a must have for all Nintendo DS owners, but if you do not own the game, 
 you can still play with someone who does via the DS Download Play.
  
  You can also play against other people with the game, allowing each person to choose their racer/kart 
 and giving a wider selection of tracks. But the main multiplayer experience if via Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection. You can play with anyone around the world and play on an agreed track.
  
  I gave this game a Hard difficulty rating as some parts of the game can be very challenging, such 
 as the higher engine classes of Grand Prix, but most importantly, completing all of the missions, 
 especially with at least 1 star rating on each, which gives you stars next to your name on multiplayer 
 corresponding to how well you did. I set the learning curve to high because anyone can pick up 
 the game and have a blast, but to beat the really competitive veterans via Wi-Fi you need some 
 skills, such as snaking and boosting around corners well.
  
  I only have one thing else to say. If you have a DS, and you don't already own this game, get it, 
 and you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is definitely the best game in the series. It's much-hyped online play takes the 
 series to new heights in multiplayer, and even without it it's still the longest lasting game in 
 the series. Case in point, the singleplayer. Instead of just racing, now there's mission modes. 
 The game will oftentimes make you be a certain character for these, so you'll have to adapt to 
 different racing styles and stats. There are 6 levels of missions. While a good number of missions 
 repeat going over to the next set of missions, some are unique. Also some put a twist on the classic 
 racing formula, such as racing a track backwards.
  
  At the end of each is a boss battle, which work surprisingly well in Mario Kart DS. You'll face 
 bosses you've probably seen before (in Super Mario 64 or the DS remake) . Most of the time defeating 
 them is pretty simple, but it's fun doing so. Also battle mode isn't just for multiplayer now, 
 as you can choose to fight bots on battle stages. Granted, the AI is usually as dumb as bricks, 
 but it's still pretty nice if there aren't any friends around.
  
  Other than that, it's typical Mario Kart fare, with the joyous music, colorful graphics, and addictive 
 racing. Some of the items feel cheap (such as the blue shell) , but for the most part items are 
 balanced enough. You use items from the Mario series, such as the Red Shell, the Super Mushroom, 
 or even a Starman. Being on a handheld and all increases the chance that you'll play it more.
 
  
  One nice feature about the racing is the inclusion of 'classic tracks'. There are four integrated 
 from each Mario Kart (Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, Mario Kart: Double Dash, and Mario Kart: 
 Super Circuit) , as well as 16 new tracks. There's a lot of racing tracks, as you know, and many 
 share a different kind of theme to them.
  
  I was a little disappointed by Double Dash, while that was fun it felt a little too familiar. But 
 Mario Kart DS offers enough new modes and even the online to bring my faith back in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTDansoh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  The latest Mario Kart game delivers in every possible way. It is highly addictive, involving sixteen 
 new courses and sixteen classic courses form the previous four Mario Karts. If the insanely fun 
 gameplay isn't fun enough, there is an all-new mission mode, which lets you run through about 60 
 missions completing various tasks, and defeating bosses.
  
  Wi-Fi is also an excellent addition. Eight friends knocking the crap out of eachother with shells 
 for Mario Kart supremecy. If I was forced to say something bad about this game... it would be the 
 amount of characters. There could have been more than 12 (Who is Dry-Bones anyway?) .
  
  But quality is better than quantity, so focus on the main stuff: new and classic levels + mission 
 mode + wi-fi connection + endless hours of fun gameplay= the best DS game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a game that goes well beyond a decade - from the SNES, we started seeing the birth 
 of what is one of the best - if not the best - racing game for the DS. It passed various consoles, 
 all with it's memorable tracks and characters, and MKDS just makes a wondeful compilation of this.
 
  
  ~GRAPHICS:~
  This is one of the features which make MKDS a classic. Amazing 3D that makes characters real and 
 lifelike, although it sometimes is a bit choppy. This is natural however, as the DS has its hardware 
 limitations too.
  
  ~SOUND:~
  Impressive. From the getgo, we start hearing fluid, theme-like music. I personally love the title 
 screen music, and DK Pass is my favorite theme of the game. No flaws here.
  
  ~GAMEPLAY~:
  40 tracks - 20 new and 20 retro make this feature fabulous. The new implementation 
 of 36 karts for 12 characters gives us an infinity of choices and combinations. Various multiplayer 
 features - including WiFi (see below) makes this a game you won't despise of it's characteristics.
 
  
  ~WiFi:~
  This is the first game (at release date) to implement online racing. Although this is a great feature 
 for long distance friends to test each others skills, it allows no form of communication with strangers. 
 Despite being a security feature by Nintendo, it's not good for people who like to communicate 
 with others. At least make preset phrases, eh Nintendo? Maybe next time...
  
  Now, the black side. No, I'm not talking about snaking, as I won't talk about this - I consider 
 this technique to be ABSOLUTELY LEGAL and only for SKILLED people at this game can master this. 
 I am a snaker, and I like honor civilised non-snakers and despise cheaters and disconnecters (those 
 who D/C when they are losing, everyone gets a tech. prob. once in a while) . Disconnecting is the 
 worst thing a player thinks about when playing online. Are they going to D/C? Will I be playing 
 just to be interrupted mid-race? This are players fault and Nintendo is not to be blamed here - 
 but you could give win points to the people who race without D/C or implement a D/C rate for them 
 to be ashamed? Next time, eh.... again.
  
  Resuming, this is a wonderful classic, but because of some people, they can totally destroy your 
 online play experience. RECOMMENDED! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Since the hugely popular Super Mariokart was released on the Super Nintendo, every Nintendo Console 
 since has had its own iteration of the series. Naturally Mariokart would make its way to the DS. 
 When it was announced people were wondering how it would incorporate all of the DS's features. 
 Would you use the touch screen to steer? Or maybe to aim shells? Well, actually the DS's unique 
 features are hardly used at all. The second screen is used as a map display similar to the second 
 half of the screen in Super Mariokart.... And thats about all for features. But it doesn't really 
 matter that all the features aren't used because Mariokart DS is a brilliant game regardless. If 
 you've never played Mariokart before then you should go out and get one. You choose a Nintendo 
 character and race around interesting and well-designed tracks picking up items to drop or throw 
 at other racers. As well as featuring the usual sixteen new levels, Mariokart DS features sixteen 
 classic levels from previous Mariokart games. Some of the classic tracks are great and bring a 
 real sense of nostalgia combined with all new race mechanics. It seems a waste of potential though 
 as some of the tracks weren't that great in the original games and it makes me wonder why they 
 bothered updating them when other more obvious choices were available. Despite this there is still 
 an abundance of great courses to choose from. Most of the new tracks are well designed and great 
 to race on whether it be single player or multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer side of things is as great or better than it ever was. Multiplayer is done wirelessly 
 with up to eight players competing head to head. If you have broadband access you can take the 
 challenge around the world via wireless network. Nintendo have done a great job with this one. 
 Possibly the best Mariokart ever. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Two400
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I laughed... I cried..... It's truly a masterpiece.... from start to finish.... ::::tears:::: I will 
 be playing this for a long time. That's all you need to know. ::::tears:::::
  
  But it's saying I need 100 words so maybe I'll say more! Graphics are superb. You will feel like 
 it's better than N64. Sound is incredible and crisp. Then again I just got my DS Lite yesterday 
 so maybe all DS games sound this good. Controls are just fine. There are plenty of tracks, including 
 all of the old ones. Battle mode returns. Now there is online play too! Actually there is one problem 
 I have with this. But it doesn't have anything to do with the design of the game. The Friend Code 
 system stinks! I know the FC system is used in all DS games so I guess I can't blame the developers 
 for following the path Nintendo decided on the online format. But it's complicated and takes up 
 time. Hopefully you will have friends who have this game. Sadly I don't : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surferboyo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a great game that keeps you playing for hours.
  To begin with, you start with 50, 100 and 150cc classes and they have 6 Grand Prix events in each 
 class.
  Because of this, and the fact that you get a reward for all the events that you finish first in, 
 you can play for pretty much a whole day.
  The battle is great. It's good fun if your sick of driving around a track. It has 6 different battle 
 grounds, I guess you could call them that, and with three difficulty levels this extends the value 
 of this game even more.
  It has vs. as well. This is where you can just race for no reason just for the absolute fun of 
 it which it has.
  Unfortunately, i haven't tried the Wi-fi out but i'm sure that it is wicked.
  The graphics are 
 a strong point about this game. Of course, it's not realistic but it's not supposed to be! The 
 graphics are great if what your expecting is Mario animation and not top of the range PS3 realism. 
 Which you shouldn't of course since it is a Mario Game.
  The sound can get a bit annoying after a while, and a lot of the time my parents told me to turn 
 the sound off. Of course, when you get sick of it you just mute it and put some music on or something.
 
  Buy It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallofTroy2689
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Well we all know how great of a fun game Mario Kart 64 is, and now Mario Kart DS was released on 
 the Nintendo DS. The graphics on this game are great, possibly even better than the Mario Kart 
 64 graphics. It now has a wide range of different karts available with lots of characters. There 
 are different levels of Grand Prix like 50cc,100cc, and 150cc. ( more can be unlocked) Each getting 
 more difficult gradually. You also have Battle , which lets you play things like balloon battle, 
 and Shine Runners. Both which are very fun. Also in the game are Missions . You are given a mission 
 and must finish it to continue into other missions. One example of a mission is driving out of 
 Luigi's Mansion backwards. One of my personal favorite things in Mario Kart DS is the online racing 
 through Nintendo WI-FI. You can choose to race against around your region or worldwide. You just 
 connect and then it searches for opponents. Once you have opponents you play a series of races 
 and whoever has the highest score at the end gets the win, which shows in your stats. ( Which by 
 the way is viewable by everyone you race against online)
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is a great game, many people had said that Mario Kart 64 got boring after 
 2-3 weeks of playing it, but in Mario Kart DS there's always something to do, whether your playing 
 grand prix, missions, battle, or playing online to raise your win column, you can count of Mario 
 Kart DS to entertain you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare1655
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Just like I said in the review deck this is one of the best racing games I've ever played. The 
 the tracks in this game is awsome the courses on this are from other mario kart games. They even 
 added a few other modes they added that are just awsome. One of those things is the mission mode 
 there just miny games. And each time you finish a few missions you get to do miny games with some 
 of the villians from mario games. You can use all your favorite Mario game charicters. And theres 
 even one from many many years ago.... ROB. The amazing robot he's the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OhhSnap50893
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The controls in Mario Kart should be familiar to anyone who's every played a Mario Kart game before. 
 The A Button is used to accelerate, while the B Button is the brake. You use the D-pad to move 
 around and the R Button to drift. The L Button is used to launch weapons, and hold them behind 
 you at times. As mentioned, these are pretty basic controls that should be familiar to any MK player.
 
  
  In MKDS, there are many more modes than in previous renditions of the series. In Singe Player, 
 you can race in a Grand Prix, Time Trials, VS mode, Battle mode, or go through various missions. 
 In Grand Prix mode, there are 2 different Grand Prix's to choose from (Nitro Grand Prix and Retro 
 Grand Prix) . Each consists of four cups, which in turn consist of four tracks. All in all you've 
 got 32 tracks in total, and 8 different cups to race in. In each cup, you get a certain number 
 of points depending on where you place. If you're in the top 3 point-wise at the end of the four 
 courses, you'll get a trophy. Plus, when you get gold trophies sometimes you unlock new characters 
 and karts. This is the main mode of the game so to speak, and is pretty fun until you finish it. 
 After that, you'll find some of the other modes appealing to you more.
  
  In the Time Trials mode, you can choose from any of the courses to race through. The twist is, 
 you're racing by yourself. The game will save your previous best times on each track so that each 
 time you can try to beat your previous best. Not only that, but rather than making you figure out 
 how your doing compared to your last best score, the game generates a ghost that replicates your 
 best time. This helps to keep it fun, and makes it even better to beat your personal best.
  
  VS mode is similar to Time Trials, in that you can choose from any of the courses to run through, 
 but it also bears similarity to the Grand Prix mode since you can race 7 other drivers. There's 
 also plenty of customization in this mode. You can choose the difficulty of your competitors, how 
 courses will be chosen (random, in order, etc) , how many wins you need (or races you need to play) , 
 and lastly if there will be teams. This mode is by far my personal favorite, since it adds a bunch 
 of replay value and lets you play your favorite courses in any order you want.
  
  In Battle mode, you can either have a balloon battle or a shine runners battle. In Balloon Battle, 
 everyone has three balloons. If you hit them with any weapons (shells, bananas, or even run into 
 them with mushrooms) they'll lose a balloon. Once you reach zero balloons, you're out, and the 
 last kart still going wins. In Shine Runners, the game randomly drops shine sprites all over the 
 level and you need to try and collect them. If you get hit - with the same weapons as mentioned 
 previously - you loose a shine and it falls somewhere on the stage so that someone else can pick 
 it up. While both modes have there ups and downs, neither really stand out as great or exceptional, 
 just alright.
  
  Mission mode is new to the Mario Kart series. In a nutshell, there are six different levels and 
 8 missions in each of the levels. Each mission has you do something small (like collect all the 
 coins, hit something with a shell, drive through through gates, etc) to complete it. At the end 
 of each level there's a boss which you have to defeat. There isn't much depth to the missions, 
 or a really outstanding fun factor, they do add a little replay value to the game and give you 
 one more thing to accomplish.
  
  In total, there are 12 characters who each have three different karts. With the amount of karts 
 (36 in total) and the different positives and negatives for each, chances are you won't get bored 
 experimenting with each of them. Variety is the big thing here, and MKDS has oh-so-much of it. 
 Also, when you start the game you get the option of choosing to create an emblem which goes on 
 whatever kart you use. While you can't add much variety to the emblem because of the limited tools, 
 it's still a nice little feature that adds some personalization to whatever kart you're using.
 
  
  Even with all this in mind, quite possibly the best part of Mario Kart DS is multiplayer, and more 
 specifically wi-fi. If you have a wireless internet connection in your house, you can go online 
 and verse any other Mario Kart DS player in the world. In wi-fi, you play against 1-3 other opponents 
 in four different races. Whoever has the most points at the end of the races wins. But it's not 
 just come in first place or lose. If you're playing four people and come in first, you'll get three 
 wins (for each of the three people you faced) . If you come in second, you'll get 2 wins (the 3rd 
 and 4th place people) and 1 loss (the 1st place person) . Since disconnecting brings no loss if 
 you're in last place, not having to come in first to get wins definately adds more motivation to 
 just finish the races without DCing.
  
  The Mario Kart franchise is a really successful one, which has had many top-of-the-line titles, 
 including Mario Kart DS. A great single player mode that will have you playing for hours, a fun 
 and fast paced wi-fi mode, and loads of variety and replay value which will keep you coming back. 
 Mario Kart DS is a must have for any Nintendo DS (or DS Lite) owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rave_n2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Mario Kart for a long time, but this one just blew me away! The graphics are 
 better than ever, and the sound is great. There are tons of great new courses to choose from, and 
 the addition of remakes of old courses really adds to the charm. The replay value is extremely 
 high, because no matter how many times you race on a course, its different every time. The mini-game 
 challenges are a ton of fun. If you have acess to Wi-FI play, the fun never ends! Wi-Fi is the 
 most fun you can have playing multiplayer ever! Its a ton of fun to play your friends, but playing 
 against random people is great too. I would highly recomend this game to all Mario and racing fans. 
 The fun never ends with Mario Kart DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  I do not give high scores lightly, but I honestly cannot see a fault in this game!
  
  Gameplay: Fun, addicting and all a kart racer should be. The power-ups and weapons a great, there's 
 loads of different game modes and the gameplay is just perfect. It doesn't really use the D's extra 
 functionality, but when the gameplay is flawless anyway then why bother?!
  
  Graphics: Bright, colourful and full of that great Nintendo charm that we all know and love. Looks 
 great on the DS with sharp textures. A good amount of detail is used in the tracks, carts and characters. 
 Looks brilliant.
  
  Sound: The same old classic tunes are used here and they are just SOOO Nintendo! Funky, crazy and 
 fun!
  
  Value: I have had this game ever since it came out and it has in no way bored me. Loads of unlocables, 
 grand prixs, time trials, single and multi-cart multiplayer, online modes, mission modes, vs modes, 
 make your own logos and more! There is so much to do it's just incredible!
  
  Overall this game is enough to buy a DS on it's own. It doesn; t chaneg the series in any major 
 way, but any problems which were in previous entrys in the series have been fixed. The fun and 
 addicting the gameplay, great visuals, funky sound and almost unlimited value adds up to not just 
 a flawless kart racer; but a flawless game all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alozaps
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Yet another amazing Mario Kart game from Nintendo. Great graphics, great sound, great racing style. 
 You even get to make your own pixel emblem on a 32 x 32 grid. There are two cups, the Nitro Cup, 
 and the Retro Cup. Each cup has four sets of four levels. You can race on these tracks, and unlock 
 things as you go along. There is also a wide variety of things to do keep you occupied on Single 
 player. Just like previous Mario Kart games, there are item boxes you can drive through, and you 
 can get items like: Banana, red shell, green shell, spiny blue shell, ghost, lightning bolt, mushrooms, 
 gold mushroom, star, octopus, and the amazing bullet bill rocket.
  
  The bad thing about items, is that it bases the kart races on luck. For example, in Wi-fi, I am 
 way ahead of someone, and then at the last second they shoot a blue shell at me, and they win. 
 Is that fair? I don't think so. There should have been an option to race with no items. At least 
 that would make it a fair race. To add to that, I have NO CLUE how the wins and loses feature works 
 for Wi-fi. When I lose, I seem to lose losses. When I win but lose in the same matches, the wins 
 won't get counted, yet the losses do. It doesn't make any sense.
  
  Other game features include multi-player, versus mode, Mission mode, game mode (shine game and 
 balloon game) , time trial mode, and Grand Prix mode. Beating the end of a tournament gets you a 
 trophy and a ranking. The highest ranking you can get is three stars, and if you get three stars 
 on every single Grand Prix cup, you will have three stars next to your name on Wi-fi. I think Nintendo 
 did a great job with adding many modes and features to the game. The ending credits feature fantastic 
 music, and a nice soft picture of your cart racing beside a sunset. Once you beat all cups (with 
 three star ranking) , all missions, all staff ghosts, and all games, there really isn't much to 
 do anymore besides play on Wi-fi, which is what I am doing right now.
  
  The graphics are great, and the map detail is truly impressive. There is a total of 32 tracks to 
 race on. Figure-8-Circuit is the most popular, because it is basically a straight map. Many people 
 snake here. Snaking is a popular strategy used while racing to get an advantage over other players. 
 It requires skill, and a good D-Pad. I think I busted my D-Pad on my DS Lite, because I snake so 
 many times. I feel like I am going to break that damn thing if I put to much pressure on it.
  
  There is also a vast selection of karts to choose from, adding up to an enormous total of 36. 
 Some karts are much better for snaking than others. An example of a popular vehicle is Egg-1. It's 
 light weight, great acceleration and drift make it the first choice for many Mario Kart fans. If 
 you get a good enough time on a Time trial course, you will unlock a staff ghost. These ghosts 
 are made by the makers of the game, and therefore they are extremely hard to overcome, unless you 
 snake.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is an amazingly fun filled experience. Getting this game is a must. Although 
 some improvements are needed, you will not regret it (unless you get bored playing on Wi-fi) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sand_Commander
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Another installment of the Mario Kart series. I was fairly disappointed in the very short 1 player 
 cup races. The missions add a new twist to the Mario Kart series. Sadly, some of the characters 
 from Double-Dash and others were not brought to the game such as Koopa Troopa ( (my personal favorite) ) 
 but has some new characters like Shy Guy, Dry Bones, and R. O. B. The wi-fi is highly addicting, 
 but I think they could have came up with a better way to keep track of your stats and rate you 
 as a racer on wi-fi. It may be just me, but I dont seem to like it very much. All-in-all it is 
 a good game IF you are able to play on wi-fi, otherwise, I don't think it would have been a game 
 you would want to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zokolov
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS brings the 15-year old gaming series to Nintendo's newest handheld as well. It's 
 almost exactly like the previous ones, and actually half of the tracks are from the previous games. 
 Yet it feels new... There's no lame storyline in the background, just tracks to race.
  
  The characters are all the same. Mario, Luigi, Toad, Peach, Yoshi, Wario, Bowser and Donkey Kong. 
 Their karts have differences, but eventually, you can choose whatever kart you want to each character. 
 The tracks are the same surrealistic racing platforms as always.
  
  It's not just racing. Mario Kart DS also has a battle feature, like always. You can pop out enemy 
 balloons (deadmatch) or take out their stars (Capture the Flag) . You can also do missions, what 
 is a new feature. There are also boss missions as well. Even though it's fun, you can't really 
 play this game for more than 2 hours. The racing gets a little boring after all that...
  
  The game also has an online mode, and therefore is the first DS game that has one. You can race 
 and do the battles, but the player limit is a shameful 4 players. In the same room, you can do 
 LAN matches with 8 players!
  
  Despite it's few minor flaws, Mario Kart DS belongs in every Nintendo DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 94iceman94
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  is game is all right but not 1 of the best games in the world it kinder 2 easy and i get really 
 boring after a couple of week it still a good game but it get very boring after 2-3 weeks so plz 
 be care full it u get this game cause u could get bored of it very easy so i say watch out it great 
 at the start cause it a racing game that what u would reckon but if u hate mario games i don't 
 but if eny won dose your werid if u hat mario game cause there arsome so get this game but u may 
 get rid of it very quick so watch out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxCOM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is a game in the mario kart series. And like a good sequel adds better stuff. My 
 faviorte is the fact that each chracter has there own karts which have there own skill levels. 
 In Speed, Accleration, Items, Handleing, drift etc. And there are no cars with the best overall 
 stats. There are also new chracters Dasiy, Dry bones, And i think Waligui is new. So apart from 
 that stuff. There are new items which are. Squid your raceing screen gets black ink spurted on 
 it. And it gets off over time. But the huge new overhaul is that there are 2 grand prixs with 4 
 cups each. There the Nitro grand prix which is all new cars with none being the same as previous 
 entrys. Then theres the other one which. Has 4 cups and like Nitro 4 races in each cup. And all 
 of the races in that one are taken from Previous entrys of the Mario Kart series. So you can play 
 4 tracks from each game. Also like all mario kart games there are 3 skill levels and a mirror mode. 
 Which makes left turns right and Right turns, left. Something else i like is power slideing so 
 when your start drifting if you hit left right left right left right really fast you'll get a small 
 power boosts. Also another great additon is Missions mode you get missions if you complete 9 you 
 go to a boss challange. There are also differnt levels of missions. Mario Kart DS is a betiful 
 DS game and one of the best looking ones it's good such great effects like dirt kicking up on drifts 
 and player models that look better then just about any N64 game. But what i'v dedicated my self 
 to is online wi-fi. While it sounds like a simple raceing game, With all your turtle shells, and 
 Lighting, etc. It just makes it so fun to play aganinst each other. It has support for up to 8 
 players, to. Overall if you have a DS MKDS is the the best of the best for the this hand held. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdk74cdr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is my favourite game thus far for Nintendo's dual screen marvel.
  
  Why?
  
  For those of you who remember the original SNES game as I do this is a slice of Retro fun perfectly 
 updated for today.
  
  For everyone else this is the most fun, Wacky Races style, racing game on or offline ever.
  
 
  You choose a classic Mario character and do (usually) 3 laps of a track aiming to win. But beware, 
 the others are not just going to sit back and let you win. There are a whole variety of waepons 
 and powerups that can be grabbed on each lap. These can be used to give you an advantage or an 
 opponent a disadvantage.
  
  By coming out on top from a set of four races you win a cup. Winning cups leads to unlocking tracks 
 and characters.
  
  This is a truely great game.
  
  You simply have to try it - once you do the rest will be history! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorthegreat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest series Nintendo has is on the DS; Mario Kart! Alright, so it made it to DS 
 over a year ago, but what can you do.
  
  Mario Kart DS has a lot of longevity: Its single player alone has 3 types of play.
  First, the 
 Grand Prix from every other Mario Kart game is back once again, spanning a total of 32 tracks, 
 with 4 levels of difficulty, and quite a few unlockables. Second, the time trials return, giving 
 players the opportunity to fine-tune their top records on tracks. Third, a new type of gameplay 
 unique to the DS title, Missions. These vary doing different types of tasks over many levels, from 
 things like collecting coins, going through hoops and beating various boss battles. The Missions 
 are a welcome relief for those who don't feel like racing.
  
  The greatest part, as always is the multiplayer. With two or more DSes, players can take part in 
 a very configurable race with up to 8 racers. If they don't feel like racing, they can play the 
 various types of Battle Mode, from the standard balloon match (which has a new, microphone related 
 twist) , the Shine match (as seen on MK: DD) and the Bob-omb battle.
  In addition to this, you can now player people over the internet in some intense 1 on 1 (on 1 on 
 1) matches, as long as you have a wireless router of some kind.
  
  This rendition of Mario Kart, like its predecessors has vibrant graphics and rich sound. Noticeably 
 the sound of the retro-tracks really brings back the nostalgia, especially the SNES levels.
  
  If you're considering getting a DS/Lite or just looking for a new game, I would totally recommend 
 this one. It's simply one of the must have games for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skids5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  As you know you there have been many Mario kart games released but obviously this one is the best. 
 Mario kart DS revolutionizes the entire Nintendo DS gaming experience. Mario has appeared in such 
 titles as Mario 64 DS but never looking this good. Mario is awesome as he blasts his friends and 
 foes he has brung along for this wild thrill ride. You will never believe the action as green koopa 
 shells whiz right by you. Boom goes a bob-omb as you skillfully dodge it racing into the finish 
 line with the first prize trophy. I definitely recommend this game to all new and old DS owners 
 alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigabrowser12
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  well it is an amazing game. It has online 8 player local battle mode against computers a chalenge 
 mode and boss battles 3 karts be charecter and 32 tracks yes that is not a spelling area 32 tracks 
 pluss all the battle arenas. Again online play gives the game amazing replay value and the game 
 is fun, unlike other mario kart games when you beat the one player mode there is still an amazing 
 amount of fun stuffed in this game to the brim. All mario kart games should follow in it and a 
 wii mario kart would work exelently! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reyad-u
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  right this a very good game, i know me just saying that doesnt really say anything but take my 
 word for it. you start offf with the 50cc mode or 100cc or 150cc which is the difficulty and you 
 just improve from there.
  
  at first the game is seriously easy, it gets even easier if you find your perfect kart. but once 
 you get to 150cc quickly the game gets very hard.
  when i first played it i completed 500 and 100 in a matter of time and when i moved to 150cc i 
 had a bit of difficulty. doesnt matter now, i very good at the game.
  
  one of the secrets about the game is snaking, i wont tell you how to do it but lets just say this 
 is the most rewarding thingy which you can achieve. its what seperates the pros from the noobs.
 
  alot of people say that its a glitch but its not. nintendo put it ther for you to take advantage 
 of. also the good ting about snaking is that you can never master it. theres always roo for improvement. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -1gamemaster1-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Start Your Engines. Get ready for one of the greatest racing games of all time. Lots of very cool 
 characters and also lots of great karts to go along with them. The Online play is pretty good. 
 DS to DS play is very good. The game has so many options, so many modes, so many characters, so 
 many karts, and with all that, it make EXTREMELY good replay value. If its with your friends in 
 three types of fast-fueled fun, with online play with a friend or random battle, or just playing 
 by yourself, this game keeps you up and moving at all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sixdown
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best Mario Kart game yet. The tracks are the most inventive and challenging, 
 plus the addition of older tracks gives this game the best value of any of the others. You can 
 battle against the computer, race against the computer in four different classes on eight different 
 cups, and on 32 unique tracks. You can perform missions, face the creators of the game on the time 
 trials, and enjoy a challenging yet entertaining experience on every portion of this game. Even 
 the easiest classes can be difficult at times, and unlocking all of the characters and karts can 
 be both difficult and fun. I haven't even tried the on line portion yet, but just the idea of being 
 able to race against people around the country is amazing. This is one of the best racing games 
 I've ever played, and is always fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  MarioKart for the DS is a sucess. Period. Everything seems to work well enough The game has the 
 same classic characters from the previous MarioKart games, and the same courses as well. The online 
 play is really the only new thing -- there definitely were not many modifications to the DS version, 
 and this is rather disappointing. The same material from all of the previous Mario Karts have been 
 copied into the DS verison, and it therefore does not bring the DS verison forward or does not 
 advance it in any meaningful way. Yuo will eventually find yourself bored out of your mind becuse 
 you've seen the same stiff over an dover again. Despite this, it's a pretty good game. Here is 
 a quick overview:
  
  The Good: Brings the classic Nintendo racing series to the DS, and it works quite well, nice controls, 
 runs smoothly, new online play mode
  
  The Bad: Same content from previous MarioKart games copied into this version, nothing much to do, 
 nothing new to explore, can become uninteresting rather quickly at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent playability, and a whole bunch of unlockable characters/karts; pretty fun battles 
 and missions (take a look at the bosses!) ; Wi-Fi; memorable new tracks; Shy Guy and his kart!
 
  
  The Bad: New music don't even scratch the old ones; 3D models design could be more smooth (see 
 New Super Mario Bros., it is possible) ; drifting and mini-turbos could give more advantage to the 
 user, since it asks for more technique.
  
  Even now, one year after the release, Mario Kart DS remains the best racing game in DS system, 
 a little because of lack of good competitors, but much because its own merits. The game provides 
 good control of the karts in the track, with noticeable variations between different characters 
 and karts, and it increases seriously its value, since you can throw it all into Wi-Fi connection 
 and get a lot of variation in the challenge. It also brought some remarkable new tracks to the 
 series (like Yoshi Falls, Waluigi Pinball, Tick-tock Clock and Rainbow Road) , and the racing becomes 
 better with all the screaming from the eight racers bumping themselves into each other. Plus the 
 hilarious bosses inside the mission levels, and great arenas to battle, making the game worth your 
 money and time. I just think the characters could have less spikes jumping from its heads and shoulders 
 (better 3D modeling) and the new compositions could stay beside the old ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexchief
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  Now. Let me first say how Great Mario Kart DS is. Fans of the Mario Kart series will feel right 
 at home when they start and play this game. Some new features are there for you you to try out 
 and i must say its all great.
  Not to mention unlockable characters and so on.
  
  Now. The online.
  Online works great and doesnt lag. Up to 4 people can play. DS to DS works 
 and plays like a treat, and will entertain your friend (s) and yourself for hours to come.
  Another sweet thing is that there is a stats info where it tracks your information, how many times 
 you have won and how many times you been beaten.
  
  But then we come to the WiFi (far away online for the DS) . Its after a few games and a few experimentations 
 that you would realise the flaws and the things that needs to be fixed for the next Mario kart, 
 if there is one.
  
  Now. I wont rave about it but will tell you briefly.
  One, when you are wining, especially and usually happens at the start of the last race, where your 
 opponent decides to quit which means you dont get the win point, for all the hard work you have 
 done!!
  Two. Snaking. Some people might start to use this feature and it really annoys most MK players. 
 Including me. Good snakers are luckily to come first or second every race.
  Three. The fact there is no communication available. Which makes it really hard for you to play 
 against friends or just taunt at your oppoents after a race. You would proberly need to talk to 
 them on chatting services like MSN or Yahoo. Overall, the makers of MK DS hasnt done a botchy job. 
 But there are areas that will need to be fixed and tweaked for the next game.
  I advise anyone, who is getting a DS or doesnt have Mario Kart yet, to buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayzee994
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is bloody awesome! The controls are great, the map on the bottom screen is great 
 and the wi-fi is too good to be true. I love this game. I got this game very early last year and 
 Im still playing it. This is better than Double-Dash for sure. My favourite DS game at the moment 
 for its wi-fi capabilities. The actual cups dont take very long to clock but the challenge thingies 
 are harder and really fun. SPOILER ---
  
  The challenge thing goes to level 6 right? Wrong! If you get one star or more in every level you 
 will get challenge thing level 7.
  
  ---
  
  Overall its a great game go out and get it and vs. me in wi-fi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flbeast
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  (Also posted in thread)
  Well, in short, Mario Kart Ds is dissapointing, when I first got it I thought Woohoo! Mario Kart Ds! 
 ,but now after playing and unlocking nearly everything, i'm seeing some MAJOR flaws with the game.
 
  
  1) The player has 0 control on whether he/she'll win the race. It all depends on whether someone 
 will get a Blue shell or not :|
  2) The difficulty settings are ridiculous. After finishing 50cc, it's like the developers thought 
 Lets give the player a surprise :twisted: and the surprise is,100cc is too hard for the average 
 player.
  3) Online on it is shallow, they should've kept atleast 2 more modes.
  4) The touchscreen use is non existent, a match can be played without even glancing at it.
  5) The 
 Cpu seem to have the faster cars in every race even after unlocking all the cars, with all the snaking, sliding, and 
 weapons I use, they still catch up to me as if nothing happened.
  
  Dont get me wrong, the game is good, but the game isnt as brilliant as Mario Kart 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangeseraph
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Take everything good about the Mario IP, and Kart racing, and all the great tracks from the past 
 iterations of Mario Kart, and some spiffy new tracks, and you have Mario Kart DS. This game totally 
 rocks!
  
  You have the usual settings. Single player allows you to tournament race in various levels of difficulty. 
 Completing a cup tournament will unlock new ones, and placing very high in the standings will unlock 
 classic tournaments and tracks. Also to be unlocked are extra carts, characters and bonus stuff 
 that is just too cool.
  
  I'm not the best racer, so I still haven't unlocked everything, and thats okay! It gives me something 
 to aspire too! There's races for every level of difficulty. And just when you think tournament 
 mode is enough, there's also mission mode, time trials and vs mode. Multiplayer Wifi over the internet 
 makes this a very rounded and enjoyable experience.
  
  Items like blue shells that target the first car in the pack, shells that knock you off your feed, 
 and squids that squirt ink onto your screen, are just a few of the fun and clever things you can 
 discover in this game. Drifting is also included in this and full 3d race tracks that are colorful 
 and unique, such as a Ticking moving clock, and the multicolor-disco-ball-bright rainbow road!
 
  
  Finally, to compound upon this enjoyment, you can also unlock reverse versions of each track! Who 
 knows how many other ways there are to play and explore, I have yet to unlock every item! Tons 
 and tons and tons of replayability. A+++! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renagadez187
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  It all began when Nintendo decided to gather all of Mario's friends and rivals, chuck them onto 
 go-karts and have them duke it out for the 1st place podium. As new consoles were introduced, Mario 
 Kart followed up with a version for that console. But who would have ever thought that the greatest 
 Mario Kart to be produced would be on a handheld console? Mario Kart DS truly stands out from the 
 rest of the series with its unique graphical capabilities, array of character and kart choices, 
 both new and retro courses and the new Wi-Fi connection system provided with the DS that allows 
 you to play online and around the world.
  
  Mario Kart DS follows the previous installment on the Gamecube; Double Dash, in terms of having 
 similar game mode choices and artistic look. It also works in the similar way in terms of completing 
 the game. As you keep succeeding in the Grand Prix mode, you will unlock new characters, karts 
 and courses. The only thing Mario Kart DS lacks of is the variety of items. Double Dash was filled 
 with unique and classic items while the DS has taken away the unique items and has left it with 
 the ones everyone comes to expect form a Mario Kart game.
  
  Although Mario Kart DS is lacking in variety of items, it makes up for it through its stunning 
 and classical courses. As you play through the Grand Prix mode, you'll notice that there are two 
 seperate rows; one for the new courses and the other is for past courses coming from all previous 
 versions. All new courses will still impress fans as they sport a new look and feel, while the 
 retro courses let you relive memories from past Mario Kart games. Although the selection for retro 
 courses feel as if they were picked out of a lottery basket because some of the courses chosen 
 are probably not the best.
  
  Even if the courses are not to your standards, then what you'll really be impressed with is the 
 online gaming capabilities thanks to the Wi-Fi connection system. Provided you have a wireless 
 router of some sort, simply set up the connections and begin your online gaming experience. If 
 you don't have a wireless system, don't threat as you can gather up to 8 of your DS buddies and 
 connect each through the Wi-Fi system. As long as one of you owns the game then you are able to 
 verse your friends in an all out driving frenzy.
  
  Graphically, it looks quite better than what most people would expect coming from a handheld console. 
 However, at some point in the game, you'll realise that some tracks or even the characters and 
 karts are rigid and may or not affect your view on the game. It also runs quite smoothly with the 
 controls adding that extra touch to heighten the experience. The use of the bottom screen also 
 proves to be useful as its acts as a map which shows both the items that they hold and their position 
 on the course.
  
  The sound of Mario Kart DS is similar to that of its predecessors, which shouldn't offend those 
 who have played the previous games. Both the background music and sound effects do what they are 
 intended to do which is filling the void of silence. It works well and all new sounds will make 
 the game more enjoyable.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS packs a punch for so many reasons. New characters, Karts, courses and the 
 Wi-Fi connection system will truly exceeds anyone expectation of this enjoyable game. However, 
 you may feel limited if you are unable to access multiplayer mode as you can only play single player 
 mode for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: especensor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the newest installment in the extremely popular Mario Kart series. And this game 
 is arguably the best in the series.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is amazing it has classic gameplay from Mario Kart 64 and features more 
 or less the same mini-turbo system from Mario Kart DD. In short, it means that it has excellent 
 gameplay. All of the Karts have distinct unique handling and the difference is really noticeable. 
 So when you're driving as Bowser, you really feel like you're a big heavy weight and when you're 
 driving as toad, you feel light as a feather. In terms of gameplay, this game has done it proper 
 justice. I rate it 10
  
  Graphics: the graphics... what mroe could you ask?! probably one of the best looking games on the 
 DS so far. It falls nothing short of excellent. It has surprising amounts of detail. you'll be 
 so surprised this game could handle the graphically intense tracks such as Waluigi's Pinball and 
 the Gamecube mario kart's Mushroom Bridge (included in the Retro grand prix) . Each featuring miniature 
 graphical details that you wouldn't have thought possible.
  I rate it 10
  
  Sound: this is yet another strong point in this game. It has a unique catchy tune on each of the 
 games 20+ tracks which although do repeat after prolonged gameplay, never get old nor get annoying. 
 The sound effects are as good as they get, the swooshing of a Spiny Shell speeding up the pick 
 out the 1st place driver... amazing. the only main bit of criticism is the own characters laughings 
 and yells. this is all alright most of the time, but after a long time of gaming (like 4 hours) , 
 just hearing the characters talk gets kind of annoying.
  I rate it 9
  
  Value: this is probably the strongest point in this game. It comes with the traditional mario GP 
 featuring both 50cc 100cc and 150cc (as in the previous installments) and features its own brand 
 new Nitro Grand Prix. the Nitro Grand Prix features 16 brand new tracks made just for this game. 
 However, after beating the NItro Grand Prix, you go on to unlock the Retro Grand Prix which includes 
 soem classic and most memorable tracks from Super Mario Kart , Mario Kart 64 , Mario Kart Super 
 Circuit , and Mario Kart DD . Furthermore, there is still mission mode that requires you to perform 
 certain goals (like go through all the rings in order...) that perfect you're driving skills to 
 prepare you for.... ONLINE MULTIPLAYER. This game has both 4 player online and its own 8 player 
 DS link together gameplay. this games value doesn't get much better than this.
  
  So the Bottom Line is. This game is so much better than you knwo it is.
  .. maybe its a little 
 good. NO!! this game is terrific, its amazing its stupendous its god damn near PERFECT! If you 
 own a DS, and you don't own this game... shame on you, go get it now!
  IF you don't own a DS. This is the game that will convince you to go Buy a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Pretty smooth but it could do better I had a few problems with the powerslides and that was about 
 it other than that gameplay was solid.
  This is also a proven pint on how a ds racing should control.
  
  Graphic
  
  Good for the 
 ds but they could be a bit more smoother but the graphics for the game are very good and are almost 
 perfect but let us set a side about this.
  
  
  Sound
  Sound of cars and the music from the tracks are all good and can they be any any better. Sure they 
 can be better but these will have to do.
  
  
  Overall
  You can play a bunch of different ways of the game and mario kart ds is one
  the best games for 
 online and one of nintendo's first games for online.
  Mission mode is also very good have you play in different ways.
  There are many modes and you 
 be the judge in what is your favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  So I just picked up a DS today and with it I bought one of my favorite Nintendo series games... Mario 
 Kart. I knew I'd like it since I have liked every Mario Kart yet... but mah, oh man did I LIKE it! 
 This game is amazingly fun! The new courses are really sweet and I love it how they got ideas for 
 new courses from past Mario games, such as the Tick Tock Clock course which comes from Super Mario 
 64. The new courses really are great. Plus with new items to use on people it makes the courses 
 even more fun. What shocked me was that they had a sweet retro mode with past courses from Super 
 Nintendo, Nintendo 64, Game Boy Advanced, and the Game Cube. That was a really nice surprise to 
 me and brought back some really good times. All in all from what I've played I'm already addicted 
 and want more. I love this game and if your any fan of Mario Kart then this is the one to get! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMainic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Ds has wifi connection so you can wi-fi worldwide and regoinal that mean's the country. 
 There are Two gran prix to choose from that have four different cups. There are four unlockable 
 charaters in this game two that were from Mario Kart Double Dash and Two are new . There is now 
 for Mario Kart Ds One player battle and verse's mode to play aginst computer player's . OInce go 
 on the Nintendo wi-fi connection you verse people worldwide and rigaonal that's the country . It 
 changes once you wi-fi once you unlock Karts and New charater's to play with.
  
  Get it and it's deal with 32 Tarcks the play on . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This is truly the best mario kart game ever. This game is where you race mario style. The ability 
 to race in a cup race is fun but can get really challenging like in 150c mirror race. In this part 
 you race 7 cpu racers and play in all the courses and if you win you unlock stuff like new characters, 
 New levels, ect. One thing that makes the game fun is how you can race in new courses and in old 
 ones like n64's moo moo farm. This reminds you of the good old mario karts and the best ones too. 
 The game is even better due to the fact you can use items to slow other racers down things like 
 the new squid where it squirts ink at the top screen. The blue shell is really helpful and thats 
 why i love the game. In the game you can race in cups or team race, and Just race. In the game 
 you can have battle mode which is cool. In battle mode you have 2 modes get the most stars and 
 steal some or pop the 3 ballons on each kart. What makes this better then mario kart double dash 
 is how there are 8 racers and how its multiplayer is better. One thing it does'nt have is two players 
 to a car or single racer choice if they make mario kart wii lets hope it will have that. In the 
 game now they have mission mode where you compelete fun but yet hard missions This how it changes 
 the More of Mario kart and i have to say you should buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loyed
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the most fun games for the DS it has several things to do in one player, 
 there is a total of 32 race tracks 3 skill levels for each track, there is 2 battle modes (balloon 
 and shine) and alot of missions in mission mode to do. The game also hase great graphics for a 
 portable game system and on top of that you can play online with nintendo wi-fi, this game never 
 gets boring. Also finding a netgame is sooo easy itll hook you up with a race is 2 minutes usualy, 
 and so many people play this game you usualy get a full amount of people playing an online game 
 with you.
  
  There are bearly any bad things about this except some minor glitches that almost never happen 
 and grand prix levels can SOMETIMES be repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkrokk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart for the gamecube was an interesting game, but didnt capture the feel of Mario Kart like 
 Mario Kart 64 did. Mario Kart DS Re-invents the series, featuring a total of 24 racing cups, and 
 tons of new tracks, but still has the old tracks, featured in what is called, Retro Cups. you start 
 out with 9 racers, and as you win cups, you unlock more racers, new cars, and much more. Online 
 keeps you interested far after beating all the cups, and the game features mini games, and missions 
 . The game is simple, addictive fun that almost anyone can get into. for the 30$, Mario Kart DS 
 is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart for the gamecube was an interesting game, but didnt capture the feel of Mario Kart like 
 Mario Kart 64 did. Mario Kart DS Re-invents the series, featuring a total of 24 racing cups, and 
 tons of new tracks, but still has the old tracks, featured in what is called, Retro Cups. you start 
 out with 9 racers, and as you win cups, you unlock more racers, new cars, and much more. Online 
 keeps you interested far after beating all the cups, and the game features mini games, and missions 
 . The game is simple, addictive fun that almost anyone can get into. for the 30$, Mario Kart DS 
 is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_gamer2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best racing games i have ever played and the funnest to it lacks nothing and 
 is brilliant in the fun factor adults kids and all ages will love it whether your a true mario/nintendo 
 fan or whether you just got the ds as your first nintendo console, it has a lot of tracks and players 
 to play as even if u complete it there are lots of mini games you can race aswell as races this 
 game is highly addictive and will keep you on the ds for god knows how long very fun a classic 
 for mario fun and adventurous and addictive, brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinosaursgirl
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  You will have trouble tearing yourself from this game with it's great graphics and gameplay. I'm 
 not a big gamer myself, and when I got my DS for Christmas, I got all the girly games that didn't 
 require a lot of skill. But this was an exception.
  The only other time I've played Mario Kart was on Nintendo 64, and I was hooked then. A very nice 
 detail on this game is courses from past games. The moment I saw the Moo Moo Farm I was right on 
 it. There are so many courses and things to do, this game is just a blast.
  Don't second guess buying this game, it may be going for a lot at the moment, but it's totally 
 worth it. I've only had this game a day and I've gotten really far. Next stop is Wi Fi. ;] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bourbons3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of those games than can force you to buy a console. With its fun single player 
 Grand Prix mode, and extensive multiplayer mode, it is sure to keep you occupied.
  
  MK: DS also offers a series of new and improved features. Battle mode returns, with the balloons, 
 except now you can literally blow your balloons up yourself. There is also a collection of missions 
 to complete, with 6 levels in total - each finishing with a boss.
  
  Multiplayer is also back. This time, through the wonders of wireless connection, you can connect 
 to other MK fans nearby without the hassle of those link cables all you Pok&eacute; mon fans will 
 remember using. Not only is it more convenient, it is also available to people who do not own a 
 copy of the game. This allows one person to select a course to race on, and many other people race 
 with them even though they do not own a game. There is also a more in depth multiplayer mode for 
 those who do own copies of the game, with more courses on offer.
  
  The biggest feature of MK: DS is the online play. This allows you to connect, through wireless Internet, 
 to other players around the world and race them. However, there are requirements. If you do not 
 have wireless Internet at home, you must buy one of the wireless adapters on sale (the official 
 one is as expensive as a new game at around &pound;28) . You then have to plug this into your computer 
 and be within its range (or be within your wireless router's range) . This is worth it, as online 
 play brings so much more out of the game.
  
  MK: DS is definitely looking in to even if you don't own a Nintendo DS/DS Lite. It is such a fun 
 game that it appeals to almost everyone. If you like racing games, especially previous MK games, 
 it is a must-have for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbelli
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  I just got a Nintendo DS for Christmas and Mario Kart DS was one of the games I got with it. It's 
 the greatest game in the whole entire world! I like the graphics and the racing is awesome (with 
 weapons!) . I also like the mini-games like balloon fights. I also like the characters you can be. 
 The courses are also really cool. The above is my seven-year-old son, Christopher's, opinion of 
 the game. But seriously, this is a really great introduction to the DS as it's one of the most 
 fun games available for the system. The graphics are much better than the games for his GameBoy 
 and the courses are imaginative and wild. Highly recommended for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonMaskD
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a highly reccommend for Nintendo DS (Lite) owners. It's got great courses, fun 
 gameplay, cool characters, and WI-FI!!! The Mario Kart series has always been a fun game to play 
 with friends, and now you'll never be alone. You can play with them even when you're far away (friend 
 codes) and you can play against strangers all over the world (maybe even the pros) . This truelly 
 deserves to be in the Nintendo DS's top ten. I recommend getting a DS Lite since you can't use 
 the same wi-fi data between a DS and a DS Lite. Throw a Bob-omb in Texas and it'll blow up in Spain. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BOZ_10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun and challenging game. My favorite of the Mario Kart series by far. There are 
 some great new items in this game like the Giant Boosting Rocket, The Blue Shell that smashes anyone 
 who is 1st or close to them.
  And a bob-omb that you throw at people. Mushrooms and golden mushrooms are not as good as they 
 used to be.
  
  The Races are very challenging. I still have to master some of these tracks just for the sake of 
 it. e. g. Rainbow Road. I have beaten all the tracks and gotten gold on everyone. If you thought 
 the races were hard wait till youve tried the missions. Im still trying to master the Speed slide 
 around the corners in the 6th lot of missions.
  
  Battle mode is very fun. And here is a tip. if you have a mushroom and speed into someone you get 
 one for there balloons.
  
  it also has time trial which is good to master your driving skills on all the tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcryonicx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  There's no need to get in-depth with a review of Mario Kart DS. It just needs to be said that this 
 game delivers a whole lot of fun in a simple package. It has some of the better graphics available 
 on the DS, and the WiFi really makes this game last long; way after you've beaten the single player 
 modes. Mario Kart DS was the first game I ever bought for my DS, and it remains one of my favorites. 
 If you loved all the things about Mario Kart on the N64, you will love this port even more. It 
 even brings back some tracks from the oldest Mario Kart game. Pick this up if you haven't already 
 and prepare to have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgameFANATIC77
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  ok, so what you can do in this absolute owesome game; you can race in grand prexis, taking on 8 
 rivals. in hope that you get first. time trials; your maine objective is to get the best time as 
 possible. if you get a good enough time, you unlock staff ghost (s) data. ( you can save your own 
 too) and send them to a nearby freind. battle; theres 2 battles, ballon battle, and shine runners. 
 balloon battles, you can either blow in your microphone to blow your balloon, or you can hold down 
 select. your objective is to take out your enemies by using red shells, green shells, etc. vs, 
 is basicly a practice race (s) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario is back behind the wheel with his new installment, Mario Kart DS. Released for over a year 
 before this review was written, MKDS proves to be one of the most enjoyable kart racing games ever! 
 As a DS installment, this is one the first games to use the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection for online 
 play. Something we have waited for a long time.
  
  The ultimate Mario Kart game has some old and new characters like the superstar plumber himself, 
 along with Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Bowser, Wario, and of course.. Toad. The game also has some new 
 racers like Dry Bones and a certain Nintendo robot that you might be familiar with. The original 
 karts are back to use and each character has 2 unique karts like the Poltergust kart for Luigi. 
 The classic Grand Prix mode has two classes with four cups each. The Nitro Class has the Mushroom, 
 Flower, Star, and Special cups that have brand new courses included. In Retro Class has the Shell, 
 Bannana, Leaf, and Lightening cups that have old courses from old Mario Kart games included. Each 
 of the retro cups is gonna have a course from Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, Mario Kart Super 
 Circuit, and of course.. Mario Kart Double Dash!! You're gonna have a lot of familiar courses to 
 race on like the Donut Plains, Luigi Circuit, and you're also gonna have new courses like Delfino 
 Plaza, Peach's Garden, and much more. There are a little over 30 courses to race on to keep the 
 fun going!
  
  Mario Kart DS's multiplayer is bigger than ever! With local wireless multiplayer, you can race 
 with your friends (or enemies) for up to 8 players at a time! With that number, there's gonna be 
 a lot of competition. I've actually held a tournament at my school and it was just a blast of fun! 
 Also, Mario Kart is going online on the DS obviously as it is Wi-Fi compatible. Players can race 
 up to 4 people over the internet, whether it's around the world, in country, in the region, in 
 the same city, or possibly someone across the street, you're always gonna have someone to play 
 against whenever you feel like it. Although that's exciting as it sounds, I felt disappointed that 
 the players limit for Wi-Fi on MKDS is only 4. I only wish that Nintendo could've had more people 
 playing at the same time on Wi-Fi. Hopefully they'll fix that and make NWFC (Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection) 
 more engaging for future online DS and Wii titles.
  
  All of the classic items of the series is back: red shells, green shells, boos, bannana peels, 
 bombs, and the star of course. A new item has also joined the series called the bullet bill. However, 
 you're gonna have to find out what the item does yourself. MKDS has the classic game modes back 
 as well: Grand Prix, Time Attack, VS., it's all there. A new mode called Mission has also been 
 added to the franchise. In Mission, you basically clear all driving based missions like collect 
 10 coins on the track, or power slide 7 times through the course, or pass through the 5 checkpoints. 
 At every level when you clear all the missions, there are boss battles that are extremely fun, 
 and challenging.
  
  Overall, this game is just the greatest DS game I've played so far. Mario Kart DS for the DS is 
 simply astounding and is great for multiplayer on-the-go. If you don't have the game, why not get 
 one for your stocking for Christmas or your Birthday? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside-Carlos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is probably one of the best games for the DS.. No not probably.. It IS the best game 
 for the DS. :lol:
  
  Play as Mario (Of course) , Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Dry Bones, Yoshi, Donkey Kong, Toad and lots more 
 in 32 very addicting tracks.
  
  This game is WiFi compatible, which lets you play with plyers from all over the world and race 
 them! It is a highly magnificent game. And you just have to get it! If you donot get this game 
 you will most definately regret it. If you do get it, you will NOT regret it and if you DO regret 
 it if you get the game, that's just .. um .. wierd basically ...
  ITS A MUST-HAVE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungStacks
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about this game its just great. from the graphics, the game play and the tracks 
 it totally rocks. Racing in Mario Kart DS involves various Nintendo characters racing each other 
 .Multiplayer for eight players is supported via wireless linkup, and online play for up to four 
 players is supported via Nintendo's WiFi connection. There are 13 characters in this game Mario 
 Luigi Princess Peach Princess Daisy Yoshi Toad Donkey Kong Wario Waluigi King Bowser Shy Guy Dry 
 Bones R. O. B. some of these characters have to be unlocked.
  
  From online pplay to just playing by yourself or with friends this game is worth it. OVERALL : 
 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS was really not a game I was looking forward to last year. I was kinda hating on it 
 because I doubted its potential. A lot of games had been failing me and I thought this would to. 
 But no Nintendo decided to make a really good Mario kart. Yeah, since it's on ds it's not as multiplayer 
 fun, but hey... it's the first mario kart that's online. And the online is great! This Mario Kart's 
 got top shape ds graphics, Great racing sounds, back to the single kart gameplay which is surprisingly 
 a lot more responsive than Mario Kart 64s which had the advantage of analog. This Mario Kart has 
 by far more value than all others in the series. There are 32 courses, 16 new, 16 retro to play. 
 Most of the courses are great and favorable. Thinking about it, there's not one bad course. To 
 top it all off there's a new mission mode which is pretty cool, it could have been better, but 
 it's still lots of fun and a great addition to the game. Multiplayer battle mode is still great, 
 and I'm not sure blowing on the mic works real well, but you can also press a button. And last, 
 if ya only got one copy and 2 dses. Ds Download play! They get to play as shy guy! Sweet huh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dajacksterr
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Best purchase of my life. If you are a mario kart fan, then no questions you should definately 
 check this game out. and rentals are not good enough YOU HAVE TO BUY IT the graphics look roughly 
 the mario kart 64 on the n64 except alittle better. its not a remake of mario kart 64 though. its 
 a completely new game with cool new characters, weapons and maps. Mario kart ds adds retro coarses 
 where you have 4 cups or 4 races each from a seperate mario kart. Also there are these new challenges 
 called missions where you complete an objective that is very creative. After you beat the game 
 which takes a while (for me roughly 30+hours, you can take your skills online in nintendo wifi 
 connection. Overall mario kart ds brings the sofar best racing game to the nintendo ds. its fun 
 whether your winning or losing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrowby88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Until recently, the best Nintendo racing game was Mario Kart 64... Hands down,,, The Best.
  
  Once i got my hands on a Nintendo DS, a copy of Mario Kart DS, and a wireless router, my faith 
 was shaken.
  
  While this game is graphically inferior to Double Dash, it has more than enough substance to get 
 anyone with any skill in gaming having fun in no time.
  
  It is really great to see Nintendo playing to its strengths. By that i mean creating games that 
 are simple to pick up and play, Very hard to get 100%, and that can be played together. This game 
 is up there with Super Smash Bros 64, Goldeneye 64, and Super Mario Bros/Duckhunt... and that's 
 saying something!!!!!
  
  The Graphics are great
  The Game is long to complete
  The Story is nonexistent... as it should be in racing games
  The Sound is on Par
  And the Multi-player 
 totally completes a great package
  
  
  
  sorry for the change, the review system reset my score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman940
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Well the title says most of it but here is more detail. The game has great graphics and good gameplay. 
 There are some secret characters in the game like R. O. B. There are missions to go on and they are 
 fun and there is a secret mission too. There is great multiplayer battles and races and you can 
 even race even if you do not have the game in multiplayer that is if someone else has the game. 
 If you do not you will be Shy Guy and that is a neat bonus in the game. Overall yes this is a good 
 game one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Oogie
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest racing games to come not only is it a racing game but it is the first mario 
 kart video game to have actual bosses. It may not have as many characters as Mario Kart Double 
 Dash but it got the main and most of the best characters. We also loose special abilitys but we 
 gain a retro mode in which we can drive on old tracks such as Moo moo farm. Also we get a new character 
 to use that everyone thought was dead but he is back and his name is R. O. B. At first it took me 
 a little time to remember old R. O. B. but then I got it. The game is also the first mario kart game 
 you can play online with other players which is awsome. They also put missions in the game so when 
 you finish with the grand prix or not good at it at all so that game does not get boring and to 
 people that didn't know there are 7 mission phases to get it you need to have at least one star 
 on every mission. So that raps it up hope to see you on the track so start your engines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavog117
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS (MKDS) is a great game for the DS if your into racing games.
  It delivers awesome graphics which I would'nt say are really next-gen but are fairly good. You 
 get all the same weapons or shells from the N64 and GameCube version of it. With the DS able to 
 have online play provided you have Wi-Fi and play with people around the world. you can create 
 your own Kart with the color you want and even your own emblem you can create yourself. This game 
 is a must have for the DS and pretty cool for playing with friends via DS connectivity or Wi-Fi. 
 If you have a DS then you should get this game. You can take it anywhere you want and play anywhere 
 you like so get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReikoFujin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The bar was set for kart racers in 1992 when Super Mario Kart hit the SNES -- it was a game that 
 blended arcade-style racing with simple combat and a cute aesthetic to create an almost-endlessly 
 enjoyable multiplayer game. There have been some decent imitators in the following 11 years, including 
 the 1996 sequel to Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, the 2001 Game Boy Advance game, Mario Kart 
 Super Circuit, and the 2003 GameCube sequel, Mario Kart: Double Dash!!!, but no other kart racer 
 has appreciably improved upon that original formula.
  
  Mario Kart DS, the latest installment in the series, is a huge leap forward for the whole franchise. 
 For the first time ever in any Mario Kart game, Online Multiplayer (Wi-Fi) is introduced. This 
 Wi-Fi mode adds more depth, variety and enjoyment than ever before. Despite the lack of online 
 battle modes, this new feature proves to be the greatest asset of the game, and arguably is what 
 sets it apart from any other kart racing game out there.
  
  Now that the online mode is out of the way, let's gert back to the gameplay itself. So how does 
 it compare against other Mario Kart games? Does it live up the the expectations of the SNES classic?
 
  
  In short, yes. MK: DS uses the classic Mario Kart formula, and although it may feel a little old 
 to experienced players, it still contains the same classic gameplay that hardcore Mario Kart fans 
 have come to expect. The presentation itself is outstanding. All the classic weapons from previous 
 Mario Kart games are back, including homing shells, bananas, speed boosts and lightening bolts. 
 Each difficulty setting is a challenge in itself, and after getting used to the controls and weapons, 
 you'll be blistering around the track like you've been doing so for months.
  
  The graphics are pretty damn impressive for the DS' standards. The environments are bright and 
 colourful, the weapons look fantastic and the karts look great too. The only problem here is the 
 blocky look of the characters and sometimes the karts and environments. Although these are barely 
 noticable, when in direct light, you will feel that the graphics are a little dated.
  
  The music has the Mario feel to it. It's light, catchy and utterly brilliant. Each track has its 
 own theme, the clever part being that whenever the player is struck by lightening, the music goes 
 high-pitched and strange, giving you the full feel of classic Mario Kart.
  
  It'll take you around 5-6 hours to unlock everything, and after that there's the brilliant multiplayer 
 and online modes. It'll take you a good 15-20 hours to get the most out of Mario Kart DS.
  
  All in all, this is a neat little package, combining elements of racing, fighting and competitiveness 
 to create a fantastic game. An utterly essential game, everyone should own this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webgenius
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Maro Kart DS is perhaps the best Nintendo DS game ever made. I usually don't like racing games, 
 but this one is just so fun and easy. The controls are easy to get the hang of. This is must have 
 for any Nintendo DS owner. There are plenty of great characters to play as. There are missions 
 and fun games to play. This game will definetly have you playing it day in and day out. The enviroments 
 of the race tracks are well designed. The are plenty of Grand Pix circuits to play on. There is 
 a good level of difficulty for any age group. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natester10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great examle of a growing classic, with amazing graphics and fun gameplay, you 
 could easily have this stuck in your DS cartridge for weeks to months.
  
  Gameplay
  
  In Mario Kart DS, there are many things to do such as its 5 game modes, Grand Prix, Time Trials, 
 VS, Battle, and Missions.
  
  In Grand Prix, you take on 8 cups with four different tracks in each. These are split, meaning 
 that you have 4 cups with brand- new tracks, and 4 cups with tracks from previous Mario Kart games, 
 even reaching as far back as the original on the SNES.
  
  In Time Trials, you race with the clock, as you try to get the lowest lap times possible, and it's 
 a great way to challenge yourself, or your friends on a Wi-Fi Connection.
  
  In VS, you take on the CPU in all of the tracks, you can play in teams as well, which definately 
 adds some strategy to the game.
  
  In the Battle mode, you only have two choices... Balloon Battle, in which you try to knock other 
 opponents balloons out, while blowing through the microphone in your DS to make your own, and Shine 
 Runners, in which you have to collect the most shines out of anyone else. These two games can be 
 played in team mode as well.
  
  I would have been nice to see more than two modes, but Shine Runers is definately fun. The problem 
 with Balloon Battle, is that when you blow into the microphone, it won't always respond, leaving 
 you utterly, balloonless... this can get quite annoying as you have to be in the perfect position 
 and blow at the right rate to get a balloon to blow, while you should be focusing on the game itsself.
 
  
  Finally in the Missions mode, you have six levels with 8 missions in them, such as 'collect 10 
 coins in this amount of time' or ' beat mario in a race'. Once you have beaten all 8 missions in 
 a level you will be taken to a surprisingly easy boss battle.
  
  In Mario Kart, you can draft behind other cars to get a boost, or use the powerslide feature, this 
 is done by holding the right trigger and moving the D-pad from side to side, this is useful, but 
 sometimes you might frantically spin-off in another direction, which isn't the games' fault, more 
 of the players, but is nonetheless annoying.
  
  Also, if you hit the gas, or hold it for that matter, at the right time during the countdown to 
 start the race, you will get a boost, but watch out, if held for too long your engine will blow 
 making you lose a few seconds as your character frantically tries to get control of his kart.
 
  
  The touch screen is used for nothing in the races except switching map types, and scrolling through 
 menus.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics of this game are absolutely superb, especially just for a DS, I mean the backgrounds, 
 character models, and everything in the game looks spectacular. Really, there isn't a place where 
 the game looks really bad.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is quite good for a DS game, you get fair engine noises and of course, you characters 
 will say specific things as things happen in the duration of the race. The menu music is pretty 
 good, but there is only one looping track, but doesn't go as far as to be an annoyance.
  
  Summary
  
  Maro Kart DS is truly an amazing game, and is really the best portable game ever, 
 it provides the factor of fun and strategy, and the replay value is just amazing, you will spend 
 weeks on this game because of all of the things in it... unless you are a pro and can beat games 
 in less time than that.
  
  Really no complaints in this game, except for little use of the stylus/ touch screen... oh I forgot 
 to mention that you can put a logo on your car, which is another use of the stylus, I suppose, 
 but also, we could have seen more game modes in the Battle mode zone other than Balloon Battle 
 and Shine Runners.
  
  The use of the microphone has problems in Balloon Battle, but a great alternative is definately 
 Shine Runners.
  
  All in all Mario Kart DS, I 100% recommend for ANYONE with a DS or DS Lite game system, it's fast, 
 it's fun, simply put it's... Mario Kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiowns
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game brought back lots of elemtents that were missing in Double Dash, and made some more. 
 To top it all off, they also brought back some old tracks and it's all in a handheld game.
  
  First off, they brought back what I call dragging, mainly because I can't remember what it's 
 really called, but it's when you hold down R and your item is held behind you. This was missing 
 in DD and was sorely missed. This technique is useful for either blocking attacks or making it 
 easier to wipe out an opponent who's right behind you.
  
  They also brought back some of the old tracks, such as ones from the Nintendo 64 and even the GameCube! 
 They even brought back the original black city in battle mode.
  
  Now for the new stuff. The map of the track is not even remotly in the way, and it tells you what 
 place everybody is in, not just the top four. Along with that, it tells you what items they have, 
 which makes it easier to prepare for red shells, and the dreaded blue shell.
  
  Also you can have your character ride any cart in the game, instead of being only able to ride 
 in a certain wieght class. There is also mission mode, which will distract you for a while, and 
 there is also the WiFi connection, which is a great idea, because you don't allways have friends 
 around.
  
  All in all, this is a great game, that you definiatly should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris0025
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  highly recommended if your lookin for a great racing game. control isnt a problem if thats wat 
 your wondering about. wide variety of different carts. the old tracks you love and a lot of new 
 ones. useful weapons, but not to annoying if you are the victim. great multiplayer options. wifi 
 is great. if you wanna multiplayer but you friend doesnt have this game or you cant seem to find 
 a wifi hotspot, you and your buddies can still play each other as long as they have a ds. i myself 
 dont reallly lik racing games, but wow this one is amazing. the reason i didnt lik racing games 
 was because they can be jerky and contain lots of wall crashing. this one is not lik that tho, 
 drifting can easily be accessed on corners of track to avoid wall crashing and driving in grass. 
 the duel screen on the ds is very very useful. you no longer have to use a magnifying glass to 
 peer in the corner to see if someones gainin up on you. you also can see wat curves lie ahead and 
 where ? boxes are. this game is also very addictive and can help pass the extra time. again i say 
 that this is a MUST BUY. hope you consider buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iGaze
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  iGaze Reveiw #1 ( 12/10/06)
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  I 
 received this game as a gift for last year's Christmas. I still play it about once a week. I never 
 even had WiFi for it. The following is a detailed review of why I just can't put this game away.
 
  
  INTRODUCTION - As you turn on your DS with Mario Kart DS inserted you will be greeted by nicely 
 formated blue menus. You will have three main options:
  
  - Single Player - In this segment of the game you can try to wins the cup's grand prix, you can 
 do time trials, missions, and more.
  
  - Multi-player - Here you can play against your friends in DS to DS play. You can choose from download 
 play, or if your friend also has the game, you can do the full play.
  
  - Nintendo WFC - This is were you can play against players all around the world, and gain ratings. 
 Try to get placed against some of the highest ranks! The game also has many other little features 
 like records, and options. This game is also very expansive: featuring 4 cc's, 16 characters, 36 
 karts, 8 cups, and 32 tracks. The missions, races, and time trials will keep you occupied for a 
 good long time. The game also features 16 classic courses from ALL the previous Mario Kart's. This 
 is really nice for long time fans of the games, but some newcomers will find the classic courses 
 more boring than the new ones. GAMEPLAY - The gameplay is good in every way for this game. The 
 racing physics are amazing, and way better than any previous Mario Karts. The controls are flawless. 
 You can even do sweet power slides (drifting) . All the different cars have unique features, and 
 you can really tell the different between the physics. The tracks are full of action, and every 
 single one is really different. I can't really say anything bad at all about the gameplay on this 
 game. The game is also fairly easy to learn, and isn't frustrating in any way. GRAPHICS - When 
 first starting this game, the graphics will stun you. They are freaking incredible for the DS. 
 I would say they are coming pretty close to the gamecube graphics on this one. All the karts, characters 
 and tracks are delightfully displayed in vibrant colors. You won't get tired of the graphics, there 
 is so much to look at, and it make everything more interesting. It really adds to the value of 
 the game. SOUND - The sound is the only SMALL shortcoming off this game. After a while, the music 
 will bore you. The music is not nearly as good as previous Mario Kart's, especially Super Mario 
 Kart ( great music ) . However, the sound effects are a completely different story. The sound effects 
 are great and realistic. You won't get tired of them, and they aren't repetitive. VALUE - This 
 game is worth it's price. It will keep any player hooked for a long time. I don't know one person 
 that doesn't like this game. It has kept me playing for almost a year, and I have no desire to 
 stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnage646
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  this is the best mario kart ever, i mean i have played most of the games in the series and none 
 are as good as this, as soon as you play you will no what i mean. it has a great selection of charecters 
 that you unlock by winning cups, heaps of tracks and great missions. this game should kepp you 
 happy for a long time. the multiplayer is amazing, wether your doing local wireles or wi fi, there 
 both great. the game has awsome music and sound effects, and the graphics are nice to look at. 
 its simple, if you have a ds, you need mario kart. great fun all year round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagr909
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Best ds game ever. It's graphics are real good. Much better than the classic game. New characters 
 and real cool levels. I gave it a 9.7 on the Jagr909 scale. They had old courses and new ones too. 
 My favorite is Mushroom ridge. I loved this game. Keep on playing this game. It might be old but, 
 the older the better. Heck if it was from 1923 I would still play it. This game rocks! :) :) :) 
 :) a aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a s as s s s a sa s s s s s s s s s s s ss s s s sa s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 
 s s sss s s s s s s es s s s s s s f fr f f f f ff s s s s gh h g gh g g g gd xsxd xs ds  
 aaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has made us race around odd tracks firing odd items at our other odd racers. Mario Kart 
 is truely odd. This has been going on for a good few years now on our N64's and gamecube's now 
 it is on our DS's and is just as good. This game is a lot like the N64 version it has a lot of 
 the same tracks and mainly the same graphics. There are some new stuff though like the challanges 
 where you get to do some driving into stuff or around stuff but it is great fun. Also included 
 is the battles like the last ones where you get to do some attacking thats fun aswell. This game 
 is just good fun which takes your mind off more realistic games like PGR3 or Grand Torismo. Mario 
 Kart has got plain fun writen all over it and it is one of the best games for the DS so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lloyd_Irving1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the best DS game so far. It's the ultimate multiplayer game next to Super Mario 
 64 DS. This game also has great Wifi but not a high variety, still... This game is still fun ever 
 sine it came out. I would know, the battle system is great even in single player and the new Mission 
 system is the newest thing to the Mario Kart series. With 16 new levels and 16 levels from all 
 the previous Mario Kart games. The item variety is great. The music is ok. With over 30 karts and 
 over 15 characters, this a game Nintendo really worked on. It's fun to show your artistic abilities 
 with making your own insignia, I can call myself en expert at this, I'm a 2-star ranking, which 
 is one step from a perfect rating. This is a highly recommended game, enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  The title says it all. addictive, fun, and above all one thing- Mario kart. ---gameplay --- 8/10
 
  Can really drag you in at the championships. brilliant fun on all modes, but i find thw wi-fi 
 is dissapointing. It took me 10 minutes to find a match (i was standing right next to the router) 
 and half the people i rased either snaked (i think this spoils the challenge of racing) or quit. 
 still, the rest is awesome.
  
  ---Graphics --- 10/10
  Lush graphics for the DS really, really, really good. these graphics could be compared to the gamecube 
 graphics, they way surpass the N64. ---Sound --- 9/10
  Sound is very good. tyre squel, engine roar, yep its all there.
  
  ---Value --- 9/10
  My only 
 problem is the wi-fi. but, if you have a few friends codes, it works very well. and its addictive, 
 even over a year later im trying to beat a few lap records!
  
  ---Tilt --- 10/10
  Brilliant. awesome. get it if you have a DS, but to get the full experience you need to know someone 
 else with it so you can multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timogrog
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Yea this is an awesome game but my brother stopped me from using his DS cos im better than him 
 lol - I've got really good at it though before i got banned.
  
  The game play is really good and then the controls are easy to master, although i still cant power 
 slide very well. I think its a definite classic and is just fun to play in general.
  
  Im at a stage where i can win every time but then i cant get double stars which can be a little 
 to get in the 150cc and the mirror 150cc. The Power ups and weaponry is same as old Super Mario 
 cart rly with a few alterations and i think thats what makes them work well, plus the fact that 
 they have got new courses with old retro ones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I've been a hardcore Mario Kart fan ever since Mario Kart 64. I have put dozens of hours laying 
 bananas, firing turtle shells, and getting ridiculously excited whenever I get the star weapon. 
 Through all that fun in Mario Kart 64 I expected Mario Kart Double Dash for the Gamecube to be 
 an awesome game. What I got was a very unexciting rehash of Mario Kart 64. Mario Kart DS changes 
 all that. About 3 times as many tracks, an online mode, new weapons, and tight controls are the 
 main new features. This Mario Kart game feels like the true sequel to Mario Kart 64. The graphics 
 even seem more polished then Mario Kart 64 which I was surprised and delighted to see. The sound 
 effects and music are pure Nintendo and you'd have to be soulless not to appreciate it. I have 
 yet to play the game online but I've played wireless multiplayer with about 3 friends and eight 
 people sounds unbelievably fun. The computer bot's AI also surpasses Double Dash which makes very 
 little sense to me but makes playing the computer almost as fun as online. If you were disappointed 
 by Double Dash like I was and are dying for some Mario Kart action or youre just looking for a 
 solid racer on the DS, Mario Kart DS is the perfect choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PATD123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I've played the other, older versions of Mario Kart, and although they were really good, this one 
 just about blew my head off. It's the same in many good ways, and different in many really good 
 ways. The racing is as fun as ever, and they have added maybe a tiny bit to it. There's more to 
 do, keeping you... un-bored. The graphics are as good as they'll get on the DS. The sound isn't 
 anything special, but it's pretty good. This could pretty much last you forever, because it's a 
 racing game. And, of course, everyone loves Mario and his racing capabilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  the best game on the ds yet !!! a great game for racing and mario fans alike... u will have lots 
 of fun with this game !!!! it most definitely a must have !!!!
  the gameplay and value r awesome bcz u have a lot to do in the game including single player and 
 multiplayer . starting with single player you have the grand prix which is divided in to 2 cups 
 each with 4 races and u also have diffficulties to choose from !!!! then there is the time attack 
 mode where u have to basically just do any stage of any of the 2 cups as fast as u can !!! then 
 there are missions in which u have have about 8 or 9 small tasks to do after which u have to face 
 a boss and plus u have many players to unlock !!!! the graphis and sound are also great although 
 they could have done just a bit more with the sound. the graphics are great, they have designed 
 everything just the way it should be!!!!
  to sum it up mario kart is a game that u just can't get sick of ..... i've beaten the game but 
 i still can't stop playing.... beating my time or racing with different racers... its much better 
 than all the other mario kart games and its worth playing !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popolopolous
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart was the first game I received, bundled with my DS. Since it was the first game I had 
 received, I didn't know that there were better DS games. It still remains to this day the best 
 game I've played on DS, bar Animal Crossing.
  
  I think everyone knows the premise of Mario Kart. It's essentially a Kart racing game, with certain 
 items thrown in that help you or hinder your opponents. The gameplay stays true to the last couple 
 of entrants in the series - brilliant. Some items include the classic mushrooms, red and green 
 shells, lightning bolts, etc. and new items include a 'blooper' - a squid that sprays ink over 
 everyone in front of you's screen and a 'bullet bill', which transforms you into a giant bullet, 
 speeding up the track and blasting everyone it hits.
  There's also two new modes of play - 'missions' and 'shine runners'. Mission mode is a mode where 
 it gives you a series of minigames, almost - things like 'collect all ten coins' or 'drive through 
 all 8 gates'. Shine Runners is similar to balloon battle - you have to collect 'shines' (essentially 
 miniature suns) and at the end of the time limit, the people with the least shines are eliminated. 
 This goes on until there is one left - the winner. And don't fret - balloon battle is still included!
 
  
  The visuals are perfect. I highly doubt there are better 3D visuals on DS. Your racer looks cool, 
 his kart looks cool, and best of all - you can design an emblem for yourself, which is displayed 
 on your Kart during races and is your symbol over Wi-Fi.
  
  The sound, again, is nigh on perfect. If you plug the DS sound output into the television, it gives 
 you a taste of just how great the music is - and you can turn it up loud. It's almost a 70's disco 
 track, changing depending on what track you do. The music sounds bubbly if you go in shallow water, 
 and on an airship track the feel changes to menacing.
  
  The only flaw of the game would be Wi-Fi. It's easy to use once you're set up, but there are limited 
 tracks to play and, snakers. Snaking is using illegal tactics to try and get ahead, and believe 
 me, there are a lot of snakers out there. It's sometimes also nearly impossible to find three other 
 people - you could be there for fifteen minutes simply waiting for three oppponents. Not only that, 
 but they can drop out as they like - eventually reducing the game to two players. That said, it's 
 really fun to oppose people you don't even know.
  
  DS-to-DS multiplayer would have to be the best feature in the game. It can support up to eight 
 players - download play only enables eight tracks, multi-card lets you in on all 32 - and that 
 will never get boring. Really. And that's only the Vs. mode. There's also Balloon Battle and Shine 
 Runners to help with the fun.
  
  I'd find it really hard not to highly recommend this game. It's one of the best games on DS, let 
 alone a highly decent racer no matter what platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan12_2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best games for the Nintendo DS and one of the best Mario kart games 
 from the series. It offers the same characters (with a few new arrivals) and the same great racing 
 style that nintendo has to offer. It has great and very simple controls. It is fun for old and 
 new mario kart fans. In Nintendo Wi-fi you have a record book that stores all of your wins and 
 losses. You can add friends or look for random people. if you randomly select players then you 
 can only race with 4 people max (including yourself) and you have 4 courses. I haven't played with 
 friends through wi-fi so i wouldn't know what it is like.
  Gameplay: Another fun and awesome mario kart game
  Graphics: Pretty good for the DS
  Sound: 
 Fun music while you race
  Value: definatly worth the purchase
  Overall: This game is fun, entertaining, and i definatley recommend that you try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the bestest game what i saw for the nintendo ds
  its a good racing game whith creative things like use weapons to others
  that you can win! the 
 other race types like balloon battle i likes to
  its realy diffrence than other race games it isnt a rip off a other game
  some bad things of 
 the games is thats Donkey kong (as example)
  is so heavy as i racing whith mario that im kickid from the way by donkey kong but that dont botter 
 me realy, what i had saw to is into the multiplayer mode (no wifi) ive sometimes slow downs thats 
 a little bit badly
  but on the internet (wifi) its realy noise there there its so laggy that it likes they can teleport 
 on the game but it isnt i think....
  but the wifi give me a good feeling of the future! i hope so
  but i play more on my psp handheld 
 race games than mario kart on the nintendo ds handheld but its a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitsumasa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is really fun, fun, fun! At first when your just getting used to the controls, you find 
 it a little hard yet tantalising, hypnotising to play more. And Its worth it. The game is really 
 hard to put down and just real great. By the end though, when you've unlocked everything it becomes 
 really really easy and you become dissapointed that after all the hype getting to this stage, the 
 stage really isn't that great. Truly, the journey is better than the goal. MK has a brilliant multiplayer 
 and a new battle mode in which you use items to destroy your competitors. MK has Wi-Fi which is 
 really good but it is laggy and finding opponents can take upwards of 4 minutes. Very Annoying. 
 Yet MK is a great game for all ages and deserves a place in any DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo is notable for the Mario Kart series and here comes Nintendos next portable version of 
 the franchise. The series started way back in 1992 and is continuing to grow. Mario Kart DS clearly 
 shows this by introducing many new elements and some from the previous games in the series.
  
  While the previous game on GameCube introduced tag-team play, Mario Kart DS goes back to the 
 standard formula of having one character on a kart. As you may know, Mario Kart wouldnt be Mario 
 Kart without the selection of weapons to fire at your opponents. Many are back and better than 
 ever in Mario Kart DS. The most notable green shells and red shells are of course back along with 
 the lightning bolts and bananas. Depending on your position and what character you are, you may 
 get some really powerful weapons such as the blue shell and Bullet Bill. These are both easy to 
 get if you are in last place. Once the blue shell is fired it is impossible to dodge it when it 
 comes to the first player. The Bullet Bill is awesome since you transform and speed up drastically 
 whilst knocking through several other opponents. Now, in first place you usually get the not-so-good 
 weapons such as the fake question blocks and bananas. However, with good tactics you can carefully 
 place these across the course and let your opponents get caught up in them.
  
  Altogether there are 32 tracks to race on. Many of these tracks are new and many are what some 
 may remember from the previous games. The first cup, the Mushroom Cup is by far easiest. You start 
 off on the Figure-8 Circuit which is ideal for beginners. It can also be the perfect place to practice 
 snaking skills. Basically, snaking is when you slide from left to right whilst holding down the 
 R button. This (if performed correctly) should produce a boost. This can be particularly useful 
 in the online mode although some may classify it as unfair. Things get a bit trickier in other 
 tracks. Some tracks will require you to dodge stuff (such as flames and vehicles) and some will 
 require you to carefully get round corners without crashing into a nearby wall. There are some 
 tracks that will only have a few walls, so if you fall off the edge youll probably likely end 
 up behind your opponents.
  
  As well as some all new tracks there are also some tracks from the previous games in the series. 
 Some may remember Moo Moo Farm (N64) , Baby Park (GCN) , Sky Garden (GBA) and Frappe Snowland (N64) . 
 By completing races in 1st position in the different speeds youll unlock new karts and tracks. 
 Once you have done everything youll want to keep racing over and over again. Of course you can 
 put yourself up to a challenge in the Time Trials mode and try to beat the staffs ghost karts.
 
  
  Many of the characters are here in Mario Kart DS. Of course Mario, Luigi and Princess Peach are 
 here but we also have Waluigi, Dry Bones and Toad. Each character and their kart feel different. 
 So, if you decide to play as Dry Bones itll be lighter to drive but if you play as Bowser itll 
 be heavier to drive. All the karts have their advantages and disadvantages. If you have a heavy 
 kart you can knock someone to the side but if you have a light kart you can get round corners much 
 easier. There is a very good selection of karts to unlock as you progress through the game.
  
  If you are done racing then there is a Battle mode which was also present on some other Mario 
 Kart games. The Battle mode allows you to go against the other characters in either a Balloon Battle 
 or Shine Runners match type. The Balloon Battle is my favourite. The idea of this is to stay in 
 the game by not losing any of your balloons. You lose balloons if you get hit by a weapon or if 
 you fall of the edge of a course. The idea is just to keep shooting your opponents. Once all balloons 
 have gone then they are out. Even if you have only one balloon left you can easily steal another 
 balloon from a kart just by using a red mushroom by them. There are plenty of balloons to start 
 off with. This mode makes use of the Nintendo DS microphone. You blow into it to blow up the balloons. 
 The Select button may also be used if you decide not to use the microphone.
  
  The other mode in Battle, called Shine Runners allows you to collect these shines across the course. 
 They are randomly scattered and are indicated on the touch screen of the Nintendo DS. Whoever has 
 the most shine runners at the end is the winner. You can also shoot your opponents to get their 
 shine runners if you dont have many. These modes are where the touch screen comes in good use. 
 You can see all the action on the bottom screen. If you tap it, you can see the whole course. Those 
 who played Super Mario Sunshine will remember the Shine Runners of course.
  
  A new addition to the Mario Kart series is Missions mode. There are a total of 6 levels with 9 
 inside them (one of these being a boss battle) . Instructions are given out to help you complete 
 the mission. The better you complete it then the better your rank will be. The boss battles are 
 quite fun too. Some of the missions are quite crazy  there is one where you have to only drive 
 backwards! This mode is sure to keep you occupied for a while.
  
  Now, this is a great single player game but also it is a great multiplayer game. If you have a 
 friend nearby with their Nintendo DS you can play them. Of course, the more players then the more 
 fun it can be. You can play any of the tracks or battles so long as you all have Mario Kart DS 
 cards. If the other person does not own a copy of the game you will be limited on what tracks you 
 can use. You can also trade ghosts  so now you can try and beat your mates ghost on Time Trials. 
 Multiplayer can be great fun and I recommend it very much.
  
  Now, this game was the first game to use the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. That basically means you 
 can race opponents all over the world from the comfort of your home or hot spot. You can only do 
 races and are limited on what tracks you can use. Some elements are taken out such as the keeping 
 the shell behind the kart thing. Other than that it can be really addictive. You may come across 
 some really hardcore players of the game but there is always new people trying out the game online. 
 Depending on the connection, it may be a bit laggy at times but performs pretty well. You cannot 
 chat to other players though. Youll need a friend code from your mate if you want to play them 
 over the Internet. All your wins and losses are recorded so you can keep track on how you are doing 
 against others.
  
  Graphically speaking, the game looks colourful, lively and very smooth. The frame rate holds up 
 good and the characters look really good. Some of the textures look like they could have had some 
 work done to them but other than that it is all good. Its a carefully designed game and youll 
 probably feel just at home with the Mario Kart DS graphics like you would with the previous games.
 
  
  The sound is great too. Youll hear various quotes from the characters when they get hit or somehow 
 overtake you. It can be a really pleasant experience with the background music in place too. Its 
 crazy and it feels like a race itself. Some rather good tunes in here that youll come to expect 
 when playing a Mario Kart game.
  
  Overall, one decent game  I have played on this game for months and months. It never gets boring 
 for me  especially with the online play. This I would classify as a killer application for the 
 Nintendo DS. Its a must-have for anyone  old, young or in-between. This truly does show that 
 a game can be designed to suit every player  hardcore or non-hardcore. Racing with friends and 
 family can be a great experience. Who will make it to the finish line? Who shot me with that red 
 shell? Who put that banana skin there? Its just a classic that I will never forget. Pick it up 
 if you havent already done so and start playing. Im sure youll hopefully get so much enjoyment 
 out of it like I have. One game that definitely shows what the Nintendo DS is capable of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesmasterdom
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  The latest Mario Kart game sticks to the classic formula- single seater karts with a wide choice 
 of wacky tracks to race on.
  In total there are 36 karts, each one unique in its own way. They also have stats, so Bowsers monster-truck 
 like kart will be heavy, while Yoshi's kart will have a good acceleration rating as he is light. 
 The only odd thing is the stats stay fixed to the karts, so really the characters are pointless.
 
  There are 32 tracks- 16 Nitro and 16 Retro , Nitro being new, Retro being classic tracks from 
 previous games. There are some classic tracks like the Yoshi Circuit from Double Dash, but there 
 are some not so good ones too, like Mario Circuit 1 from the SNES game-good in its time, but technology 
 has moved on. Nintendo- we expect better!
  There is a battle mode too, which has CPU Karts to battle against, but its too weak to fully recommend. 
 But we've saved the best till last. For the first time, Mario kart is online. Provided you have 
 Wireless Broadband, you can play against anyone free of charge. It works brilliantly, with no lag 
 at all. The only downside is that not all the tracks are playable online, probably due to technical 
 limitations, but the ones you can play, play well.
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is a brilliant game, and the best DS game so far. The Online play adds a 
 new dimension to game, which is just what the series was longing for. The best Mario Kart game 
 so far? Not too sure... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: channing6000
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on my friends DS, but quickly i got bored of it and felt like i was playing 
 the same thing i have been playing since super mario kart to double dash. Dont get me wrong, its 
 a great game, but its all the same. There are some new things like new characters, maps, and vehicals, 
 but thats about it. One thing i did like however, was in time trial you can race againsed the makers 
 high score, very tough, and prety fun If you are a fan to the series, but it, but if you are looking 
 for somthing new, you might want to reconsider. Still a great game but same as all the others in 
 francise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmitboy1990
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  If you havent played any of the mario kart games before then you are missing out, mario kart is 
 a brilliant game.
  Its one of the best racing games that has ever been released and you cant argue with the ratings, 
 9.2, and in my opinion it should be even higher.
  Mario Kart DS includes new tracks, as well as retro tracks selected from all the previous Mario 
 Kart versions. In addition to a handful of single-player modes, you can play with up to eight players 
 locally or with four players over the Internet (if you have a Wi-Fi connection) .
  Its Stylish, Its Funky, Go get It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is probably the best Mario Kart game and one of the best games for the Nintendo DS. 
 It is the fifth game in the Mario Kart series and the first to feature online play with Nintendo's 
 Wi-Fi connection. The single player mode is a kind of a bummer due to its very low diffaculty but 
 the multiplayer more than makes up for that. The multiplayer modes are easily the best thing about 
 this game you can race up to seven people using the DS download feature or in game modes if the 
 people you are playing have Mario Kart. The Wi-Fi is loads of fun and is also the best mode in 
 the whole game if you can't do Wi-Fi your missing out. In Wi-Fi you will do four races like in 
 a grand prix only you and the people your playing against choose the stages it goes by majority 
 vote most of the time. However it may take a while to get three oppenets and sometimes you will 
 have to race one or two people instead of three. In the single player mode you can do Grand Prixs; 
 in which you will unlock more cars, the mission mode where you have random missions to complete 
 these modes are fun but really easy and it is more fun to play on Wi-Fi where you will have some 
 competition. The graphics are pretty much the best you can find on the DS and they are very pleasent 
 to look at. The sound is good like almost all Nintendo games. Alltogether Mario Kart DS is a fantastic 
 game and a great reason to buy a Nintendo DS.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeedleGlavin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Being the first game I picked up with my DS - I carried high expectations. Thankfully, Mario Kart 
 DS meets those expectations and blows them out of the air with flying colors.
  
  1. Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect from a Mario Kart game - however, the 
 pace seems to have been quickened and the number of characters and karts to choose from has been 
 expanded. There are many weapons to choose from and they are pretty self-explanatory. The game 
 is extremely challenging on the 150cc difficulty setting, which is a pleasant change from most 
 Mario Kart entries. The online play is easy and loads of fun.
  
  2. Graphics:
  
  Easily the best looking DS game when it was released. Colorful and dynamic environments make for 
 some challenging courses, indeed.
  
  3. Sound:
  
  Great music and sound effects. Each level has its own unique theme and the sound effects seem right 
 in place.
  
  4. Value:
  
  With the mini-games and online play - Mario Kart DS is good for many many hours.
  
  Conclusion:
 
  
  If you own a DS, pick this game up now. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  this entry in the mario kart series is on the ds and its very good. the gameplay is similair to 
 the previous titles except no anolog stick. the gameplay is still solid but its starting to wear. 
 the graphics are great for the ds and the music is pretty much the same. thiers lots of fun to 
 be had though with missin mode. 5 different grand prix levels, time trials, and much more to keep 
 u playin and with wi fi u and ur friends can enjoy it for hours. overall mario kart ds is a solid 
 entry in the already outstanding franchise and i highly recommend this game to anyone lookin for 
 a fun racer for the ds or an old fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster_GSB
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Best game of its genre bar none - great graphics, extremely addictive, nice and long so you will 
 never get bored of it. The best karting and mario kart game out yet. Nintendo have out done themselves 
 the online play is amazing. if you have a remote interest in racing / driving or mario games then 
 this is a must. also you get to play on many of past mario kart tracks from the Super Nintendo 
 (Mario Kart) , Nintendo 64 (Super Mario Kart 64) , Game Boy Advance (Super Mario Kart Super Circuit) 
 and Nintendo GameCube (Mario Kart Double Dash !!) . Plus the added new tracks which are great aswell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freddyjasonmyer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  Summary
  
  Classic Mario Kart gameplay, cleaned up graphics, new extras, and the new WiFi feature make this 
 game a MUST for all DS owners. BUY THIS GAME! Don't have a DS? okay, buy this game AND a DS. it's 
 well worth it.
  Sound
  
  Classic, happy mario songs that fit the environment perfectly. also, the character reactions after 
 passing an opponent or gettting them with an item are cute.
  Gameplay
  
  The old theory of if it ain't broke, why fix it applies here. The gameplay is just as fun and addicting 
 as it was when the series first debuted on the SNES. Small tweaks and additions make this game 
 hands down the best of the series. A good variety of characters with unique strengths and weaknesses 
 are well balanced. There are a wide variety of unique tracks some which are very outrageous. Some 
 of the courses can be pretty frustrating like the Rainbow Road course where you can easily fly 
 off the track into space if you don't make that turn. Another fun stage is the pinball stage where 
 you can get smashed by a giant pinball. Now even though there are some stages that are frustrating, 
 it's okay competition-wise cuz it pretty much frustrates anybody so that levels the playing field. 
 The same power-ups from the previous games are there like the banana peels and turtle shells. they've 
 also added some new stuff like the ink and the bullet . The additions are really cool. All these 
 powerups are the things that make mario kart so much fun. It gets VERY interesting when you're 
 all battling for the finish line with these power ups. Now, this game is great with just the single 
 player aspect. The AI is pretty good and the game still has good replay value. however, what brings 
 this game over the top is the WiFi. If you have a wireless router in your home, then you can easily 
 connect to the internet and play others. Nothing, and i mean NOTHING beats playing another human 
 player. within a minute or two you can easily connect to a 4 person race. unfortunately, 4 is the 
 limit for online play but that is still enough to make it fun. Don't have a wireless router? No 
 problem. go to a local McDonald's and use their WiFi hotpoint to play. Don't feel like going to 
 McDonald's. no problem. find another friend with a DS and they don't even have to own a copy of 
 Mario Kart. It is this WiFi aspect that sets this game apart and hopefully will spawn a LOT more 
 DS games that will utilize WiFi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguru43
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been on every Nintendo system so far. All of them are very fun and really addicting. 
 and the one on the Ds is no exception. if you played any other Mario kart games you would know 
 exactly what to do, and if not it is a really easy game to learn how to play .The game supports 
 good multilayer action. but it can lag sumtimes, only up to four people can race and, there isn't 
 very many levels to choose from. but knowing that you are playing people around the world is just 
 a awesome feeling. There is a number of karts a person can choose from and the levels that are vase 
 and creative. but the single missions are sorta lame and so is R. OB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippers957
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart?... for the DS??!?!? Whats that all about, and... Is it any good? I took it for a test 
 drive and ended up buying it off the lot!
  
  Mario Kart DS started off to me as being a cool game with some parts of the game very predicting 
 and other parts not so predicting. I could tell that the game was based off of the original Mario 
 Kart and also had some very similar play used in Double Dash.
  
  SINGLEPLAYER: The single player mode offers a variety of games including the ever so popular Balloon 
 and the Star mode of single player and along with that offers the 50CC, 100CC and 150CC race 
 levels. I played the game up to the unlocking of the second four racetracks and was hooked. However, 
 I found it hard to really get past those levels because Im someone who tries to bite off more 
 than they can chew. I tried to exceed to the next rounds without perfecting the first two of the 
 set of, I believe, 4.
  
  The nice thing about the game is that it brings out all the great things about the DS. The wireless 
 capability, the wireless multiplayer, the wireless and the wireless well, you get the picture.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: I think I was more excited about the multiplayer than I was about single player. Like 
 I said before, its all wireless! The really nice piece of the multiplayer is that you can pick 
 and choose whoever you want to be if you are using multiple game cards, or, it assigns you Shy 
 Guy (maybe one of the secret characters?) if you are using one single card. No more fighting about 
 who gets to be who in what race at what time because we all know, if you have siblings, that goes 
 on all the time.
  
  To sum up the Mario Kart DS its an all-in-all great game, fun for kids, (teens and adults too) 
 and easy to learn. I havent quite mastered all the pieces yet but that shouldnt be too hard.
 
  
  Definitely a 9.5 out of 10, great work Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgpoesj
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  A perfect game nothings wrong. missions r great The only thing ranks are hard but I'm a rank 1. 
 Thats goods if ur a Bad kid and u dont no. perfect game nothings wrong. missions r great The only 
 thing ranks are hard but I'm a rank 1. Thats goods if ur a Bad kid and u dont no. perfect game 
 nothings wrong. missions r great The only thing ranks are hard but I'm a rank 1. Thats goods if 
 ur a Bad kid and u dont no. perfect game nothings wrong. missions r great The only thing ranks 
 are hard but I'm a rank 1. Thats goods if ur a Bad kid and u dont no. perfect game nothings wrong. 
 missions r great The only thing ranks are hard but I'm a rank 1. Thats goods if ur a Bad kid and 
 u dont no. perfect game nothings wrong. missions r great The only thing ranks are hard but I'm 
 a rank 1. Thats goods if ur a Bad kid and u dont no. perfect game nothings wrong. missions r great 
 The only thing ranks are hard but I'm a rank 1. Thats goods if ur a Bad kid and u dont no. perfect 
 game nothings wrong. missions r great The only thing ranks are hard but I'm a rank 1. Thats goods 
 if ur a Bad kid and u dont no. perfect game nothings wrong. missions r great The only thing ranks 
 are hard but I'm a rank 1. Thats goods if ur a Bad kid and u dont no. perfect game nothings wrong. 
 missions r great The only thing ranks are hard but I'm a rank 1. Thats goods if ur a Bad kid and 
 u dont no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KHEDeep
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 8
  I don't usually like racing games, but Mario has always been a quirky and different series. This 
 meant the gameplay had to be different, and indeed it is! You have the basic controls, d-pad - 
 steering, A - acceleration, b - brake, but along with that you have the shoulder buttons which 
 give you the power slide. You hold R down and tap left, right, left right on your d-pad until the 
 flames behind your vehicle turn red, then when you let go of the buttons it gives yourself a boost.
 
  Along with that you have the X button, when you steer into a rotating box on the track in the 
 top left corner it spins through items, press X to stop on one or if you're too busy driving wait 
 for a couple of seconds until it stops spinning for you. Then hit X again to deploy your weapon/item. 
 To name some of the weapons/items you have red shells which crash into your opponents car, ceasing 
 them for a few seconds. Bananas, fire these onto the track and if an opponent drives over them 
 then they get dizzy for a few seconds etc. Not all items inflict your opponents, Mushrooms give 
 you a speed boost and Ghosts turn you invisible for a short amount of time. This all gives the 
 gameplay that extra twist that normal racing games don't have. Also you can drive closely behind 
 a racer into their slipstream to get a boost of speed.
  
  It's not just items though, along the track you'll find boost pads that give you some extra speed. 
 The tracks have drops, jumps, enemies from the Mario series there to slow you down, spinning things, 
 u-turns, snowballs, snowmen etc.
  
  At the menu you have options to compete in the Grand Prix, Time Trials, VS, Battle, Multiplayer 
 (Wi-Fi) and Missions. There are 8 cups to compete in if I can remember correctly, 3 levels of difficulty 
 and 12 characters to choose from in total, all from the Mario games. Each cup has 4 set tracks 
 from the Mario series and you race against NPC (Non Playable Characters) . Multiplayer you can connect 
 with your friends DS' next to you or people from all over the world using Wi-Fi! In this mode you 
 can either do races with teams or single and you can play Shine Runners or Balloon battle. In Shine 
 Runners you collect stars from hitting your opponent with items and then collecting them, after 
 each round the racer with the least amount of stars gets K/Oed and becomes a ghost player, which 
 means they are invisible and plant boxes for the players to pick up to get items. Balloon Battle 
 I'm not sure how you play it yet. xD But I think you have to grab balloons off other racers by 
 hitting them with items.
  
  Missions are like driving minigames. For instance some you need to do 5 power slides on the 8 Circuit 
 Track and get the Star and use it to hit 5 Cheep Cheeps. You have 6 levels in total and you need 
 to unlock the later ones. In each level there's 8 missions and you get ranked on how well you accomplished 
 them. This is where the replayability comes in because it's a mixture of hard and easy minigames, 
 I've only got up to level 4, so I don't yet know what happens when you complete them all.
  
  Battle is just like Multiplayer minigames, you can play Shine Runners or Balloon Battle against 
 NCP instead of a friend. Good to get in some practice before your mates come over.
  
  VS is just like a practice stage. You can customize it fully. Select your character and kart, then 
 Class, CPU Kart Diffculty, Course, Rules and wether you want teams or not. Once you do all that 
 select the Grand Prix and what tracks from it to play.
  
  Time Trials, select a character plus kart, then the Grand Prix and track. When selecting your track 
 in the top screen it will display your best time and best lap. Your aim is to beat your own time, 
 not one set by the game. You can also Send and Recieve Ghosts. I'm not sure what Recieve Ghosts 
 mean, but I know a ghost races round the track with you mimicking your driving from the last lap.
 
  
  Only downside to the gameplay is it doesn't use the unique DS features of the touchscreen!
  
 
  Sound - 6
  Hasn't improved greatly from the old bleepy GBA games. But it's bearable. Not exactly something 
 I'd turn up the sound especially for. If you want to annoy your parents then by all means turn 
 up the volume! xD
  
  Graphics - 8
  Best graphics I've seen on the DS yet! All 3D and the characters are very smooth for a DS game. 
 It looks almost the same quality as the PS1.
  
  Replayability - 8
  This game is chock full of tracks, missions/minigames and unlockables. You can unlock characters 
 and karts from winning races and missions. You can always replay tracks and go head-to-head over 
 Wi-Fi or with a friend. It's a game that you cann take in the car, on the bus, on the plane or 
 at a friends house to just play over and over. Another good thing about this game is that your 
 friend doesn't even need to have the game to play. All they need is a DS. Switch it on, go to DS 
 Download Play and wait for Mario Kart to pop up. While you put in your Mario Kart and go to Wi-Fi 
 and select the DS to DS and your off! Only downside is your friend can't select their character 
 or kart if they don't have the game. They have a default character, can't remember what it is though. 
 xD
  
  Difficulty - Moderate
  There are 3 levels of difficulty I believe. So you can adjust it to your likings. But you need 
 to go through the harder levels to unlock more stuff. I'd say overall the difficulty is moderate. 
 It can be hard and frustrating when you fall off cliffs and get hid by non avoidable blue and red 
 shells etc. But my 9 year old sister can play it fine. =)
  
  Overall - 8.1
  If you own a DS or are planning on getting one soon, then I advise you buy this game! It's worth 
 the full price if you want a replayable game you can take around with you and play with your mates. 
 One of the best DS games yet, although it wouldn't actually make much difference if it was on the 
 GBA. xD Except then you wouldn't have the dual screens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave7500
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  ok i can say mario kart ds is trurly 1 of the best game i ever played n is also a game tat is almost 
 perfect. but i dun really think everone will enjoy it especialy those older players n frankly i 
 am 15 now n i find it too childish!! but if u love car games or are a mario fan then u can get 
 these game. n if u dun find tis game childish u can also get it coz it is truly a great game
  
  the good-
  
  many kart to play
  many different courses cool items!
  good grahics
 
  can take u hours of fun!!
  many kinds of modes!
  wi-fi!!
  cool sounds n music
  
  the bad-
  too childish
  (tats the only bad thing about tis game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I just love racing games plus the fact that I can race others over the internet is a huge plus. 
 This game wraps up all the tracks from its predecessors and throws in some cool carts fro each 
 racer and even has unlockable racers, carts, and circuits. So far my favorite track is the pin 
 ball track and my favorite power up is the speeding bullet. This game is a blast.
  I just wish it were possible to get a cool power up when your in 1st through 3rd place it seems 
 like they only come to ya when your in last to 6th place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best because you can take it with you where ever you go!
  With the Gamecube or Nintendo 64 you couldn't take it with you!
  The only down fault to this 
 game is that it doesn't have very good graphics!
  This game is also a GREAT multiplayer!
  You can challenge your friends to a race and see who is the fastest!
  There is also fun mini 
 games to play with your friends!
  This game can be easy on some parts and hard on the others!
  This game is preaty fun!
  If you 
 are looking for a good challenging racing game!
  Then this is your game!
  Ether this game our one of the Need for Speed games!
  So I guess its time to bring this review 
 to a close!
  I give this game a 9.3 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilLD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I love mature title games. If a game has violence, blood and gore I can generally get into it. So 
 when i bought this little handheld called the DS for my girlfriend i figgured i would never even 
 touch it considering Nintendo is known for it's cutesy kid friendly titled and lousy kid friendly 
 licensed games. I went out and bought her chick games like nintendogs and your nickelodeon fare. But 
 on this very website i poked around and read alot of good things about a few titles like Starfox, Brain 
 Age and the highly touted Mario Kart DS. I went out and bought it and now that little DS has become 
 permanantly glued to my hands. Mario Kart is awesome. Highly addictive fun gameplay and Wi-Fi to 
 boot. If you don't own this game, you must go out and buy it right away. I though Mario and his cohorts 
 were cheesy and had believed i had buried my affinity for the characters in the early nineties 
 yet here i am 16 or so years later racing thru extremely fun tracks as Yoshi in a whacked out egg 
 mobile. So don't be afraid fellow Mature Game snobs, stop playing God of War for a week and give 
 this game and the DS a shot. Before you know it you'll find yourself thinking I'm gonna race as 
 the Princess cause she takes corners better or I hope i get a Bullet Bill!! I know this sounds 
 freaky but be darned if it ain't true. Mario Kart DS rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamaicanBadBoy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  the good: pretty much everything about this is awesome the online capabilities are awesosme, the 
 camera, the missions, tons of unlockables, etc.......
  
  the bad: well if u dont have a wi-fi u hv to hang out a wi-fi hotstops constantly such mcdonalds.
 
  
  The gameplay: the gameplay is awesome u will spend hours on this game constantly owining people 
 online or you can spend hours unlocking characters such as R. O. B which I THINK IS THE BEST Character. This 
 game has a total of 32 races, most of which are not avaialable until a certain point in the game. There 
 3 new power-ups such as the bullet bill. You will be hitting oppenets left right and center with 
 these power-ups whether there are bloopers ,bomb-ombs, the bluse shell etc... This game is a definate 
 buy whether you are a mario fan-boy such as myself or a new comer this game is an ideal game for 
 gamers that have a nintendo ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonthebig
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up Mario Kart DS, I had high hopes that it could live up to the great name 
 of the Mario Kart name. I was not dissapointed. There are many modes of play to explore, including 
 new missions which require the player to accomplish small tasks in a short amount of time. There 
 are also 4 modes of play for the regular racing cups. These will take a long time to complete, 
 and when you do there is multiplayer. This might just be the best part of the entire package. Not 
 only can you play against your friends, but you can go on WiFi and challange players from across 
 the globe. The immaturity level of players can leave something to be desired, but when you are 
 head to head with real players, nothing can define the amount of fun to be had. All and all, MKDS 
 is almost perfect. There are some tired courses from the Gameboy Advance Mario Kart, and there 
 arent as many characters as I would have liked. Mario Kart DS will stay in my DS for many weeks 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarysSoldier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is everything you could ask for in a video game. It is extremely solid in every department 
 and is a ton of fun to play. The gameplay is classic Mario Kart. Winning a race by boosting through 
 a tight curve to pass up the leader or by tossing a banana peel just right to make the leader slip 
 at the last second is wonderful gameplay. This game improves upon the action by adding 60 missions 
 which spice things up by having the player collect coins, do a certain number of boosts in one 
 lap, and even taking on bosses with items. Also, these missions are graded as either D, C, B, A, 
 *, **, or ***. So not only do you have to complete the mission, but you have to do it flawlessly 
 for the best rating. Similarly, the normal racing is graded as well, which adds replay value.
 
  
  At first the game seemed too easy (50 cc is child's play) , but the 150 cc class provides a decent 
 challenge. The AI is also impressive in that there is not a huge disparity in performance between 
 first and last place. In Mario Kart 64, it seemed that once you were in first place, you could 
 only hang on for a few seconds because your kart actually went slower than everyone else. And if 
 you were in eighth place it was only a matter of seconds before the AI slowed down enough for you 
 to catch up. But MK DS is much more balanced. The items naturally even the playing field without 
 needing the AI to cheat.
  
  The graphics are as good as you could expect but maybe could have been just a little bit smoother.
 
  
  The sound is decent enough. The phrases from the racers are a nice touch. The music does not particularly 
 stand out, though the familiar tunes from the retro levels provide the nice familiar music from 
 previous games.
  
  The value of this game is top notch. The missions and rating system add a whole level of depth. 
 The multiplayer options are entertaining. And there are lots of characters and 7 karts for each 
 one.
  
  One of my only complaints is that the game does not offer sufficient reason to race as multiple 
 characters. You can pretty much pick the one you want and stick there. A leveling system would 
 be an excellent addition to the series. Another slight complaint is that the controls cannot be 
 changed. Using the A button for gas, at least on the DS Lite, can only be done by awkwardly positioning 
 the thumb. It's not the most comfortable setup, but it works well enough.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is everything you can want in a racing game. A great system, fun tracks 
 and carts, and a lot of replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a racing game where Mario and many other Mario related characters race on karts. 
 There have been many in Mario Kart games over the years. This one happens to be one of the best 
 of all time. There are a good ammount of racers and levels. There are like 30 tracks and some are 
 old and some are new. They brought back some of the great classic courses. There are many different 
 game modes which include Grand Prix, Mission Mode, Time Trial, Versus and Battle, Multiplayer and 
 even Nintendo WI-FI connection! As you go through the grand prix mode you can unlock characters 
 and karts. This game supports local wireless connection for single card or multi card play. You 
 can play with up to 8 people on wireless ds to ds. There is also WI-FI one of the best things about 
 the game! If you have a wireless router or a USB connector you can play with up to 3 other people 
 around the world. It just finds random people and you all get together and pick your characters 
 and pick a course and race. You can also play with friends if you exchange friend codes. I think 
 that WI-FI is where most of your type will be spent. The graphics look great for a DS game. With 
 the cars and characters in 3D. The tracks look fine to. The game sounds great. This game should 
 last you for a long time considering it has WI-FI connection. Mario Kart DS is a great DS game 
 and if you own a DS and don't have this what are you waiting for go buy it now and get ready to 
 race!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyYoshi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the latest installment in the Mario Kart series. Bringing many of the old courses 
 you know and love on to this small platform, aswell as many new tracks for you to get your paws 
 on.
  Online play is fast and furious, and you rarely see any slow time.
  The graphics are really good for the DS, but kind of blocky. Some of the best on the DS.
  It 
 doesn't take very long to get into, it's got a really good pick up and play vibe to it.
  
  Probably the best game you can pick up on your DS, Mario Cart DS is the best you can pick up in 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goku-stream
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been a massive game, no matter what console. Take the introductory Mario 
 Kart for example on SNES, the game that started this legendary chain of Karting fun. Since that 
 game, Mario Kart has gone a long way, but has always stuck to the same fun, winning formula of 
 the original SNES version and although this version is on Nintendo's latest console, The DS, it 
 might just be the best one yet.
  
  Amazing handling, fantastic sound, gorgeous graphics and a smooth presentation is only the beginning 
 of this titles wonders.
  There are plently of options apart from the grand prix mode including Time Trials, VS Mode (which 
 allows you to choose which courses you want to face the computer on, as well as allowing you top 
 select the difficulty, rules and gives you a tems option) , Battle mode (Which includes Balloon Battle 
 and Shine Runners) and the new Mission mode in which you have to control certain characters to 
 pass the specific task.
  The Grand Prix mode has four classes and 16 new courses for the four cups in the Nitro Grand Prix 
 as well as having a Retro Grand Prix with four race courses from each previos Mario Kart.
  
  If the in-game one player mode isn't big enough, the multiplayer modes certainly add even more 
 depth to an already jam-packed gaming affair. Allowing you and three others to link up, you can 
 set up a VS mode event (which is very similar to the one player mode) or engage in battle mode 
 similar to that found in single player with an extra mode) .
  
  The other headline grabbing factor about this game is the Wi-Fi capability factor. This title was 
 the first game with the Wi-Fi Connection option over the internet, and it further extends its playability, 
 keeping you coming back for more as you pit your skills against people all over the world, improving 
 your skill each time.
  
  As you can tell, this game is HUGE and definately a must-buy title, but don't let me tell you, 
 let the game tell you itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman_500
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest racing games of all time. Forget driving sims Mario kart brings us 
 what we want from a racing game, no nonsense and driving with weapons thrown in for good measure.
 
  The usual gameplay is here, you choose your racer from a list of famous Mario names and whip round 
 famous locations from previous games. The carts handle beautifully and the weapons add a new world 
 to the game instead of swamping the driving like it did in Super Circuit and Double Dash. This 
 game is very focused on the pure Mario Kart joy, weapons are stingier so it is harder to win by 
 simply firing your way to the top, the carts are more classic and the famous jump has returned. 
 If you loved the original and the N64 version but the focus on weapons in Super Circuit and the 
 alterations to gameplay in Double Dash put you off then this will take you back to heaven once 
 more.
  It doesn't hurt that the graphics are amazing either. Lots of people criticise the DS graphical 
 capabilities just becasue the PSPs are better. Nobody really cares about anything else on the PSP 
 except for the graphics. This game shows you that the console is capable of sweet 3D and it looks 
 about twice as good as the N64 game. I played this game for a while and never got bored of it because 
 it had everything i needed and it is the ultimate game that anyone will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wanderer5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  I never had a Mario kart game since N64. Never have gotten SC or DD now I got MKDS and I never 
 had so much fun in years. Now where do I start?
  
  Gameplay: Has a really good balance of item, track, and karts but not perfect. Control are easy 
 to pick up and play.
  
  Graphics: Truly one of the best looking DS game yet. All the tracks look wonderful in this game. 
 Mario and the gang also look very good.
  
  Sound: The same kind of cheery music like most of mario games which is great.
  
  Value: There 
 are GP, battle, missions, vs, and more for single player and that half of the game. There is multiplayer 
 and online play which are really fun but online has some restrictions.
  
  So overall it a amazing game. Anyone who has a DS and haven, t pick up this game is missing out 
 on the best DS game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikmen_Power
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  It has four different dificulty modes in single player mode including 50cc 100cc 150cc and mirror 
 mode. It has a fantastic multi-player mode where you can play against other people acrossed the 
 world or you can play ds to ds. Or if your bored of racing just do some of the many missions it 
 has. Thiers also all the clasic characters and as you play you might unlock some characters or 
 cars. If you thought that was all your wrong thiers a awsome battle mode where you have to destroy 
 the opponents baloons and theirs at least seven or something places to battle at. You can also 
 pick teams where theirs a red team and a blue team and if one of your teammates wins your whole 
 team wins. So no matter what your doing in the game it'll keep you busy for days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PharaohPeter
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart ds is a fun, exciting and quite hard game. you get a lot of cups to play on and there 
 are tons of unlockables, like charachters karts and more cups. you can play up to 8 people on multiplayer 
 (single or multi cartrige) . and the best thing about it is that you can play it online!! you can 
 buy a router to play online but u can also buy the usb connecter and its a lot cheaper than a router 
 too. then you will just need high speed internet and then youre ready to play. the graphics are 
 great but not perfect. the characters are well detailed and the souroundings (grass, buuldings 
 etc.) are well made for a ds game. the sound is clear as crystal and the value is great. its only 
 costs 38 $ canadian and about 30 american. i highly recommend this game. i give it a 9.9/10 9.9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_final_sora
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  this game is a true masterpiece one of the best mario karts made the graphics are sweet and there 
 are both new and old courses in this
  courses included are from the gba, gamecuben64 and snes games one of the new courses is set in luigi's 
 mansion. the charecters include  and thats not half 
 of them give this a try you wont turn away dissapointed also you think thats it no way there is 
 a mission mode to test youre karting skills, not to mention the way cool multiplayer which thanks 
 to nintendo wi-fi you can race against people from japan and other country's or if youre a loner 
 theres also a versus mode so see ya and have a good time karting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonders1989
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  My expectations for this game was quite high as ive read many good reviews and high ratings. However, 
 after I played it for a few days, i realized that theres not much fun to it. It gets boring pretty 
 fast. Once you've played all the 32 tracks, theres still a few minigames but theres not much variety 
 and it quickly gets old. I also had problems with wifi. Ive wasted $70 in buying a Wifi-USB adapter 
 but still could not get online after following all the steps. I was very disappointed with this 
 game. In the end, I sold it and nearly sold my DS too if not for the Zelda: Phantom Hourglass game 
 which I look forward to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpicle
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best made for the DS so far. I might own a PSP, but this game by far, is 
 one of the best I own right now. I just got Mario Kart today because I was instantly hooked when 
 I played a friends DS who had it. The graphics are not as great as gamecube but they are better 
 than Nintendo 64. The only downside of this game is that you do not have as many players as you 
 had in Mario Kart: Double Dash and I so wished you could get paratroupa or Bowser Jr. as a player, 
 and it had more tracks but besides that it is a great game for anyone with a DS. (And if you don't 
 have one, get one!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyebrowless
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Dont feel like typing an entire review right now, i just wanted to score this amazing game. And 
 since there is a minimum amount of words that you need, ill probably just repeat the same words 
 over and over again like i did for OoT! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this 
 Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love 
 this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this 
 Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love 
 this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this Game! Love this 
 Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine517
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I first played Mario Kart 64, I have loved the series. And not that love you have for 
 ice cream, or a musician, or your dog, I mean I LOVE LOVE LOVE it with pure and unrestrained affection. 
 I have played every title ever released, and have adored every one. Nintendo has been known for 
 great, and this series is part of the reason why. And with this installment, Nintendo continues 
 its reputation of excellence. The gameplay is similair to the GBA version, with only one rider 
 per cart, but it also has elements from Double Dash, such as amazing battle tracks, and a mirror 
 mode. The riders include are: Mario, Luigi, Bowser, DK, Peach, Daisy, Toad, Yoshi, Wario, Waluigi, 
 R. O. B, and Dry Bones. Each has three standard carts unique to them, with more unlockable ones as 
 you progress. The Grand Prix tracks include some brand new ones, as well as some from all the versions 
 ( NES, N64, GBA, GC) . The touch is screnn is minimal, which isn't a surprise. An interesting feature 
 is a missions mode, in which you attempt to complete various usually time-oriented missions, such 
 as to drive through a track backwards, or collect a certain amount of coins. This fun feature, 
 along with the other rock solid aspects, make this perhaps the greatest DS game ever. Of course, 
 if they come out with POLITICAL WRESTLING , I may have to reconsider. ( Man would I love to see 
 Bush do a piledriver on Hilary!!) Wolverine517 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tellyn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is already an established franchise amongst Nintendo fans, with it already having installments 
 on the SNES, Nintendo 64, GameCube and even in the arcade. What could it possibly do that the other 
 games haven't already done? Online multiplayer gaming. Oh yeah. Starting up the game for the first 
 time seems familiar and not much different than Double Dash, pick your player and kart, then it's 
 onto track select. The game has the most courses out of all the other games, which are all fantastically 
 executed on such a small console. Then the games begin. THREE! TWO! ONE! GO! The racing is very 
 fun and addicting, making you feel like throttling Donkey Kong when he red-shell's you and takes 
 the lead. It is also really satisfiying when you manage to hit the leader with a well aimed green 
 shell. Multiplayer modes are also very fun, though I've stuck with normal racing over the balloon 
 battle and Shine fight modes as they tend to get repetitive. But online gaming is where you really 
 get your money's worth. Connect to the Internet which only takes a few seconds and you're off! 
 Battle locally, continentally or worldwide in epic four-player duels to the finish line! Laugh 
 at that Japanese kid you just send flying off the track and gloat when you are victorious over 
 everyone else! The only downside is that there is no voice or text chat, making you feel a little 
 weird when you're laughing to yourself maniacally. Overall the game is fantastic, and I'd recommend 
 it to anybody over the other currently available racing games on DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123kemps123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was hooked for 2 minutes than realized something... Why aren't there 
 any specials for each character? I loved that in the gamecube version cause that made the choice 
 of karts more difficult and fun! But I love that they added Baby Park as a gamecube track. My friends 
 and I would play Baby Park on gamecube so much! But I don't like the New Tracks there just plain... Boring.. 
 I mean they try to make them so fancy now on the other hand the gamecube ones where awesome! Overall 
 this game is very fun and a for sure to get for a mario kart fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickexile
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Well, what is there to say, the game is fun. It has been extremely well developed. There is so 
 much things to say about this game. Let's start with the main story. There is no story. You race, 
 you win. You can unlock new stages and characters, and believe me, there is a lot. there are 8 
 cups, not the usual 4. You have 4 new ones and 4 with courses from previous mario kart games, which 
 is the big seller for this game. But in this game you don't only have the usual little main story, 
 you also have missions. These missions require you to perform certain tasks with restrictions such 
 as time limit. Sometimes you must break certain amount of objects, complete a race backwards, and 
 the most fun part, defeat bosses. Now, one of the best parts of the game is wi-fi connection. Play 
 with friends and anyone else in the world. It is way more fun, but it does get bad when people 
 decide to drop out, because you don't get any points. But sometimes you find that one challenging 
 person that you just have to beat. All in all this is a pretty good game..... ok fine it is a GREAT, 
 FANTASTIC, game, and you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetraGold2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: With sadly no forms of any touch play, this game still give great gameplay. Probably 
 the easiest Mario Kart game to learn to play and the most revolutionary to play. From secret characters 
 to secret Karts, this is a game hard to put down.
  
  Graphics: This game has currently the best graphics to come to DS, even better than such titles 
 as Metroid Prime Hunters and Mario 64 DS. These graphics manage to beat the N64 graphics by a fair 
 bit and even give Double Dash for Gamecube competition.
  
  If you never found your favorite character for a Mario Kart game before, you will be sure to find 
 one now, not only a favorite character, but a favorite Kart.
  
  The wifi really add's gameplay. After beating the whole game, you can always rely on the wifi on 
 giving you more competition.
  
  Rent, Buy or Don't Even Bother: If your into racing games a definite buy and if your not, a still 
 definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Most of us remember the time when we all played the original Mario Karts on the SNES, and most 
 of us would still go back to that glorious time. Every Nintendo console from then on had its own 
 Mario Kart installment. The DS version was especially on the top of the list for most DS owners 
 who were waiting to tear it up once more.
  
  Once again the usual cast of Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Bowser, Peach, Toad, Wario and Donkey Kong are 
 back with their own custom karts, with three karts to each character. Theres a further four characters 
 to unlock too. This Version of the MK series focuses on the features of all the other games in 
 the past, for example Theres a total of eight cups, four being new and original tracks based on 
 themes like Bowser Castle and Pinball style courses. The other four cups are tracks taken from 
 the SNES, N64, GBA and Gamecube games. Theres a real mix of new and old thrown in to give you 
 a good variety.
  
  The modes of play also offer a variety, the usual grand prix and time trials are here as well as 
 they VS mode which sets you up to play other people and custom make your own grand prix from the 
 tracks. The classic Battle mode is back in two forms, the balloon battles are here with a total 
 of 8 karts fighting to survive. The object here is to keep your balloons inflated while attacking 
 other karts with weapons like turtle shells and the like to make other karts lose theirs.
  Shine runners is another battle mode which has you collecting several stars scattered around the 
 arena, every 30 seconds or so a timer runs out and the karts with the least stars is chucked out.
 
  The arenas themselves are detailed and have some cool features, Theres a DS themed level and 
 Tart Top is another cool level where a giant jelly is placed in the middle for karts to jump up 
 to collect item boxes.
  
  New to the game is the missions, these are small missions which see you doing a certain task in 
 the allotted time, and each set of missions has their own boss. This is more for people who are 
 new to the game and to help with controls, and once you've completed them all you'll probably not 
 want to go back to them seeing as theres nothing to gain from them.
  
  The gameplay is addictive as ever, the usual madness of item throwing, banana dropping, and shell 
 chucking action is the same as ever, and even the single player can get all the action they want. 
 New techniques like Snaking which implies you to powerslide on straights from side to side can 
 take a long time to practice but can grab you gold over the opposition, although once mastered 
 you'll find the game really easy.
  
  This is one of those games that comes along and really has an effect on you. Youll easily pick 
 it up and theres not a dull moment to it, every owner should try it and see how easy it is to 
 be hooked in the madness of the gameplay.
  The question on everyones mind was how the touch screen would work, the top screen is your main 
 screen and the bottom is a map that be tapped to reveal a bigger map with info as to who is in 
 what position. This is a useful too as to see whos behind you with what weapon they have.
  The sound in the game is as fresh as ever, even the minute sound of a blue shell being set off 
 in the distance can be heard and strike fear. The characters voices will ring in your ears with 
 melodious harmony.
  Taken as a whole any DS owner cannot go wrong by playing Mario Karts, even for a single player 
 experience, although the fun can amount to eight times the fun with friends, but even if youre 
 an anti social member of society then youll still enjoy Mario Kart just as much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is the best installment of Nintendo's beloved series not only because of it's great 
 multi player but also due to the endless amount of fun you can have with single player mode. You 
 can unlock many characters and their crazy karts. One new feature is all the crazy items you can 
 use to shrink, blow up, slip up, and ink up the other people you are racing so you can get ahead. 
 The single player mode will give hours of enjoyment but the on line play is what will keep you 
 coming back for more and more and then some more!!! because you can play with random people all 
 over the world or get someone's friend code from the forums and play with them. It will take you 
 along time to find this game old so I really recommend buying this one but most DS owners already 
 have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_returns29
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS would have to be the best Mario Kart game ever made and possibly the most fun racing 
 game out there.
  
  Unlike the other Mario Kart games, DS has a wide variety of single player modes, such as 4 tournaments 
 with 8 cups in each. It also has a new addition to the series, Missions, where you have to complete 
 certain goals in order to unlock the new set of missions. The very good thing that I like is that 
 you are able to do VS and Battle modes against bots, meaning you can do them in single player.
 
  
  Mario Kart DS definitely has the best multiplayer out of all. You can play VS and Battle modes 
 against other people who have DS's which is fun. The best thing of all is Wi-Fi, where if you have 
 a wireless router, a Wi-Fi adapter or go near a Wi-Fi hotspot, you can play online against people 
 all over the world. Since the game is very popular, there is always someone waiting to play against 
 you so you do not have to wait long.
  
  Mario Kart DS SHOULD be owned by every DS owner, if not, buy the game right NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajaa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I played this game all last and this year. It is so much fun but you should get it new or if you 
 by it used make sure that you start over. Now if you like Mario games then you will like this one. 
 It is very good online and the single player gets harder as you go. The game allows you to pick 
 from Characters such a Mario Lugi DK and so on. You racing on very cool tracks and it is very fun 
 and some will take a few minuets to sink in. You get to use weapons like shell and mushrooms all 
 the weapons in Mario game. If you have a DS and you are looking for a good game the go get this 
 even if you are not in to racing games because I hate racing games but this is totally different. 
 But if you do not have a ds then this game will make you want to get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter94
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Five reason to buy this amazing game..............
  1. The gameplay and even the graphics are the most outstanding feature of this game.
  2. A nice 
 game to pick up and play even if u beaten the game more than once.
  3. U only need one cartage to play multiplayer.
  4. Cool minigame this game contains.
  5. And 
 is a NINTENDO game plus mario is in the game.
  *The only thing that I didnt like was the sound. It was the only thing that i disliked.
  
  
 The game is kinda tough when u play 150cc. The A. I get really aggressive uses the rarest items aggainst 
 u. But over all u should finish the game in about 20 hours. There arent alot of games that are 
 selling on fire on the DS but this is the one of the few that is. Buy it now if u dont have this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKAslayer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Five reason to buy this amazing game..............
  1. The gameplay and even the graphics are the most outstanding feature of this game.
  2. A nice 
 game to pick up and play even if u beaten the game more than once.
  3. U only need one cartage to play multiplayer.
  4. Cool minigame this game contains.
  5. And 
 is a NINTENDO game plus mario is in the game.
  *The only thing that I didnt like was the sound. It was the only thing that i disliked.
  
  
 The game is kinda tough when u play 150cc. The A. I get really aggressive uses the rarest items aggainst 
 u. But over all u should finish the game in about 20 hours. There arent alot of games that are 
 selling on fire on the DS but this is the one of the few that is. Buy it now if u dont have this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacf
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  if you have acces to wifi, this is a must have! even if you dont you wont get bored of this game! 
 it has tons of new levels, a bunch of callasic race tracks as well. also, it's pretty cool to have 
 different karts to choose from, which also have differnt stats as well. as you probably already 
 know this is on of the top rated games, although it might take a few minutes to find four people 
 in wifi, its worth the wait. you can choose from: friends, regional, worldwide, or even rivals 
 in wifi mode! so if you arn't the best racer, you will still have people to race against, that 
 gives you a chance. this is a great first game, and im 100 percent completley staisfied with it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  This game is really great. The best racing game on the DS without a doubt. The single player is 
 fun with the races and if you get bored of that then theres always the missions to keep you occupied. 
 What makes this game even better is the multiplayer. it has FANTASTIC multiplayer. It supports 
 single card play for up to 8 people (First game i saw that allows multiplayer for up to 8) and 
 the DS Download time is very quick so you can start playing with friends almost instantly. This 
 is a great recommendation to every DS owner out there and I highly recommend it as a first game 
 for your DS if any of you just got a DS or are thinking of getting one. I always have a blast with 
 friends on this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithguy1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: If your looking for a good game to get your DS then Mario Kart is the perfect game to 
 get. As we all know Mario Kart is a racing game with plenty of tracks to go to and some tracks 
 from other Mario Kart games. In one player mode you can go to the 50CC, 100CC, 150CC, and eventually 
 the mirror 150CC. Each one has its own speed so you can slowly get the hang of the game. In all 
 you can be a total of 12 characters to be featuring people like Mario and Luigi to people like 
 a guy called Dry Bones and R. O. B.. The tracks are nice and long with three laps apiece for every 
 one of the except a track called Baby Park where you get five laps because of how short it is. 
 The game has Wi-Fi so you can battle people all over the world or just in the United States but 
 it takes a little too long to get 4 people on Wi-Fi but other times you get them quick. The only 
 thing more fun then playing online is playing with people in the same room because you can also 
 do a Battle mode where you get a total of five balloons but you only start out with one and to 
 get more you acually have to blow on the screen to blow up your balloon! How cool is that?! The 
 only problem is is that finding a bunch of people with a DS and the same game and have it with 
 them can be a tough challenge. Online can be tough sometimes you can even find yourself with about 
 100 loses and only 10 wins but if you find someone you know who has this youll be playing games 
 like mad. My friend and I have a total of about 80 matches. The gameplay can be a lot of fun. Believe 
 me. There is also a mission mode where you do things like collect the coins in so much time, do 
 the track backwards, go through the rings. There preety fun to do.
  
  GRAPHICS: Its for the DS so its not going to have Wii graphics but there pretty good. I can see 
 polygons in some places but its not enough to make you stop playing. There nice to look at.
  
  SOUND: The sound is great. It stays true to the Mario world and you can even find the original 
 music in the Retro mode where you can play tracks from the SNES the GBA and the GCN.
  
  VALUE: There is tons of hours of replay value in this one. You can easly play 80 games in racing 
 and battle modes. TILT: I had a lot of fun with this Mario Kart game and im sure anyone with a 
 DS will love it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud345
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Wow i was thinking that this game would have been as bad as the others but omg it wasnt. And to 
 think they were giving this game away for free because when you buy a red ds that right strikes 
 thoughts in your mind. I think if they didnt give this game away for free then they would of made 
 some $ but they also made some money buy getting people to buy the ds and this game. So onto the 
 game BEST IN THE MARIO KART WORLD. It was so fun and i didnt care that it was like 10 min to learn 
 the controls because its a really fun racing game and i know thatt you will love this game if you 
 buy it. Its not a rent kinda game its a buy kinda game i loved it and i just know if your into 
 the mario kinda games and you like racing games too then this is the best game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meesey01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  We first saw Mario and his team take to the tracks on the SNES. Since then Nintendo have produced 
 revolutionary Mario Kart titles. Mario Kart DS is the latest edition to the Mario Kart franchise 
 and is no doubt one of the best. With fantastic online play, wide selection of characters and fantastic 
 graphics this is a must-have for any Nintendo DS owner.
  
  The online play for this game is simply superb. You have a wide range of the best levels available 
 on the game and the choice of any character and kart. It can support up to 4 people in every round. 
 First you choose a level and you will race in the most popular one chosen or from one at random. 
 It has a great ranking system to serperate the 'men' from the 'boys'. Next up, the characters.
 
  
  The characters available for choice in this game are nothing short of perfect. With all time favourites 
 such as Mario, Yoshi and Toad there are also some newcomers to the game; R. O. B (from the Star Fox 
 franchise) , Dry Bones (from old-school Mario) and reasonably new characters such as Daisy and Waluigi. 
 What about those graphics?
  
  The graphics were a suprise to me when I bought the game, they'll certainly live up to your expectations 
 and should be compared to the Nintendo Gamecube rather than the N64.
  
  Overall this game is top-notch, only one problem. Battle mode is unavailable as a wi-fi option, 
 but with many other features who's complaining? If you own a DS and don't have this game leave 
 your house now and run to your nearest games outlet, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cousinwalt
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  It seems like no matter how many racing games I play, none of them can top the absolute enjoyment 
 that a good Mario Kart game brings me. It's a simple yet challenging series that never disappoints 
 and the DS version is no exception.
  
  Right out the box you'll see its your classic Mario Kart game. Pick your favorite character and 
 race against several other famous Nintendo franchises using items to gain ground. What sets this 
 DS version aside from other Mario Karts is the amazing advances in Items (which I'll let you discover 
 yourself) but I will advise you that if you are in first place, hear the sound of rushing air and 
 a small blue dot appearing on your minimap - you can kiss your ass goodbye. As always, you're most 
 vulnerable in the 1st place position and the computer characters or your multiplayer friends have 
 a whole lot of stuff to take you down.
  
  I also must admit I love what my roommate and I have named inking which happens when someone behind 
 you gets a squid in an item box, uses it and coats your screen in black ink so you can't see anything. 
 It's pretty awesome.
  
  Battle mode has been made more interesting by the fact that to inflate your balloons you have to 
 literally blow them up (by blowing into your microphone) . I'm not totally in love ith this feature 
 since I can never play battle mode in public without looking like a **** lunatic as I turn blue 
 blowing as fast and hard as I can an inch from my DS Lite. Might be acceptable if I were seven 
 - maybe even cute, but I am 25 and it's just sad.
  
  The courses are all amazing and some really force you to use your minimap on your lower screen 
 to look for incoming items, who is behind you and all other players on the track.
  
  The only real beef I have with the game is the most controversial part of the multiplayer - Snaking. 
 For those of you who haven't experienced it, it's pretty much people that drift back and forth 
 creating the drift boost you can get by pressing back and forth quickly during a drift. It's done 
 in a motion that makes a snaking pattern thus putting these racers amazingly far ahead. The argument 
 in favor of snaking is usually it's in the game. it takes skill. why not? and my own personal opinion 
 is that it ruins the fun of a fair race and has almost completely kept me from using the Nintendo 
 WiFi play. Thats a drag because I really enjoy the occasional fair races you can find on Wi Fi.
 
  
  So yeah, that's about all I have to say. The rest you can learn on your own. Mario Kart is definitely 
 worth buying and putting in your collection; it's a classic. Just make sure you play Battle mode 
 at home with the blinds closed and the phone unplugged. I say that out of experience... My neighbors 
 have started talking... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 255Loner
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  The Greatest Jump in the Series 
  
  Introduction
  
  Most of the games from the Mario Kart series have generally been average games. Nothing stellar 
 about them no matter how you saw them, until this game. Implemented into this game was an improvement 
 in about all possible categories of its gameplay. I am happy to see Mario Kart finally pull out 
 of the average.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Most racing games tend to have uneventful action. If your vehicle is faster than the other car, 
 you win, but not in this game. Compared to the previous Mario Kart games, this game requires much 
 more skill out of the player while still allowing those who do not have the best fine motor skills 
 to still be able to enjoy it. The two elements of the racing experience that differentiate between 
 the novice and the expert is how you use the items you pick up along the racecourse and how you 
 take your turns. That would be knowing the time and place for everything and knowing when to begin 
 and end a drift. By simply gaining experience through playing will get anyone good at the game. 
 Thankfully, the game did not have to provide wicked racecourses with hairpin turns to make the 
 gameplay interesting.
  
  The Mario Kart games by nature are rather short, and while there is no change here, there is still 
 a considerable jump in things you can do this time around. Among those things would be a series 
 of missions, where you are set in a particular course and are asked to do something such as driving 
 through x number of gates in numerical order or collect all 20 coins along a track. The Missions 
 are a fairly enjoyable, though brief, part of the game, though nothing but satisfaction is gained 
 from playing them.
  
  Unarguably the greatest addition to the series is the ability to play against others from all over 
 the worldon-line! The game uses WiFi to connect to the Internet where you may race against people 
 from your region, from all over the world, or from just your friends. The only way this game was 
 able to maintain an ESRB rating of Everyone is that the game prevents all communication between 
 those racing. This part of the game has its ups and downs, but the pros outweigh the cons considerably, 
 as I personally would rather not have to deal with the rougher persons out there in exchange for 
 plainly not being able to talk to anyone. When playing on-line, you may not choose from absolutely 
 all of the tracks, as some are too large for the game to handle on-line, and you cannot do battle 
 mode, as the drastic increase in the weapon items flying around the arena were too much for the 
 game to handle on-line.
  
  What the game provides is the typical Grand Prix mode, where you and seven computer-controlled 
 characters race in the games tracks in four different difficulties. The differences between the 
 first three difficulties is the AI of your rivals and the speed of your cart, which gets faster 
 as you go up in engine size, and the difference between the third and fourth difficulty is the 
 fact that the course is flipped horizontally. At the end of each set of four races per cup, you 
 get a place and a rank. There is little difficulty even for the inexperienced to place first, but 
 the real challenge is getting ranks in the upper-end of the C, B, A, 1-star, 2-stars, 3-stars scale, 
 where 3-stars is your best rank. Battle mode gives you two optionsBalloon Battle and Shine Runners. 
 In Balloon Battle, your cart starts off with a given amount of balloons, and your objective is 
 to use the items laid around the arena to hit your opponent enough times, one hit per balloon, 
 until they no longer have any balloons and cannot participate any longer. Versus Mode in this game 
 plays exactly like another game's Practice Mode, where you race courses you have earned the way 
 you want to race them. Unlike the previous Mario Kart games, in this game's Time Trial mode, when 
 you unlock a Staff Ghost (the developer's best times on each course before it was released that 
 are unlocked by racing a time near theirs) , you get to keep it and race it as much as you want, 
 although nothing but bragging rights is achieved from that. In this game, you can also transfer 
 between Mario Kart players your ghosts wirelessly so you can compete against each other's best 
 times. You may save up to ten of others' ghosts.
  
  The gameplay in general, and due to some minor tweaks from the last 3D Mario Kart game, has overall 
 improved, turning out to be a much greater experience.
  
  Audio
  
  No game in the Mario Kart series has had extraordinary music, and nothing has changed. All previous 
 games in the series have had music come straight off of the electric keyboard, and this game is 
 no different. The music is decent at best, though at least it is an improvement over the last game's 
 soundtrack, which had a whistling motif in almost each and every song, from the menus to the racetracks. 
 For some of this game's retro courses, that whistling motif has carried over, though thankfully 
 to only a couple courses. The sound effects three games ago were already realistic-enough, and 
 as nothing has changed including the sound effects, that remains to be plus for this game. The 
 music is appreciably different across the different tracks, and fit the themes, but as with most 
 action video games, could be better.
  
  Value
  
  The content provided has also increased from the last game. The previous installments gave you 
 16 tracks to choose from, and four battle arenas. This game has 16 original racecourses, and 16 
 more from previous games; four original battle arenas, and two of the very best from the previous 
 battle arenas for a total of six. Such content alone should make this an instant-buy for anyone. 
 The difficulty of the game is nonexistent. When you first play, and I would assume you would choose 
 the lowest difficulty, if you have played any Mario Kart game, or you get the general idea of racing 
 games, you will have little trouble coming in first. Once you have raced all 8 cups in that difficulty 
 placing first, you are then probably ready to take on the next difficulty level, etc. The only 
 real difficulty is racing against others on-line and making a high rank on those cups.
  
  One superb aspect of the game's content that has improved (which I thought was impossible to do) 
 is its multi-player mode. You may choose from all of the game's 32 courses if the leader has unlocked 
 them and from the start, all six battle arenas. For the first time ever, you can make your own 
 teams. Although you cannot make the teams unequal, it is a nice start. The wireless range, I believe, 
 will practically cover players in most households and through walls okay. If you plan to play with 
 a wall between you and your friends, at least make sure your DS's are generally pointing at each 
 other. Even if your friends do not own a copy themselves, you still have access to a fourth of 
 the game's tracks, which is an amount that is half of the past games altogether, and half of the 
 game's battle arenas, which would have been 75% of other games. If your friends choose to play 
 this way, they won't have the option of choosing carts or racers, which will be a drawback only 
 while racingdoes not matter in battle mode.
  
  Visuals
  
  Keeping in mind that this is a portable game, I can give this game nothing but praise of its visuals. 
 The game sports gameplay in three dimensions, and only one other Mario Kart game has had you play 
 as a 3D spriteyes, in Mario Kart 64, you were a highly detailed 2D sprite in a 3D environment. 
 The game gives you 36 different carts, though twelve of which are the same thing with a different 
 color, the one with different colors and the other 24 have much detail from the polygons of the 
 wheels to the textures of the kart bodies. The courses are distinct and are detailed somewhat decently. 
 The only visual complaint that I can come up with is the amount of polygons for the characters, 
 which is rather low; Bowser is blockier than first appearance in 3D in Super Mario 64, which is 
 tough to beat. The HUD (Heads-up Display) displays enough valuable information without getting 
 in the way too much, so know beforehand that will not be an issue.
  
  OVERALL: 9/10
  
  This sequel is the greatest jump in quality I have ever seen since I started seeing sequels following 
 the very first Mario Kart game. From the greater-than-doubled content to the very improved gameplay 
 and presentation, this game is a winner. While the on-line mode could have easily been better, 
 though it may have been limited simply due to the DS's RAM, it was a significant and giant leap 
 for the game series, especially the fact that this game is a portable while still on-linecompatible. 
 Otherwise, my only other complaint is that Nintendo chose the weirdest courses to transfer for 
 the Retro Races, though that may be my personal preference. What's neat is that they could not 
 have chosen a better 2 battle arenas to transfer, and that makes a huge difference when you are 
 trying to get your friends to play battle mode with you wirelessly. The game can be as simple or 
 as technical as you are willing to play it, which is an amazing quality few games are privileged 
 to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prophet-0-doom
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off let me say: I love this game!! ok now thats outa the way... The game has some nice 
 character animations and smooth looking graphics. Its content is where it really shines, however. 
 There is sooo many things to do in this game. Wether its beating all the grand prixs (8 total) 
 on all the difficulties or playing mini games. There is a good 3 hours of racing themed mini games 
 alone. Then there is a lot to be done for the actual races. You can beat the race, sure. But the 
 game rates you on your performance as well. So if you want that three star rating, your gonna have 
 to haul some serious ass! Then there is online. This is fun, although i wish nintendo had implemented 
 a chat feature for your friends. That is easily forgotten when you get a race going though. All 
 in all Mario Kart DS really lives up to the Mario Kart expectations, and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heck100
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Incredible replayability, excellent graduation of difficulty from lowest to highest levels 
 across all modes of play, worthwhile unlockables, WiFi wonderment.
  
  The Bad: Quality of online play is opponent-dependent... snaking abounds, low utilization of touch-screen, 
 engaging gameplay drains hours from your day.
  
  The Ugly: No ugly here.
  
  Mario Kart DS is one of those rare gems in the gaming industry: A game that has a sharply defined 
 purpose. MK-DS builds it's phenomenal play-ability around the key elements of graphics, gameplay 
 and sound, then expands on these with worthy alternate modes of play and truly functional and fun 
 multi-player capability.
  
  I'm not a Mario Kart fan from back when, though I burned a lap or three back in the day on a friends 
 system. As I slipped in the new MK-DS cart and powered up my DS I had low expectations. It's a 
 racing game... it's been done before, and better, on a console. It's on a hand-held... it must have 
 sacrificed graphics for screen-size. And I've heard the bad mojo about the easily accessible but 
 snake-a-licious online play.
  
  What I received in return was a wonderful surprise. MK-DS is the singular, most engaging game-play 
 experience I've ever had on a hand-held. The graphics are sharp, super-fast FPS, with detailed 
 and rich environments. The sound is truly classic Mario, though it fades comfortably into the background 
 as you get sucked into the courses. With half a dozen game play modes, local and Wi-Fi capability, 
 and superior pick-up-and-playability, it's the complete package. This game truly is a must have.
 
  
  I've read at least two dozen reviews that stated If you own a DS, you MUST own this game, and I 
 thought it was all hype and brand loyalty.
  
  I was wrong.
  
  Mario Kart DS is a buyer for any DS or DS Lite owner. Rent it if you can and you'll buy. Buy it 
 and you'll grin for weeks and months to come as you try to power slide past Luigi in the final 
 lap of the 150cc Star Cup.
  
  Either way, I'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burninghawk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has come a long way all the way from the Snes, and got better every time another was 
 made, improving from its predecessor. Now we have one for the DS and guess what, it rocks.
  
  It has everything the fans have been waiting, and that is not just online play, but has double 
 everything from previous titles including a new mode, Missions. Although there is no adventure 
 mode (which i was hoping for) or special weapons for each character, but it's all made up for, 
 with the incdredibly addicting online play. There is also the Grand Prix to improve your stats 
 and unlock new modes and characters and tons of karts, along with over 30 missions, a time trial 
 to test your skills and an improved battle mode, at least from DD, and last but not least, the 
 favorite tracks from the previous Mario Karts. Basically, this game will keep you busy for weeks 
 if not months.
  
  The graphics were a surprise. I thought they were going to be the same as 64, but they were even 
 better. Now everything is 3D and it has a DD spark to remind you of its past. Perhaps they could 
 have done a few tweaks with the SNES and GBA tracks for an extra kick, but that's just what i think. 
 The graphics overall are craftsmanship for the DS.
  
  Everyone knows it, Mario music is just plain addicting and reason enough to play through. Each 
 tracks individual soundtrack matches its appearence very well, and the sound effects are classic.
 
  
  It's not the cheapest game for the DS, but it is quite simply one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  No storyline... you can still go as crazey as you want! Muhahahaha!! Graphics- Looks quite good 
 but I've seen better. But then again, they are really good for a DS. But basically many look DS 
 games look better... but this game's graphics are really good!! Level Designs are actually almost 
 Gamecube quality. Really nice. SNES levels look really good as well. Giving old school gamers classic 
 memories!! N64 levels look really good. It matches the DS more than the SNES levels... but the 
 GameCube levels look better than perhaps any DS game!! I mean it... I mean it...
  
  Gameplay- It's gets even cooler, it has online play. About time!! This game has really good gameplay!! 
 Not as good as Double Dash!! but the gameplay is great!! Superb!! AWESOME!! REALLY AWESOME!! Rainbow 
 Road is really good looking!! The cars go fast!! My fav. level is Rainbow Road.
  
  Sound- Voice overs are good, music rocks hard. Rainbow Road music is really good. Du-Du-Du-Duu-Du-Du.... 
 Haha, that was retarded. But the music is good. Rainbow Road has really good music. Mmm...
  
  Closing Comments- While not as good as Double Dash!! there is alot for DS owners to get thrilled! 
 Best racing game on DS in fact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  The Good: Superb playing. Over 2 dozens of tracks and online capability.
  The Bad: Online only has 20 tracks but not much of a problem.
  
  Mario Kart DS is a game any 
 DS owner should add to their collection (now over 12,000) . I'll start with the single player.
 
  
  Grand Prix: The standard Mario Kart basis. Pick a car class, character, car and then cup. follow 
 the 5 C's. Go through 4 tracks in each cup which go through the mushroom, flower, star and special. 
 A new addition is that there are 4 more cups which are in the retro grand prix. A cup in here takes 
 1 track from each Mario Kart and put them in the cup. Shell, banana, leaf and lightning cups are 
 available here. You do start off with the first 2 cups but then winning will get you the rest.
 
  
  Time Trials: Another standard Mario Kart basis. Time trials are the testing to use the best car 
 for a cup. Pick your character, car, cup and then track. You have your mushrooms and you have to 
 do all 3 laps (5 in Baby Park) . You can also send your ghosts over to a friend and receive them 
 but you can only have 10 and 1 per track. Also when you get a good time, you get a staff ghost 
 which is one of the staff who has done the best time. You can race it until you beat it. Beat all 
 and you will be a really good racer.
  
  Vs: A tournament against the AI. Pick your character, and then car. Then do the settings for the 
 match. Car class, difficulty, course, wins or races and teams. Then you go pick the track and you're 
 off. The bad thing is that you can't pick who you want on your teams.
  
  Battle: The game offers two battle modes. The first is balloon battle which you have a balloon 
 (you have 4 more stashed up) and you have to blow into the microphone to get more up. Then you 
 have to fight against the other opponents and win by destroying their balloons. Shine runners is 
 a new battle. There is a shine and everyone tries to go for it. After that, more will appear until 
 9 have been collected. Then you have to not be the one (or ones) to have the least amount of shines. 
 After that, they get kicked out and play continues until there is one left. Battle each character 
 has their standard car. The settings are the same as Vs only that there is no car class. The arenas 
 are: Nintendo DS, Twilight House, Palm Shore and Tart Top. There are also 2 old ones: Block Fort 
 and Pipe Plaza. All of these arenas are unique and have their special condition.
  
  Missions: The newest feature of Mario Kart, missions are the training of your skills. You have 
 7 levels to beat. Each contains 8 tasks and a boss. You have to fight a Big Bully, Eyerok, Goomboss, 
 King Boo, Big Bob-Omb, Chief Chilly and Wiggler (all bosses from Super Mario 64) . All the tasks 
 get harder and are under a time limit so hurry.
  
  The game also runs under a ranking system. After every task or grand prix, you will get either 
 star, double star, triple star, A, B, C, D or E. Get triple star for everything for a reward.
 
  
  The charcters in this game are Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, Wario, DK, Bowser, Daisy, Waluigi, 
 Dry Bones and R. O. B. Each character has their own three cars (including the standards) and each 
 is unique in look and performance. They run by six stats: Speed (how fast it can go) , Acceleration 
 (how fast it can get faster) , weight (how good you can shove people) , handling (how good you can 
 steer) , drift (how good it can slide) and items (how good your items rating is and how many mushrooms 
 you get in time trials) . All the cars look good.
  
  All 32 tracks in the game are nice graphiced or re-graphiced into good condition.
  Mushroom: 
 Figure-8 Circuit, Yoshi Falls, Cheep Cheep Beach, Luigi's Mansion.
  Flower: Desert Hills, Delfino Square, Waluigi Pinball, Shroom Ridge.
  Star: DK Pass, Tick-Tock 
 Clock, Mario Circuit, Airship Fortress.
  Special: Wario Stadium, Peach Gardens, Bowser Castle, Rainbow Road.
  Shell: SNES Mario Circuit 
 1, N64 Moo Moo Farm, GBA Peach Circuit, GCN Luigi Circuit.
  Banana: SNES Donut Plains 1, N64 Frappe Snowland, GBA Bowser Castle 2, GCN Baby Park.
  Leaf: 
 SNES Koopa Beach 2, N64 Choco Mountain, GBA Luigi Circuit, GCN Mushroom Bridge.
  Lightning: SNES Choco Island 2, N64 Banshee Boardwalk, GBA Sky Garden, GCN Yoshi Circuit.
  
 
  All the tracks as you can see are imaginative in just their name. You might know some of the older 
 tracks.
  
  Now for the multiplayer part. Mario Kart DS is a hardworking game. The multiplayer in local areas 
 goes through either normal or simple play. Normal is that every need a copy of the game, they can 
 race on any track and battle in any arena. If simple, any DS owner can play with the DS Download 
 Play. Each character who downloads can play as the thirteenth character, Shyguy and he only has 
 his standard car. You are also limited to the mushroom and shell cup in racing and also Nintendo 
 DS Tart Top and Pipe Plaza in battle but you get all the settings and both modes of battle. Up 
 to 8 people can be playing on either and also you can get the AI to fill in the gaps as well.
 
  
  The Wi-Fi capability is pretty good as when you get in, you can search for regional, random, rivals 
 and friends to play against. Up to 4 people can play and you are limited to only 20 of the tracks 
 and no battle. The cut-out tracks include Airship Fortress, Waluigi Pinball and GCN Mushroom Bridge 
 because of too much going through. Not much of a problem though. Each person can also make their 
 own emblem to show off in multiplayer in the options menu to use instead of the character's.
  
  Mario Kart DS is one of the biggest games I've ever played and you should get it too as well 
 as the Wi-Fi router. Even though some shortcuts have been blocked from retro tracks, people won't 
 even feel annoyed by this game and hits on the top of the recommendation list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Campboy24
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a complete and utter gaming masterpeice. It is the best Mario Kart game to date and 
 probably will be for some time to come. It has marvelous graphics, especially for a portable system. 
 This game also had some neat characters and many karts to unlock throughout the game. I also personally 
 liked the missions the game had. One of the best new additions to Mario Kart DS was that it allowed 
 you to create your own emblem and make it shine with your personality. You could make it into anything 
 you like. This game truely is a gaming masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insteletr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Divirta-se com Mario, Luigi, Yoshi e v&aacute; rios outros loucos personagens nessa corrida recheada 
 de adrenalina e bom humor, ruma &agrave; linha de chegada! Com suas pistas favoritas dos antigos 
 games da s&eacute; rie Mario Kart e novas e excitantes pistas, somente aguardando pilotos corajosos 
 o suficiente para correr nelas! Desafie seus reflexos e agilidade no modo single-player ou divirta-se 
 com seus amigos em partidas multijogadores, onde at&eacute; 8 jogadores podem correr ao mesmo tempo.
 
  
  Abusando do poder do Nintendo DS e de suas capacidades Wireless, Mario Kart DS d&aacute; um passo 
 em dire&ccedil;&atilde; o ao futuro da divers&atilde; o on-line em at&eacute; 8 jogadores simult&acirc; neos. 
 Voc&ecirc; pode correr com advers&aacute; rios de todo o mundo usando a Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. 
 Com mais de 30 pistas e corredores insanos, a velocidade alucinante e as armadilhas deixar&atilde; o 
 voc&ecirc; gargalhando a cada curva!
  
  - Corra e batalhe com at&eacute; 4 amigos - ou participe de disputas on-line pela sua conex&atilde; o 
 Wi-Fi
  
  - Todos os items insanos e corridas em alt&iacute; ssima velocidade da j&aacute; conhecida s&eacute; rie 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MovieMark17
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  The Mario franchise has been dominating the DS lately, with some amazing rehashes of golden classics; 
 the DS has made the very games we grew up loving even more enjoyable than before! One of the best 
 Mario games ever was Mariokart. It was something new; it had some amazing gameplay and contained 
 the maximum adrenaline a car game should offer. So, naturally, with the DS, they made it look and 
 sound even better, more playable characters are added into the mix, and new levels to really get 
 bang for yer book! It's impressive, to say the least, and with many other successful Mario games 
 at the moment, most recently Super Mario Bothers for the DS, I'm sure it won't be long before we 
 get a possible sequel to this Mariokart game!
  
  Although this game doesn't use the touch screen whatsoever, except to change how you'd prefer to 
 view the game maps, it doesn't take away from the experience one bit. In fact, now that I think 
 of it, using the stylus for a game such as this would probably be an impossible task and would 
 definitely take away from the gameplay. There are so many things to comment about - I don't know 
 where to start?!
  
  Gameplay: Hours and hours, days on end, months and months! This is a handheld game with SO much 
 replay-ability that you needn't buy any other game! First off we have character selection, which 
 varies with different vehicles to suit the personality and physique of certain characters. For 
 example Bowser's motor is massive, and can easily knock any car smaller than it off a cliff without 
 going over the speed limit. Yoshi, on the other hand, has a slim vehicle that can turn a lot easier 
 and really sneak in where others find it difficult.
  
  You start off with one main car and then one default racecar for every player. As levels are completed 
 new characters are unlocked with new vehicles. This is where thought really needs to be put into 
 your gameplay. Larger cars may have more speed, but their manoeuvrability is somewhat lacking and 
 its item level may be low, meaning that said character could be prone to being dealt bananas instead 
 of red shells, or mushrooms.
  
  Initially you start off with eight main characters disposable for your driving pleasure - Mario, 
 Luigi, Peaches, Bowser, Donkey Kong, Toad, Yoshi and Wario. Each one comes with pros and cons; 
 but are ALL extremely playable and wonderfully animated. Starting out in the 50cc races, by the 
 end you should be fairly confident on who's your favourite driver, although it doesn't really matter 
 that much as I, personally, can drive and win with any of them. Although my favourite character 
 is probably Wario... I love driving Toad off road. Heh.
  
  As you progress, and as the games becomes slightly more challenging, you will unlock other firm 
 favourites and their new cars, too. It keeps the gameplay fresh and although the new characters 
 may not very from style that much, its a little something extra to love about the game.
  
  There are plenty of levels to waltz through! They do become increasingly more difficult as you 
 make your way up to the big leagues, racing at 150cc - this is where the games hits its prime and 
 stays there. While the 50cc and 100cc may come off as tedious gaming, they are worth it in the 
 end. Of course, you could just skip to 150cc and race the night away but there is a slight learning 
 curve to it and new characters and levels can only be accessed once 50cc and 100cc are completed, 
 respectively.
  
  Graphics: This IS the best looking game on the DS. The level design is masterfully done and the 
 background isn't simply just boring repetitive decoration. There are lovely 3D backgrounds, with 
 blimps or by passing NP cars and busses, as well as ghosts and demonic trees just to name a few. 
 Every level looks gorgeous, and the classic levels are nicely polished - although the real fun 
 is to be had in the clock tower, or the pinball machine! Its great fun altogether!
  
  The characters are brought to life in true Mario fashion. Each character has their own little victory 
 dance and its rather funny, too. The special items have been improved upon very much. Not only 
 do we have the classics (green shell, red shell, bomb, bananas) , but also we have new ones that 
 are very innovative. If you are far behind there's the bullet, which transforms your character 
 into a raging bullet and knocks anyone off the track if they get in you way - it looks great. Then 
 we have the oil attack, which prevents you from seeing the screen and possibly may cause you to 
 crash. Then we have the new blue shell that automatically targets the lead and hits he or she with 
 a watery fury!
  
  Sound:
  
  It all sounds exactly the way one would expect a Mario game to sound like. The tunes are vibrant 
 and very upbeat, with a few little rock tracks in there too! The characters have their little sound 
 and noises and when you bump into another racer they beep the hell at you. The music never feels 
 stale and always adds to the driving experience.
  
  Value:
  
  This. Is. Perfect. I can pick it up and play it whenever I feel - its easy to grasp but also has 
 a level of challenging obstacles and may take you a few times to beat a competition. This game 
 is practically flawless! With online facilities, a nifty little challenge mode and multi-player 
 at your fingertips, Mariokart is an extremely impressive long-term investment that will not dissatisfy! 
 Believe me! It does the impossible and out does the classic kart game, which was, before this, 
 THE classic. But not anymore.
  Well worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  If you consider yourself a gamer, you must know about Mario Kart. Or at least a rip-off of it anyway. 
 The wildly popular, wildly copied kart-racing formula was created with Mario Kart, and it still 
 holds best with that series, thanks to the if it aint broke, dont fix it approach. So what 
 makes Mario Kart DS best in series? Online with the same constant fun this series always has.
 
  
  For those of you who ACTUALLY dont know, Mario Kart is basically racing in basic circles with 
 some crazy items (some of which are booby traps, others which help some catch up) for good measure 
 (aka a more competitive spirit, and some pretty dang interesting races) .
  
  For the most part Mario Kart DS does this the exact same enjoyable way as the rest of the series. 
 You could be in 7th place (out of 8) and suddenly get a star and turn the race in your favor. Or 
 maybe youll recall the time you were neck in neck with your friend on the last lap, just to have 
 him get a red shell and beat you at the end. This is what makes Mario Kart, as well as the frustration 
 with this specific version. It seems someone at Nintendo decided that the downright painful items 
 werent coming enough, and now you may see the infamous blue shell (which homes in on 1st place 
 not letting anything get in its way) 3+ times in one race. This is definitely annoying for those 
 who race well and get bad items more often, but then again, Ive discovered that anyone whos really 
 good should be able to recover most of the time.
  
  Of course, none of this would matter if the driving wasnt decent, but it is. Each kart is different 
 in how it handles, but all of them are roughly equal in different ways. And all of them are able 
 to complete the course. And there are a lot of them, I mean a LOT, more than any Mario Kart game. 
 So you are bound to get the kart that perfectly suits how you race in this game. Some techniques 
 such as powersliding and tailgating add some more skill into this game for those who seek to get 
 really good. Those who just want to win should be fine with just racing around corners and using 
 items though, thankfully, so you shouldnt have issues with difficulty for the most part.
  
  Besides the typical Grand Prix fare, MKDS has a brand new mission mode. These missions are 
 varied, pretty fun, albeit a bit short. They range from things such as collecting a certain amount 
 of coins, to beat ______ racing on the course in the wrong direction, to some unique boss minigames. 
 While these wont replace the classics such as GPs and Time Trials (racing for best times on courses) , 
 this a charming new little mode that is a nice diversion.
  
  Single player aside, the real reason to play MKDS is multiplayer. Racing is self-explanatory, being 
 the same as grand prix mode, just with your choice of courses, and more people (up to 8 with bots 
 filling in the other slots) . Battle mode on the other hand, has all the players (and bots, which 
 is nice when you have nobody or barely anybody else to play with) put in a small arena fighting 
 with the games zany items.
  
  The two battle modes, balloon battle and shine runners are different, although some are probably 
 likely to forget the latter. Balloon battle gives each kart some balloons, and for each hit they 
 take, they lose balloons. Lose all balloons and you are out. Last one (or team) surviving wins. 
 Shine runners has you attempting to play in those arenas collecting shines (from Super Mario Sunshine) . 
 If you get hit you lose shines, and as time goes on, those with the least shines are eliminated 
 (once again last one/team surviving) .
  
  And while this is nice and all, not everyone is especially social, and Nintendo has added Wi-Fi 
 to the game. Although Wi-Fi has some unfortunate setbacks (only 4 players with no bots, instead 
 of 8 with bots. Only 20/32 of the games courses. No dragging items behind you) , the ability to 
 play against anybody who has the game and an online connection is great.
  
  Of course, as fun as that is when its at its best, since you open the doors to everyone, you also 
 risk facing those who use underhanded (and controversial) techniques, those who hack, and LOTS 
 of sore losers (who disconnect from games) . However, if you can deal with those gripes, this game 
 will stay in your collection for a long while (probably longer than other Mario Karts) .
  
  Not that it would be out though. MKDS is also a step above its predecessors with more courses, 
 characters, a mission mode, and bots for lonely players besides the usual. Online is really overkill 
 to the games length. Meanwhile, on the visual front, Mario Kar excels. Everything looks a little 
 blocky, granted, but it still pushes the DS far. And when you see Waluigi Pinball or Rainbow Road 
 you'll hardly complain about Nintendo's direction. If I must complain about something (besides 
 the blockiness) it's how out of place the few 2-D items feel in the 3-D world (with some 3-D items 
 as well) . And the music is even better. The new music is the kind of catchy to be expected in a 
 Mario game. Meanwhile, the old is even better, since you get some of the classic tunes such as 
 Luigi Circuit on Mario Kart Double Dash, or the tunes from Super Mario Kart. And the DS speakers 
 don't set it back whatsoever.
  
  When you consider everything, minor gripes aside, anyone who can enjoy racing can enjoy this game. 
 And online will last you a while, especially with tens of thousands of players online each day. 
 Online or off (especially online) this game is worth your attention, unless of course, you hate 
 fun (or at least racing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atticus151
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Let me just start this review by saying that I love Mario Kart. The game has set a standard for 
 all the other games that try to take its crown and fail. To be honest with the most recent game 
 in the franchise, I wasnt expecting it to be the best, or even comparable to some of the previous 
 games, but I was in for a huge surprise. Graphically the game looks amazing on the small handheld. 
 For those of you with a DS lite, the bright screen makes the colours look vibrant and almost jump 
 out at you. Each of the tracks, from the original tracks to the re-makes all look amazing, each 
 with their own little touches such as the moving flippers on the pinball track, and the tides of 
 the beach. Each of the characters are represented well, and look surprisingly good for a handheld, 
 and the karts look nice as well. Ofcourse, the big draw with Mario Kart was never really the graphics, 
 but always the gameplay, and this version of the game doesnt dissapoint. The hop that signified 
 a powerslide makes a welcome return, and each of the characters have their own handling attributes. 
 As with the other Mario Karts, you will normally use various characters and karts to begin with, 
 until you find the combination that is right for you. One new aspect of the game is the new challenge 
 mode which is a series of (you guessed it) challenges, that you have to complete to proceed and 
 unlock more of the game. An example would be collecting a number of coins within a time limit, 
 or driving around a course backwards. These challenges actually help your skills, and the hardcare 
 mario kart fans will know doubt blast through the challenge mode with ease. The other big new feature 
 that i havent mentioned till now, is the online mode. This is the first Mario Kart to be online, 
 and it actually handles it really well. Using the friend codes system, which does the job, you 
 can play with existing friends or match up with random players accross the globe. The game runs 
 very smoothly with most of the tracks available for you to play. Mulitplayer using the wireless 
 functions of the DS is fun too, with just one kart, you can use a selection a tracks, and while 
 you are limited, the game is still entertaining for a short while in this mode. There isnt much 
 else for me to say apart from the fact that it is one of the best games on the DS and well worth 
 being in any gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therandar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  Classic multiplayer gameplay, beloved familiar characters, inking your rivals play screen and passing 
 him as he veers into a well placed wall- priceless. The Mario Kart games have always been pure 
 fun, and the DS version is no black sheep. Single cart multiplayer means always being able to play 
 new people and keep the challenge fresh. The graphics are bright and vibrant, and unlike racing 
 games on other portables, there is no popping or shallow draw distance &lt; cough* cough* burnout*&gt;. 
 I can't say the sound is bad, but it's nothing to write home about. The controls are perfect, very 
 intuitive and accurate, at least as accurate as anyone can convey the physics of a gorilla driving 
 a go kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Game Play 9/10: Best in the series, no doubt about it. 32 maps to race in, 8 cups and 4 CC's. Racing 
 just never gets better than this.
  
  Graphics 10/10: Amazing graphics for a DS. One of the best in terms of graphics. Karts, characters 
 and stages look amazing.
  
  Sound 9/10: Some of the old Mario Kart toons are in here and new fresh ones also. Every character 
 has a voice, and the sounds are good.
  
  Value 10/10: This game lasts a while. 32 maps to race in, 8 cups and 4 CC's. Battle, Wi-fi AND 
 multiplayer.
  
  Pros:
  Great Graphics
  Great Mario Kart goodness
  32 stages, 8 cups, 4 CC's, battle, Shine theft, Wi-fi, Single Cartridge multiplayer
  
  Cons:
 
  Might not be as good if you don't have any friends with a DS to share the fun.
  
  This game is amazing, nuff' said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aashkii
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 21, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart franchise has become one of the most beloved games in the racing genre. It is king 
 of Kart racing, despite clones like the Crash Racing series which finishes in last place while 
 Mario and Co. zip right past them. Now the long-awaited DS game (the fifth game in the series) 
 has arrived, and it stays true to its roots. There are eight characters to choose from, as well 
 as four unlockable racers. The courses are divided into two categories: Nitro Kart (The new courses 
 for Mario Kart DS) and Retro Kart (selected courses from the SNES, N64, GBA, and Gamecube) . The 
 single-player mode brings back Gran Prix and Time Trials, and then there are new modes in single-player 
 like a 1-player version of Versus and Battle, and then Mission Mode which gives you certain tasks 
 and objectives for you to try out. The multiplayer in Mario Kart DS you and your friends duke it 
 out with two DS cards, and if your friend or friends do not have a copy of the game, that's okay 
 because they can download the game via download play. Now that the game can be played around the 
 world, Mario Kart DS changes the rules a bit. You can only play against three other people (but 
 you can play against seven in Multi-Card or Single-Card play) and most of the courses are selected 
 in Wi-Fi play! At least I can play my favorite course I'm VERY good at (SNES Mario Circuit 1) . 
 Mario Kart DS is one of those rare games that keep your heart pounding, hoping to be first at all 
 times. The secrets are great, the online play is greater, and this new Mario Kart game is the best 
 in the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS has changed my life. Seriously, for it was only after it was bundled with the red, 
 limited edition DS that I felt the unit was worth my hard earned cash. And only after I bought 
 the DS did I begin to appreciate all the finer things about handheld gaming. Apparently, numerous 
 others felt the same way, as finding said unit was a real pain. However, after playing through 
 the first few minutes of Mario Kart DS, I knew the struggle and the search were definitely worth 
 it.
  
  Mario Kart (MK) is a staple in Nintendo's lineup, no matter what console we're discussing. All 
 the way back to the Super Nintendo, players have loved the simple idea of racing as and against 
 their favorite characters, such as Yoshi, Princess Peach, and of course, Mario. The formula has 
 changed little over the years: the same addictive gameplay remains in all MK outings, with the 
 DS version being no exception.
  
  There are 32 tracks this time around, 16 of which are a compilation of past favorites, with the 
 other half being brand-spanking new! New tracks include racing around a pinball machine, as well 
 as the inner workings of a clock. There are 12 characters at your disposal, four of which are unlockable, 
 which keep the game flowing forward.
  
  Gameplay is in the classic MK style - lots of action, fast paced racing, and great opportunities 
 for revenge. There is the option for single race play, or you can try your luck at some four-race 
 cups. If you earn a gold trophy in every cup (i. e. if you win every cup) every character can then 
 choose from any of the 31 karts that until then will be characters specific. Each kart is placed 
 in a different category, and each comes with its own pros and cons. Some may have lightning speed, 
 but be very hard to handle, and vice versa. Getting to choose the style of kart adds a touch of 
 customization to the game, and also allows for different levels of difficulty, depending on your 
 own personal skill level.
  
  In addition to karts, the old power-ups that we have come to know and love are back, with the addition 
 of some new offerings, such as Blooper, which squirts black ink in the opponents' faces, causing 
 them to have difficulty seeing for a short period of time.
  
  Speaking of seeing, everything you see in the game is fun and original. Great graphics mixed with 
 catchy tunes make this a great one to play with the noise on or off. Handheld titles are usually 
 the poorest, graphically speaking, but MKDS is one of the best in that department.
  
  With all of the MK titles out there, it is understandable that someone might be a bit weary about 
 spending over $30 on yet another game. But I assure you, it is different in enough ways to keep 
 its independence, yet harkens back to the games of years past just enough to keep the nostalgia 
 alive. One of the great ways that Mario Kart DS sets itself apart is the new Wi-Fi capability. 
 That's right, for the first time ever, you can play Mario Kart against players online, all over 
 the world. By simply using a friend code, you can challenge opponents to races and really test 
 your skills on the various tracks.
  
  Another new touch is the interactivity in the versus modes of the game. In Shine Runners, you choose 
 from one of six fields and try to collect more shines than all of the other players. These can 
 be CPU or otherwise. The real fun though comes from Balloon Battles.
  
  In Balloon Battles, you use the DS's mic to literally blow up the balloons that are connected to 
 the back of your kart. You then try to blast, bomb and otherwise destroy all five of your opponents' 
 balloons, all the while protecting yours from being popped. Both battle modes are extremely addictive 
 and fun, and easily justify the purchase price.
  
  As if all this didn't make you want the game already, two more modes are also available for play: 
 Mission and Time Trial. Time Trial is self-explanatory being that you are simply trying to beat 
 the clock to the finish. Mission is more complex, and in my opinion, more fun. You are given specific 
 tasks, which get harder as you progress. These can range from mini-races to defeating a certain 
 number of enemies in a set time. Just another great aspect to an already fantastic game.
  
  Mario Kart is an established franchise, no one can argue with that fact. Being that it is so hugely 
 popular, it becomes more and more difficult to add new and exciting features to this seemingly 
 money-hungry genre, yet Nintendo is not one to disappoint. Newbies to the MK world, as well as 
 die-hard fans will quickly find something to love about MKDS. Whether you're nine or ninety, my 
 recommendation stays the same: this is easily the first must-have title for the DS.
  
  Review part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=mariokartds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natedoggy11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is awesome. If you liked the Old N64 Version you will love this one. If anyone remembers 
 the Block Fort level, well they kept it as a level on single/multi player. A couple things you 
 might want to know before buying
  
  1. there are only 30 courses and most are from the old games
  2. The Wi-Fi is fun but you can 
 only race (no playing Battle mode)
  3. No new Items
  4. Some New fun/cool Single player Modes (like missions)
  5. where are 36 different Carts and 
 12 Characters : R. O. B, Waluigi, Dry Bones, Daisy, Toad, Donkey Kong, Wario, Bowser, Yoshi, Peach, 
 Luigi and Mario
  6. When Playing Wi-Fi there are only 20 Courses to choose from.
  7. the touch screen Is not used 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePhilWalker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  If you're a Nintendo fan then it will be likely that sometime in your life you will have played 
 a Mario Kart game. Maybe it was the originial, Super Mario Kart, the Nintendo 64's Mario Kart 64, 
 the first handheld version Mario Kart: Super Circuit or the two-seater fun ride that is Mario Kart: Double 
 Dash!! However, the best of all these and more is right here in Mario Kart DS, the Nintendo DS 
 version of Mario Kart.
  
  The Grand Prix mode from the others is still here in the same format (4 races) but not only is 
 there the normal 4 new grand prixs and 16 new tracks, there's also 4 more grand prixs with each 
 one contain 1 track from the other 4 games. It allows for more variety in track choice in multiplayer 
 but some of these tracks haven't aged well and do not feel as good as some of the new tracks.
 
  
  Another new feature is Mission Mode which is split into 7 stages of 9 missions and 1 boss and even 
 though it's fun to play through and see what rankings you get, I played through all the missions 
 once and never bothered with them again. Some people will like it more than me however.
  
  In terms of multiplayer, all the normal modes are still with new features (for example, in Balloon 
 Battle, you have to blow into the microphone to inflate your balloons) but thanks to the wonder 
 that is the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, you can now play online. It's very easy to connect but only 
 20 of the 32 tracks are available and there's quite a lot of disconnectors with plenty quitting 
 because of reasons like opponents snaking (boosting from side to side like a snake so you can boost 
 in a straight line) .
  
  In terms of gameplay, with the DS having two screens, the bottom screen has an overview of the 
 track and also a more detailed view of your nearby area where you can see weapons left behind like 
 bananas and fake item boxes as well of position of item boxes. There is only two new weapons in 
 this game but these are not disappointing. Bullet Bill transforms you into a Bullet Bill and allows 
 you to boost straight through circuit and hit anyone who even tries to go in front of you and the 
 Blooper weapon causes ink to go on the screens of those ahead you so they have to use the bottom 
 screen for a few seconds. One last feature is more detailed stats of each kart with these been 
 split down to Speed, Acceleration, Weight, Handling, Drift and Items.
  
  But overall, this is one of the most fun games to play on the DS, even more so if you're playing 
 over Wi-Fi. However, the game isn't perfect with most faults being directed at Wi-Fi play. This 
 doesn't stop the game being bad as it's indeed very good and is probably one of the most addictive 
 games currently on the DS. I just offer you good luck if you face me. And don't snake please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me89me89
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  There's always something good about throwin stuff at people and mariokart is no different and now 
 with wifi (and starbucks or macdonalds) you can say you've thrown a banana peel at people from around 
 the world! What would videogames be without mariokart? Also it helps tremendously with the outside 
 world (that thing called society) ! I'll explain if you don't want somebody to win when your playing 
 a game grab a turtle and throw it at 'em! (I hope you find a red one then you won't miss) Anyway 
 replay value is off the scale and so is gameplay along with multiplayer. (What more do you want 
 go buy the game!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKG33
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is really fun. From doing Grand Prixs to compleating the missions. This game 
 is a racing gamers dream. It is also one of the best DS games. This game compatabul with WiFi. 
 (Wich is awsome racing from what i have heard.)
  
  Graphics: Well it has awsome graphics. But so dose any other Nintendo made DS game.
  
  Sound: 
 The sound is good. Same as any other mario kart game.
  
  Value: For $35 us and about $45 cdn it is well worth the money!
  
  I would recomend this game 
 for any body who likes Mario games or just plain old racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PattyGoalie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Awsome game! It is a great game if you like raceing games. It is the best game you can 
 buy for a raceing game. You race with the origanal characters such as The Mario Bro's, Peach, Bowzer 
 and many more. They even added new characters but you have to find out what they are because I 
 am not going to tell you so it will make the game fun. You can race in so many new different stages. 
 You can even race in a pinball machine! There is nothing bad I can think about this game because 
 I like it so much!.
  
  Sound: Great sound but the only thing is the songs get a little bit boring after a bit. I still 
 think that the game makes up for it thoe.
  
  Overal or recommendation: I would highly recommend this game because it is the best mario kart 
 I have ever played. (I have played every single mario kart) Value: $50 canadian with tax and $40 
 USA with tax 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tim_aka_link
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game since I first got a DS which was when they sold the hot red DS phat bundled 
 with the Mario kart DS, Stickers and wrist strap.
  
  I find that Single player mode is really fun in a sense of you can finally face bots and 1 player 
 GP's are good too. Missions were a nice thought to but it wasn't needed, seeing that it wasn't 
 very good. I've never seen a real point to time trials for some reason. They don't get you anything, 
 just records that really don't matter. In Grand Prix's I think it's good that you get ranks on 
 how well you did and get stars for Wi-fi.
  
  This was the first game I played for Wi-fi and it did not make me regret it, **cough Tenchu Dark 
 Secret cough**. It was good that you can register friends and have an icon show up if they want 
 to face you. I'd of liked it if you could have a full license like Metroid Prime Hunters but it 
 was an early Wi-fi game.
  
  So final rankings.
  
  Gameplay 9/10. It was really good but something was missing.
  
  Graphics 8/10. At first I was 
 actually underwhelmed by the graphics but as I played more I saw some other stuff that were pretty 
 good so I give it a 8.
  
  Sound 9/10. Some stuff were repetitive but it was still fun to listen to.
  
  Value 10/10. No 
 comment.
  
  Tilt 10/10. No comment.
  
  Buy it. Plain and simple ending... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearGamez
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  === Pros / Cons ===
  
  ___ Pros ___
  + That same old Mario Kart fashion racing
  + Surprisingly great graphics
  + Music are cute and catchy
  + Online multiplayer works extremely 
 well
  + Easy fun!
  
  ___ Cons ___
  - Players online are hard... I mean... jeez they are so fast!
  
  === Review Text ===
  
 
  It's been a while since I've played a Mario Kart based game. The last Mario Kart game I've played 
 was during the N64 days. The game was so addictive. This applies with the current Mario Kart DS 
 as well!
  
  The racing formula is pretty much the same. Race with whacky items! Ranging from a speed booster 
 mushroom all the way to homing blue shell that nukes the first place racer. Only this time it combines 
 a lot of the race maps from other systems and some new ones as well! Not sure if it has all the 
 other maps from other systems... but there's quite a lot!
  
  For the multiplayer portion, it was really straightforward on getting connected with other Mario 
 Kart DS players out there. I can't sense any lag! I was just absolutely amazed on how simple it 
 was to get connected and play with other players out there! The problem (for me anyways) is winning 
 the races. There's a bunch of tough players out there!
  
  Anyhow this game is an absolute must-have for any DS owners out there. It just so simple and fun, 
 pretty much anybody can get into it, unless you're absolutely hate racing games. Highly recommended! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naryanrobinson
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  i didn't think too much of this game, the graphics are all right, nothing special. the few extra 
 levels are pretty but not very good for racing, the wi-fi is quite cool. it is a very short game 
 though and once you're done, the replay value is practically zero. the sound is nothing special 
 either and the main game mode is way too easy there isn't a story line or tilt to it. so all in 
 all i didn't think very much of this game at all and i can't understand why it was rated 9.2. when 
 you think of it as being the same score as Half-Life 2, it sounds sort of stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeAlmighty
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I went into my local game shop picked up my copy of Mario Kart DS, didn't think much of it, I just 
 loved the old 64 version. With it I picked up this lil Wi-Fi USB gizmo. The installation was easy 
 enough, just download some software from their website, but thats beside the point. Ever since 
 I shoved the game into my DS i've been hooked. Whipping it out at every occasion I can just trying 
 to beat all them tough 150cc races, trying to unlock everything, beating people online, the entertaining 
 factor of this game in phenominal!
  
  With wifi connectivity, full 3D, 32 tracks, single cartridge wireless multiplayer modes and a full 
 online ranking system, Mario Kart DS sets a new standard for handheld console games. Expect some 
 funky stuff in the future.
  
  The possibilities this game has opened are endless (well, near endless) . Own a DS? Then Mario Kart 
 DS i a unquestionable must.
  
  Joe Out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  What can you say about the Mario Kart Series.
  
  Cute graphics, cute music, a moral angle all the things that would normally make you sick to the 
 stomach, so why is it that this offering from Nintendo causes none of these symptoms quite the 
 oposite in fact.
  
  The basic game is a piece of cake to pick up, the turbo start is the hardest part bu pressing the 
 button just after the 2 of the countdown appears will have you out infront nearly everytime.
  
  The tracks again are cute but that doesn't mean easy. OK the 50cc is just to get you warmed 
 up then selecting the 100cc or 150cc you start to understand why most if not all racing fans keep 
 comming back.
  
  Races are presented in sets of 4 with a cup at the successful completion of each set. Please do 
 not allow yourself to be lulled into a false sense of security by the 50cc races that would be 
 a big mistake, trust me.
  
  Then they just go and make it better, how I hear you ask did they do that. They went and gave you 
 WiFi online play, if you are within 10 metres or so of a wireless hub or hot spot with authorist 
 to access it you can either humiliate or be humilated other racers from any where on the planet.
 
  
  This is a true gem, a must have, I carry this everywhere. I even slipped a guy in IT a fiver to 
 allow my DS's mac address on the work wireless network so that lunch times can be more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy45
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  this the best game ever! this is my favorite multiplayer game for the ds! the gameplay, the modes, 
 the multi-player option is great! my favorite option is the multi-player option. i love playing 
 like 3-6 man races with my friends! its the best! the miulti-player can hold 8 people at once! 
 that means 8 people can all race at one time. how great is that! playing 8-man races where theres 
 no computer players, only you and 7 of your friends is awsome! that doesnt mean the 1-player mode 
 isnt great two! you get to race the computer, do missions, play timed attack and you get to pick 
 from 14 differant charachters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Wiggy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is probably going to be one of the greatest DS games of all time. It appeals to anyone, 
 if you are a die hard Mario Kart fan, or you have never played a video game before, Mario Kart 
 is a fun and easy game to learn. It is relaxed for the casual gamer, but competitive for the most 
 competitive gamers. In Grand Prix, you play a certain 4 tracks, trying to get the most points at 
 the end. When you all 4 races are done, the person with the most points is the winner. In Battle, 
 you can do ballon or Shine Runners. In balloon battle, everybody starts with 5 balloons, although 
 only three can be inflated at any one time. To inflate balloons, you blow into the mic. The person 
 with balloons left at the end wins. In shine runners, there are a certain number of stars, or shines. 
 The objective is to get the most shine. But every so often the person (or people) with the least 
 amount of shines are booted. The new mission mode has you complete a set challenge with a set character 
 and kart. The objective is to try to get three stars on each mission. For multiplayer, you can 
 play Vs. or Battle modes, with 8 player wireless play. With the addition of Nintendo Wi-Fi, this 
 is a must have for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: third_eye_blind
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is one game that you can get better and better everytime you play. If you are new to 
 mario kart. It is a racing game that uses many of the classic mario characters some listed are 
 Bowser, Yoshi and Luigi. There are over 20 different vehicles for each character and a wide vareity 
 of level to play in, including mirror mode. There is a new feature call adventure. This is where 
 you can complete certain goals to unlock characters and new vehicles. Some goals are to kill the 
 king bomb, out race drivers and collect coins in little time. There are many levels and depending 
 on how you do you get ranked for them. I highly incourage any one that has a DS to buy this game 
 if you don't already have it. This isone game that should be in everyones shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMBfan13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great kart racing game for the ds, and it's the first ds game to feature online play. 
 I personally play this game a whole lot. It's loads of fun especially if you can play it with wifi 
 connection. The gameplay is great. It's just like any other Mario Kart game if you heard of the 
 series before. They added a new mission mode that's fun to play if you don't feel the need for 
 racing. The graphics are great for a handheld. The characters and karts look clean and well done. 
 The maps look great and well improved from the original consoles. Most of the music (sound) in 
 this game are cool to listen to. Each map has it's own style of music, and personally, I think 
 they all are awesome. This game has good value. It's fun to play it over and over again. This game 
 should be owned by anyone who has a ds. If you haven't already, you should definitely pick this 
 one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBooom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Shortly after I got my Mega Drive I was preparing to sell it along with Sonic The Hedgehog to get 
 a SNES instead, so I could get myself Mario Kart. Luckily for me I didn't, otherwise I'd have probably 
 missed out on all the Sonic games I love so much.
  
  Mario Kart, back then, and now, is fantastic. I've never had so much fun in a multiplayer racing 
 game before Mario Kart DS, and the WiFi mode allows you to play online with people across the world 
 which is pretty damn good. The graphics are detailed and the music and sound effects fit in very 
 well.
  
  The actual playing of the game is excellent and great fun. Hitting the random items box and unleashing 
 your item in the right way against your opponents adds a lot of fun. It takes practice to race 
 like a pro, though the game eases you in.
  
  There is a lot to see and unlock in one-player mode, where it's hard to fault the game. Online 
 play could be improved a little, as there are only a limited amount of tracks available to play 
 on. One gameplay issue to note is that it is possible to 'cheat' and speed boast along any straight 
 sections of the track by using a technique called 'snaking', whereby you slide side to side allowing 
 you to boast. To most Mario Kart DS players this is seen as cheating as it takes away a lot of 
 the fun of the racing by giving 'snakers' an unfair advantage. So please don't snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasterwoo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in Mario Kart is off the hook. It's simple. It's easy. It's Mario Kart. 
 It Owens.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics on this game are very good considering what the DS actually is capable of. 
 Sound: Who Doesn't love hearing Mario go Woo Hoo when you nail somebody with a red turtle shell.
 
  
  Value: This game is a still at any price. Even when it first came out it was only $34.99 so you 
 got to love that. The Word: Mario Kart DS is a most have for any fan of the series. Unlocking all 
 the characters and karts mixed with trying to get three stars on every race will give you hours 
 upon of hours of enjoyment not to mention if you get hooked up with some friends on WIFI. Even 
 if you've never played any of the other Mario Kart games this is one of the best titles out for 
 the DS and should at least be checked out. For those of us who have played the series you know 
 you loved the retro circuit.
  So with all that said I do believe this is the first time I handed out the Perfecto
  Holla at 
 your boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart invented kart racing games. I have been a fan of every one since i had my snes, and 
 i was so happy to find that Mario Kart DS had retro levels from SNES GBA GCN and N64. If you have 
 never played Mario Kart before it is a racing game in which you race various characters in Mario 
 games around crazy tracks and fire weapons at each other. There are 12 characters in total 8 right 
 off the bat and 4 unlockable. Like in the other Mario games you race in grand prixs accross 32 
 levels, 16 DS and 16 retro. There are 3 different difficulty settings 50cc 100cc and 150cc each 
 speeding up the karts as you might have guessed. There are some new weapons in the game including 
 the weapon that turns you into a bullet bill and so on. Most of the weapons are very well balanced, 
 for example if you are in last place you will get the best weapons to catch up with the pack, if 
 you are in first you will generally get the worst weapons but you can drop most of them behind 
 you. There is also a blue shell that hits the person in first place to stop them getting too far 
 ahead. New to the Mario Kart series is the ability to go online and race anyone in the world. Although 
 you can only race 4 people at a time, it makes for a very tense game as you often stay in a big 
 packs and hope for the best weapons. There is also a new mission mode where you can take on short 
 missions that include things like break all the boxes. Overall Mario Kart is a great game that 
 should not be missed if you have a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamestastationg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Is Back! This is one of the greatest racing games of all time. Forget "driving sims" 
 Mario kart brings us what we want from a racing game, no nonsense driving with weapons thrown in 
 for good measure.
  The usual gameplay is here, you choose your racer from a list of famous Mario names and whip round 
 famous locations from previous games. The carts handle beautifully and the weapons add a new dimension 
 to the game instead of swamping the driving like it did in Super Circuit and Double Dash. This 
 game is very focused on the pureer Karting joy, weapons are stingier so it is harder to win by 
 simply firing your way to the top, the carts are more classic and the famous jump has returned. 
 If you loved the original and the N64 version but the focus on weapons in Super Circuit and the 
 alterations to gameplay in Double Dash put you off then this will take you back to heaven once 
 more.
  It doesn't hurt that the graphics are amazing either. Lots of people criticise the DS graphical 
 capabilities just becasue the PSPs are better. This game shows you that the console is capable 
 of sweet 3D and it looks about twice as good as the N64 game. One of the best thing about the graphics 
 is the draw distances, you can literaly see all the course while driving so there is little to 
 no pop-up at all.
  Soud wise this game rarely fails to dissapoint, classics return and some sweet new melodies have 
 been put in, these too will go down as classics in time.
  In terms of value this game is the deepest and richest Mario Kart ot date. There are DOUBLE the 
 normal amount of tracks, half are remakes but they are no worse for it. Missions and bosses help 
 to mix up the gameplay and the multiplayer will literally own your life. In multiplayer you can 
 race 7 of your friends at once with only one cart but your options are limited. If everyone has 
 a cart then this game is in a league of its own, I drained my battery from a full charge with one 
 session of multiplayer. Battle mode returns with some brilliant lands for you to fight in. A new 
 mode called Shine Run sees you collecting Shines and when the timer runs out the player with the 
 least will be booted. It makes for some hectic gameplay as you frantically attack your friends 
 for their shines before the timer hits zero.
  This game makes progress in some ways but also regresses. An online feature and a more comprehensive 
 single player experience take the series forward but the gameplay elements from Double Dash are 
 gone. This could be considered regression but it is more of a good thing.
  In terms of the genre Mario Kart DS shows the others what a real kart game should be like.
  On 
 the side of innovation this game can't be faltured. The second screen is used as a map and the 
 touch functions let you zoom in and out. This isn't particulaly big but racing games aren't designed 
 around a touch screen but the map is invaluble and after a few hours of gameplay you will be using 
 it instinctivly. The mic is used to blow up you balloons in battle which just adds more fun. The 
 real innovation comes in the multiplayer. Even with one cart the multiplayer is un matched and 
 the addiction of online (the first for Nintendo not just Mario Kart) makes this game one of the 
 most pioneering on the machine.
  This is the best DS game available and brilliant for both novices and veterans. Overview
  
 
  Gameplay - Takes MK back to its roots, great driving with the weapons adding to the fun (not taking 
 away from the driving)
  10
  
  Graphics - The best on the DS, looks sweet with great draw distances and only the slightest hint 
 of lag online
  10
  
  Sound - What you would expect, hum along tunes that complement the gameplay
  10
  
  Value 
 - The deepest Mario Kart game to date although the missions get a bit dull. If you have friends/online 
 this could lasts a YEAR easy, if not then a month
  at most
  9
  Innovation - great use of the lower screen, not much touching or mic but online shows just what 
 this machine is capable of doing.
  9
  Progress - More of a regression than a progression but in no bad way. It seems more pure than Double 
 Dash and the gameplay is definitely more focused for it. The online takes the series forward better 
 than Double Dash did. In terms of the genre this shows the wannabe kart racers what they should 
 be like.
  9
  
  Overall a brilliant experience and worth getting a DS for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redX5112
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 6, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest games you'll ever come to view. Its has 32 tracks spread up between 
 the 8 different grand prix cups you'll be going through. It has you standard difficulty settings 
 of easy, normal, and hard. It has mission mode where you'll be doing certain missions as collecting 
 coins in a certain amount of time or going through numbered gates in order and try to get the best 
 time, the game also feature a time trial mode, a battle mode where there are two different modes 
 of play one called shine runners where you collect shiny little suns in a timed game the other 
 is called balloon battle, where you and your friends or computer controlled bots will battle against 
 each other using a variety of mario themed weapons such as red and green shells mushrooms to make 
 you turbo and steal other players balloons and bananas. The battle mode has 6 different arenas 
 apart from the 32 tracks that you'll be racing on. The game also features a online mode where you 
 can battle anyone in the world who also has mariokart and an internet connection. The online mode 
 only allows for 4 players though, there is also no collisions on the online mode because of the 
 lack of memory on the ds cards, but this is typically not a problem because mariokart games primarily 
 use the weapons to knock your opponents down. The game also features a offline multiplayer mode 
 as well race and battle modes are available, these features are also available to people who do 
 not own a copy of mariokart, but the people without mariokart will not get to choose a character 
 they will be forced to use the shy guy kart, also your friends roster will not be updated when 
 you play with people without a copy of mariokart, but overall this game is a instant classic and 
 won't be forgotten anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdscrub
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: everything that you would expect from a mario kart game only this one is the best yet! 
 you start off with 8 characters and 4 more are unlockable, each character starts off with a standard 
 kart and a special kart with another one unlockable, plus as an added bonus after awhile you can 
 use any kart with any character, there are 32 courses 16 new and 16 from the previous four games 
 (four from each game) i was a little disapointed that my favorite course did not show but hey what 
 can you do? i love every little part of this game and there is nothing they could not of done better.
 
  
  Sound: the sound is great every song is good and a few of them i have caught myself humming the 
 tune. all of the characters voices are well done and i have no problem with the sound.
  
  Lasting appeal: the game can last a long time the wifi capabilities are awesome and playing people 
 online is a blast plus all the cups are awesome.
  
  Difficulty: Variable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedFanatic4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is an absolutely amazing game. The graphics are even better than the N64 version, 
 which is impressive for the size and capabilities of the DS. There is a plethora of tracks to chose 
 from, each with their own obstacles and environments. In MKDS, the characters are 3-D, unlike the 
 sprites in Mario Kart 64. The sounds are good for some of the levels, but you'll be too busy racing, 
 not paying attention to the music. The racing in MKDS is the best out of all the Mario Kart games 
 I've played. The controls are absolutely flawless because it's actually possible to do tight turns 
 unlike other games where you actually have to break in order to get around turns. Snaking, while 
 some call it cheating, is improved in this version of Mario Kart. The best part of Mario Kart DS 
 is definitely the online, which adds countless hours to the game. If the grand prix and minigames 
 aren't enough, then the WIFI definitely will pay off. If you have a DS, please do yourself a favor 
 and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firedrag
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is kinda hard to describe. It's partialy good, but partialy bad.
  
  The Gameplay is the best part. It is really fun to race with all of your favourite Mario characters 
 on funny looking karts. The tracks are alos very nice. Thhey are very well done with tons of detail. 
 The things was, I just got bored after about 2 weeks of playing this. It's not really addicting. 
 The Aucio sucks. The effects are ok, but the music can be decribed in one word, ANNOYING.
  
  The characters are reaaly cool though. They look great and you can really interact with them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodafountan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  mario kart for the nintendo ds just feels right, with three difficulty settings (50cc, 100cc and 
 150cc) and plenty of unlockables variying from new karts to new characters this game never gets 
 old!
  
  the single player pretty much remains the same from double dash!! or mario kart 64 if you played 
 those games and liked them then youll love this. but the reason im writing this review is because 
 of the fantastic online play, mario kart ds was one of the first wifi enabled games on the market 
 so for the wifi to be so good from the beginning is great! basicly what you can do on mario kart 
 wifi is do a race with up to four players you also have freind codes, freind match ups, rival matches, 
 world wide matches and reigonal matches. if for some rreason you cant get onto wifi you can always 
 challenge one or four of your freinds to a match, oh and by the way your the only on who needs 
 a card to play either a bettle or a race agenst them. Wifi does have some kinks to it though for 
 example a controversal move known as snaking were the player swerves back and forth on the track 
 and constantly gets power boosts, but if you can look past that then wifi on mario kart is perfect.
 
  
  all in all mario kart ds is a great game that people of all ages will enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigc123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 1, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Lets a go as luigi would say, Remember the days of Mario Kart on the nes? Well if you enjoyed that 
 game, you're in for a real treat. MKDS has for the first time on nintendo ds, wifi. While you can 
 beat the Grand Prixs in a short amount of time, the newly added Missions and Online play are great. 
 When you complete 150 CC mode in all stars you unlock morror mode! When you complete mirror mode 
 You get R. O. B the robot! (i think thats his name) . The game has great sounds and cool graphics, 
 its worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatjuv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  in this Mario kart you get some old levels new ones and some in between you get to choose from 
 eight characters not to mention a few secret ones also a large variety of karts for each characters 
 so the possibilities are almost endless this game also features on-line capabilities not to mention 
 the offline multi-player thats just outrageous back to the single player there are just 4 grand 
 pr-ix when you start as you progress you unlock more also there are single player missions that 
 lead up to a boss fight all in all this game is a must have for all Nintendo ds owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game is so sweet it has everything a Mario kart fan could want plus more and even better it 
 has online play and when you trow that in you know
  it's going to be fun. The itself is awesome with not only new tracks of it's on
  it has old classic 
 tracks from the other mario kart games. This game is definitely one of the best games for the nintendo 
 ds heck it might be on of the best racers out there. The game look very good on the ds even better 
 than
  the long lost psp's crappy looking games. The addition of wi-fi is amazing when you can battle you 
 friends an other people online you know your going to have some fun. The bottom line you don't even 
 need to be a mario
  kart fan to enjoy this perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursedmonkeY95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS gets fun in the fist week, but after a while it will get really boring. So if you 
 would buy it, you would have to like unrealistic Mario fan racing. Those are the games I like. 
 If you don't like unrealistic racing, you should not buy this game. The top screen is the race 
 and the bottom screen is the map of the race you in. The online capability was okay. You could 
 make your own icon. It's a little hard to find people online. It's either no one's online in WI-FI 
 or they would leave in the first race ( out of four races ) There's also missions, which is weird. 
 The missions are about going through tires, beating people, etc.. And then there would be a boss 
 mission after you completed a whole leval (there are 8 missions in one leval) . You could unlock 
 Daisy, Dry Bones, Waluigi and R. O. B (R. O. B is from the NES or super NES. My point is that if you 
 like unrealistic games with unrealistic items, then Mario Kart DS (and other Mario Kart games) would 
 be good for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manuel52761
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Now I can tell you that i've been behind in my mariokart years (dating back to Super Mariokart) 
 but this game has every critical detail that made the Console release a success, including added 
 features like Wi fi and a way to make your own icon to show people online that you mean business. 
 now what's so new about this game is additionally to the features listed above, you can visit old 
 tracks from the previous games, Play as R. O. B. A new unlockable character that originally appeared 
 in gyromite, an all new mission mode, go on the Wi fi connection and kick some butt, and graphics 
 are advanced compared to that of the N64. but you may feel a bit awkward playing this game for 
 the first couple of minutes. all in all this game is the best on line playable available to date, 
 depending on your tastes you may disagree with me but this game is worth a try. hope you have fun, 
 and thanks for reading. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  thn 2nd game that i played from the Mario's series. it might look simple to race with the cartoon 
 characters but at times it can drive me to nuts when i just got bombed off by those "?" boxes from 
 the other CPU racers!
  
  learning to race by pressing "A" is no big feat but the drifting part requires abit of practise 
 especially rocking the "D pad" with "R" button which i said that i haven't acquire the necessary 
 tactic to race for winning 100cc car category. however the course tracks are fun to move in. Using 
 the "?" items allow one to plan strategically how to outwit your enemies. being in number 5 in 
 the prix doesn't mean you can be the winner, just have to use the little "?" items to put you right 
 in the lead is very exciting. the graphics displayed on NDS Lite is superb nice! FX is good. i 
 always think that this is a kiddo's racing game. well, i am truly wrong and being a middle year 
 old person (oh boy! how times flies!) Mario Kart is able to inject that excitable behaviour even 
 in adults! this game allows multiplayer gaming and the best thing is that you just need one game 
 card; 8 people can "hook-up". definitely a plus for bonding especially for family with kids. i 
 understand that this game can be played with your friends not near you by entering the friend code. 
 i have trouble connecting to my home access point, hence unable to try out this feature which my 
 other friend in the east of Singapore is dying to race with me. :) so one can race within 10 feet 
 promixity or via internet ; it is either "COME OUT & PLAY" or "PLAY INTERNET-LY". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazu13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario is one of the most versatile characters in the entire gaming world. If he's not jumping on 
 goombas, he's driving a fast ball into the centerfield fence. But, the one thing he has yet to 
 do, up until now, is take his plumber butt online. But now, Mario Kart DS makes it's way into stores, 
 and is Mario's first adventure into the worldwide web, and also happens to be one of the best kart 
 racing games ever made.
  
  The meat of the game is the Grand Prix. Here you take on a series of cups spanning 32 different 
 tracks from the Mario universe, half of which are classic remakes from prior games in the series. 
 As you complete each circuit you are rewarded with new characters, tracks and karts. This is a 
 big deal, because when you go online to race, you're allowed to use any karts and characters you 
 have unlocked, so if you don't want to get left in the dust, you'll need some of these higher level 
 items, and with 3 different engine classes to work through, you'll be playing the Grand Prix mode 
 for a long, long time. However, you can still play it in small chunks and nail down some accomplishments.
 
  
  Aside from the Grand Prix, you'll also get the new mission mode, which asks you to complete certain 
 objectives like collecting a certain amount of power-up boxes in a given amount of time, or showing 
 off your precision driving skills by collecting coins on the track. There is also a time attack 
 option which allows you to go for your best time without the worry of competitors. Along with that, 
 the battle mode has been brought back with the added twist of having to blow into the microphone 
 to inflate your balloons, which you basically use as your health. However, this mode is not online, 
 which is a bit of a disappointment. Speaking of which, the online options in Mario Kart DS, while 
 a welcomed addition, aren't all that they could be. Setting up the game to play online is easy 
 enough, provided you have a supported wireless router, but the problem is the friends code system 
 that Nintendo has chosen to use. No doubt put in place to protect young ones from predators, but 
 also has the nasty effect of severely limiting the enjoyment you can get from online play. The 
 only way to add someone to your friends list, is to exchange friend codes. In other words, you 
 will have to know that person in real life. It's not a big deal when you first get into the game 
 as the glee of playing Mario Kart online should sustain you, but eventually, you will come across 
 those of whom use the snaking technique, or even worse, players that will drop from the game the 
 minute they think they have no chance of winning. This is where the friends code system falls flat 
 on it's face, and with that said, Mario Kart DS is one of the most robust kart racing games ever; 
 console or otherwise. There's enough content in this game to keep your speedometer pinned for months.
 
  
  If you've played other games in the series, then you'll be able to drop the hammer and start powersliding 
 around turns immediately, just like in Mario Kart 64. Advanced players will be able to wiggle the 
 d-pad side-to-side while sliding around turns to get added turbo boosts. It takes a little while 
 to get used to, but at least you won't be polverizing your analog stick like you did on the N64. 
 Also, as the Mario Kart franchise is known for, there will be plebty of power-ups. Without power-ups, 
 Mario Kart would just be another generic racer, and the DS version has plenty. In addition to the 
 old standbys, you'll also get some new ones. There's a squid that will shoot black ink on the screen 
 of your oponents, and the bullet bill power-up will wisk your kart up the path, taking out anyone 
 dumb enough to race on the center of the course. Neither weapon unbalances the others creating 
 that perfect balance the series is known for; and this is where Mario Kart really succeeds. You 
 never feel like you've been ripped off. Either you drive well and win, or you fail and lose. Best 
 of all, it's one of those games that just about anyone can understand, yet there's plenty of depth 
 with the powerslides and power-ups for those who like to dig a little deeper.
  
  If you're the kind of person who buys a handheld and only ends up getting one or two games for 
 it, Mario Kart DS is one of them. There is almost an unlimited amount of fun to be derived from 
 it with it's online play and wealth of other options, and it's also the kind of game that is simply 
 fun to play, win or lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futchy_ly
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is a squeal to the other mario kart's. The cool thing about MKDS is that it interdouces 
 Nintendo Wi-Fi connetion Where you can race any player in the world just With a router or something (Not 
 a computer geek) . It interdous 16 new tracks and 16 old tracks from the Previous Mario Kart's. 
 Lot's of charcter's to choose from and Kart's. Screat charcters. Wireless Muti-player with one 
 game card you can be racing all of your friends. (only up to 8) . MKDS is very fun but you will get 
 broed unless you have Wi-Fi. So I recoomend buying it if you have wi-fi or your friends have DS's 
 or for the fun out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenpineapple
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the first game I bought for the DS and it is the best I have ever played. This 
 Game has fantastic graphics, absolutely amazing gameplay, and the greatest online (Wifi) I have 
 ever played. Mario Kart DS has the ability to be the best game the DS will ever have, and I couldn't 
 find a single flaw in it! There are many ways to play the game and all the ways are awesome and 
 fun to play. The missions kept me enterained since the day I bought the game and the Grand Prix 
 mode I still play! This game is just all around great I recomend to all who just got a DS and want 
 a game, or to those who have had a DS and want a game, but don't have this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin123091
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great game! It is one of the funnest and best-selling games on the Nintendo 
 DS! You will love playing as your favorite Mario Kart characters, as well as some new ones! There 
 are many new and wonderful 3-D rendered tracks and cups, as well as a Retro-Cup that brings back 
 some of your favorite tracks from all of the past Mario Kart games! There are many unlockable tracks, 
 cups, characters and karts! There is also a new mission mode that will have you battling bosses 
 and playing fun mini-games! Also, one of the best things about Mario Kart DS is the Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection! This way, you can play with friends or random gamers all over the world! If you don't 
 already own Mario Kart DS, which I don't know why you wouldn't, then go out and pick yourself up 
 a copy today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShiningDragon34
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  The game is great, the wfii is exciting and fun. It's very easy to control and learning to play 
 takes no time. There is so much to do in the game and with wifi, you dont need a persons friend 
 code to play. even though you're able to trade friend codes with your friends.
  
  The characters are your normal mario kart characters, waluigi, dry bones, ROB and daisy are unlocked 
 in the game. getting into a wifi match takes not a lot of time. I really enjoyed playing it sitting 
 on my couch doin wifi. you're also able to make emblems which are basiclly pictures that are drawn 
 onto the racer your usings car. the music in mario kart ds isnt awesome! but it still isnt choppy, 
 and the graphics are great for a ds game. i suggest mario kart ds to anyone who's got a ds and 
 enjoys good games. mario kart unlike metroid prime hunters doesnt need the stylus as much.
  
  mario kart ds is an awesome game, i enjoy it and if your hoping to get it i hope you'll enjoy 
 it too :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingamez
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Ds is a great update of an already great game. New Features: -Mission mode, where you 
 complete missions that vary from getting coins to shooting shells at enemies... when you complete 
 8 missions in the level you unlock the boss battle. Also you get graded on how fast you completed 
 the mission. Its always fun to try to get a star on each mission (that's a clue on unlocking another 
 level of missions)
  - Vs and battle mode- If you ever played mario kart: double dash for the GC then you know that 
 you could only play vs and battle modes against a friend. In MKDS you can now play them vs the 
 computer, always a fun mode!
  -Bottom screen map.. You can now view the map of the course from the the touch-screen of your DS! 
 This allows you to see where bananas are, your opponents are, and were the bad item boxes are (in 
 red)
  
  The graphics in this game were good... for the DS. It wasnt beautiful but I could live with it.
 
  
  With the Grand-Prix, time trails, vs, mission, and battle modes I gave the Gameplay a perfect 10. 
 After unlocking mirror mode you can try to unlock all the characters which are useful. When you 
 complete the gran-prix and time-trials the game starts to get boring. This is were online-play 
 comes in. This game allows you to play with wi-fi connection so you can play people anywhere on 
 earth if you have their friend code.
  
  Overall this game is highly recommended by me and many other people so if you have a DS then buy 
 this game! You won't regreat it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gussie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Where do i start, it is amazing. Good graphics, good sound.
  Grand prix is great, not always challenging but still great lasting fun.
  It's got lots of stuff 
 to unlock like karts, players, cup and the next grand prix.
  Battle is good fun i recomend balloon battle on the tart top, never ending fun. time trials are 
 good and challenging you can evan send your times to your friends. there a missions that are fun 
 and challenging in most places.
  
  If you have WiFi this game is evan better, play anyone and everyone it is sooooo good!
  
  Go 
 out, buy it and love!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mobfia
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  GRRRRREAT lots of extras, lots to unlock, online is a blast you wont be able to put it down charactrers 
 to unlock karts to unlock missions to do circuits to race battles to win times to beat GRRRRREAT 
 lots of extras, lots to unlock, online is a blast you wont be able to put it down charactrers to 
 unlock karts to unlock missions to do circuits to race battles to win times to beat GRRRRREAT lots 
 of extras, lots to unlock, online is a blast you wont be able to put it down charactrers to unlock 
 karts to unlock missions to do circuits to race battles to win times to beat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixGod17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Another good game in the Mario kart sereies. Like in most DS games the Mulitplayers is great the 
 graphis are good, and the gramplay makes you want more. Also the missions add more fun to the game. 
 While also trying to get the extra ones, and if you don't you can download if just to play the 
 mulitplayer with your frineds and you will get a guy not in the game. Which also comes in differnet 
 colors depending on how many people don't have the game. Not to worry unlike in Double Dash you 
 don't not have to play trough all the levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PShack
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 15, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Really, what's the big deal about this game??? Once you have beaten all of the tournaments (took 
 me a week or two) , there's not much else you can do besides wi-fi. In fact, I actually had put 
 this game down for months before a friend told me you could play against people you didn't know. 
 Also, many people on wifi cheat by snaking which makes the game no fun at all (except to their 
 little cheating brains) . Gameplay (7/10)
  
  Whoo. Let's go around in circles. Some of the more exciting courses are semi-exciting.
  
  Graphics 
 (6/10)
  
  Okay. Not too good and not too bad.
  
  Sound (2/10) Not a very good soundtrack at all.
  
  Value (3/10)
  
  As I have said, I put 
 this game down for MONTHS. The only good feature really is that you can play over wi-fi.
  
  Don't be mad at me for blasting this game. I personally think it needs more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gagan21
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: lots of characters and tracks to choose, awesome graphics and sound, gameplay is at its 
 best , lots of stuff to unlock and a great multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: lots of sleepless nights and days playing this game
  
  I dont know how to begin this 
 review with , because words cannot describe this game , you have to play it to believe it and its 
 the best racer yet on any nintendo platform to date. this games graphics are in Full 3D and features 
 16 new tracks and 16 tracks from previous mario kart games from snes, gamecube and gba ,and features 
 charachters like mario , wario , luigi , yoshi ,peach, donkey kong and manny more .there are different 
 modes in this game , the first is the grand prix mode, in this mode you compete in 3 classes the 
 50 cc , 100 cc and 150 cc karts, 50 cc is more like an easy mode and 100 cc a normal and 150 cc 
 the hard mode, in each mode you will notice the speeds and ai of your opponents . u need to play 
 through 4 circuits each featuring 3 laps and depending on what rank you get will unlock new tracks, 
 karts and characters in their respective class, each character has its own advantage for some tracks 
 
  
  The graphics and sound are cool and the game also features drift boosts that once you have masterd 
 will eventually help you win some races. You get items for you karts in each race that will help 
 you win a race like throwing a bannana or a bomb at the back or in front to take out a dude or 
 items like a bullet thats kind of make your kart into a bullet for a while that will give u a sky 
 rocketting speed and take out any kart in front of you and there are various items to use for your 
 advantage like a mushroom boost and a blue shell that hits the lap leader without a doubt and lot 
 of other items are there too. and than there is battle mode featured in 2 classes , the first a 
 balloon battle and the second a shrine battle , in each class you will fight other dudes for balloons 
 and shrines on 6 different maps , your main objective is to snatch as manny ballons and shrines 
 from other dudes in some required time, and at the end of every 5 or 10 minutes a dude will get 
 eliminated and the last 1 scoring most of the balloons and shrines wins, this mode can get insanely 
 crazy at times , this is one of the coolest modes that i had spent time and had enjoyed a lot.
 
  
  There is a mission mode in this game that requires you to complete some tasks ,it has 9 missions 
 in it , each having a boss fight to move up to the next mission, you will be given tasks like winning 
 a race from a dude , collecting some shells in a required time , collect some coins in a required 
 time , passing through gates in correct order , performing 10 ,15 driftboosts in 3 or 4 laps and 
 the boss fights are also cool in each missions. and once you are done with single player mode , 
 you can begin the multiplayer mode , a single copy of this game can be played with upto 8 players 
 with some limited tracks and characters and this is value for money . Mario kart DS is not only 
 the best racing game on the ds but its also the best DS game out there to pick and is a perfect 
 excuse for buying a DS . i had played this game for 100s and 100s of hours and still having fun 
 with it, it loads up instantly, and you can play it anywhere you want it , whether you are at home 
 , or at work , on a train , bus , on your way back to home.
  
  Racing fans should not miss this game and those who havent played this game yet should definately 
 buy this game, you dont know what you are missing , mario kart ds is one of those games that i 
 have enjoyed it in on a portable in manny manny years. Nintendo has redefined the word fun with 
 Mario kart ds that will be recognised as one of nintendos finest . so what are you guys waiting 
 for , go ahead , rent it , borrow it from a friend , get a loan from bank , get money from your 
 brother , sister, do anything to get his game, its the best pure insanely fun game for all ages 
 out there to hit in manny manny years. i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthRevan891
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. WWhen writing 
 your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage 
 you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by 
 doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write 
 your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste 
 it into the posting box below. e encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text 
 editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS lets play with the comfort that you have bought your self a game you will play for 
 a long time.
  
  Gameplay - from course brought from the game cube game double dash, all the way back to the super 
 Nintendo series original game. From grand prix to time races this game will have you busy for a 
 long time. 3 different classes to test your skills. And lets not forget you have 8 characters 
 to choose from. Each with 2 different cars with different abilities such as item carrying, speed, 
 power, ect. 
  
  Overall this game is worth buying especially if you have a kid who is into gaming. Adults will 
 be happy to get this game for there kids.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubertaffy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart aficionados this is your game! This version of the Mario Kart Franchise is not only 
 filled with new features, players, karts, items, etc but it does a fantastic job at including some 
 of the best (really) past courses and options from previous games.
  
  Coming from someone who felt the Mario Kart franchise was at the tail end of a bell-curve, this 
 game was a breath of fresh air. Having logged more hours than I would like to admit in the original 
 SNES version, and then being blown away at the improvements and playability of the N64 version, 
 perhaps I was expecting too much but the Cube version and GBA version, while good in their own 
 light, werent really the completed product I was hoping for. Enter Mario Kart DS. Or rather, it 
 entered quite a while back but I was hesitant at first considering I focus on multiplayer and dont 
 have many friends who have DSs and the comments online seemed to show the lack of fun entry level 
 play for playing random people online. While I may have been slow on the uptake, I am certainly 
 glad this has been added to my collection.
  
  First, the single player modes are the best of any Mario Kart game to date. Not only do you have 
 the obligatory 50cc, 100cc and 150cc with the 4 main circuits each (each circuit having 4 tracks, 
 giving 16 brand new courses to the player) , but there is an additional 4 complete circuits (16 
 tracks total) comprised of various retro courses from SNES, N64, GameCube and GBA versions. Not 
 only does this double the playable tracks, but in my opinion, for the most part, they selected 
 a very good sampling for variety and nostalgia factors. What would a Mario Kart game be without 
 Mirrored tracks, and this one also has that ability, to be unlocked of course, and now there are 
 4 versions of 32 different tracks. Not bad at all.
  
  A player can naturally do time trials of any unlocked course, and besides saving ghosts as in previous 
 games to race against later, the player can send the ghost to other Mario Kart players so that 
 they can race against them on their DS. This is just the first of many great multiplayer options 
 Nintendo has included to max out the DS capabilities. One other simple addition to this game to 
 help round out replayability is the fact that one player can battle without other humans. One of 
 the very few flaws of the game is that when choosing bots, its either all or nothing, so a single 
 player cannot play against only 2 or 3 bots but must play against all 7.
  
  The last major one-player addition which really ads to the hours you can keep from boredom when 
 your friends arent around is that of the missions. There are 6 (or possibly more) worlds with 
 8 levels and a boss each. Each level will have a specific track and character to be used, and will 
 focus on one characteristic of the game, such as performing sliding boosts, collecting coins or 
 beating a character around a lap. While most players will be able to get through a large % of the 
 missions without too much difficulty, there are enough types to keep it challenging. Not only 
 that, but as with the rest of the single player options, you get scored on a scale from E (the 
 worst) through A as far as letters, and then if you master the mission, you will get 1, 2 or 3 
 stars (obviously 3 being the best) . Not only does this allow for replay again, but there are things 
 to be unlocked if one is skilled enough to get at least 1 star or better on all the missions.
 
  
  Multiplayer is where I have spent the majority of past Mario Karting, and this version has done 
 an incredible job with this side of the game. With the Wireless signal to players within physical 
 range, friends (or random people on a train) can play very easily. If someone doesnt have the 
 gamepak they can still join in, but must be shy-guy, which isnt that bad of a character at all. 
 All stats are kept for all matchplay, and anyone you play with this way will be added to your friends 
 list, which separated-out stats will also be kept of, so you can figure out who you are beating 
 more than others. This friends list is also important (you can add remote friends by each exchanging 
 a friend code) as you can choose to play online (for freethanks Nintendo) through any wireless 
 network against either people from all over the world, or just people with similar records or even 
 just people who are connected through the friends list. This is a very nice option for those who 
 want to be pickier about whom they play online. Like most online games of every genre, there are 
 those who just want to have fun and there are those who have mastered every conceivable trick and 
 know precisely which pixel on every turn to use, and players will want to stay closer to groups 
 of similar kinds lest they become frustrated.
  
  Multiplayer online only allows for racing, and even that only 4 tracks at a time, which is one 
 more slight disappointment as battling online would really have been fun. Not sure if there are 
 technical reason this time around, but I hope as Nintendo goes forward with more online play both 
 with DS and Wii, a future Mario Kart would allow for more options online. However, playing versus 
 people locally you can get up to 8 doing battle, racing, or the capture the flag style shine version. 
 Not only do the races have new and old tracks, but the battle mode has new and old tracks and 
 true Mario Kart fans will be glad to hear that Block Fort is in fact among them. Probably one of 
 the funniest points to this game is the way balloons are handled in battle mode. Instead of 3 balloons, 
 the player has 5 in totalbut only 1 is initially blown up. In an effort to make sure they use 
 every part of the DS hardware, Nintendo makes you blow into the microphone to inflate the additional 
 balloons. You can have up to 3 at a time inflated and can also steal balloons from players by ramming 
 them using the mushroom. Fortunately, for those embarrassed to be seen blowing at their DS in groups 
 of people, you can use the select button instead, though the process does take a bit longer and 
 you could be at a disadvantage.
  
  All in all, this gamepak feels like the most complete Mario Kart in a long time. The replay factor 
 is high both in single mode and naturally in multiplayer mode. Graphically, the DS uses both screens 
 fantastically with both total map or detail zoom-in available on the bottom screen and the main 
 behind-the-kart 3D view on top. This truly is a must have for anyone who loves Mario Kart games 
 and a great way to get racing if you never played one before.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominirican3351
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't have as many characters as Double Dash, but it makes up for it in its game play. 
 The graphics kind of resemble those of Double Dash. You will have fun for hours just racing in 
 story mode until you have beaten the game. The multiplayer is also great because you get to race 
 with your friends to see who has better driving skills. This is another of the few Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 games, so you can test your skills against people from around the world. The bad thingabout this 
 game is te lagging in the races sometimes. But other than that I would Recomend this game to anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  I fell in love with Mario Kart when it was released for N64. I was then disaapointed with the release 
 for GBA. Now Mario Kart makes a successful return in the form of the best racing game for the DS.
 
  
  The graphics for this game are very smooth and sharp for a handheld. The 3D models are done perfectly, 
 and the colors play a great part in the graphics.
  
  The sounds are done well also. Each character makes their trademark phrases in racing which is 
 great, but sometimes is rather annoying.
  
  The game has the traditional modes such as Grand Prix, Time Trials, Multiplayer. All of which provide 
 enough fun to make this game a must have.
  
  If you owna DS and dont have Mario Kart, you must get it. The ability to Download Play with a friend 
 is an added plus, so you can get your race on with just one cartridge.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  I know that I am late on this one, but Mario Kart DS is one of the best games for the top selling 
 handheld. It is a very simple formula: Mario Characters + 36 Tracks + Krazy Karts + Turtle Shells 
 + Online play = Success.
  
  It is a big package that you will play for along time. Their are lots of thing to unlock (characters, 
 karts, modes, ect) and that will keep everyone happy. The game still uses the basic grand prix 
 mode where good driving means unlocking more races. Also, a new misson mode has been added where 
 drivers work to complete certain tasks, like collect all the coins or drive though all the gates, 
 to gain bonuses. Then of course is the online play. Playing online is my favorite part of this 
 game. It is very easy to set up and instantly addicting. I think that the friend code system works 
 well for this game and if you are able to play online, try it and you will be hooked.
  
  The graphic on this game are gorgeous and all the character models and tracks are nicely done. 
 The track selection is a prefect mix of classic tracks from the past games and brand new ones that 
 are beautifully captured are unique like Waluigi Pinball and Yoshi Falls.
  
  Racing games are all about controls and Mario Kart doesn't disappoint. The controls are smooth 
 enough to glide into turns, but are tight enough where you feel that you are actually driving.
 
  
  Sound is sound and Mario Kart sound is really inovative to say the least. It is just the classic 
 character banter and remixed music. This is the lowest part of the game, but it is horrible, just 
 not groundbreaking.
  
  In the end this is one of the best games on the market and if you have a DS you need to buy this 
 game. And if you don't have a DS, this is a good reason to buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantlooseu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds has been larely successful due to the fact that it supports WIFI multiplayer using 
 the Nintendo WFC.
  
  MK ds has a wide variety of single player modes to keep your hands busy, and increase your kart 
 driving skills.
  
  the main game mode is the grandprix that has four modes.
  1.50cc
  2.100cc
  3.150cc
  4. mirror 150cc.
  
  there are 32 tracks incl hidden tracks in total. and 
 each time you complete a Grand prix you get a ranking from 3 stars to 'D'. you are 
  
  if you manage to get one star in every single grandprix event, you earn a one star next to your 
 name, and other players see it when you play multiplayer. if you get two stats in ever grand prix, 
 you get two stars ETC ETC.
  
  mario karts multiplayer online and LAN, is very thrilling and breath taking for begginers, as it 
 has all the excitment of playing the game, but with people all over the globe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubiquityxx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece I declare. Masterpiece.
  
  How else can I describe a game that takes 14 years of franchise history and elegantly wraps it 
 in some of the most fresh, rewarding, addictive, and memorable gaming in recent history ...
  
  Ok, maybe that's a stretch. But nonetheless, playing this game as I have for the last 2 months 
 on my DS, have I harkened back to the day I plopped the original SNES version into my console for 
 the first time. That feeling of cool summer mornings wasted away while my brothers and I compete 
 toe to toe for the title of the lone badass mario karter. 
  
  A game that can bring back that emotion, has won me over. Hands down.
  
  Balanced. Plain and 
 simple. Regardless if you know the secrets to boost or evading that dreaded red shell ... this 
 game can help even the sorriest karter level the playing field. Luck plays more of a role than 
 you can imagine. It's not just mad skills.
  
  Free network play. Imagine connecting to a global network of karters who are available to get owned 
 ... it's easy and a complete blast to be kickin ass from the toilet.
  
  The sound. Each level has a song, all replicated in their original forms from their consoles of 
 origin. Elements in the race have associated sounds that will haunt you in your sleep. Believe 
 me when I say , I awoke from a nightmare where the haunting was the dreaded flying blue-shell. 
 arrrrgh. 
  
  The amount of detail and attention put into the sound is impeccable, and quite memorable. Classic 
 material here.
  
  The levels. All faithfully replicated from their original versions. Quite a treat.
  
  The only 
 thing holding my score back is the fact it's a re-make of a classic. There's no revolution going 
 on here in terms of the advancement of the art of gaming. More like ... a compilation. The best 
 of what they've got.
  
  That said, if you own a DS or DS lite, do yourself a favor and go get Mario Kart DS. Even if you're 
 not a 30 something who's always looking for the emotional hooks to relive his childhood you could 
 do worse by not entertaining this distraction.
  
  Guaranteed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielgriswold
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  The second I started playing this, I went online and found a world of people that kept this game 
 fresh each time I logged on. Despite the hardships of actually finding a buddy to play against 
 sometimes, when the games got going (and when people didn't be jerks and disconnect when you're 
 winning) there would be great battles and fights for the front position. It's pretty much what 
 you would expect from a Mario Kart game. All the characters are here with many things to unlock, 
 and the cart to cart challenges are fun.
  The graphics aren't the best, but don't have to be because the basics here are so fun and fundamental 
 that that does not impede the gameplay. Superb game that I will not trade in ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mingomike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  If you are just getting into DS witht he DS lite, or if you have been into DS since it launched. 
 If there is one game everyone should own its this one. By far the first game to make true good 
 use of the nintendo WiFi. While you may here more about how great the single player game is, I'll 
 try and give a review more on the multiplayer function of Mario Kart.
  
  The graphics are great, the music we love, the boards we remembered from across the nintendo platforms. 
 This Mario Kart has it all from the Mario Karts we know and love. Except, its adding a new twist 
 to fun filled turtle shell throwing racing. The nintendo Wi Fi is the great new built in technology 
 that comes with all new DS. Basically its comes with a wireless card. But don't fret you non-techno 
 nerds. If you don't have a wireless router in your home you can buy a WiFi connector to plug into 
 your computer and now with the power of technology you can now play online Mario Kart.... OK OK 
 enough with the Wi Fi onto the review...
  
  This multiplayer function is great. You can play your friends, you can play just in the US (or 
 wherever you may be) , or you can play against the world. The pros of this game are simple, you 
 can play multiplayer Mario Kart whenever you want with all the functionality of playing Mario Kart 
 as if the Japanese Kid, who is 2 laps ahead of you, is right next to you. However, there are some 
 flaws to this multiplayer. Trying to find a friend doesn't mean typing in a gamer tag like in the 
 xbox live. Instead its a 10 digit code that to tell you the truth... I don't even know mine off 
 the top of my head. Also, there is no way to tell what the 10 digit number is of the person your 
 playing is. So if you enjoyed playing with someone there is no way to get there number, at least 
 not to my knowledge. But that isn't the only draw back. There is the fact that you can not hold 
 an item behind you in mulitplayer. This move of course used by many to stack items. In multiplayer 
 this function is not allowed. Why.. well from what I read its seems that nintendo thought it was 
 unfair to stack... I don't know... all I know is there is now no dam way to block those red shell 
 = ( . But a side from those two draw back, one not truly even tied to Mario Kart, this game has 
 the likely hood of being known as the game that launched Wi Fi. I say Bravo Nintendo and welcome 
 back to the handheld gaming era your giving psp a good run for its money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  This mario kart racing game has defenitely been the best in its serious. I mean, you got all the 
 best racing characters you like, smooth controls, a second screen that can show you the map or 
 a close range radar of the track, really nice and crisp 3-D graphics, colorful tracks from snes, 
 gba, n64, gc, and of course, its own new nds tracks. And above all AND best of all, its portable, 
 my kind of taste. Especially now that I don't have to carry the old fat ds because nintendo has 
 done it again with the new and improve ndsl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plucky7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game can be discussed as the best Mario kart game evr made and the best game out right now 
 for DS. Th reason why i say this is the best Mario kart ever made is because there are more races. 
 there are 8 cups instead of 4. It has 32 races. Also know they have missions for you to do. They 
 are pretty had to get get the best score (which is three stars) . The multi player is so much better!!!! 
 you can finally play with 8 people. Also someone doesn't need to have Mario kart and still play 
 with you. Having Mario kart go online changes everything too. I can play online alll day and never 
 get tired of it. There will probably be a chance for the next Mario kart probably on Wii to be 
 better because its probably gonna go online also. But we'll see but right now this is the best 
 Mario kart ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart is fun, addicting, silly, humerous, and the best DS game you'll come across. It demostartes 
 simple racing as you unlock loads of stuff to make your career even more eye-popping. The gameply 
 is pure, simple to turn on the corners and free nitro boosts is what I was dreaming to be added 
 in a racing game. More than 20 levels, 15 characters and 150 styles of karts make this game worth 
 playing forever and ever. Tons of new and classic power-ups from older MK games appear to crash 
 down your oponnets and make it to the finish line first. 
  
  This is and will always be (maybe not that far) the best DS game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8terdude24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  This game is my favorite on the Nintendo Ds. Its got new tracks and old ones from other systems 
 including tracks from Mario Kart Double Dash (Gamecube) , the GBA version, and the Nintendo 64. theres 
 even new items you can get including a squid that squirts black stuck on your screen on your NDS 
 to make it harder for you to drive, but it doesnt happen much. Also they have lots of old items 
 as well including the red tracker, the blue 1st place tracker, the banana peel, and many more. 
 The game also has balloon battle and its just like the others. Also its got a mission mode where 
 you take on challenging missions. Dont worry, theres more you can also take on friends all over 
 the world using the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. Dont just sit there go out and get this game. If 
 you own a Nintendo Ds this is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintend-man86
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Let's cut to the chase. Mario Kart DS is like most other Mario Kart games, except this one has 
 got to be the best out of all of them. The new features in this game will keep you playing for 
 awhile.
  The main part of the game is the Grand Prix. Before you start a cup you select a class. 50cc, 100cc 
 and 150cc. If you beat all 3, you unclock 150cc Mirror. There's 8 cups, 4 brand new and 4 Retro. 
 The Retro Grand Prix has classic tracks from the previous Mario Kart Games. The regular Grand Parix 
 has brand new tracks. In each cup, there are 4 races with 3 laps in each. At the end of eadch race, 
 you will be given points and at the end of the cup, the player with the most points will be the 
 winner. If you recieve 1st palce trophies in the fisrt cups, (regularor retro) you will unclock 
 the next cup and if you place first in the cup, you will unlock the final cup.
  The next mode is Time Trials. In this mode, you simply race against your ghost after a first try. 
 You will unlock staff ghost data once you get a certain time in each track. The staff ghosts are 
 very difficult to beat.
  VS mode is where you simply race against the computer. You can set the class, the diffuclty, select 
 cources or have them random and have team play or not. This is probally the simplest mode.
  There's the all new Mission mode, in which your asighned certain tasks. After you face six of the 
 missions in each group of missions, you will face a boss. There are 6 grups of missions.
  Battle mode is my favorite mode. First off, there's Balloon Battle. You have 1 baloon and if it 
 pops, you're out of the game and you place item boxes every where. Of course you can steal balloons 
 by carshing into people with Mushrooms. You also can blow up balloons by blowing into the mic. 
 You have stock a stock of about 5 ballooons which you get them from. Use items to take out other 
 people's balloons. Shine Runners is this kind of musical chairs game. You run around a stage colleting 
 shines. At the end of each round when the time runs out, the person with the least amount of shines 
 looses. Use items to take out peoples shines and steal them.
  Multiplayer mode is where you can race with up to 8 friends in a room. You can do multicard play 
 or do DS Download Play. But the people who are download can only be Shy Guy. You can also play 
 on Nintendo WiFi Connection with up to 4 people. You can choose World Wide oppents, Regional opponents 
 or paly with registered Friend or Revials. It's got the same rules as VS mode, except your play 
 with actual people and same with the other modes of Multipalyer
  You can play as 8 charectres with about four charecters to unlock. Each one has 2 karts (1 to ucnlock) 
 based around the charecters abillties. For instance, Mario in balance but Bowser has low excellertation 
 but good speed. In battle, you can only use standards.
  
  Let the Koopa Shells Fly!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_Hanks79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  A good game. (as long as you do not have blood pressure problems) The game is very good and very 
 addictive, I couldn't put it down for more than a half hour at a time. 
  At 50cc the game is fun but not very challenging. Your almost always in first place which is good 
 but you always get hit with those blue turtle shells (remember blue turtle shells = BAD.
  At 100cc mode it picks up a lot. It becomes more challenging, not hard but challenging. The players 
 become harder but its still not that hard to beat them.
  At 150cc if your a true catholic you should go to confession 2,3 times a day. Yes the players become 
 so annoying F*** and a** will be top of your vocabulary so be warned.
  Anyway to sum it up this is a good game with many tracks and unlockable characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiderSouth
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is the one game I knew for sure that I was going to get when I bought my DS, and I actually 
 got in in a combination. This game is just like any other Mario Kart game: simple, yet fun. Just 
 come in first place, there's no fancy stuff like missions (at least in the races) to unlock stuff, 
 it's the usual way, beat the Grand Prix, you get a new racer and kart. I got this game the day 
 after Christmas 2005, and I had every character and kart by early March. 
  
  It's not all limited to the actual game. Wi-Fi makes it even better. With Wi-Fi, you can match 
 up your skills against people in the other hemisphere. It brings the gaming community even closer. 
 Mario Kart, as one of the first games to use Wi-Fi, proved quickly that Wi-Fi would be successful. 
 
  
  This is one of my favorite games on the DS, and it's certainly in the top 15 of my all-time favorites. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BestGame92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  This game is basically just amazing! From its beautifully designed graphics, to its amazing, and clasic 
 gameplay, this game will make you get a Nintendo DS just for this game alone, because that is what 
 basically happened to me. Its graphics are great for the most part. Every character looks the way 
 they should be, and the karts and items look fantastic! Though the graphics can look blocky at times, the 
 graphics are just amazing for a handheld such as this one. And for the gameplay: The gameplay is 
 very good. Its very similar to the N64 and SNES versions ,though its more enhanced and you can do 
 the slide boosts as its featured also in the Mario Kart Double Dash!! GCN game. The single player 
 mode is great, also. It has the 50cc,100cc,150cc, and Mirror Mode 150 cc just every other one, and 
 the there is over 30 levels, new and classic from the past games!! Mario Kart DS also has a brand 
 new mode that takes you on a Mission with over 35 missions and exclusive Boss fights! And last but 
 not least the Wi-Fi/Multiplayer mode: The Wi-Fi is just amazing. There are many opponents waiting 
 to just race and boost there ways on a competition from all over the world!! Also, theres a wireless 
 multiplayer mode thats lets you play this wirelessely with friends you know to either battle, or 
 have a racing competition. Theres absolutley no dissappointment at all in this game, and if your 
 thinking of buying a game, Mario Kart is definitly the first choice you should make not only for 
 fans of Super Mario, but also because its an easy game to pick up and play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobotChicken4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is not just a cool name. This game works great on the DS by showing the map on the 
 bottom screen witch works out well by showing the racers and road a head. On the top screen shows 
 you driving your kart.
  Witch by the way this game has some of the best Graphics on the DS so far.
  If you like any of 
 the other Mario Kart game than you would like this game and if you didn't than don't get this game. 
 But for you people that like the game. You will love this game this one is the best mario kart 
 EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatattack
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  even though the graphics arn't the best they are still great for the ds, and the gameplay runs 
 nice and smooth. But there are a few bugs with the online games but besides that the game is nearly 
 perfect! The gameply is just the same as the others but the only difference than the others is 
 no control stick but the I think the d pad works better then the stick. but still other then that 
 the game IS the best game I own for the ds, and I need some more words so here is a stuipid saying: 
 god gets his tan in california and his cheese from wisconson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan78
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  ok here we go this is a great game first off you get to play some of the older courses now im not 
 saying just N64 but u get to play the courses from the original classic plastic super mario kart 
 for the snes also the good thing about it is the online play which the other 4 games sadly did 
 not offer nintendo really did something good with this game the worst thing about this game is 
 their is only a few unlockable players in this game but alot of carts for them so that makes up 
 for it also their is a new mode added in this game called mission mode which makes the game alot 
 more fun because their are 42 different missions to do and then their are 7 bosses theses bosses 
 range in different eras of nintendo so it makes it fun to relive the big bomg or the big ice bully 
 from super mario 64 ds or the big chain chomp u must defeat so basiccaly i think this is an excellent 
 game worth picking up for a measly 34.99 new / 29.99 used so i would like to thank nintendo for 
 making this game and also making the nintendo ds the revolution of handhelds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lurker22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a Racing Game (It's 5th Driving, game from the Mario Universe) that you will enjoy. 
 This Game not only have multi-player, but a Wi-fi connection. allowing you to play with others 
 all over the world. Mario Kart Has come along with Better Graphics each game. Mario Kart DS Starts 
 with Gp, Vs mode, Battle mode, Mission mode, Ect You start out with 8 characters and will get more 
 after completing all the Cups at different Difficulty. There are stages that return to the DS that 
 was showed at other games. Some new items that appear. Like the Blooper, which can blind the enemy, 
 Bullet Bill, Which transforms you into a Bullet Bill and go thorough other Players. and more. The 
 Missions here are easy at start. but gets harder. You can bring your friends and play each other. 
 So far this is the best Mario Kart Game for now. Until the Wii's Mario Kart game (depending if 
 they will make one which i think they will.) comes out.
  
  So i give this a 9.3/10. So far it's the best Mario Kart game know so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumbervspirate
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS in some aspects is like a greatest hits CD of your favorite band. Although you've 
 heard it all before it somehow entertains you for hours. Only unlike the ten dollar greatest hit 
 collection of The Eagles you bought last week Mario Kart DS adds more content that has no problem 
 keeping up with the old tracks. 
  
  The sound is nothing extrordinary coming from Nintendo, it's the same cheeky sound effects and 
 happy character voices your used to. The graphics are satisfying enough to be called 3-D, with 
 vibrant colors and nice models * for a handheld system*. 
  
  I felt as if was a little bit on the easy side, as I blew through the 50cc and the 100cc, the 150cc 
 is harder but not that much more of a challenge. Experienced gamers will have little trouble unlocking 
 the four secret characters hidden in the game. Although the fourth one does take a little bit more 
 play time to unlock. 
  
  But overall it is a solid DS game that belongs in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTNAPALM
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  it is excelent. it almost never gets old. i still play through all the races at night it is the 
 first hanheld game to go online. it is truly revolutinary. it is not chopy at all. even online, 
 it is as smooth as ice on a skating rink.
  
  the story... there is no story! a down though. over 30 carts andover 15 racers. you can also unlock 
 the feature of every one gets all carts, so you can be your favorit driver, but still mix up selections. 
 im new to the seiries, so this might not be news.
  
  if you have a ds, no contest: BUY THIS GAME. youl like it! honest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tc_dude
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  You think I have time to write a review? I have a life...
  
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the 
 the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the 
 the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the ththe the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the 
 the the the 
  the the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the 
  the the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
 
  the the the the 
  the the e 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the ththe the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the 
 the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the 
  the the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the e 
  the the the the 
  the the 
  the the 
  the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the the the 
  the the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wildcat04
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a very good game. It is basically like the Mario Kart game for the Nintendo 64. 
 You have various items that you can use to give you an advantage during the race. The single player 
 is fun and addicting. You can do it on 3 different levels. 50 cc, 100cc and 150cc. The single player 
 is also quite long. You have to beat both cups on all three levels. Then there is the multiplayer. 
 I usually do balloon battle. You have a certain amount of balloons and you blow into the mic to 
 blow up the balloons, but once you run out of balloons your done. The wifi play is amazing as well. 
 You can play localy or worldwide. It is overall an awesome game. Definately a must buy for the 
 nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinefinn
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Sorry to say but I don't believe this game is as good as everyone says. The
  racing didn't seem that explosive. defintely not as good as some racing games on the DS or Gameboy 
 Advance SP. Anyways the graphics seemed good for the DS and the sound was nice.
  
  I just didn't get into the racing. It was way too funky for me.
  
  I also didn't think there 
 were that many courses and not that many
  cars that were cool enough. 
  
  On the plus side the courses that were there were nicely done.
  
  I have to admit that I didn't 
 try it online and hear that is more fun so maybe that is what people like about the game. Seems 
 like that would be fun.
  
  Give it a try. Maybe it's not my style of game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khamsaiumn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much that needs to be said about this game other than BUY IT 
  
  i bought the game when i had my DS phat and the controls are it are hard because the dpad doesn't 
 compress really well, they have fix that a bit. But with the Ds lite everything was AWESOME. One 
 thing i like most about it is the retro tracks. Something that i alwaise wanted to play because 
 i didn't acutally started playing mario kart until the N64 days. i didn't get the chance to really 
 play the gba version of mario kart. But it is a must have and it is awefully challenging. It is 
 a great deal of fun and you can not miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzevil
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing that could be improved on this game. 10 out of 10! With 32 possible courses half 
 old and half new with staff ghosts to try to defeat on each one, its a blast from the past and 
 future! Nintendo also included a missions part of the game where you can try unique things and 
 unlock an extra 9 missions. Also, you can finally play battle or versus mode with just one player. 
 Playing online will take practice if you want to win, it is a bittersweet experience. Nintendo's 
 Wi-Fi Connection allows up to four people to race online, and as far as straight gameplay is concerned, 
 this kart ride is a smooth as they come. this game is better playing with friends. Buy this game 
 if you can!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarvelGreenDay
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS combines all the past Mario Kart games and makes the DS's greatest racing game. The 
 Grand Prix mode adds 4 new challenges, called "classic cups". These stages are taken from a mix 
 of the older games, from Super Mario Kart to Mario Kart Double Dash. As if that wasn't enough, 
 the game adds all new tracks, that are still original. MKDS now also has online play. It is almost 
 impossible not to enjoy Mario Kart online, but there are some negatives. Every person has a long 
 friend code, and you must remember it to play against them. Also, the only option for online play 
 is grand prix, no battle mode. That is the only bad part of this great game. With newly added missions, 
 Mario Kart DS should keep you busy for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imasmartguy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Mario Kart DS . . . . how do I express how I feel about it in words? I am truly speechless 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . OK, let's begin! This game is one of Nintendo's best creations! This 
 is such a cool update to the Mario and Mario Kart series! I LOVE IT! I have had it since it came 
 out and I haven't even gotten tired of it. I got Brain Age last week and am already sick of it. 
 With Mario Kart DS, that never happens. the Wi-Fi connection brings excitement everytime you connect 
 and someone is always there to show you how good you really are. The races are fun too, because 
 you can battle all the old school Mario characters and some new ones! If you don't have it then 
 GET IT! If you do, wanna play? Bottom line: It rocks, if you get it, you will too! ROCK ON MARIO! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is exactly what the Mario Kart series needed. It gets back to the series' roots and 
 adds several new and very welcomed features. Standing alone the game is near perfect. Most of the 
 flaws come in the Wifi area. The new courses are very well designed and the return of classic courses 
 was a huge surprise that pleased me greatly. This addition easily doubled the play time this game 
 is gonna get. The lone fault that I would give the non-Wifi portion of the game is that the new 
 courses are noticeably easier than the classic courses the game has. I've been playing some of 
 these courses 10+ years, I should be pretty good at them, but they are still very hard. (That's 
 a good thing) I was able to master the new tracks easier than I could the classic tracks. This 
 however, can be seen as a foot note on what otherwise would be a perfect game mode. Mission mode 
 is really good for the portableness of the title because they are quick and easy to pick up and 
 go, and Battle mode retains the (curse your best friend and throw the controller) greatness that 
 it has always had.
  
  Now on to Wifi. The racing of tracks on Wifi is great. Its not that anything is really wrong with 
 the Wifi mode. Its whats missing that really bothers me. No battle mode! For 10+ years I have had 
 many friends and most of them were at least adequate at one of the Mario Kart games. And when we 
 would get together to play each other, we wouldn't race. We would want to knock the crap out of 
 each other with turtle shells and pop balloons. Battle mode is what multiplayer mario kart is, 
 the omission of this in the WiFi mode is inexcusable. Don't get me wrong, the Battle mode that 
 is included is great. Having the ability to battle comp. players adds value to the single player 
 game but it really should be in the Wifi section.
  
  To top off the title............. ROB the robot is an unlockable character!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epsilon72
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  I didn't like this game at first, but that was before I decided to spend a significant amount of 
 time playing it, especially online. I was kind of turned off by the whole d-pad steering rather 
 than the analog that I've gotten used to in current racing games, but the game plays well for using 
 that control scheme.
  
  Online is the major selling point of this game, as this IMO is the best wi-fi game at the moment 
 (metroid has way too many health-monger sniper cheaters) . Nothing like being toad driving the cucumber 
 kart passing all of your oponents with a gold mushroom and hearing the "OKAY!" "OKAY!" in his crackly 
 little voice. heheh. 
  
  There are some people who incessantly use drift turns to win every match and make things non-fun, 
 but it doesn't happen all that often. If you have a wireless network and are looking for a good 
 online handheld game, pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracon_08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I also love the fact that this game can go online. I loved the missions and all the race tracks 
 but this game was missing quite a bit. The games online feature only let a maximum of 4 people 
 to race each other at a time which i thought was weak. The game allows a maximum of 8 players normally 
 why not on wifi. Also after a short while about a month this game gets really boring. This is why 
 i give the game an 8.5 and why it is an almost but not quite. Also there could have been more characters 
 from the mario world in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowBass989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is great. I'm a huge fan of the Mario Kart Racing games and this is probably my 
 favorite yet. Mario Kart DS is nearly perfect in every way. There are a dozen characters in the 
 game (yes a dozen is 12) and each one character can get up to 36 karts, each. If you multiply that 
 then that means that there are a total of 432 karts. Now on to the stages. There are of course 
 the traditional classes. 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and if you unlock it the 150cc Mirror which is every 
 stage backwards. There are a total of 8 cups. The traditional 4which are Mushroom, Flower, Star, 
 and Special cup. There are now 4 new cups, which are called Shell, Banana, Leaf, and Lightning 
 cup. Each cup has 4 racetracks on them. In the Shell, Banana, Leaf, and Lightning Cups, each track 
 is a stage from a previous Mario Kart game. One from the SNES (Super Nintendo) , N64 (Nintendo 64) , 
 GBA (GameBoyAdvance) , and GC (Game Cube) . This game has gorgeous colors and backgrounds. All the 
 old item's are back and even a couple new ones like my personal favorite Bullet Bill in which the 
 Bullet takes control and guides you to the front and who ever is unlucky enough or dumb enough 
 to get in the way is doomed. As if this game couldn't get any better lets check. Lot's of characters, 
 check. Lot's of stages, check. Lot's of racing karts, check. Item's, check. How can this possibly 
 get any better, well this is the first DS game to be able to play online if you have a wireless 
 wi-fi connection that can be bought online for about $30. You can play with your friend next door 
 or some one around the world, wow can't get any better. A truly must get game if you have ever 
 liked Mario Kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papermario6528
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  now i know its alil to big a 10 but i see it in standards as in ds if it was for gamecube or wii 
 that standards wouldent be so big but since of the ds and the online play all the things you get 
 to do surpiseingly on a lil chip on this lil handheld is pretty amazing it desurves a 10 all that 
 becasue of the ds well ill start at the begining
  
  gameplay: awesome gives you that mario kart racing feel
  
  graphics: for a handheld its awesome 
 graphics get a 10
  
  sound: pretty good music and sounds of items and the karts and all that
  
  value: a 10 if you 
 got a ds your nuts if you dont get this game
  
  me well i like it duh its all up there ^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infectellect
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  What can one say about Mario Kart DS that has not already been said before. I have been playing 
 Mario Kart since the original on the SNES. In my opinion this is the best Mario Kart to date. Hands 
 down by a long shot!
  
  Let's start off with track number. There are 8 cups which total to 32 tracks. Plus the ability 
 to race each one of them in mirror mode. There is a huge variety of karts to pick for each character. 
 Also, there is a mission mode where you get to try your hand at different obstacles. There are 
 Time Trials where you can run through a course and try to beat your best time. If you are good 
 enough you might even be able to unlock a few surprises racing on Time Trails. You get ranked on 
 each cup that you do and depending on how well you do; you can unlock bragging rights for when 
 you play online or locally against other people.
  
  This game supports WiFi which allows you to race against people World Wide. There can be up to 
 4 people racing at a time. I believe Nintendo did one fine job with WiFi on this one. One problem 
 people seem to face is the fact that some racers can perform a '"snaking" technique. It is an advanced 
 technique that some people would call cheating. I will not go into the details here but it seems 
 to ruin some people's perspective on the WiFi gaming. 
  
  This game truly shines if you know a handful of people that are willing to get together and play 
 a 8 person Grand Prix through local wireless LAN. I hold a video game session at my apartment every 
 Wednesday night for such games. We always have a lot of fun and it gets very intense with 7 other 
 friends racing against you. 
  
  This game is one of the best on the DS to date and it will be very hard to top it. A lot of fun 
 and a lot of replay value; especially if you have a WiFi connection. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnolio369
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  If you have played any other of the Mario Kart games you will probably like this as it has everything 
 any of the other games had, even a bit more!
  
  Mario Kart DS has tracks from the N64, snes, GBA and GC plus lots of new tracks. It has most characters 
 from Mario games like Toad, DK and Waluigi and each player has 7 karts to choose from ( some you 
 must unlock )
  
  There are single player which has grand prix (which we all know is the kinda story or main thing 
 to do) it has time trials and in vs you can go against coms in races in teams or as individuals, theres 
 also battle which has balloon battle and shine runners and finally last but not least missions 
 is where you are asked to do tasks in six different levels like get coins or break boxes before 
 the time runs out! at the end of every level you fight a boss ( some you might know ) 
  so it is very hard to get bored of this game!
  
  Now besides all that theres also multiplayer 
 where you can play against your friends if they have a DS and only one person has to have the game 
 to play it!
  
  And the all new thing that no other Mario Kart games had: online mode or as it says in the game: 
 Nintendo wfc where you can play against people around the world. Now there are some problems, you 
 need wireless broadband but if you reading this you probably do!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirklightstar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Right where should I begin? Well this was the first game I played on the DS I don't own one myself 
 as I choose to get a PSP, anyway to the point I played this game expecting the same experience 
 I got from other games in the series like Double Dash, what I got was an overall better and more 
 entertaining experience, with added tracks, music, colourful graphics and more unlockable characters 
 this game is the best in the Mario Kart series, if you are interested in this series grab this 
 game now. I fyou are looking for a realistic racing experience the you would be better suited to 
 games such as Gran Turismo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  What can I say? Mario Mario Mario... makes for a great game. I had mario kart on the N64 loved 
 it, game Cube Loved it and now DS! The cool thing about the Ds is that you can race on tracks that 
 came out on the N64, gamecube and some new ones they added for the DS. You can race other people 
 in the house with this game who have a DS or link up with people all over the world. Once again 
 nintendo brought it home with yet another great game that is good clean fun for the whole family. 
 Buy it and you will love it! Graphics and sound are both very good and gameplay is Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludadav
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS has to be one of the best racing handhelds compared to that other crap they gave 
 us. I've personally played 64, DD and DS and they rocked, But DS has to be my favorite.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Awesome, has the brand new mission mode where you have to complete certain things 
 in a time limit, me and my cousin enjoy beating each others records. The grand prix mode has 50cc 
 and 100cc and 150cc too, but it has mirror mode carried over from double dash. If you have a wireless 
 router/Nintendo Wi-Fi usb connector, you can play online against 3 other players around the world. 
 If you don't have it, and you have other friends who have DSes, they can download off you (8 ppl 
 max) or have the card, you can all have a blast. If you don't have either of these, you can play 
 againsts bots, which gets a little boring.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Perfect, has wicked graphics and always keeps your eyes on the game with the eye-catching graphics. 
 The star looks nice when you used it and Boo looks really cool when you use him, shells are look 
 fantastic and stuff, but the one thing that really is wierd that Bowser's butt sticks out of the 
 Mushmellow car and looks really wierd, doesn't really do anything though.
  
  Sound:
  
  Not really anything new but I can't really explain it so onto...
  
  Value:
  
  You'll be 
 playing this forever if you have friends/Wi-Fi connection, if not bots will suit you well, theres 
 getting perfect records on everything like 3 stars and if you have wifi connection/LAN (local area 
 network) you can prove you rock by having 1, 2 or 3 stars.
  
  So if you just like pure Mario fun or Racing, or you never tried out the genre, this will definitely 
 give you a boost in both. 
  
  It has Wi-fi, which is excellent ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zkeptik
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  If you've played any iteration of the Mario Kart series than you'll feel right at home.
  
  If you've been frustrated by the A. I.'s always miraculous teamwork in any of the previous iterations 
 you will also, unfortunately, feel right at home.
  
  That's my only major gripe. The game plays well. Getting online takes a little time but the best 
 part about this game is the local multi-player. This game is made for local game play with friends 
 that you can watch and scream to. I have a brand new DS Lite and the blowing up balloons mechanic 
 doesn't work well for me for some reason. I just end up light headed.
  
  Perhaps the developers of the Wii version will take this into consideration when they release the 
 title.
  
  The different carts don't handle all that differently. There are some minor differences but nothing 
 that will cause an unfair match-up.
  
  It seems though that the rubber band handicap is overused in this game. Weapons like the blue shell, 
 lightning and 3 red shells rarely come into your possession even when you are in last place but 
 you will frequently get hit by all three when racing against A. I. opponents, occasionally in quick 
 succession when you are winning.
  
  The 5.
  
  The control is responsive.
  The graphics are relatively good for the DS.
  The sound is effective. Familiar and not tinny.
 
  The price? $34.99..... eh... still to high for a portable remake.
  Why tilt? It is a great game if you like the genre. 7.8 if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante20010
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, although I said in my last review (FFX-2) that I'd do one on FFX, I decided to do this game. 
 So, here we go:
  
  Mario Kart DS is the 5th installment in the Mario Kart series, and is probably the best one. There 
 isn't much difference between this one and the GBA/N64 ones, except for courses and characters. 
 This game has 32 new levels, plus an extra 32 from the first 4 MK games.
  
  Gameplay: Simply amazing! It's not too slow that it becomes boring, yet it's not too fast that 
 you don't know what you're doing. Although the online is kinda laggy and has people floating around 
 sometimes, it's still quite a fun game, and probably has the best controlling in any Mario Kart 
 game.
  
  Graphics: Well, although the graphics aren't the greatest, they are pretty good, and surely surpass 
 the power of the N64. There are some cars that don't look too good, but in all, they pulled off 
 the look nicely.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is simply beautiful. Each tune suits it's course perfectly. Also, 
 no reused music!
  
  Well, that's my review. Thank you, and good night.
  
  ~Derek 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ownage1020
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This probably is one of if not the best DS racing game so far. It has great gameplay, multiplayer 
 and wi-fi/online play. Duering single player you race for rankings and isn't really that difficult. During 
 regular multiplayer you are able to play against friends and rivals to see who is better. Wi-fi 
 is basically the same thing exept you can play people all over the world you also play to be the 
 best and have the best record. Overall I recommend this game to people that love challenges facing 
 people you don't/all over world and don't know how to disconnect. I also recommend this game to 
 people who love havingfun and have a lot of time on their hands becuase it becomes very addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Wolfy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is the must have of any DS owner as it has so much to offer you could keep from getting 
 bored for a long time. The life span of this game is infinite if you have internet for wifi as 
 well. The game play is based off the origial racing style so no doubles per cart this time but 
 this means they bring back the turtle shells circle you again protecting you. Another thing is 
 their is 2 diffrent gran prix for each class. 50cc 100cc and 150cc all have 2 different sets you 
 can race. You can play all new coarses with original, fun dynamic coarses made for the DS or you 
 can play the old school courses from the N64, Snes, Gameboy, and even from GC. The single play 
 is chalk full of unlockables and secrets. But we are not done yet! The Wifi makes you capable of 
 playing with friends all around the world. Are you a loser with no friends? No problem! Beat the 
 living stuffing out of random opponents in the normal matches. Their is almost no end of things 
 to take up your time. And for you artists out their, in your first play through you get to create 
 your own insignia for your kart to show off online or off! So in short, it's good. Get it? Got 
 it? Good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  This game is like any other mario game you drive a go kart with mario characters in it.
  Gameplay 9/10
  Its just like another mario kart game its the same thing almost.
  Graphics 8/10
 
  The graphics look n64ish which is very good for a handheld.
  Sound 6/10
  Most mario put gibberish talking in it. But neverless there were some good sound effects.
  Value 
 4/10
  This game costs 35$ and there is like no replay value at all.
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10
  I loved this game but there were many parts of immprovement like being 
 able to play wi fi but there were some thing that need to be immproved like the gameplay. Cant 
 they make up something so crazy it may work. sorta like the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  The GOOD: Many tracks new and old, fun off and online, extra modes for the single player, lots 
 of unlockables, favorite mario characters in the mix, multiplayer with one card, slight customization 
 allows you to express yourself, value even at full price.
  
  The BAD: I had to stop playing it when my DS battery got low, I can't use a blue shell in other 
 racing games.
  
  The UGLY: Some online people seem to leave the game early if they are going to lose so it won't 
 affect their stats.
  
  FOR PARENTS: This game is a clean title, there is no blood, gore, gun fire, explosions of karts 
 or anything really violent. Its a safe title for kids of any age to pick up and enjoy. Online has 
 not direct contact features, so your child wont be exposed to vulgur language or in appropriate 
 messages.
  
  At first glance Mario Kart DS is quite easy to look over if you aren't familiar with the series 
 already. The game isn't a high tune full fleged racer with limitless customization. This game isn't 
 going for anything like that though. Once you pick up this game, the only real problem you will 
 have with it, is the fact you had to put it down.
  
  Mario Kart DS is a kart racing game where the goal is to not only take first place but do everything 
 in your power to make sure the other players won't even make it across the finish line when you 
 do. Like other mario kart racing games you will have plenty of items, characters and karts to choose 
 from to make your rivals suffer.
  
  Aside from racing the key thing that sets this game up to be the greatest in the series is the 
 fact it has online gameplay. Online gameplay is probably the best thing to happen to gaming. Using 
 a Wifi access point your DS can connect to friends, rivals, regional players, and world wide competitors. 
 This means you virtually always will have someone to play with and test your skills against the 
 best karters in the world. Online has up to 4 players per race.
  
  Aside from online, you can still multiplay with up to 8 players with one DS card. Although not 
 all the tracks will be accessable unless everyone has a DS card, there is enough of a variety to 
 keep you going with your friends for hours with on in. Aside from racing in multiplayer you can 
 battle eachother in an arena like setting trying to pop all your oponents balloons before your 
 do. Or you can even enter a sprite competition where your goal is to collect more sprites then 
 your rivals before time runs out.
  
  The single player wasn't left out either not only can you do all the multiplayer functions by yourself 
 with NPC's (non playable characters) , but there is a mission mode that allows you to test your 
 karting skills to complete objectives. This may sound silly or wastefuly or just a gimick put in 
 to add gaming hours, but the skills you learn here will teach you the finer points of controlling 
 your kart, making it good training, especially if you are going to compete online.
  
  The graphics in the game are rich and colorful. Its easy to see each character even when far away. 
 The game makes good use of the split screen so you won't have everything on your racing screen. 
 All the powers you know and love from previous versions are back and work just as good. Even though 
 its the DS it lives up well to its most current console rival Double Dash for the GameCube. I didn't 
 notice any glitches or slowdowns even in online play. 
  
  The sound in the game is really good taking advantage of the DS stereo speakers. All the sound 
 effects are clear and crisp. The only thing I wish is there would be more taunts for when you pass 
 someone or get passed. Other than that its a solid sounding game. Especially when you hear the 
 blue shell rocketing at your location, the fear and explsion of the hit will get you well into 
 the game.
  
  Value, lets see where to begin. For people who like to play by themselves, there is plenty to do 
 in this games single player. From racing to battling to missions, your plate will be full for a 
 while. For those who like multiplayer but don't have online capability for the DS, you have battles, 
 racing and sprites, with lots of track to keep you and your friends entertained. If you all have 
 the game, there is even more to explore in racing tracks and battle maps. If your an online player, 
 you can go right away. Certain unlockables give you advantages that you won't have out of the gate, 
 but thanks to the rival mode you can compete with people at your skill level right away so you 
 won't be left in the dust.
  
  By far this game has the best unlockable system I have ever seen. There is enough avalaible right 
 away for people who just want to play once in a while and even more for those who want to play 
 all the time. The difficulty in the game gets harder by cup and by CC, so you can choose what you 
 wish. This ensures wyou won't be overwhelemed by the NPC's before you have a chance to figure out 
 the game and controls. What is even more surprising is the unlockables are nice to have and add 
 to the experience, especially multiplayer, rather off or online.
  
  This game has something for everyone. The delicate formula balance between being a racing game, 
 battle kart game, and a mario themed game is a fine line that has to be walked. This game not only 
 can walk that line, it can do it backwards and blind folded. There really is no reason not to have 
 this game.
  
  It is obvious Nintendo wanted us to have fun with this title and spared no expense to make it happen. 
 Its nice to see good games, but its outstanding to see a game that can continuously be fun and 
 rewarding for years to come. Mario Kart DS is one of those games. If you don't own a DS this title 
 alone is a solid reason to make the investment, especially now that the DS Lite is available.
 
  
  I wish I could same something bad about this game, but I would be lying. I never hear anyone laughing 
 wihile playing a game anymore, but with this title its standard background noise. Because of its 
 presentation, gameplay, replay value, and just being plain fun, i give Nintendo a pat on the back 
 and Mario Kart DS a very deserving 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateelvis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  If anyone has ever played a Mario Kart game, then they know what to expect: crazy courses, funny 
 characters, and plenty of useful items at your disposal. Almost every Mario Kart game has used 
 this very succesful forumla, but if you think about it, there is rarely something new between all 
 of the games. It's pretty much always the same game with different courses and slightly more multiplayer 
 options each time.
  Mario Kart DS is oh so much more.
  
  As usual, you've got the 4 tournaments, each with a new course (as well as the usual Rainbow Road) . 
 Then you have the 4 difficulty levels, 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and 150cc Mirror. Probably one of the 
 biggest improvements is that there are 4 tournaments, each with 4 retro courses from previous games. 
 This alone doubles the value of the single player aspect compared to the other games!
  It doesn't stop there. Each time you beat a tournament, you unlock more characters and vehicles, 
 and eventually you'll have a plethora of vehicles to use to your fancy. Each vehicle has specific 
 statistics as well, so there is a lot more strategy involved when selecting your character and 
 kart. This way you can easily choose the kart that suits you best!
  Surprisingly, there's still more! In Mario Kart DS, they've added a whole new mission mode, where 
 you have to fufill certain requirements within a time limit. With 63 missions in total, you'll 
 spend plenty of extra time playing the single player than you normally would on any other Mario 
 Kart game!
  IT'S STILL NOT OVER! For each tournament and mission, you get a rating. The possible ratings are 
 E (being the worst) , D, C, B, A, *, **, or *** (being the best) . It's challenging enough doing 
 everything, but getting a perfect rating on everything increases the difficulty to an insane level. 
 Only the best of the best will be able to get a *** rating on everything in the game.
  Mario Kart games have been known for promoting multiplayer, but having all of these options in 
 single player makes the game actually worth buying even if you aren't going to be playing with 
 anyone.
  
  The multiplayer, for the most part, is the usual, with the VS. mode, battle mode, etc.
  What 
 makes the multiplayer on this game so unique is 1. You can play wirelessly with friends and 2. 
 You can actually play online against other people around the world. Finally, your skills can be 
 put to test against people just like you!
  That's another thing that makes this game so great, the fact that you can play online. As a side 
 note, if you have gotten a certain star-ranking or better on every tournament in the single player 
 mode, it will show up when you play other people. That way you can intimidate people by showing 
 just how good and dedicated to the game you are. Another interesting feature about online play 
 is that you can use your artistic talents to create an emblem for others to see when they play 
 you. This has no effect on the game itself, although it is nice to be able to show off what you 
 can do with a stylus.
  
  The last interesting thing about the gameplay is that there is a whole new strategy available in 
 this game that isn't anywhere else. It is commonly known as snaking, and that means to use the 
 drift boost back and forth on straightaways to actually pull ahead of your opponents. Some people 
 consider this an exploit of a glitch, while others consider it a hard-to-pull-off strategy, and 
 use it. It's all a matter of opinion. Since the drift boost can be pulled off very quickly, this 
 is a very effective way to get ahead of opponents or to beat staff ghosts on the time trials (staff 
 ghosts being the image of the best run of the guy who created the game) .
  
  Phew, now that that's over I can talk about the sound.
  The sound in this game is very good, 
 but not excellent. Basically you have the sounds of characters when you select them as a racer 
 or when you hit someone with an item while racing, the sounds of the cars, and the music for each 
 level and the intro screen. The tracks for each course are appropriate, but not exceptional. They're 
 pretty much there to get you into the feel of the game, but it doesn't enhance gameplay much. You 
 could pretty much do without the sound.
  
  The graphics are top-notch, being some of the best I've seen on the DS. The courses are beautiful, 
 and the characters are also very well-done. The only problem I have is that sometimes things can 
 seem slightly blocky, but you'll rarely notice.
  
  All in all, this is a game that is worth at least three times as much as what you would pay for 
 in a store. It's almost a crime not to pick it up. Anyone with a DS and even a smidegon of interest 
 in Mario games or racing games should definitely consider buying it, because theres simply too 
 much to do in the game for it to get old fast.
  Mario Kart DS is the greatest game on the DS to date.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pistol_Man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a compilation of every other Mario Kart game available and excells at everything 
 it does. Below is a break-down of everything.
  
  Graphics: Mario Kart DS comes somewhere in between the Nintendo 64 version and the Gamecube version. 
 All the tracks, characters, weapons, and karts are all wonderfully animated and are truly spectacular. 
 Nay-sayers of the DS' graphics capability be damned! Mario Kart DS is a truly great looking game.
 
  
  Sound: All of the songs and character chirps are there, and they all sound great. Another area 
 that Mario Kart DS mastered.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is traditional Mario Kart fare. You have your Grand-Prix mode, your battle 
 mode, and a cool Wario Ware-esque collection of mini challanges called mission mode. The Grand-Prix 
 mode is your traditional race mode, and mission mode has two types: Capture the flag-esque Shine 
 Runners and Balloon Battle. In Balloon Battle, you fight against other carts, using the power-ups 
 to pop the oposing kart's balloons. However, for the first time ever, you can play other people 
 over the internet! The lag is minimal and the action is fast! You can play Battle or VS (Racing) 
 modes online. Also, each character now has two karts to chose from. The tracks come from all of 
 the games in the series, from the SNES to the GC. Mario Kart DS is truly a fan's dream come true.
 
  
  Story: There isn't one. That was easy!
  
  Portability: All the races are quick and great for on the go. However, online requires local Wi-Fi, 
 so you can't play online on the go. (Obviously) Also, there is no way to save your Grand-Prix session, 
 so be warned. (Each session is 4 tracks with 3 laps) All in all, Mario Kart is not the perfect 
 portable game, but it's close.
  
  Polish: There are absolutely no bugs or glitches. Mario Kart is simply a game that was developed 
 with great care.
  
  Overall: Mario Kart DS is obviously a game that was developed with great attention to detail and 
 a huge budget, and it shows. It pulls elements from all of the games, making it almost a compilation. 
 Any Mario Kart fan needs to get it, any racing fan needs to get it, heck, anybody with a DS needs 
 to get it! Mario Kart DS is, simply put, a magnificent game. Congragulations to Nintendo on another 
 excellent Mario Kart game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clovers16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a classic game that surely many of us have played over the years. The characters 
 are simply magnificent and the gameplay is an entertaining one that does not get old. In Mario 
 Kart DS, dont expect anything less, this is by far the best one in the series. Classic aspects 
 such as baloon matches are back and the game has better graphics, sound and gameplay then any other 
 in the series before. There are many tracks also so that you can be assured not to get boared and 
 there are different difficulty levels for the rookies, and the pros. This is one game you should 
 definitely get if you get the chance to lay your hands on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombidude
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  When this game came out, it was one of a few games, along with Zelda and others, that i immediately 
 when out and bought. Once starting up the game and playing on a few circuits, the quality of the 
 game was evident. I then tried out the missions that had been added to the game. I found the missions 
 challenging and highly addictive! The bosses at the end of each sections were greatly varied. After 
 going through the gran prix in an orderly fashion, characters begin to be unlocked, which arer 
 quite fun. Vehicles are unlocked, and more become available for each character as you progress. 
 Then comes the online play. This really made the game stand out. The online play adds a huge amount 
 of life time to the game, considering the fact that you play with new people every day. Arguably, 
 if the game featured online play for 8 people instead of 4, it would have made it more exciting 
 and competitive. Overall, this game is an essential to any DS owner. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvwatcher666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  This is a very good Mario game. I espically like it because it is racing game and aside from shooting 
 type games, they are my favorite. You can play as the people from Mario such as Mario (of course,) 
 Bowser, Toad, the princess, Luigie, and others. The courses are fun and pretty cool. I really like 
 it when it was for Nintendo 64, but now I like it even better. A friend let me borrow it and I 
 almost beat it. It is a really good game and a great game to add to the Mario collection. You should 
 deffiently buy this game even if you don't like Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGgamemaster6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  What can I say other than, "Thankyou Gwad!!" MarioKart is absolutyl great. I am so addicted to 
 racing and oh my god is online play a rush. Tho sometimes your left feeling that the other racers 
 are cheating when they hit a wall and then suddenly zoom past you or their kart is jumping continously 
 and they seem to move faster somehow. They are.
  
  Not really but it helps me sleep at night to think so.
  
  Deffintly a must have for any DS 
 owner. I never really tire of racing the game or other people. But I must say, some of those who 
 play online are always quiting. But maybe you'll find some one noble.
  
  Thats all, oh yeah, GET THIS GAME IF YOU WANT MUCH FUN!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Summary
  
  this game is an easy 9 out of ten but its better because of the items and its altered racing wich 
 makes it wat it is. the best part of this game would be the new circuits in grand prix mode. it 
 doesnt have the two ppl on one kart like in mario kart double dash.
  
  Bad Things
  
  i dont have anything bad to say about this game because there isnt much about it thats bad.
  
 
  Good Things
  
  the good things are well u can choose from 10 different ppl to choose from and 8 different grand 
 prix's to choose from (half are new races.) there are quite a few items that u can get from the 
 old ones to the new ones.
  
  Overall
  
  overall this game is on of the best racing games u can get for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great game, that should be enough said, but I'm going to go on. There is tons 
 of variety with game modes, races, characters, karts, and multiplayer. There is so much to do, 
 to 100% it you will have to spend all of your free time playing it, and even then it will take 
 a while. The grand Prix in the game even though you must beat the same levels over and over, you 
 dont get tired of doing it, and not that theres only a few levels there is a lot. The online in 
 the game is fatastic and simple. The mission mode is also great for when you dont have time to 
 do a race. I sold all my original games, but not this one. This game you will want to keep in your 
 collection for a long time, I've had it since christmas. It never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuffTheDragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  I played Super Mario Kart within a year of it coming out. Highly addicted, I later bought MK64 
 and raced my way to rehab-worthy levels of play. After that came Double Dash and Super Circuit, 
 which left me underwhelmed, and unsure of the fate of the Mario Kart franchise... but never fear! 
 MKDS is one of the greatest games I have ever played.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  I love the DS' graphics. The crispness is much better here than in AC: WW, and each character is 
 highly detailed. The graphics themselves look about the level of MK64, but again, much more crisp. 
 The projectiles (shells, etc) don't spin when being held, but that's a small price to pay. 
  
  Audio: 7/10
  Music: 9/10
  
  The music is fun and exciting, whether old tracks bumped 
 up to beautiful stereo or brand new tracks for the brand new tracks (hurr hurr) . The audio is marginally 
 repetitive, but it's sparse (only a few "Woohoo" noises when your character hits something) .
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Brilliant. The simplistic gameplay is kept from the 64 version; there 
 are no special items here dependant on character choices, and it's definitely better that way. 
 Here's how the game works: You pick a character (16 total counting unlockables) , a car (48 total 
 unlockable, each have different stats) and you either:
  a. Race in the brand new, four cup grand prix (at 50, 100, 150 and 150mirror CC)
  b. Race in 
 the awesome, remastered four cup retro grand prix (one track from each mario kart prior to this 
 in each cup)
  c. Battle (either balloon battle, shine sprite or vs)
  d. A mission section, in which 63 different missions (collect coins, beat character X, etc) are 
 set, and you are graded on how quickly you complete them.
  
  Endless fun, almost. The point is taken off for the reason of lastability. Without a wireless router, 
 I've only been restricted to playing with a few other people without the game cart, and winning 
 over and over in the same thing gets a touch boring. In Mario Kart Wii I'm hoping for an option 
 to turn off items, or play a balloon vs, or even custom make maps (yeah, well, I can dream) .
  
  Extras:
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  I have to give these an honorable mention. The controls 
 are fantastic, once given a chance to get used to them (I use X to shoot, not L, and I still find 
 it quite comfortable, but then I have large thumbs)
  
  Little Things: 10/10
  
  Little Things meaning things like the colourful block borders in the retro SNES levels rendered 
 in 3D, the fact that a robot from the NES era is one of the characters, Bowser getting his plane 
 back as a cart, and the new levels being set inside a clock and a pinball machine. Wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erie_enigma
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is likely the best MK thus far. Gone are the 'switching roles' parts of MK-Gamecube, 
 back are the standard rock'em sock'em kinetics of MK-64, and now let's throw in a bunch of tracks 
 from all the old series, along with a bunch of new ones, new powerups and characters, oh.... and 
 this thing called 'Wi-Fi' connectivity....
  
  The game is basic MK greatness. Choose your driver (they all have an additional car now) , choose 
 your speed class, and go racing! The lower level classes aren't all that challenging, but the computer 
 AI steps it up in the higher classes (which equals a bit of speed boosting for them if you are 
 ahead, as is usual for racing games) . You can hold one item at a time to use against your rivals 
 from the classic green and red shells to Bullet Bill powerups. Part of the gameplay mechanics also 
 include 'drafting' to get a speed boost and the power sliding boost featured in the gamecube version.
 
  
  Winning championships unlocks a few new drivers, a nice feature to keep it interesting.
  
  The wi-fi connectivity is a great feature... one I unfortunately haven't been able to delve 
 into yet. No wi-fi for your internet? Use the nintendo USB-wifi connector for the DS and you'll 
 be ready in no time.
  
  Admittedly, the controls can get a bit uncomfortable on the DS. This is made easier on the DS-Lite, 
 plus you can always modify the control scheme to your liking.
  
  Mario Kart DS is deffinately a great game and a hallmark in the series. Although there isn't anything 
 ground breaking here as far as changes to the series, it is more of the greatness that made the 
 others so much fun with many modes and options thrown into a handheld package with wireless functionality. 
 Go get racing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a racing game featuring Mario universe characters. There will be your usuals like 
 Mario, Luigi, Peach, Toad, Yoshi, and Bowser and some special characters like ROB. Each racer feels 
 a little different between their speed, acceleration, and drifting. This good cast of characters 
 lets players feel like they can have a character that is perfect for them. As far as gameplay goes, 
 the game is strong, but it gets repetitive. It's basic racing but there are weapons and items along 
 the way that will give you an advantage in racing or hinder others. Because it is kart racing the 
 action is pretty slow compared to Burnout or Need For Speed. There are also battles where you and 
 friends or CPUs are racing in an enclosed area fighting each other with the weapons from the race 
 game. A new addition in this game that is different from the rest of the series is the Mission 
 Mode where you will be asked to do specific things such as drive through gates or collect coins 
 while racing. The one player mode is actually pretty lengthy. There are 32 racing tracks available. 
 Out of those, 16 are remade from the previous Mario Kart games. It has a very nostalgic feel if 
 you have played the other games and if you haven't if will be fresh, new tracks to explore. The 
 single player is lengthy, but the online is where the game will stand out. It is one of the few 
 games out that effectivly uses the Nintendo DS's WiFi capability. You can race people online. It 
 can be a true joy to play this way however, some people may use tactics like snaking (constantly 
 using power slides to in order to obtain a boost) to win. This is very annoying however, playing 
 with honest racers is fun. The graphics are pretty good, some of the best on the DS. The sound 
 effects are good but could have been better. Same with the music. Overall this is a good DS game 
 that will last a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhris
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  This game is certainly a superb installment to the already fantastic series of racing games that 
 is Mario Kart. This game blends some of the older infamous Grand Prix races of previous games with 
 some new courses which have been added to this version of the game. This game has a great single 
 player mode which contains 8 tournaments each with 4 difficulty levels so it is extensive. Wi-fi 
 has been added to make the game even better you can race against people around the world in an 
 upto 4 person race. There are many unlockables to be found on this games both characters and race 
 karts can be unlocked in single player. Other modes include Vs. mode, multiplayer and battle so 
 there is lots to do.
  On the whole this game is great fun and will keep you occupied for hours. Even when you've completed 
 all the tournaments the addition of Wi-fi keeps the fun going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaidersR2Nice4U
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is so much fun, you'll find hours of your life taken by playing this game. the nintendo 
 WiFi is so good for mario kart, you can challenge friends on it, even people in japan, its the 
 coolest thing you can do with a handheld. story mode isent that long nor hard but if you go back 
 and try to get a star (*) , double star (**) , or a triple star (***) on each cup then you'll find story 
 mode a big challenge. the mario kart for N64 was great but when they took all the great components 
 for the N64 version and put it in the DS plus all new components it just blows away every other 
 mario kart game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuryMe
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been on every nintendo system since the SNES. And without a doubt, this is Mario's 
 best racing game.
  
  At first glance, Mario Kart DS might look like Mario Kart 64, but there are alot more options this 
 time around.
  
  MK DS gives you plenty of options right off the bat. In the single player options, you have your 
 standard Grand Prix and Time Trials. There is also VS mode, which is the equivalent of a quick 
 race, where you just play for fun, not to progress through the game. There is also Battle Mode 
 which presents some interesting options.
  
  The Grand Prix mode is the main attraction. It is divided into the 50cc, 100cc and 150cc. At this 
 point, you can choose your character and the kart you want them to race on. 
  
  There are 2 Grand Prix to choose from at this point. The Nitro and Retro Grand Prix. There are 
 4 events in each, but 2 have to be unlocked. The Nitro courses are all new. The Retro courses are 
 quite interesting. In each event, you have a remade course from the SNES, N64, GBA and Game Cube 
 versions of Mario Kart. These all look great, even the GC tracks.
  
  To make the races more interesting, you are given all of the familiar weapons from the previous 
 installments. You have your red and green shells, that blue shell that attacks the opponent in 
 the lead, and alot more.
  
  Upon winning these events, you are rewarded with a short animation of the top 3 characters doing 
 their victory lap. The AI doesn't seem to be all that smart, so it is fairly easy to come in first 
 in mst of the events.
  
  Time Trial is the usual mode. You select your character and try and get the best time on the course 
 of your choice. The game saves a ghost of your best time, which you can share with other people 
 who also have the game.
  
  Battle mode is the most innovative part of the game, and the only part that makes use of the microphone. 
 There are 2 options here. There is Baloon Battle, and Token Collection.
  
  In balloon battle, you have a balloon attached to your kart. You can blow up more by blowing into 
 the mic on the DS. As you play, your goal is to use the weapons found around the arena to knock 
 the balloons off your opponent's karts.
  
  The item collection mode is slightly less interesting. Your goal is to collect as many tokens (which 
 look like suns) as you can. At certain times, the players with the fewest tokens are eliminated. 
 You can use the powerups to try and make your opponents drop some of their tokens so you can pick 
 them up.
  
  There is also a mission mode. You are given a task, and a limited amount of time to complete it. 
 They are things like "Collect all 15 tokens" or "Drive through all of the gates in order." These 
 can be quite challenging, but they are generally all fun.
  
  If might have been nice to see some more use of the touch screen in some modes. All it's used for 
 is displaying the map, and the order of the racers. If you touch it, if displays an alternate map.
 
  
  The biggest problem with MK DS is its value. Driving around the same courses over and over can 
 become a bit dull, even with the number of characters and karts you're given. The saving grace 
 is the online play, which makes it quite a bit more replayable.
  
  Graphically MKDS is amazing. It looks as good as Mario Kart 64, if not even better. All of the 
 characters animate well, and the tracks are nice and clear. There are even some nice touches, like 
 seeing your character celebrating when somebody else falls into a trap you're set. The only problem 
 is that the detail on the roads can look a bit pixelated when you get close, but that's easy to 
 over look.
  
  A good amount od time seems to have gone into the sound as well. The Retro tracks have their nostalgiac 
 music redone, and all of the new additions suond nice to. The sound effects are memorable, and 
 all of the weapons sound noticeably different. The music speeds up when you are on your last lap, 
 which is a nice touch. It helps add some excitement to the race.
  
  The only things holding MK back from being a truly amazing game are its repetitiveness and is difficulty 
 (or lack there of) . This would make a great addition to your collection if you have a DS, or if 
 you're a racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sven-Ingvars
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has done it again.
  
  Mario kart DS has both new courses and a great mix of old ones, so it's two times more fun. You 
 can play all the courses with up to eight players locally and four players on WiFi.
  There are totally twelve characters you can choose from and 36 different karts. There are 32 different 
 races in 8 cups to race in.
  
  They didn't add the 2 player on one cart thing that was on the gamecube but they did stick to the 
 power-slide wich is a cool feature.
  
  When you download'n'play with a friend you can choose the 2 first cups, one from the "old school" 
 cups and one from the new.
  
  There are almost no new attacks other than the squid which squirts ink on the other racers.
  
 
  Mario kart ds offers lots of good times. When you play online it takes some time to find other 
 racers but it's fun to race four players over the internet.
  
  If you liked the other Mario kart games you wont be dissapointed with this one there are all the 
 good from the other games + all the new additions.
  They really manadged to get the old courses great even the gamecube courses looks nice, if gamecube 
 could talk and have emotions it would have been proud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorEggman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is alot like Mario Kart 64. Only this time, the characters and karts are 3D. Once 
 certian conditions are reached, you may use any character on any kart. Two new kart racers are 
 introduced in this game: Dry Bones and R. O. B. These are great additions to the Mario Kart games.
 
  
  The track's design's are very nice. The artwork has that Mario feel to it because of all those 
 familiar objects in the game. Example, there is a desert track made after the desert stage in Super 
 Mario Bros 3 and there is track made after those flying ships in Super Mario Bros 3. 
  There are even 4 tracks from each of the other Mario Kart games. (Yes, that includes "Mario Kart 
 Double Dash!!")
  
  The music was okay, but a little on the disappointing side...
  The music was not awful, just not as good as it used to be.
  
  One customizable, besides your 
 name, is an emblem you get to make yourself. Your emblem will appear on your kart as you race. 
 Also, while playing on WiFi, others will see your emblem next to your name as you pass them in 
 a race. I created my emblem to be "Dr. Eggman" from the "Sonic the Hedgehog" series. What will 
 yours be??
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Now I don't have a DS but my friend does and I have played more of this game than he has. The first 
 thing I have to say is yippy. This game brings joy in so many ways. The single player is just wonderful. 
 Great full maps and competetive, not overly easy. Nice selection of characters (my favorite is 
 Yoshi) . I really liked the way you could unlock different types of karts for your favorite MK character. 
 Each character has their own stats that sepparate them from all the others. For example: Mario 
 is a well rounded character, and Bowser has more weight and top speed.
  Single player isn't the best part of the game though, no. If you don't play online multiplayer, 
 you'll never know what the full potential of the game is. One bad thing about the multiplayer, 
 however, is you don't get paired with people you are closly ranked to. You get paired with people 
 who have the best karts for all characters and can easily wipe you out, especially if they snake. 
 Snaking is a cheap, evil way of winning matches. That's the only complaint I have.
  Overall, I'd say this is a must have from any Nintendo DS owner. This game can keep you busy for 
 hours at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonenjumpfan12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: If your looking for a good game to get your DS then Mario Kart is the perfect game to 
 get. As we all know Mario Kart is a racing game with plenty of tracks to go to and some tracks 
 from other Mario Kart games like the popular one for the Super NES. In one player mode you can 
 go to the 50CC, 100CC, 150CC, and eventually the mirror 150CC. Each one has its own speed so you 
 can slowly get the hang of the game. In all you can be a total of 12 characters to be featuring 
 people like Mario and Luigi to people like a guy called Dry Bones and R. O. B a litte robot guy who 
 came with a game for the SNES. The tracks are nice and long with three laps apiece for every one 
 of the except a track called "Baby Park" where you get five laps because of how short it is. The 
 game has Wi-Fi so you can battle people all over the world or just in the United States but it 
 takes a little too long to get 4 people on Wi-Fi but other times you get them quick. The only thing 
 more fun then playing online is playing with people in the same room because you can also do a 
 "Battle" mode where you get a total of five balloons but you only start out with one and to get 
 more you acually have to blow on the screen to blow up your balloon! How cool is that? The only 
 problem is is that finding a bunch of people with a DS and the same game and have it with them 
 can be a tough challenge. I only have one guy (dude with the lite) who has this game, Anyway Online 
 can be tough sometimes you can even find yourself with about 100 loses and only 10 wins but if 
 you find someone you know who has this youll be playing games like mad. My friend and I have a 
 total of about 80 matches. The gameplay can be a lot of fun. Believe me. There is also a mission 
 mode where you do things like collect the coins in so much time, do the track backwards, go through 
 the rings. There preety fun to do.
  
  GRAPHICS: Its for the DS so its not going to have Wii graphics but there pretty good. I can see 
 polygons in some places but its not enough to make you stop playing. There nice to look at. Nuff 
 said.
  
  SOUND: The sound is great. It stays true to the Mario world and you can even find the original 
 music in the Retro mode where you can play trackes from the SNES the GBA and the GCN.
  
  VALUE: There is tons of hours of replay value in this one. I just said earlyer that me and my friend 
 played almost 80 games in racing and battle modes. 
  We usally play the same four or five trackes over and over again but there fun and we never get 
 bored.
  
  TILT: I had a lot of fun with this Mario Kart game and im sure anyone with a DS will love it too.
 
  
  THEGOOD: good # of characters, fun online, lots of tracks to play, lots of missions to play, lots 
 of fun to have with friends.
  
  THEBAD: getting more than three people with this game and DSs can be a hard task to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  there are over a 1000 player reviews on this game, so i'm going to keep it short. mario kart on 
 the ds is a whole lot better then mario kart on the game boy advance. the circuits are not flat 
 and some of them are very well designed. also i liked having the ability to hop with your cart 
 which was absent on the gamecube version. i think it is realy cool that you can also drive on circuits 
 from previous games especially the N64-circuits. i have only some minor complaints about this version:
 
  -where is Koopa Troopa?
  -why aren't ther more N-64 tracks?
  -it's not necessary to choose from 36 carts, 1 cart per character is more then enough.
  but altogether 
 i'm very pleased with this mario kart and perhaps it's also the kind of mario kart we can expect 
 on the wii, which would be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicman12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart. Its been around for a long time. Its been on the SNES, N64, GBA, and the GC. Now its 
 making its debut on the widely popular DS. Here is my review.
  
  Story: Well, the Mario Kart series hasn't ever shown to have any story, its been known for the 
 gameplay.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on the characters pretty good, for the DS that is. Meaning that Mario doesn't 
 exactly look crispy fresh, but at least he looks OK. The cars look alot better though, and each 
 characters kart somehow represents their respective character, such as Luigi's Pultergeist and 
 Toad's Mushroom Car. The tracks are split into 2 categories, Retro and Nitro. The Retro, obviously, 
 contains tracks from the past Mario Kart games. The Retro tracks look like they were taken straight 
 from the old cartridges, giving you that feel of nostalgia from when they first came out, reminding 
 you of the days when Bill Clinton was still around. The Nitro tracks contain new DS exclusive tracks. 
 They look very good for a DS game. Some tracks in the Nitro category may bring a true Mario fan 
 to tears (I know there are many) , such as Tick-Tock clock, which is inspired by the clock on the 
 last floor of the castle in Super Mario 64, and Airship Fortress, which is inspired by the boss 
 levels in Super Mario Bros. 3.
  
  Sound/Music: The sound is some what OK. What Mario sounds like when he gets hit by a shell is always 
 hilarious, but some impact sounds are a bit too similar. Every kart has a different engine sound, 
 all 30+ of them, from the boost, to the drifting, to the sliding, they ALL sound completely different. 
 The music in the Retro tracks were given a bit of a brush, so they sound slightly different, but 
 for the better. The Nitro tracks' music have melodies you will be humming until people on the bus 
 think you're crazy (true story) .
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is as good it should be. Jumping in the Kart has been re-introduced, with 
 the drifting style from Double Dash for the GC, forcing you to make quick decisions to either drift 
 or take a tight turn. The items in the game have been changed to their original status, making 
 them different from the style in Double Dash where each character had a unique item. This means 
 that every character has an even chance of getting the same item (Well, I guess Nintendo has been 
 studying the Constitution) , depending of course by which car they are driving. The first player 
 modes consist of the folowing: Grand Prix, Time Trials, VS, Battle, Missions. Grand Prix consists 
 of the classic style of going through 4 tracks, accumalating points, and see who has the most points 
 at the end. In Time Trials, you try to beat your own time by facing a ghost of yourself, that is 
 of course if you have set a time yet. Not only that, but you can also send and recieve ghosts from 
 other people's DS's, and if you manage to reach a certain time, a staff member ghost will challenge 
 your skills. In VS, you race against the computer, this mode is very good for practice. In Battle, 
 you play battle mode against the computer, the modes in here are Balloon Battle and Shine Runners. 
 Although they sound familiar to Mario Kart fans, they have a TWIST. In Balloon Battle, the normal 
 rules apply, you try to hit the other opponents with items to pop their baloons while defending 
 yours, but here is the TWIST, you start with 1 blown baloon, and five unblown baloons. How? What? 
 Thats right. Here is how it works, you blow the screen whenever you are not pressing the accelerating 
 button to blow the baloons! (Another way to look like an idiot in front of a crowd, I would recomend 
 you do this in a private place to prevent embarrasment) You can press SELECT instead, but there's 
 no fun in that! Shine Runners is a mode inspired by the Shine game in Double Dash. In Shine Runners, 
 A bunch of Shine Sprites spawn all over the level, and you try to collect them before your opponent 
 does. But here is another TWIST, you can make your opponent lose their sprites by hitting them 
 with items, and players who have the least sprites get kicked out over time. In Missons, you are 
 basicaly doing objectives, such as collect item boxes within the time limit, and when you are done, 
 you are rated depending on how long you take to complete the objectives. These objectives go from 
 easy, to really testing your Mario Kart skills. At the end of each section, there is a boss battle, 
 where you face familiar bosses within a time limit and with certain conditions. The Wi-Fi compatibility, 
 and the wireless compatibility, is where this game truly SHINES. In Wi-Fi, you can choose whether 
 you want to face people from the same region, or local, or worldwide, or the same skill level, 
 or even just your friends. I only get to play it in McDonalds, but I look a bit weird, because 
 I go in there, I dont buy food, and I just play, so if you want privacy, you should get a wireless 
 router. Wi-Fi does have its bad moments, whenever some lunatic starts teleporting around for no 
 apparent reason (hack) , or when people start Snaking (you will know soon enough) too often, But Overall, 
 its pretty good. In wireless, you can play with less features with people who dont have Mario Kart 
 DS, or you can play it full-throttle with people who do have it. Conclusion: In conclusion, Mario 
 Kart DS is a solid game that will keep you hooked for a good long time. Its also a good game to 
 just pick up and play at any time, such as long trips or those days when nothing is going on around 
 the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS_ADDICTED
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I first bought this game just about a week after it came out because i wanted to try Wi-Fi. And 
 man, there is so much stuff! I loved doing the missions! i played until i had all A ranks and higher. 
 
  I don't know if I played to much or something, but i got boring ... I play it sometimes and its 
 still really fun, but it doesn't quite match my other games. I still believe metroid should have 
 a higher score, but i still recomnend this to anyone who liked the old MK games ( who didn't ? 
 ) . 
  If you haven't played Wi-Fi yet, this game might give you a false interpretation of how fun it 
 can really be. 
  It still is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a rather unique game considering its your tradtional idea from the previous Mario Kart 
 games but what this one in particu; ar does is such a wonderfull Mario experience! Even though the 
 cartrige is as good as a microchip in size, its almost unreal that a supurbe game can be squashed 
 inside!
  
  Sound
  I won't spend long on this since the sound is typical Mario with an amusing charm to it. If you've 
 played anyother Mario games (and lets face it, who hasn't) then the sound and music is so striking 
 and rememable. And although it can be repetative and unoriginal, it certainly fits the scale and 
 mood of which this game and Mario games in genral require to be what they are.
  
  Graphics
  For a portable, the graphics are outstanding since they are much like the N64 and to 
 be honest, even better. Whats more is that environment is absolutly huge and shaped with different 
 personas, unlike your tradtional flat ground tracks in a circle. Here you can go over raps, round 
 loops, through the sky, on water and upside down which can create a more lively experience with 
 the whole Mario gang! Of course there are noticable painted backgrounds and some characters are 
 pointy andf slightly pixeled but hey, its a portable, what you expect?
  
  Gameplay
  Now unlike other portables this game is as fun and more so than other games thats its fun to play 
 sitting down at home like you would on a console or PC whereas most portables are good for while 
 on a train, toilet or at you grandparents, but in Mario Kart DS's case far from it! Its hard to 
 describe but if you're a Mario fan you'll understand. The gameplay is as addictive as ever with 
 both your classic gameply that cooked up a new generation of games, mixed up with modern day conventionals 
 like unlockables and design tools. Theres plenty of gameplay both on and offline since theres multiple 
 tracks, karts, characters and settings to make each experience a new one, not to mention side challenges 
 that actually have Boss Fights! Thats right, a racing game that has Boss Fights! And good ones 
 to! The game involves the orignal concept of kart weapons and tricks to make the job much easier 
 but hopefullyyou should know how to drive lol! But either way they bring classic Mario charm to 
 the game and its wide selection a chartacter and Karts. This is supprising yet wonderful gaming 
 experince for both Hardcore Mario fans, and racer gamers in general. This derserved its hard earned 
 awards!
  
  Value
  Well like I said before, this game is full of options and has wide appeal but whats more, like 
 me, even if you're not a race gamer, Mario Kart DS is different enough for you not to take that 
 fact on board and still enjoy yourself. Of course no game is perfect but even though this is a 
 portable, it beats out more high defintion and mainstream games out there. The game may be abit 
 easy for some and you may come colse to finsishing the job in no time, plus online could of been 
 much better what what you're given in the first place is still both a real retro treat and a new 
 experience for others! After all, who doesn't love Mario and co? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradz182
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a game of bliss. A game of intelligence. A game of REVENGE!
  Whether its getting gold in the 150cc or whether. Or firing a red shell at the right time, hitting 
 the person in front of you and taking them over and winning the race. Or ramming into the person 
 who firered that annoying blue shell at you, off the edge of a path.
  There is alays something to do. Like doing a battle mode event with a friend or having a good old 
 fashioned wi-fi match. With a selection of characters like Mario, Wario, Yoshi, D. K and even R. O. B 
 the robot. The not so good bit is the 50cc races they are slow. Apart from that every thing else 
 is brilliant. Thanks to this chubby little plumber and his friends, they have made one of the truly 
 excellent games for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infernoply
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds is the latest in the mario kart series and also one of the best. it features 32 tracks 
 (16 new, 16 retro) and as half of these tracks are from the gba and gc versions of mario kart it 
 offers a nostalgic feel to it. if you do not know what mario kart is, i will explain: it is a racer 
 featuring mario characters (donkey kong, wario, luigi, toad etc) that allows you to try and destroy 
 the other racers, or slow them down by using power ups. these include: bombs, bananas (basically 
 oil slick) , red shells (a shell that homes in on the person in from of you and when it hits the 
 it flips them over and stops them) and fake power up boxes.
  
  the graphics in mario kart ds are very good. the game is in full 3d and the effects from bombs 
 etc are very nicely done. the animations on the characters are ok and the cars are pretty detailed. 
 the graphic style is a bit like WoW in the sense that they are chunky and cartooney but overall 
 the graphics are far more than adequate.
  
  the sound effects are very good and contain all the classic noises from the mario games. there 
 is a different piece of music for every track and some of them are quite memorable.
  
  there are 12 characters and 36 cars so there is a wide range to choose from.
  
  there are 4 
 grand prix's (50cc 100cc 150cc and 150cc mirror) these dont take long to complete but there is 
 also the mission mode to keep you going. these involve basic objectives like collecting coins and 
 if you get at least 1 star in all the missions you unlock mission 7. although these offer a little 
 more play time they do get old once you've completed them all. this is where multiplayer comes 
 in. you can play multicard, single card (limited tracks and players) or over WFC. i found that multicard 
 is the best as it is great fun playing while next to your friends. also while playing over WFC 
 there is a bit of lag and there are some people that turn off their ds if they are going to loose 
 a race, also some people snake and if you dont like this multicard is best.
  
  so in conclusion a great game that is great fun multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is pretty much the same as all the other mario karts in terms of the game itself. 
 But the latest Mario Kart adds some new features to the game which make it very enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay: The whole game is based on racing the well known characters from Nintendo series 
 on tracks that are very original. There are 8 different cups that you can enter one is the Nitro 
 Cup, which is full of new tracks. And the Retro Cup, which uses tracks from Mario Kart SNES, Mario 
 Kart 64, Mario Kart Super Circuit (GBA) and Mario Kar: Double Dash (GC) . The game has (as all the 
 others) 3 engine classes, 50cc (slow) , 100cc (faster) and 150cc (fastest) . The goal of this game 
 is to win EVERY cup in EVERY engine class and unlock new characters and karts. This game is not 
 just about racing over and over, but has features such as Time Trials, Battle (which you can play 
 against CPU's) a kind of Quest mode in which you have to complete certain things in order to pass, 
 all these things make it a very good game.
  
  Graphics: Nothing less than spectacular. This was one of the first games for the ds and i am amazed 
 at how good the graphics are. All the tracks look great and so do all the characters and karts.
 
  
  Sound: for a porable its relitively good. it has all the engine sounds, certain noises when you 
 throw/use items and little sayings the characters have when you/they overtake you. The background 
 music is alright... but you'll find youself listening to it over and over again.
  
  Value: This game is worth every cent! it has unlimited replay value, no race will be the same! 
 this game also has lots of new features that are good to use, there are about 8 different Quest 
 things that all have about 10 or so in each. Also with the time trials there are 5 different records 
 for each track so you can try to get better times over and over, or play with your friends and 
 see who can get the better times. The WiFi option also adds to the value, so you can play against 
 people around the world and see who really is the Mario Kart Champion.
  
  All in All: a really fantastic game! it HAS to be one of THE BEST ds games out there, with several 
 different modes to play and the endless amount of replay value and the new features and items are 
 really fun.
  
  Finally: the good - new items, new tracks, new characters, great graphics, HUGE amounts of replay 
 value, new features, unlockable features
  the bad - cheaters on WiFi, limited to which characters can use which vehicle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyb628
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best racers on the DS. This game simply rocks and you shouldnt even 
 finish reading this review, go buy it NOW.
  
  Story - Same as always! Become the best by beating the best.
  
  Graphics - This game is very 
 easy on the eyes. Very nice visuals with vibrant colorful surroundings and detailed player models 
 and karts. One of the best looking games on the DS.
  
  Gameplay - Simple and fun are the ingredients for this game. However they added a new way of playing, 
 with a bit of practice you can become very good at getting a little boost of speed from your kart. 
 They also added some new extras that will help you destroy your opponents, for example bullet bill, 
 which turns you into a bullet and you blast through everyone on the track bringing you closer to 
 the number one spot! The sense of speed is also very good, when getting a boost "lines" of air 
 streaking by appear making you feel as if you are going faster. You can also now get a boost from 
 dragging behind an opponent for an extended period of time.
  
  Sound - The sound is excellent in the game, nice sounding karts, and good sound effects with the 
 special items in the game. The characters also make some funny sounds when something good happens 
 to them, or something bad happens to their opponent!
  
  Length - The games single player is fairly short and can be beaten in a couple of hours, however 
 this game is boasting some fabulous wifi which makes it technically never ending!
  
  Replay Value - As stated above this game has local multiplayer or wifi multiplayer making you come 
 back to this game over and over.
  
  Overall - This is one of the best games out there for the DS, I loved every second of it and will 
 love every second of it especially because of the wifi capabilities. A must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beymaster1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I have actually enjoyed my time with Mario Kart. Its game play is fun and easy to learn and it 
 gets sort of addicting once you start. The graphics in this game are pretty good like other mario 
 games it was nice and clean. The sound in this game is great and the controls are also great. The 
 different modes will get you going in the game and keep you wanting more with unlockables. If you 
 have wifi this game is a great game to get. It is probably one of the best wifi games, it will 
 get you hooked onto this game even more with wifi.
  Overall this game is smooth and tidy, and a good first choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta01138
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the latest installment in the Mario Kart siries. It has a single player grand 
 prix mode where you choose the set of maps you want to do (there are 4 in every cup) and you choose 
 your character, you choose your diffuculty, your cart, and then your ready to race. There is also 
 a time trial mode which is well, time trials. There is also a versus mod which is just you choose 
 a racer and you choose a map and off you go. There also is a battle mode which has a ballon battle 
 mode and a shine runners mode which is when you collect shines and keep them for as long as you 
 need to win. There also is a new mission mode which is where you get an objective and a racer, 
 then you complete the objective as the racer. These are fun little games and the objectives range 
 from kill a number of these or get to here before he does and things like this. The controls are 
 very easy to use. The graphics and sound are very good for a handheld game. The multiplayer is very 
 fun. Your freinds can join even if they dont have the game (but they'll have to be a shy guy) . There 
 is the standard race mode, ballon battle, and shine runners mode. The Wi-Fi mode is very fun and 
 addictive, but you can only play in the standard race mode. Over all, Mario Kart DS is a very good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninkobra
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a superb heir to the Mario Kart legacy. To begin, the visuals are extremely well 
 done for the DS, everything has this colorful way of performing, everything moves at a decent clip 
 without any mayor slowdown. 
  
  The new music and sound is appropriate for racing, but really don't get my blood pumping as much 
 as the more classic tunes. You may get annoyed by the voiceovers, but overall, sound is hardly 
 an issue.
  
  The game controls like a charm. The D-pad, while a retread from the analog stick, does an excellent 
 job in making this game a joy to play. The button placement may make you look down a few times, 
 but with time, you'll get it perfected.
  
  I also love the big amount of tracks inside this game. This is only second to MK: Super Circuit 
 in sheer number of tracks. Part of this is because of the classic tracks that Nintendo included 
 from every MK game prior to this one. There are some greats (Banshee Boardwalk is a classic) , but 
 some choices are questionable. Still, it's great to have these classic tracks included.
  
  The game holds a lot of secrets for the guy looking for them. 4 racers, an extra kart for each, 
 a lot of missions, and the classic mirror mode are all waiting to be unlocked. All you need is 
 enough skill, and they're all yours.
  
  Multiplayer works great. There is a bit of slowdown when there is a lot of mayhem going on at once, 
 but not so much that it destroys the experience. Being capable of playing with your other friends 
 wireless and with a single card is a big plus, too.
  
  Online play is a bit mixed, though. It's great that Nintendo finally jumped to the online world, 
 but sadly, MKDS online is a limited experience. You can only play racing (no battle) , you can only 
 select a 20 out of 32 tracks, and only 4 players can get in the game. Still, limitations and all, 
 when you're online, playing with three other players around the world, all of them guns a-blazing, 
 it really is a riot, a fun-filled ride that one must experience. It gets old after a while, but 
 while it lasts, it is great!
  
  Overall, the game is amazing, online is serviceable, and if you have a Nintendo DS, I suggest picking 
 this one up for a spin.
  
  9.1 (Superb) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supermario2800
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  If you like kart racing, here's another game for you. Mario Kart DS features a variaty of characters 
 to choose from. Wheter you play as Mario or Waluigi, you'll still have tons of fun. There are secret 
 characters to unlock. Four to be exact. They are Dry Bones, Daisy, Waluigi and R. O. B. and R. O. B. is 
 the hardest one to unlock in the game. To unlock him, you must complete 150cc mirror mode all cups. If 
 you don't get this game, you don't know what you're missing out on. Please get this game even though 
 the graphics arn't the best. I loved the game, though. Tell your friends about it and you can play 
 in multiplayer mode or in a wifi connection battle. There are certain hotspots for wifi connection 
 like the espn zone and the mcdonald's in staten island. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoguejp
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  As of July 06 this game is still holding strong, but if you just bought a DS Lite I'd think twice 
 about reliving the nostalga. The DS has newer and more original experiences to enjoy. Ok, their 
 is nothing wrong with this game. WiFi is great. But its close to our friend Tetris. We have been 
 their and going back isnt as fun as we hope it to be. ( Stop reading at this point if you havent 
 experienced Mario Kart, add maybe a full point to the review score and go buy the game.) 
  WiFi support is really going to make people feel better about spending their money on this game. 
 But, if you want to relieve nostalga of the good days I recommend Mario 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sashavol
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is AWESOME. The graphics are very smooth. Plus there is not one bug in the game. 
 The camera is perfect and never goes wrong. Now with the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, this game is 
 a complete extreme. I think that if you are searching for a game, you should buy this one. Sometimes 
 the 
  
  More About The Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection:
  Nintendo WFC does have a few characters bouncing around. This usually happens when you have fast 
 internet and the others have slower internet. It also happens if YOU are the one with slow internet 
 and the OTHERS have faster internet (probably broadband) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnny139
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Now this is a great game, but doesn't live up to the hype. It retains the Mario Kart feel, and 
 is hours of fun, but is still... lacking.
  
  Secret characters are good choices, with R. O. B. a complete surprise, along with a good amount of 
 tracks and karts. One of the best options (in my opinion) is the ability to place any racer in 
 any Kart. But still, if you have the Gamecube, Double Dash!! is a much better choice.
  
  The sound and graphics are great for a DS game, but not the best I've seen. Though easy to pick 
 up and play, its a bit too easy for my tastes.
  
  As for online play, its only fun if you can snake. Snaking is a difficult and honestly un-fun way 
 to race, but the only people online are snakers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banczak
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a well known game in the Nintendo community, but it mostly more well-known for making 
 a new sub-genre of gaming: mascot racing. While there have been rather excellent mascot racing 
 games (such as the original Crash Team Racing) , I'm afraid you cannot beat the original in this 
 case. Mario Kart DS, the fifth iteration in the Mario Kart series, has not changed much. In fact, 
 the gameplay hasn't really changed at all. Essentially, you still pick a character from a Super 
 Mario game, select from a series of races known as Cups, and race to win first place. While racing, 
 you may boost your chances at scoring top by ramming into rainbow colored boxes that appear in 
 pre-determined areas on the race course, giving you some support or attack that will target the 
 other players. You have the Mushroom which gives you a quick boost, the koopa shells that can knock 
 opponents off the track, and Donkey Kong's bananas which- in typical comedy cliche- place themselves 
 behind or in front of you as a trap for the unsuspecting racer.
  Still, while the gameplay is mosly the same, it still retains a nice, solid, and fun grip that 
 takes around four minutes to learn. Still, while there are quite a few levels to play in and unlock, 
 as well as unlocking the difficulties and new characters, the single player gets old around the 
 time you get the final player. Luckilly, the multi-player doesn't- well, as long as you're patient. 
 You see, the one problem with the Wi-fi multi-player happens to be how long it takes to actually 
 play. It took me, once, twenty nine minutes to try and find someone to play with. Still, as long 
 as you're patient, or you have a lot of friends that own the game too, it prolongs the death of 
 the fun.
  In the end, if you like Mario games, the racing genre, or need a fun, simple game that'll hold 
 you over every now and then, Mario Kart DS certainly fills the gap. Snag a copy, and you won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpion13497
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart. For those of you who have been living under a rock, Mario Kart is a racing game that 
 has most of the characters in the mario universe. You go around interesting tracks, getting items 
 like a red shells (heat seekers) and stars (makes you move faster, and you knock over anyone you 
 hit) . In this one, there are 16 new tracks, along with 16 old tracks (4 from each previous title) . 
 So there's a lot more variety in this one over previous ones. Along with this, at the beginning 
 of the game, each character can choose from 3 different karts. The cups you win, the characters 
 and karts you unlock. Eventually, you can choose any kart with anyone. But after you do that, you're 
 not done with the single player. There's now a mission mode. Here, you do a variety of tasks, and 
 earn a rating. There are six levels. But if you get a star on every level...
  
  The place where this game really shines is the multiplayer. Up to seven other people can play against 
 you in racing, battle, or shine runners. Obviously, racing is you race other people. Battle, you 
 go around geting items and try to knock away the other people's balloon. Shine runners, I believe, 
 is new. You go around, collecting Shine Sprites (from Super Mario Sunshine) . After a few minutes, 
 a countdown appears, and people get eliminated.
  
  One of the great things about the multiplayer is that you can play single - or multi-card. On single, 
 people don't get to choose their guys (they're shyguy) , unless you have the game, in which case 
 you can choose from anyone and any kart you've unlocked. You only get two cups (mushroom and shell) . 
 But there are some great levels in those two cups. On the other hand, in multi-card everyone chooses 
 any kart/person that they've unlocked, and you can choose any one of the 32 levels avaliable.
 
  
  So if you don't wanna read all that, Mario Kart has a good single player game, but an even better 
 multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieloc92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  this is such a good game and you never get tired of tracks.
  
  there are 16 new tracks and 16 great tracks from past mario kart games.
  
  there are 8 cups 
 and 4 tracks in each.
  
  loads of great characters and multiple choices of karts.
  
  the only bad thing about this game is 50cc mode {painfully slow} .
  
  100cc and 150cc are good 
 and fast.
  
  there are loads of really cool items like bullet bills and the classic lighting bolt.
  
  the 
 mission mode is a nice break from normal racing but gets repetitive.
  
  this is the best mario kart game to date and you would be missing out if you did not own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edward1211
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart ds is a game that is based on the n64 and gamecube game's. Mario kart ds bring all the 
 good from the versions and does not put any bad in it. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is ver y simple to use. The drifting, which I must say is the coolest part, 
 takes a while to get used to but after a while you'll be putting the other racers in the pit. There 
 are'nt a bunch of weapons to chose from but the ones that you have are extremely fun to use. All 
 of the enviorments are from the old mario kart games so you won't be seeing any new enviorments 
 to play around in. But you will be able to play you favorite classic enviorments from the snes 
 and n64. There are many karts and character to chose from. My personal favorite character is wario 
 mostly because he's a bad A**! :D The wifi is really where this game shines in its gameplay department. 
 It is extremely fun to play againts people that are alot smarter than the bots and you are able 
 to verse your friends too if you can't go to each others houses. If your going to pick up this 
 game be sure your going to be able to play wifi. Wifi has maps esspecially made for wifi. you can 
 still play them with out wifi connection to test the maps out but there really is no other reason 
 too. 
  
  Graphics: I really thought that the graphics were alright but after a while I felt the this game 
 really was ment to feel like this. The smoke effects from the tires when your drifting and the 
 karts themselves are probably the best part of the graphics. 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is nothing special. You hear the engine sound and some music while 
 your playing.
  
  Value: This game's grand prix mode is pretty short but there are some fun missions to play after 
 you beat the game or even with out beating the grand prix you can still play them. The value really 
 shows up when your playing wifi. This is where your going to spend tons of time playing the game 
 and beating your friends. 
  
  Overall: Mario Kart ds is a very fun and addictive game that should not be missed by mario kart 
 loves and even to new comers to the series. Right now is the right time to getting addicted to 
 mario kart again because mario kart ds does not dissapoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamezmastah
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, with the burden of expectation of being the newest arrival in the Mario Kart series- you 
 could say that this game had a lot to deliver. And it has- a great mix of new tracks mixed with 
 old tracks from previous MK titles makes for a long lasting and fun single player. Multiplayer 
 is again solid with an array of options including VS Mode, Balloon Battle and Shine Runners. Its 
 the first online MK game as well- another quantum leap forward in the series. Online Mario Kart 
 is a prospect too good to be true and it does not disappoint with the new Wi-Fi service.
  
  Good job Nintendo- you've added another hit game to the growing library of great DS games, ensuring 
 that they are taking Sony on head to head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun. And uhh...
  Lets just go to the reviewing
  
  Gameplay: This game is really easy to master so you can have a lot of fun kicking everyones ***.
 
  
  Graphics: These graphics are just as good as Double Dashes.
  
  Sound.: The music in the game really makes you feel like you are in the game and it never gets 
 old.
  
  Value: The game has to be in your DS collection or else you will be mocked for life.
  
  Tilt: 
 There are a lot of short cuts in all the tracks so the tilt rate is very high.
  
  This game is the best in the series and it has a lot of replay value because of the WiFi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frenchy126
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS. Don't you here bells of joy ringing when you hear or read that name? I do, mostly 
 because this is the best game in the series for many reasons. 1. Online Play 2. Great graphics 
 3. Solid controls 4. Great replay, the list could go on forever. This game gives you a great sense 
 of speed, great multiplayer, local and wifi, all from a series that brought racing games onto our 
 large map of gaming. This game is so good it makes Double Dash seem like Ford Racing. This game 
 is just plain great and if you have a DS this will be a must buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishamuffypuppy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Mario Kart- who hasn't heard of this beloved racing series? When the series first 
 landed on the Super Nintendo in Super Mario Kart, gamers were enthralled in a new world of competitive 
 racing, being the first game of its kind to sport more than one racer at a time. It soon spanned 
 many sequels, each as beloved and cherished as its predecessor's (even the remotely different Double 
 Dash!! title) . And now, Mario Kart arrives for the next console, the Nintendo DS. Sporting the 
 title Mario Kart DS, this game expanded all terms of the series' gameplay- enhancing, but not changing 
 the formula that gamers have loved the past decade, whilst adding brand new components as well. 
 From new modes, to more tracks (including remade tracks from past MK games) , and to Online Play, 
 or even the handy little map that is available on the system's Touch Screen, there have been plenty 
 of welcoming features that made this game quite a leap above the rest of the competition. And because 
 of it, Mario Kart DS may easily be considered the greatest racing game in the series, and possibly 
 the greatest racer you will ever have the joy to pick up.
  
  Story: Well, there isn't much of a story to Mario Kart DS, except now, Mario and his pals and thrusted 
 into a new racing championship, with plenty of races and brawl at their service. Each of the games 
 eight characters are back and ready for action, hoping that with their deep knowledge and practice, 
 can succeed in taking the championship title. Presentation: The presentation in Mario Kart DS is 
 just how you would like it Everything from the tracks to the games sounds and music is presented 
 in the same Mario feel that you know and love, and it will truly compel you to know as what universe 
 you are currently emerged in. The menus however, have a different approach to them, as well as 
 the game's actual logo; however, this is suitable, because now, with Online Capability, Mario Kart 
 feels like it is moving into a bold new direction. It is very suitable, as the game does feel like 
 it is taking a new approach; however it is still the same Mario Kart game that you know and love. 
 The actual in game racing, does give the sense of the classic Mario Kart gameplay (as opposed to 
 Mario Kart Double Dash!!) and it is really suitable and provides the same entertaining experience 
 that you have anticipated in this title. The presentation in this game is brilliant, and the new 
 features, modes, and the slight tweak of the look really set this game forward.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Mario Kart DS are done well, being some of the best 3D graphics that 
 you will see on the Nintendo DS thus far. The tracks are colorful, with plenty of effects and animations 
 that really add to the style and concept of each track. The game also has some really nice texture 
 work, and this is great during a quick moving game like Mario Kart DS. However, some of the character 
 models and karts themselves look rather bland, however, this doesn't matter while races are taking 
 place; gamers usually won't be focusing on the graphical quality in a game like this. However, 
 probably the best feature of Mario Kart DS is the games frame rate; which is solid and smooth throughout 
 the entire race, including Online Play. This is an important aspect which was noticed by the developer's 
 and taken to the challenge well, and looks like they succeeded in providing a smooth frame rate 
 for plenty of racing action. So overall, Mario Kart DS is a great looking game and it runs smoothly; 
 and the game and style itself has plenty of the Mario Kart touch that you know and love.
  
  Sound: The sound in Mario Kart DS is quite good. Each stage in the game has a suitable tune of 
 music that definitely suits the mood of the track and gives you a supporting feeling of knowing 
 where you are. The in game sound itself is great, and there is a large variety of noises and effects 
 that are familiar from past games, but keep the game in a smooth and solid motion. Each of the 
 games characters also have their own unique voices and engine sounds, which adds some nice variety 
 to the game. The sound is great, and frankly, it doesn't need to be done any better to enjoy a 
 game like this.
  
  Gameplay: And now for the most important aspect of any game, the gameplay. So how does Mario Kart 
 DS stack up? Well let me tell you straightforward that Mario Kart DS has plenty of the racing and 
 item-battling action that you love, and the game has plenty of improved formulas and tactics that 
 really add to the overall gameplay experience. The classic items and characters are back, and surprisingly, 
 some old tracks and courses that you knew and loved from past generations of gaming have arrived 
 onto your Nintendo DS. Mario Kart DS is just how you remembered playing Mario Kart games before 
 Double Dash!!, and frankly, many gamers agree to stick with the old formula; and that's what they 
 did with Mario Kart DS. So how does Mario Kart DS actually play? Well, the basics for Mario Kart 
 DS, as well as any other racing game for that matter, is pretty straigh forward. There are eight 
 racers racing in on one track, and in most cases, you will race three laps around the game's tracks. 
 The first one to cross the finish line, obviously, is the victor, and thus, they will score the 
 most points. But a new feature added to Mario Kart DS which was not quite present in the other 
 Mario Kart games, was the games Touch Screen Map. On this screen, it shows the location of your 
 Kart throughout the race track, as well as the current positions of other racers. This map can 
 be zoomed in or out however to your liking, however, when zoomed in you can see obstacles and other 
 features that are heading your way. So what makes Mario Kart different from other racing games? 
 Well besides the fact that this game is the first racing series to sport Karts as the vehicle of 
 choice, Mario Kart was also the first series to sport items- resulting in an experience that was 
 based on both racing skill and technique, and with that, combined the well based use of items. 
 Mario Kart DS has all of the original items that you know and remember from past Mario Kart games, 
 however, there are a few new additions- and these items are obtained in the same way as the originals, 
 by driving into translucent item boxes which sport randomized items which are also determined by 
 your current position in the race. During the game, you have your basic items, like Green Shells, 
 which are projectiles that can be launched forward or backward to strike an opponent. However, 
 there are small additions that makes items like this more valuable, for example by receiving three 
 Green Shells at once as opposed to just one. As well, there are different items of the same type, 
 such as Red Shells which home onto characters in front of you, and Spiny Shells which causes an 
 explosion to the racer in the highest position, resulting for the racer to be thwarted into the 
 air, as well as other racers within the blast radius. There are plenty of other classic items as 
 well, including your standard Bananas which cause Karts who run over them to swindle over the track, 
 or to Mushrooms which give racers an extra boost of speed. However, there are some new items introduced 
 in Mario Kart DS, including the Bomb-Omb, which creates a large explosion that damages any racer 
 within the blast radius; Gooper Blooper Ink, which causes the Top Screen of the DS to fill up with 
 Ink (almost) forcing players to control their Kart on the Touch Screen map. The new items add a 
 bit of a new twist to Mario Kart DS, which adds some more variety to the game itself. So there 
 are your basic items in Mario Kart DS, as well as some new ones added to the game; but remember, 
 each one of them is different and each one of the secrets hiding within each one needs to be mastered 
 accordingly, so its best to train hard and keep it coming. Next, there is another feature in Mario 
 Kart DS which is relatively new, as it was introduced in Mario Kart Double Dash!! In this feature, 
 your character can perform Power Slides, which can be done by tilting the DS's Control Pad left 
 and right in combination whilst doing a Power Slide. It was a small feature in Mario Kart Double 
 Dash!!, but now it seems to have a much more important impact in Mario Kart DS, due to the smaller 
 karts. This technique should also be mastered accordingly, as it can become an easy key to victory. 
 In fact, this term has become so popular among gamers, that is has received a term that gamers 
 call Snaking , even though it is not entirely accepted or tolerated by all gamers. So what other 
 features are there to Mario Kart DS that should be noted? Well for one, each of the games eight 
 starting characters (with twelve total) are controlled differently, and each of their own Karts 
 are different as well. From Mario, Luigi, Peach, D. K., Yoshi, Bowser, and Wario, you can easily 
 see that all of your favorite Mario characters are back and ready to race. Its especially important 
 to find which character is best suited for you, and see which one is easiest to maneuver. This 
 is great, because not one Kart in Mario Kart DS has a significant advantage over one another. Each 
 character and Kart has their own attributes, and this can be basically slimmed down into three 
 different terms: Speed, Control, and Weight. To start, characters with high Top Speed generally 
 have weak Acceleration, and are also more difficult to control. And in other ways, characters with 
 High Weight usually have strong dominance on the track, by which your Kart can be used to knock 
 characters off of the track and out of your way. Each character and Kart is used in different ways 
 accordingly, and this is a great way to experiment and find which Kart/Character suits you best. 
 In fact, each character, even though their own Karts can be shared by each of the games characters, 
 will not have the same effect that it will with a different character. This adds a lot more depth 
 and variety to the game, and it was a nice touch the developer's made to ensure plenty of variety 
 in the game. As well, Mario Kart DS has done something else that no other Mario Kart game has done 
 before, and this is with the games tracks. In Mario Kart DS, you have 16 brand new tracks that 
 are available for racing on, and they are all plenty new with lots of variety. However, in the 
 Retro Section of the tracks, you have 16 tracks available from past Mario Kart games: from Super 
 Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, Mario Kart Super Circuit, and Mario Kart Double Dash!!, each one of 
 these tracks have been remade into the same proportions that you remember from past Mario Kart 
 games. They are all generally new, with a few slight tweaks to make them easier playable on the 
 portable game system, So there you have the basic facts about racing in Mario Kart DS, and now 
 you may be ready to try out the racing yourself, but what about the game's Modes? Well Mario Kart 
 DS is split into two main game modes: one being Single Player, and the other being Multiplayer. 
 I will be speaking about Multiplayer in a different section below. So what Single Player modes 
 are available at your disposal? Well, first you have Grand Prix, which is the Single Player heart 
 of Mario Kart DS and is usually the mode in which gamers will spend the largest portion of their 
 Single Player time in. This is also the mode where new features are most commonly unlocked, however, 
 they can be unlocked in other modes as well. There are eight cups available, with four engine classes 
 to choose from, so rest assured that you will have plenty of racing to do before you finish. The 
 next feature is VS, which is also available in Multiplayer Mode. In VS mode, you are able to pick 
 which Track you would like to race in, with plenty of options available: from changing engine classes, 
 computer difficulty, or even adding teams makes VS Mode a mode for gamers wanting a quick race. 
 There is even a scoring system in this mode as well, however it doesn't have any effect in Single 
 Player. Next is the Battle Mode, which is a long time dream for Mario Kart fans. Gamers have always 
 dreaded the fact that they couldn't have item brawls in Single Player, but Mario Kart DS has changed 
 that formula and made it readily available for gamers. You have two modes in this: one is Balloon 
 Battle, and the other is Shine Runners. In Balloon Battle, you must use items and different techniques 
 to make your opponent lose of their five balloons. However, interestingly enough, you only have 
 one balloon to being with at the beginning of the race, so you must blow into the system's microphone 
 (or hold Select, but it is much slower doing so) to inflate the balloons. Its a new feature that 
 is pretty innovative, and adds a touch of difference to the series. Next is Shine Runners, where 
 gamers must race over and collect as many Shine Sprites as possible. Whoever has the least amount 
 in the Time Limit is automatically eliminated, however, rest assured that Shine Sprites can be 
 taken from other players. Next is the games Time Trial Mode, by which gamers race on each of the 
 courses without other racers to boot. The point of this feature is too get the best time, and you 
 also have the option of racing against your ghost to try and improve your times. Lastly, you have 
 the new Mission Mode available. This mode is generally Mini games that improve your skill in the 
 game, and in it, you will have the option of doing different tasks: from shooting Goombas, collecting 
 Items, or blowing up the Bomb-Omb King (as well as other classic villains) , this mode can easily 
 improve player's skills as they try to improve their skills, and have a new mode to conquer. Well 
 there are your basic gameplay mechanics for Single Player, so it can easily be examined to determine 
 how well you would want to play them. So in whole, the gameplay mechanics of Mario Kart DS are 
 awesome. Racing is still the same enjoyable experience that you remember from past years, and the 
 game itself is as quick and quirky as ever. The new innvoative features such as the map, new items, 
 and even blowing up your balloons really makes this game better as a whole.
  
  Multiplayer/Wi-Fi: Multiplayer simply is the heart of any Mario Kart game, and is always a party 
 factor that attracts gamers to do so. And in comparison, Mario Kart DS really sets the bar by how 
 Multiplayer Racing should be. Well first of all, you don't have to have Mario Kart DS to enjoy 
 a Multiplayer experience, but someone does and you do obviously need a DS of your own. Well this 
 game offers the option of DS Download Play, in which gamers can race accordingly in a limited number 
 of racing tracks and options. However, if you want to get the full Multiplayer experience out of 
 Mario Kart DS, then you best have a copy of the game and a DS, as well as your friends. First of 
 all, you have three modes to choose from: VS Mode is the same as it is in Single Player, but this 
 mode can be done with eight other human players and is really a thrilling experience to be dealt 
 with: the mechanics are exactly as you would find them to be in the game's Single Player mode, 
 and this mode will keep you coming back for more. Next, is Battle Mode, which is also the same 
 as it is in Single Player Mode. However, due to the enjoyment of blowing up player's straight forward, 
 you get a more satisfied feeling in this game's Multiplayer Battle Mode then you would without 
 it. Lastly, is the most talked about feature of all in Mario Kart DS. The Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, 
 and Online Play. Yes, the first Mario Kart game ever to truly sport an Online Experience, and simply, 
 it is a great experience overall and is the main reason for keeping this game for years to come. 
 Well here are the basic mechanics for it. Once you gain access to a Wireless Hot Spot, you can 
 connect Online to race players from either across your Country, the World, or those who best match 
 against you (or difficulty or Rivals) , and Friends, which pits you against your own personal friends 
 by having their own Friend Code (explained later) . Each of these is a simple way to best know who 
 you would want to be competing against, and it is a great feature to know which was competitors 
 you are looking for. Once you log into one of these game modes, your Nintendo DS will look for 
 three other racers to join you. Once the game finds three racers (rather quickly I might say) , 
 it will then progress to the Course Selection Screen. However, if three racers are not found, then 
 it will just suffice with how many racers that you find (unless it is just yourself) . Once in the 
 Course Selection Screen, you will have the option of voting from 16 courses readily available. 
 It is somewhat disappointing that not all the courses from the game made the cut, but it is a great 
 experience nothingless to race this game online alone. After that, you will choose your racer, 
 and get ready to race. Whoever wins, scores a certain amount of points, and you will then get ready 
 to race in three more races (with four total) . Whoever wins the most points total, will become 
 the victory, and thus have a better Wi-Fi record for other gamers across the world to see. Another 
 great addition to the game is that it is fully customizable: utilizing the DS's Touch Screen so 
 that you can create your own Emblem (for your representation throughout racing) for other racers 
 to see. As well, you also must choose your own personal Screen name by which gamers everywhere 
 will recognize you and be able to remember your racing brilliance or disaster. However, in other 
 news,, there are a few other issues in Wi-Fi mode to quickly be discussed about. For one, your 
 characters weight does generally have no effect whatsoever in the game, and thus, other racers 
 won't be knocked off of the track. Next, if you are connected to a bad connection, you will experience 
 some lag, however, this is expected nothing less. Next is the fact that many gamers would have 
 loved a Battle Mode available to them, but it is not present in Wi-Fi. But then again, the fact 
 that other gamers will want different options would really make it a lot more difficult. Another 
 thing to talk about in Mario Kart DS is the Friend Code system. With this, you can trade Friend 
 Codes to you Friends (or even by looking for Friends Online, via Gamespot) . This won't necessarily 
 have much of an effect, however, you will be able to keep track on their records as well as being 
 able to find them when you select Friend Mode. The Wi-Fi Connection overall is a great feature 
 of Mario Kart DS, and if you have this game already, then this is a mode that you definitely do 
 not want to miss. In fact, it generally can be expected to find more Online Playability in Mario 
 Kart games to come, as this is high priority for many gamers and it now sets the bar for what should 
 be included in many racing games to come.
  
  Value: Mario Kart DS truly sets the bar above other Mario Kart games, and it will be remembered 
 from generations to come as the first Mario Kart that introduced Online Play. And yet, Mario Kart 
 DS would still be an amazing title even if it didn't sport Online Playability. The extremely deep 
 Single Player Mode has plenty of modes to choose from, each one of them different than the others 
 so that there is plenty of variety to choose from. However, the Local and Worldwide Multiplayer 
 Connections really add to the games value most of all. The ability to race against other racers 
 from across the world, or just across the room really makes this game a difficult racer to surpass. 
 So if you own a Nintendo DS, you definitely don't want to pass up Mario Kart DS, or any Mario Kart 
 game for that matter. So if you are a Mario fan, a Racing fan, or if you have never even played 
 this game before, then it would do you justice just to pick this game on its own merit. Mario Kart 
 DS is a fast and furious title, one that will be remembered for generations to come and to be cherished 
 from all gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macfastnin1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  For all the Mario Kart Series, this is the best Mario Kart game so far. Actually it is probably 
 one of the best games in DS. When I got this game, first I realized that the sounds are great. 
 And the graphics are also you know what. When I played the first level, it was sort-of similar 
 to all the MK games. However, I saw great improvements on graphics, and sound. They also have added 
 new items too. There are 32 courses in all, and there is 3 levels; 50c,100cc, and 150cc. They also 
 have added this thing called mission, where you have to complete the missions. It is highy addictive, 
 and allows you to teach many new skills like mini-turbo boost. Also it has a great multiplayer 
 mode, which you can play up to 8 players. But it has minor problems. There is 0only 32 courses 
 to play, and kind of gets boring after you beat the mission and gat all the characters. And in 
 the race, in thebeggining, it shows most of the course, and the song, is really cheesy and I get 
 bored sometime. 
  
  
  Overall, this is one of the best games in DS so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesony
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  I realy enjoyed this game. Because it has most of evey single track. Of the mario kart games but 
 now you have some new tracks . At the beging you start with some of the karts . Im not going to 
 tell you all the people . But I will tell you that when you beat most of the game youl get 7 new 
 karts for every person. But the wifi play is incredible you have 4 people in the game . Its a free 
 for all match . You can have say eight people at your house and face each other in battle or vs. 
 or shine runers . And the best part is only one person needs the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is definitely one of the best games on the nintendo DS and one of the best racers from 
 all i played the game cube version of mario kart and the nintendo 64 version this definitelt can 
 compete with them and i will choose a ds and this game an time over a psp and 10 games i mean come 
 on this beats all the games on the psp it also beats alot of other on consoles even tho this is 
 a hand held i just love this game i keep on playing it i bought like 2 months ago but it came in 
 my mind to review it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart racing games have become nearly as much a mainstay of recent Nintendo systems as 
 have Mario and Zelda. The game gets the DS treatment this time, and prospers with the benefit of 
 Wi-Fi functionality and the 2nd screen.
  
  The single player 'main game' is simple: do a 4-race cup, and do well enough to unlock further 
 cups, and do so for 3 engine classes. The action is fast and furious, as you fend off 7 challengers, 
 some more of a threat than others. With the chance of an opponent getting a weapon (via one of 
 several arrays of item boxes on each course) to stick it to you over your head, you're kept on 
 your toes the whole time, both avoiding obstacles and doing what you can to defend yourself. And 
 you'll enjoy every minute of it. A Time Trial mode allows to challenge yourself to get the best 
 time possible on a track, and allows you to race against a ghost of your best previous run. A Mission 
 mode has several missions, where you're forced you to complete 8 specific tasks to unlock a final 
 boss. DS to DS wireless multiplayer and Wi-Fi mode pit you against friends or anonymous people 
 across the globe. Up to 8 people can compete locally, or 4 via Nintendo's Wi-Fi network, and competing 
 against people, each of whom can use what they've unlocked, is the game's real thrill.
  
  The sheer thrill of wireless play is the game's strongest asset, giving it high replay value and 
 (via Wi-Fi) a large pool of potential opponents at any hour of the day. While the touch aspect 
 of the DS is only really used for menu navigation, having a separate screen for a map is a very 
 convenient way to keep tabs on the competition.
  
  The one Achilles' heel of the game comes in Wi-Fi, in that finding a balanced match can be frustrating. 
 Even using the Rivals mode, which seeks to match people with similar win/loss stats, it's very 
 easy to come up against an opponent who far outclasses you, which sucks the fun right out the game 
 (and finding you're far better than everyone you're racing against isn't much better) . That problem 
 can be mitigated by trading friend codes with people of similar skill levels. People who shut off 
 their systems when they start losing is another plague. In single or multiplayer modes, some sound 
 bytes get a bit repetitive, as you get tired of hearing the same chuckle when an opponent passes 
 you. 
  
  The game plays very easy, and the 'easy to learn, tough to master aspect' means anyone can jump 
 in, but you'll still need to dedicate yourself a bit to get all you can from the game. The controls 
 work great, and the most advanced players can really get the most from their power slides. Graphics 
 are exactly what you expect from any Mario game -- everyone's recognizable and cartoony, so you feel 
 a part of the Mario universe. Sound is also Marioish, and effects like screeching tires and revving 
 of the engine make for some level of realism. There's near unlimited replay and value, so long 
 as the game remains popular, though as more Wi-Fi titles become available, even dedicated users 
 could stray. The best way I can recommend this game is to admit I'm not a big player of racing 
 games, but I absolutely love this title, and anyone with a DS should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clangeddinn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS...... my first DS game and may i add one of the best Mario kart games EVER. The game 
 was pretty short took me at least 3 days to complete but i played almost everyday at school in 
 the second semester with 4-7 people which was pretty awesome getting killed, kicking butt normal 
 routine when playing Mario kart if there was no item's in the Mario kart series then where would 
 it be........ NOWHERE. If i had to pick between all the racing games on the DS games it would be 
 this. Mario kart DS add it to your collection NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a must for any DS library. Out of all the titles released to date, this is arguably 
 the best - definitely the best if you're a fan of racing games. 
  
  One of the greatest thing about this version is how they've incorporated the courses from all the 
 different versions; SNES, GBA, GC, and N64. If you've played these versions, you'll find the DS 
 adaptations to be very true to the originals.
  
  Also, the multiplayer games, both the local link and the online WiFi experiences are outstanding 
 - very well done. If you've debated at all as to whether or not this is a game to purchase, wait 
 no longer - you can't go wrong with this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenslave
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  It's a popular and needed trend of releasing a Mario Kart on every Nintendo Console. Ever since 
 the SNES days, people have loved this series, and the loving continues.
  
  Mario Kart DS has all the elements that make up a great game. Staying within the traditional style, 
 you are allowed to choose your favorite character from the Mario universe. This game supplies many 
 choices, each with their own selection of karts. A new aspect of the game is allowing the player 
 to actually view each kart's status. You can see their Acceleration, and item likeliness, and more. 
 This helps you find the ultimate racer. The addition of multiple karts per player is also useful 
 to getting exactly what you want.
  
  The Grand Prix is made up of a total of 32 courses. There are the 3 classes, 50, 100, and 150 CC. 
 The higher the number, the harder the race. By beating each cup you can unlock new characters, 
 and karts. To add replay value, they add a new system of stars. The better you do, the game shall 
 grade you. With either a letter grade, which is worse, or a Star. You can get as high as three 
 stars per race. You you max out all your courses, and get three stars in every race, you will unlock 
 a new feature in online play.
  
  Speaking of online play, it is the first Nintendo DS online game, which launched the highly used 
 Nintendo Wifi Connection. (www. nintendowifi. com) Online play allows you only a number of courses, 
 but all the players you've unlocked can be played. The surprisingly well free service connects 
 you to the server, and finds three opponents. When the match is ready, you vote on a map. But, 
 with only four players the voting system does not always work with a majority control. If there 
 is no chosen map, the game will randomly choose a map from the four selected. Online play only 
 supports racing, no battle mode. When the race finishes, the game will announce the winner, and 
 update all the player's scores. Then it will reset the room, and if there are still enough players, 
 you vote again.
  
  Local multiplayer supports up to eight players, and battle mode. You can play all the maps, and 
 there is no voting. You can choose the play team races, where all the points awarded per team is 
 added to a total score, or free-for-all, which is played by classic controls. If you are all playing 
 with your own cartrigdes, you get to choose from all maps. But, if you are playing download play, 
 you are limited to eight maps. Multiple local also supports Battle mode. There are six battle maps, 
 and plays like the N64 game. You have three balloons, and you must hit one-another to win. Simple? 
 No. Because now you have balloons stored up for longer matches. All you must do is hold select 
 while sitting still, or blow into your microphone, to blow up the balloon. Be carefull, if you 
 are 'mushroomed' into, they can steal your balloon! There is also Shine Sprites, where you compete 
 to collect as many Shine Sprites as possible. There are timed sessions per round, where at the 
 end of each timer, the player with the least Shine Sprites is disqualified. This continues until 
 there is only one player left. Sound great, but have no friends? Shame. But luckily, for you, there 
 are now bots. You can now play with up to seven bots in a round, with three different difficulty 
 settings. 
  
  All-in-all, Mario Kart DS is a magnificent addition to the series. For the DS, it has surprisingly 
 good graphics for the handy handheld, and plays naturally. You can bearly tell you are playing 
 a handheld, seeing as to how well it fits in. And being the first online game, it is still one 
 of the most played Online DS games out. This is suggested for every racing fan and mario fan, and 
 Im not just saying that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldd844
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  If you played the old mario kart games for 64, super nitendo and gameboy and you liked them then 
 you will love mario kart ds because alot of the old courses are in it so it will bring back old 
 memories. the new additon is the nitendo wi-fi which makes the mario kart experience even better 
 because you can play with friends, rivals or just random people that you dont know over the internet 
 for free. all you need is a cable modem and your all good. 
  In conclusion this game is a great classic and is a must buy if have DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odgiek18
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to my review of Mario Kart DS, and also the preview of my New Reviewing Version 2.0! It's 
 been awhile since I've pulled a nice review out, so I decided to revamp my way of rating games. 
 Starting here with one of the best portable games money can buy....
  
  Gameplay (9/10) - Mario Kart can be played 2 ways. A pick up and play game just for a quick run 
 every once-in-awhile, or a hardcore play-all-the-time Pwn n00b5 on W1-F1 addiction. Personally, 
 I'm around the middle and no matter how you play, it always rewards. MKDS takes all you like in 
 previous Mario Kart entries and throws in more tracks, characters, modes, carts, items, racing 
 tactics, and a slew of even more features. What you get is a grab-bag that'll take up at least 
 10 hours of your life, but more than likely more! The only thing holding it back is the difficulty. 
 At first it seems too hard to even imagine racing on 150cc, but after some practice, you can rank 
 1st in any cup, any class, and thats when you want more of a challenge.
  
  Graphics (10/10) - Some people say the DS graphics hardly approach N64 level, but they shine bright 
 in MKDS. Every character is full with a whimsical color and attitude that greatly matches the levels 
 fun atmosphere. I caught myself just admiring the colors many times on my DS Lite. The DS has got 
 curves down pat, and it all pulls together to form the Mario Kart we know and love (I personally 
 like it's graphics better then the Gamecube Version's)
  
  Sound (9/10) - All of the Mario sounds and music you'd expect are jam-packed into the game with 
 a bunch of new tunes. You've got old sounds like the star song, and the mushroom growing sound, 
 then you have more newer additions like the Luigi's Mansion theme and each characters sound files. 
 It's great to here Peach woot happily when you pass someone, but annoying when Wario grunt-laughs 
 as he hits you with a turtle shell. Once again, it all comes together to create the Mario feel 
 we expect in the plumbers games! 
  
  Value (6/10) - As much as I love Mario Kart, I still believe there's just not enough in the cartridge. 
 Yes the addition of a Mission Mode is nice, as well as the 8 unlockables, but still, with only 
 32 Tracks, it get's to feel kinda lacking. (32 Tracks sounds like alot but once you play them for 
 20+ Hours you'll see what I mean.) Of course you've got wi-fi, but I find it plagued with so many 
 cut-offers (People who quit just before they lose) that it defeats the fun. Yes, I'll continue 
 to play it for another 40+ Hours perhaps but I just wish that Nintendo would use wi-fi to send 
 us some more tracks or something... jeez.
  
  Alltogether you NEED Mario Kart! I'm not a big fan of racers, but something about MKDS just keeps 
 me coming back for more, and if you have up to 7 more like-minded friends, MKDS's Single-card Download 
 delivers. It's a bit of change for $35, so you might need to try to find it a little lower (Or 
 wait until the price just drops) but if you can shell out the dough, (Come on, it's not that much) 
 pick it up soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wallace_Green
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is there first Mario kart to go online, and it nails it first try. The online play 
 give to more of a reason to bet your opponents because there real people. The Win/Lose record keeping 
 online is very helpful to compare skill and stats. The only thing that was a problem online was 
 there were only half the amount of tracks that there is offline. Offline there are tons of tracks 
 players and cups to compete on and for that what makes the gameplay so amazing. There are 4 different 
 difficulties measured in CC 50-150-mirror The graphics are some of the best seen on the DS so far 
 and this was one of there earlier games released on the DS. The cartoony sound fits perfectly with 
 this style of game and toping off this outstanding handheld game. The oldschool track pick are 
 fairly good but I know for a fact there are much better Tracks on the SNES, GBA, N64 and GC that 
 could have been put on there. Also there new tracks are some what not creative with the exception 
 of a handful. The creative tracks that were done are very creative from a pinball machine to a 
 track based all around clocks. There are various kart and people that can be used are very fun 
 to use and control very well and each kart having different skills from drifting, acc., and speed. 
 One thing that was very "realistic" things added this time around was the drafting ability, any 
 NASCAR or just car fan will know what drafting is but for those who don't. Drafting is the ability 
 to cut there the air with ease due to another person clearing a "airless" path. Overall Mario Kart 
 DS is a must for any DS owner and an amazing game.... and the cows think the PSP is better ha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3oNR3g1z
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  This is the all time best Mario Kart game and the best racing game for the Nintendo DS itself. 
 It will have you sitting for hours online competing for the number one spot. It has great graphics 
 for a DS game. Even though it doesn't have a story, it is pure fun for all DS owners. Don't leave 
 this game in the dust because it is the best Nintendo Wifi game also. It is worth all the money 
 in your pocket. It may seem easy in the beginning of the game but it gets harder with every race. 
 Its easy to learn but hard to master. This is a amazing DS game and online game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 23, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the first nintendo ds game to feature nintendos online service. And it sure wasnt 
 a let down.
  
  Mario Kart DS is equally good in both single and multi player. In single player you can choose 
 from grand prix, time trials, the new mission mode, vs so u can race for practice and many more. 
 
  
  You can make your own decal by drawing with the touch screen, which players can see online which 
 is a cool feature. 
  
  The online mode is a bland but still fun. Hop into the online mode by finding a game, and racing. 
 Once you have found a player it will show their wins and losses and their decal. The mode limits 
 only 4 racers, it would be sweet if it was 8. But you can race 8 in local multi-card, so if you 
 can organise 8 friends to come over, that is the highlight of the game and you will have a blast.
 
  
  Mario Kart DS is one of the best ds games and is highly reccommended for all ds owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tak963
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This is probably my favorite Nintendo DS game I have right now, the gameplay is excellent, the 
 graphics are superb, and the sound is radical! I really reccomend buying it! If you've played any 
 other Mario Kart game, you'll notice that in this one it takes alot of the courses from every Mario 
 Kart game, and even adds new ones! And they fit in old and new characters from the Mario Kart series 
 with new and I think old karts! The game is also Wi-Fi! I'm not gonna say anything about Wi-Fi 
 because it probably won't work on my old computer! But it might. Last but not least, Mission Mode! 
 If you've beaten every race, you can check out Mission Mode to see what's in for you! I reccomend 
 this game to almost anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flan_Man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart, a Nintendo staple since the days of Super Nintendo. There was a rough patch when it 
 moved to the Nintendo 64. Double Dash for the Gamecube added some odd mechanics that made for some 
 fun multiplayer, but was short. Now Mario Kart DS comes in and swoops me back into the buzzing 
 lights and 150ccs of shell throwing goodness.
  The game looks a lot like Double Dash, surprisingly enough. It even steals a few levels from all 
 of its previous incarnations. The map moves to its own screen and makes driving on the DS more 
 bearable. The levels look nice and vary wildly. Some of the classic tracks didn't get much in terms 
 of a face-lift and look dated, not aged to perfection. The characters are all fun to watch during 
 the race. They really seem to appreciate the strokes of lightning and splats of ink that the loser 
 in 8th place keeps sending.
  The soundtrack is standard Mario fare. If you get Mario Kart just to listen to the tunes then you 
 must have problems. The sound of incoming projectiles before they strike allow you to think fast 
 or take a tumble. The little go cart motors humming is kind of funny, too. You'll learn quickly 
 to hate the whirring sound of the blue shell.
  For those who hate the stylus, rejoice for Mario Kart doesn't use it. The carts handle appropriately 
 for their weight class. There are several little tricks to pull off but they require some practice, 
 but they are well worth it. Power sliding while tapping left and right a few times enables a small 
 boost, rewarding you for mashing your thumb around turns. The only times when you feel like a drunken 
 panda on ice are when you get hit by one of the frequent volleys of death from your pesky competition, 
 get hit by an environmental hazard like a truck, or if you are missing 1 or 2 hands. Controls like 
 a dream. Well, at least a dream in which you have partial control.
  The tracks are fun to zip around on, but racing isn't all of the fun (just a sizable chunk) . You 
 can battle for shine... they look like the sun things from Mario Sunshine, you can battle for balloons... 
 you start with 5 and have to blow them up yourself (always steal Mario's balloons because he never 
 shares glory with Luigi) . There are some missions which test your ability to drive and use items. 
 There are some bosses... but it still feels tagged on. Battle and Grand Prix is where you will 
 be killing your friends at.
  Online play. I don't need to say more.
  The game can get real repetitive really fast. When you have a moment or two to pound through a 
 few tracks then you are set. Play for over half an hour and your hands will be cramping up if you 
 are human. Despite the amount of tracks, only a select number are playable online. Another negative, 
 the computer drivers always seem to send two or three blue shells at you right before you cross 
 the finish line. My record was three blue shells, two red shells, a green shell, and a banana someone 
 put on me right as he passed me. From first to 6th with all that, gets really old when you are 
 trying to complete the game.
  Questionable material? Well, if throwing things at go-cart drivers pushes you over the edge then 
 you may want to avoid it. Also, if you dont like fun games I would recommend you pass this one. 
 Fear of Mario-related intellectual property? Then this game isnt for you.
  I like it. When I do play for a bit I get my kicks and I also get kicked. Fun is fun, though, so 
 I keep going back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart for the ds is a good game. It adds a lot of new features. Some new characters have also 
 been added. There are also the old mario characters you remember from past mario games. Some new 
 characters include R. O. B, Dry Bones, and Shy Guy. All of the characters also come with many different 
 carts. Each cart has different speed, acceleration, etc. The carts also look kind of cool. Each 
 cart has a different look. Some examples of some new carts are Bulldozer, Rhino, and Bicycle. Each 
 of the characters have their own carts to choose from. Also it enhances the graphics a little bit. 
 It is probably the best game for the NIntendo DS. The graphics are great for a DS also. I haven't 
 played this game very much because I don't own it. I play my friend's. It you own it you will play 
 it a lot. This game is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great game, that is, either if you haven't played one or if you don't own any 
 Mario Kart. 
  
  The whole formula is still here, marvelous graphics, nice songs and incredibly easy gameplay. You'll 
 find 12 characters that will race in their karts, trhow items at each other and try to win the 
 race. The new playable characters are Dry Bones and R. O. B., that strange robo from Super Nintendo. (They 
 could put Koopa Troopa instead)
  
  There are only one new item that is Blooper, he'll throw ink into your screen and you won't be 
 able to see the track for a little while.
  
  The championships are great, now there are 8 of them, each one with 4 tracks in a total of 32 different 
 tracks. 4 championships happen in old tracks, one from Super Nintendo, another from Nintendo 64, 
 one from GBA and the last from NGC. After finishing the championships you will recieve a rank and 
 you can try to improve it to achive three star rank in all of them in each class.
  
  The new tracks are really great, there is one inspired in that Clock world from Mario 64 that is 
 very nice, one in Isle Delfino from Super Mario Sunshine and lots of awesome tracks.
  
  Now you will be able to play the battle mode all alone, just you against 7 CPUs. That is nice, 
 and you will have lots of fun trying to defeat them in some new battlefields and others from prior 
 Mario Kart versions.
  
  There is also the Mission Mode where you will have to complete some goals in a certain time and 
 after it you will get a rank from E to three stars. So you will spend some time trying to improve 
 your rank. Besides there is the classic time trial for you to try to beat your record and defeat 
 the Staff Ghost that in some tracks are quite difficult to beat.
  
  But let's get to the point. The Wi-Fi connection is great, you will have a rank based on your championship's 
 ranks and this will be shown to all of your foes in a match and the Nintendo DS will also save 
 your Victory and Losses numbers, so you will always try to improve your numbers.
  
  Mario Kart doesn't have challenging championships, but the single battle mode and the staff ghosts 
 will give you some problems, and the missions are all nice. Besides that there is also the Wi-Fi 
 connection that is the main feature of the game, and the reason why I bought my DS. So if you have 
 one Nintendo DS don't think twice and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris62492
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite mario kart, there are 8 characters in the beggining with many more to unlock, 
 like rob the robot. Different karts for each character, new, and retro courses totalling 32. Also 
 52 battle modes. They also have new weapons like bullet bill, and the spiked blue shell. The diffulculy 
 is good for begginers with 50cc, while 150c is excellent for expert kart racers. They also have 
 time trial if you are trying to improve your race time. Online is good to have, and wireless with 
 friends is alot of fun. This is a good buy if you have the D. S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agile1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has a variety of things to do when it comes to racing, and missions. There are 6 sets 
 of missions and 9 in each including the boss fight of each set. Wi-fi play is great because you 
 can face racers that you have never faced before, so you both have no idea what each others strategy 
 is. Here is a list of pros and cons of the game
  
  Pros
  -Wifi-play
  -Create a design on your car
  -Choose between 36 Karts (you have to unlock some of them)
  -Choose 
 between 32 levels and 4 different Grand Prix cups (you have to unlock half of them)
  -Test your speed in the time trials
  -Play levels from previous Mario games
  -Play with people 
 who don't have a card and people with a card
  Cons
  -There should have been more characters like Professor E. Gadd from Luigi's Mansion, and Shy Guy 
 outside of single card play
  - Hard to beat some CPU's
  
  In my opinion, this game is very good and highly addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJG24992
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This an awesome DS game that every DS owner should buy. The first and best WiFi game available. 
 The single player lasts a good amount of time, but it's the multiplayer that keeps you coming back 
 for more. Online multiplayer, or playing with your friends in the same room, you still get a great 
 experience. The graphics are top-notch, and the sound is crystal clear, with some catchy tunes. 
 Another thing that I loved about this was how the game had tracks for previous Mario Kart titles, 
 and it adds a great feel of variety to the game. All in all Mario Kart DS is the best Nintendo 
 DS game to date, and everyone should pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart: Supercircuit was, to me, the best portable racer ever made. Of course, I got excited 
 for Double Dash, but that was a letdown, and I let the Mario Kart series slip to the back of my 
 mind. Now with Mario Kart: DS, the series makes a galliant return to its rightful glory, and I 
 can once again proclaim the Mario Kart series the best racing series of all time. I guess it also 
 proves that the Mario Kart games are not meant for consoles, as its fast-paced, lighthearted, fun 
 action makes a perfect portable game. And that is exactly what Mario Kart: DS is.
  
  What makes Mario Kart so good? The people who have never played a Mario Kart game (both of you) 
 may be wondering this, considering all of the extremely hgh praise the series has gotten over the 
 years. In my opinion, the only real way to answer that question is to play it. Of course, the best 
 I can do here is to try and convince you to buy it, so I will do my best to help you help yourself. 
 Chances are, if you are reading this review, you are either interested to see how the latest addition 
 to the series shapes up or are curious about all of the hype this game has gotten. If you are the 
 latter then I understand why you haven't gotten this game yet, you are cautious of wether this 
 game lives up to all of its hype. Please trust me when I say this, it does 10-fold.
  
  The controls for this game are not complicated in the least, which makes the game easy to jump 
 right in and play, yet underneath the apparent simplicity lies a hidden depth that broadens the 
 enjoyment of this game, and after an hour or so racing on the extremely well-designed tracks you 
 will find yourself compuslively trying to master all of these techniques. Fortunately, the Wi-Fi 
 lets you test your skills against other players over the internet, and this is a true joy, especially 
 when you find you are winning matches because of the honing of your skills through single-player. 
 Let's just say this game will last you awhile, both with the single player unlockables and the 
 truly kick-ass online.
  
  The visuals and sound are both quality, but nothing outstanding. They compliment the gameplay well 
 and are just pleasing to the eyes. One thing I must say is truly outstanding is the complete and 
 utter absence of lag in the online mode. It is just as smooth as the single-player. The music is 
 your standard Mario fare, with some catchy melodies that you might just catch yourself humming 
 to. Of course, the best sound comes with a pair of headphones (my God is it clear!) but the speakers 
 do fine as well. 
  
  Overall I'd say that Mario Kart: DS is the best racing game ever made, which is a giant compliment 
 for me because I cherish such series as Gran Turismo and Burnout . My only complaint, and it is 
 a pretty dissapointing thing to have not been included in the game, is an online balloon match 
 mode. Man, that would have added YEARS onto this game's lifespan, but unfortunately we'll just 
 have to wait for the next DS installation of Mario Kart. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaming_otaku
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  My favorite Mario Kart ever is Mario Kart 64. What I love about this iteration of the series is 
 the 3-D environments. Though the original Super Mario Kart and the GBAs Mario Kart Super Circuit 
 have a 3-D perspective, the courses themselves hold only two dimensions (they lack height) , so 
 seeing a Mario Kart game in full 3-D really blew me away since first I tried Mario Kart 64. Then, 
 came the GCNs Mario Kart Double Dash, which brought a revolution to the genre in many ways, but 
 kept all the things that we loved about the series, including the full 3-D environments, which 
 quickly placed it as my second-favorite Mario Kart. Finally, came Mario Kart DS. 
  
  I approached MKDS with certain caution, fearing it was more like Super Circuit than like MK64. 
 Once I played it, though, every ounce of doubt vanished instantly: the game had full 3-D environments. 
 Once I got over the graphics quirk, however, I noticed the one thing that truly made Mario Kart 
 DS an instant classic: it is the perfect fusion of all the Mario Karts that have preceded it. Mario 
 Kart DS has managed to borrow the best things of each Mario Kart before it while throwing in something 
 of its own to make a perfectly compelling package with enough fan-service to please long-time MK 
 players and draw in newcomers.
  
  From Super Mario Kart, needless to say, MKDS borrows the gameplay formula of all Mario Kart games: 
 wacky racing with insane power-ups made to handicap the race leaders and benefit the underdogs. 
 From Mario Kart 64, it borrows the excellent, responsive controls for 3-D Mario Kart play, as well 
 as the Power Dash system. From Super Circuit, it borrows the excellent grading system for ones 
 racing technique throughout all the aspects of the game. And from Double Dash, it borrows the insane 
 fast pace and amazing course design, that make the game feel like a wild, mindless party. So, what 
 does MKDS bring new to the series? It brings solid worldwide online play through Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection and excellent multiplayer Wi-Fi support. Add to all this four tracks from each of MKDSs 
 ancestors and you have the perfect Mario Kart experience. 
  
  Mario Kart DS is the perfect package for Mario Kart fans and gamers in general. It has enough of 
 the old to give it a robust feel, and enough of the new to make it a fresh experience. It is a 
 must-buy instant classic for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loplop09
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  This is still are good game but im afraid not as good as mario kart 64. 
  
  This is the third Mario kart game I have owned but out of the ones I have played it is not as good.
 
  
  The map is rubbish as sometimes it does not show you the whole of the track and to get this up 
 it can sometimes take your eye of the race. Also there are too many blue shells on this game and 
 sometimes makes it ridiculously unfair to those in first place, also unless you are a freak who 
 plays it in bed and never stops paying for 24 hours than I doubt you will ever get to 3 stars mirror 
 and complete all the tracks, the graphics tho are very good and the responses on the game are also 
 very good if not excellent, however the ability to snake makes the game much worse as people 
 who to this can cheat those who are trying to race using skill over all this is a very good game 
 but it is no Mario Kart 64 and that is a shame..
  
  And as a good freind of mine once said "Get familiar with the sound of the blue shells and get 
 ready to hate them."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashplaya_2009
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  this is my review for the latest of the Mario Kart games . the series has been out for a long time 
 and you'd think the developers at Nintendo would would've been fresh out of ideas, but they keep 
 finding more ways to make the game fun for new generations. The biggest change you'll notice is 
 more 3D environments including rock slides cliffs and much more. They've also added a few new weapons 
 and a zoom able map on the lower screen which reveals all incoming weapons (red shells, bananas, 
 etc.) that proved very helpful. A change that once perfected can change the tides of a race is 
 the addition drift. Now i know what you are probably thinking WHAT THE HELL was Nintendo thinking 
 this isn't a complex pimp my ride type game. However this system proved to be a simple way to gain 
 the advantage over your opponent. The graphics on the game speak for themselves as the best on 
 the DS to date. I would recommend this highly addictive racer to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subrosian
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - This game takes advantage of the Wii to bring bright, clear graphics, a bristling frame 
 rate, and a sleek interface. 
  
  Sound - Typical Mario Kart & racing game noises. The car noises seem like they'd get a bit old 
 after a few hours of gameplay, but the DS is usually the system of burst gaming anyway.
  
  Gameplay - Everything you love about Mario Kart in a portable package. 
  
  Controls - The DS 
 itself can cause some finger cramping after a few hours of playing, but frankly any game that can 
 keep you entertained for that long deserves some praise.
  
  Overall - Bright, fun, fast, and entertaining - everything about this game was executed perfectly. 
 The Wifi gameplay could use a better system for connecting and gaming with your friends, but being 
 able to play around the world for free is pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitomanez
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great gameplay with tons of Unlockable courses and characters. 16 Old School Tracks from 
 GBA, SNES, N64, and Gamecube. 16 Brand New tracks, all of which really surprize you how good they 
 are. 3 Brand New Items. Great WiFi Gameplay.
  
  The Bad: Only one WiFi Gameplay mode.
  
  Mario Kart DS is easily the best game in the series with a bunch of new things.
  There is 
 a brand-new mission mode where you have to complete 9 missions in each level. There is 1 boss for 
 each level, which can be hard at times. They get harder as time goes on. There are 7 levels, 1 
 of which you have to unlock. There are also 63 Missions! 
  
  Overall, the game is a great starter game if you just got your DS/DS Lite It will keep you playing 
 forever! I hope this review helped! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: modstark9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The game consist on many thinks that you will enjoy, one of the main thinks is racing and winning 
 all the cups from the 50, 100, 150 and the last one you get when you finish the 150 which is called 
 "MIRROR". All the circuits are really kool, incluying nintendo 64 ones, the gameboy ones and the 
 gc ones. But what is really sad is that Nintendo had played with the NES circuits, adden them to 
 the game.
  
  You also got mission which are very funny, you will enjoy this game very much and stand what i 
 want to say. Another think that makes this game kool is that have the WiFi connectivity that will 
 allow you play online during your game with all the people around the world.
  
  If you have a Nintendo DS, or a DS lite go to the nearest game shop and buy this game that will 
 surprise you!. And if you have alredy got this game, im sure you stand me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart goes back a long time, and new Mario Karts keep getting established and created. The 
 latest one, entitled Mario Kart DS, is a great game, and a very popular release. This game is just 
 as good as all of the Mario Kart games released combined. The graphics are devastatingly good, 
 better than Double Dash, which was released on a more major console, the Gamecube. The game has 
 great sound, the music, the sounds of the cars, and the sounds of the characters. The game is fun 
 to play, and can be played for many hours, as it is an entertaining game. The Grand Prix racing 
 is fun, and can often get challenging, especially if you never played a Mario Kart game. There 
 are many Grand Prixes to race in, including the Mirror Mode, which was also released in Double 
 Dash. Each character is unique, as well as the vehicles him or her uses. Some have heavy weight 
 and poor control (Bowser) , while others are opposite of that (Dry Bones) . There are many different 
 characters and karts to use and be tested, and does take some time finding the kart and character 
 you like the best. Controls in this game are sharp, and there are new items used in races, as well 
 as some of the old ones. This game does offer a bunch of new courses, but it also offers some of 
 the older ones, from The classic Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, and Mario Kart Double Dash. There are 
 also other fun things to do, rather than simply beating Grand Prix races. There is a mission mode 
 that you can do, which is tough and can take a long time to beat, especially if you want to get 
 an A on evry mission. Mission Mode is fun, and adds on to the gameplay length... Multiplayer is 
 great, mostly on Wifi, it's awesome. It's good challenging a friend, with some optional type of 
 modes of gameplay... One of the interesting things to do is send your friend a ghost data file. 
 You're friend has to beat you in a race. Also, drawing your emblem on your kart is fun, and if 
 you play Wifi, you'll find many cool designs on the karts... Lastly, the game has some great unlockables, 
 which adds on, yet again, the length of gameplay... Overall, Mario Kart Ds is great, and should 
 not be missed by big DS and Mario fans... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4yoshi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best Mario Kart game thus far. The creators finally got the message: this is 
 Mario, so we want crazier tracks! Not only do the new tracks rock, but there is still the retro 
 cups, which do a decent job of finding the best old-school tracks. There is also a mission mode, 
 which is quite good even though it takes some warming up to. Even so, the best additions for me 
 come in Battle mode.
  
  I have gotten every single Mario Kart game I know of, and each time there is one thing lacking: 
 a good single player mode. I realize that racing games are mainly multiplayer, but why does single-player 
 mode have to suffer? This time, the producers upped the single-player modes by leaps and bounds. 
 Now, games (such as Vs. and Battle) that used to be multiplayer-only are single-player compatible 
 (with decent CPU) . This alone increases the value to a 10. On top of that, the producers brought 
 back the Battle arena Block Fort, easily the best arena from the entire series.
  
  The gameplay remains strong in the game. You don't have to worry much about the CPU illegally speeding 
 up to you after you take a shortcut as it happens in many games. Instead, you have the weapons 
 system. While getting hit with several blue shells is annoying, it is possible to lap last place 
 in shorter tracks. Also, this is a quick game to learn how to drive okay, and learning how to drift 
 takes less than an hour for a beginner. Thus, it is a pick up and play game, but with some great 
 extra depth for mastering.
  
  Graphics also are somewhat strong in the game. While racing, the graphics look pretty good (around 
 a 9) , but the characters leave a lot to be desired, such as that I have no idea what the producers 
 were thinking when they created DK. He looks plain awful. The only upside is that you won't notice 
 the fronts of characters while racing. 
  
  I cannot say much about the sound as I leave it off for all portable games, but from the little 
 I have heard, it is good enough.
  
  I hope that this game is a sign of things to come for the Mario Kart series. My only complaints 
 (besides characters) come from not taking new ideas far enough (such as that you can create 4-on-4 
 teams, but not 7-on-1) . When all is said and done, this is still an incredible game that I highly 
 recommend to Mario fans or racing fans. It deserves the rave reviews that it is getting. It is 
 the only game I currently like for the DS, and it alone makes getting a DS worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 15, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This was my first WiFi game for the Nintendo DS Lite I bought. I have played all the Mario kart 
 versions but there is something about this one I like so much better. Its N64 graphics in your 
 hand wherever you go.
  
  I recommend this game the most because of its ease to connect with friends through WiFi. I play 
 this game all the time with my Co workers and the fun never stops. 
  
  The game does get quite hard though as you go through the different CC levels and downright frustrating 
 at times. But its Mario Kart so this should not come as a surprise.
  
  My only issue with the game is the time it takes to connect to the internet with the device to 
 use multiplayer over broadband. It can take up to 10-15 minutes to find other players in your region 
 or the world. 
  
  Other than that this game was worth my money and I highly recommend this to anyone who has been 
 playing this game since the SNES version.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LZSchneider
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Just about everything.
  
  THE BAD:
  SNES courses lack creativity, but that is becuase they're SNES courses. So this is more of a complaint.
 
  
  ------
  Mario Kart; one of the games that made you throw your controller down in MKDD or made you fall 
 asleep. MKDS is a major step up from MKDD and is a whole lot of more fun with all new modes and 
 courses.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of this game is one of the best for the DS. You can play Grand Prix mode with two 
 types of cups: Nitro Cup and Classic Cup. Nitro Cup has, for the most part fun, new courses and 
 Classic Cup brings back all the good memories having courses from all the previous Mario Kart games. 
 I'll admit, the SNES courses may not be very exciting or challenging, but there are plenty of other 
 ones to keep you in all the excitement.
  In MKDD, we challenged unfair comps who always seem to reach their top speed after getting hit 
 by a shell, or green shells that always seem to find a way to your cart. AND lets not forget how 
 the comps swerved like ice skaters around giant bananas on small bridges. In this game, that is 
 all eliminated. The comps will speed up as fast as their acceleration lets them to. As far as fair 
 goes for the computer racers, they play just like you were racing against someone else. Also, green 
 shells aren't a problem anymore because they rarely bounce of a wall and hit you. 
  There is also Battle Mode where you can battle your friend in Balloon Battle or Shine Runners. 
 If you don't have a spare buddy, you can also play against all nine of the computers which is actually 
 more fun than it sounds.
  Mission Mode is an all new mode where you have to carry out tasks that will increase you "racing" 
 skills. In some missions, you have to defeat bosses by using certain weapons and in others you 
 have to drive through loops. A mission mode in a racing game may sound a little bit odd but it 
 actually turns out to be a pretty fun in this game.
  Unlike in MKDD, you have 2 different carts per character that you can choose from. Each cart differs 
 in drift ability, speed, acceleration, handling, and items. For "items", the higher the bar, the 
 better weapons you will get. And unlike in some other racing games, you can tell the difference 
 between carts in performance.
  
  Visuals:
  The graphics of this game aren't bad at all. They're not as smooth as the graphics of the GCN but 
 are way better than the N64's. There is some 2D graphics in this game but Nintendo used "shadowing" 
 in the pixels to make them look 3D. When you finish a course, the little portrait of your character 
 is actually 2D. Cool huh?
  The courses you race on are very colorful as in any other Mario game, and the backgrounds always 
 fit the type of course you're racing on. For example, if you're racing in Desert Hills, there will 
 be dunes and pyramid-like structures. 
  
  Music:
  Every course has it's own different music that fits it absolutely perfect. Again, in Desert Hills, 
 the BGM sounds like a snake charmer's flute. 
  
  Summary:
  Mario Kart DS takes bits and pieces from all the previous Mario Karts, rearranges them, and then 
 puts all the parts back together to make an entirely new game. This game also has new concepts 
 like Mission Mode and (Wi-Fi) . That is why I gave Mario Kart DS for the Nintendo DS 10 perfect 
 powerslides out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifanboy_4life
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS
  
  Mario Kart fans rejoice for we have Mario Karts first lap around the Nintendo DS. Yes we have 
 a review of Mario Kart DS. Even if u you havent worn out your copy of Mario Kart: Double Dash 
 , you should still pick this up. Why you ask? Obviously, because you are reading this review. Well, 
 I will tell you why.
  
  In single player mode there now five modes not just two. There is Grand Prix, Time Trials, VS, 
 Battle, and Missions. In Grand Prix, there are 16 new tracks and 4 old tracks from every previous 
 Mario Kart game, adding up to 16 blasts from the pasts. There are 12 characters, 4 unlockable, 
 36 karts, and 2 new items, the Bullet Bill, and the Blooper. In Time Trials nothing is really new 
 except the fact that you can unlock staff ghosts, which are people who made the game. So in essence 
 you are playing a developer. 
  
  In Vs you can play the CPU in case you dont have any friends. You can adjust the engine class, 
 CPU difficulty, Course selection, (Choose, Random, In order) change the rules a little bit, and 
 turn teams on and off, but with teams it doesnt really add anything to the game-play. In Battle 
 mode there are 2 battle games, Balloon Battle and Shine Runners. In Shine Runners is basically 
 like a last place eliminator. You hit people to try to get them to lose their shines so you can 
 take them. Have the least Shine Sprites when time runs out and your out of the game. Last person 
 driving wins. Now as you probably know, when Nintendo makes a game there is always some innovation, 
 so you are probably wondering where it is. Well, it is in Balloon Battle. You know the little microphone 
 that is filling up with dust from non-use. Now you blow in it for Balloon Battle. Instead of starting 
 out with three and when your out, well your out. Now you start out with one and you have four spares. 
 You have the ability to blow these spares up so that you have three. This adds some strategy to 
 the game, which has never been present in Balloon Battle.
  
  The next mode is Missions mode. This, in my opinion, is the best mode in the game. You will play 
 through a series of missions. They vary from driving through numbered gates, to destroying enemies 
 common in the Mario universe. There are seven sets of missions, eight missions in each set, one 
 boss fight in each set, and one set is unlockable. The best thing about missions mode are the boss 
 fights. It goes from knocking Big Bully into the lava, to racing Wiggler through Mushroom Bridge. 
 
  
  Now that we have finished going over Single-Player (phew) Lets move on to Multi-Player. In Multi-player 
 you can play single-card play (simple) or Multi-Card play. (Normal) Single-Card play, in 2 words, 
 sucks ass When you play your friend in Single-Card and your friend doesnt have the card they have 
 to play as shy-guy, and cannot pick from anyone else. Then, when you go to choose a course, there 
 are only 8 tracks to choose from, which are the first 4 Nitro (new) tracks, and the first 4 Retro (old) 
 tracks. On the other hand there is Multi-Card play. You can play with any character or kart you 
 have unlocked and choose from any course. So it is basically like Vs except you are competing against 
 a human, and you have the additional option of turning CPU on and off. So if you dont have any 
 friends who have Mario Kart DS, playing them is a waste of time. But that doesnt cut you off from 
 the Multi-Player aspect of this game because there is infrastructure (online) play. 
  
  This game is the first game on the DS to take advantage of the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. If you 
 have the right things, setting up Wi-Fi is a simple 5 minute process. All you need is a high-speed 
 internet connection, and a wireless router, and you are set to go. And if you cant get online 
 at home you can go to hotspots, which are McDonalds across the country where you can play Wi-Fi. 
 So the next time you get a burger you can bring your DS and play Wi-fi there, but I dont recommend 
 it because you shouldnt play this game in public. 
  
  Actually dont play this around anybody you dont know, because you will be saying every cuss word 
 known to man when you play Wi-Fi. The reason for this is Mario Kart DSs cheap handicap system. 
 This makes the people in last get these awesome items, and the people in the lead getting bananas. 
 Sounds fair right, not so much. This leads to cheap last minute victories. For example, the most 
 often thing that happens, is that you are inches from the finish line and a blue shell comes out 
 of nowhere blasts you in the air and everybody else will blaze past you. Also if you cant take 
 the heat, stay out of the kitchen. Though the book says rivals will let you play people with your 
 racing skills, after you play for about a week, you will start playing against people with 300 
 wins more than there losses. So most of the time you will playing our friends or the CPU or just 
 something else. But you dont play to win, you play to have fun right. Anyway, though the online 
 play is usually free of lag it still could learn a lot from Xbox Live. It takes a while to search 
 for people to play unless you choose world-wide and even then it takes a little while. And your 
 friends have to be people you know that have Mario Kart DS. So you wont be playing people in California 
 if you have lived in New York all your life. And for this online service you dont enter screen 
 names you enter friend codes, 12 digit codes that you enter in your DS. Also there is no chat, 
 so there will be no cursing in this online experience. Another bad thing is that there is no battle 
 in Wi-Fi, only racing and there is only 20 courses in Wi-Fi. 
  
  But considering Wi-Fi is free, you cant really compare it to Xbox Live and since you probably 
 know Nintendo isnt really big on online play, you probably werent expecting much. But flaws aside 
 you should pick Mario Kart DS up, since you can for $30 or $35. It is a must-have for the DS, and 
 it is what you bought a DS for. (Heck, its what I bought my DS for) A 9 out of 10.- Traymon 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanden_Killer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  mario kart DS has many good things just like all the other mario karts. it has it's own set of 
 tracks away from all the others aswell as a different "retro" gran pix that contains the best of 
 all the others. mario kart DS has some new characters added in that include wal-luigi and one other 
 that i wont mention.
  
  this game realy showes what is graphicaly possible on the DS and it looks really good. it might 
 take a while to get used to the controles because of it's small size but once you do that you won't 
 have any more trouble than nessisary to make it not so easy that you beat it in a week. the AI 
 is very realistic and quite compairable to an acual human player. the music is as it always is 
 livly and happy. 
  
  if you've never played a mario kart game then this is the one to start with as it gives you a taste 
 of all the old versions and where it's nessesay they have revamped the graphics. all in all this 
 is a great mario kart game that wont take you forever to complete but wont be completed in a single 
 week this is where to start if you've never playd a mario kart game and if you have then it's just 
 another great mario kart! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommieX
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I truly do not understand why Mario Kart DS is the most critically acclaimed game in the Nintendo 
 DS library. The game looks great, but the gameplay is simply the same thing we've seen on every 
 other Nintendo system, except Nintendo added some "fun" new features like boosting, which involves 
 a lot of furious button mashing.
  
  I know that people say that the online multiplayer gives this game lasting appeal, but I have to 
 strongly disagree. It takes me a good 10 minutes to find and connect to players using Nintendo's 
 WiFi service. If you're lucky enough to connect, you will have to deal with players dropping out 
 of the game, unbalanced items ruining the race by completely changing the outcome, and the infamously 
 annoying "snaking." Sure, I could "snake" too, but that makes the game more of a chore than an 
 enjoyable activity.
  
  In other words, don't expect more from Mario Kart DS than you would from Super Mario Kart on the 
 SNES. It's the same game in a prettier package, with some annoying new features thrown in for good 
 measure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puremage1209
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 13, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Lets just say that this game did not meet my expectations. When you first pop the game in it is 
 great fun starting out and beating your way through the levels. But once you beat it, (about 30 
 races or so) the game gets very boring. I think that the wi-fi part of the game is great. Being 
 able to play players all over the world without spending money on a subscription is nice. The wi-fi 
 offers a variety of tracks, and many other features. The main drawback is the single player. I 
 would not recomend buying this game if you only want to play single player. 
  
  Hope you found this useful,
  Cullen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  i got a DS lite on launch day 2 days ago, and i got MKDS, Metroid Hunters, Brain Age, and Mario 
 + Luigi PiT. MKDS i've played more than all of the others combined. It's a WHICKED FUN GAME! 8 
 cups, 3 difficulty levels, Wifi, 8 player link, battle, its so fun!!! w00t! go mario!!
  
  
  
  100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words!
  100 words! 100 words! 
 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 
  100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 
  100 words! 100 words! 100 
 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 
  100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 
  100 words! 100 words! 100 
 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 
  100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 
  100 words! 100 words! 100 
 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 
  100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 
  100 words! 100 words! 100 
 words! 100 words! 100 words! 100 words! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelHH
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is one of those series that always brings lots of enjoyment for the player. Racing around 
 as the different characters makes the game fun and the different tracks in Mario Kart DS make the 
 game excellent.
  
  In total, there are 32 tracks (plus mirror mode, bringing the total to 64 racable tracks) . A great 
 feature that was put into this game was the retro tracks. These tracks are taken from the other 
 four games in the series and make the game fun and exciting. It really is a treat to be able to 
 see some of the SNES tracks that were in 2D now available to be raced in three dimensions. 
  
  There is a wide variety of characters available to be used, but not quite as many as in previous 
 games, such as double dash for the gamecube. Mario Kart DS offers a total of 12 different characters 
 to choose from (once they are all unlocked) .
  
  The game itself is basically the same as any other Mario Kart game in the series. There are different 
 tournament modes ranging from 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc. Once all of these modes are beaten there 
 is also Mirror mode available. In addition to this there are time trials available for the 32 tracks, 
 battle mode and mission mode. Mission mode make the game a little more entertaining since it gives 
 you different tasks to do in order to win these missions. Most of them are relatively simple, but 
 some of them can be tricky.
  
  The graphics in Mario Kart DS are excellent. The only time that you can really notice the graphics 
 are when there are any close up on the ground and you can tell that some of the tracks have large 
 spaces of the same colours. The character models and other graphics in the game are very well done 
 and the menu system is superb.
  
  The music is very well done as well. Some enjoyable parts are when you are hit by a lightning bolt 
 and the music changes to a sqeekier sort of sound. This really adds to the gameplay and makes the 
 game all the more fun.
  
  Mario Kart is an excellent game and is really good for the series. The dual screen makes the game 
 excellent and it is really a joy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irmeleeman5995
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great racing fun, most courses of any Mario Kart yet, appeals to new and old fans of 
 the series, online play, just plain awesome
  
  The Bad: Feels empty and repetitive in some parts (single player mostly) , some Retro courses should 
 be here that arent 
  
  Mario Kart. Oh, that Mario is at it again. On the DS, his newest playground. With online play, 
 many different modes, and new and old courses alike, this is a must have for any racing fan, DS 
 owner, or Mario Kart fan. Heck, I got my DS for this game and Advance Wars (and MPH but lets not 
 get carried away) .
  
  Gameplay is pretty good. Youll have your wacky Mario courses here, some familiar, some new. Youll 
 find eight cups, four Retro, the old ones, and four Nitro, the new ones. Some new mechanics are 
 in this game; the drifting is different (sort of) , new items, and some other little things here 
 and there. Youll have Grand Prix, Time attack, Mission mode (a new one) , and of course, Wifi. 
 Theres enough here to keep you busy for months, and youll enjoy every second of it. Theres nothing 
 more exciting than beating 150cc Mirror Cup for the first time. Now, seven more to go :P. 
  
  I could ramble on about items and courses, but thats all old. You can check other places for 
 that, or better yet, play the game. Of course, most of you know about these modes already. Lets 
 get down to the main selling point of this game, the Wifi play. Youll be able to play friends, 
 or do a random search and race people on your skill level, any skill, any region or anywhere. Ive 
 played people in Japan at one in the morning, and I gotta tell you, those Japanese are good. The 
 Wifi is almost always lag free, but that lag can be a crucial part in who wins and loses. If that 
 shell misses because it lagged, youre screwed. Some people complain about dumb luck being all 
 one needs to win and, I have to say, thats almost entirely true. This may turn off some, entice 
 others, and some may be indifferent. Either way, its still fun.
  
  Graphics are better than Mario Kart 64, and your system is sitting in your hand. Amazing? This 
 world is starting to disgust me. Nothing particularly outstanding here, but, for a handheld, its 
 pretty nice. 
  
  Sound, again, nothing too outstanding. Good voice bits though, and all the wailing and shouting 
 youve come to know and love from Mr. Mario and his pals. 
  
  Value is a ten because with online, wireless play, and so many freaking modes, youre gonna be 
 at this game a long time.
  
  Tilt is a nine solely because this game is all it is in your hand. That still blows my mind. It 
 odd when Nintendos first online system is their handheld
  
  Bottom line: Own a DS, get this game. However, if you arent a racing person and dont have access 
 to the Wifi, talk to people you know before buying it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoePoeJoe
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those DS games where if you don't have wi-fi, their really is nothing there (by 
 the way I don't like wi-fi all that much) . The characters and tracks are good but you only play 
 about 75% tracks on wi-fi. Plus they have a new and very strange character called Rob the robot. 
 The tracks I thought were very well done, except the tracks from GC are worse and their are barley 
 any short cuts. 
  They're also is very many things you can do besides race, like battling and these sort of missions 
 which I forget what there called. Your probably already aware about battle mode with the balloons, 
 so I will explain the missions. With these missions it give you a task you must do this task with 
 time or without messing up. Which was fun but took about half an hour to do them all.
  The wi-fi is probably the highlight of the game because it doesn't get boring fast as much as single 
 player. It was actually a challenge to verse real people. Also there are ranks which I like because 
 show how good you are.
  But if you don't have wi-fi then don't get this game, or if you like games with plots and a dialogue 
 like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldsmithson
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 12, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is so short. It's fun but only for a little bit. playing aginst your friends is more 
 fun but still it isn't that fun. It's the best in the series because it has tracks from all the 
 games but it's still easy and short. You might want to rent it because like I said it's short. 
 It's more fun then other mario karts but none of them very long. And at least this ones portable. 
 
  
  I still have 27 words to go so just going to write about nothing because they want me to write 
 100 words. 
  
  
  
  nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodfall14
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  So, picking this game up was a requirement for me. As a person who spent many a youthful day playing 
 the old Kart on N64, I felt inexorably drawn to it.
  
  Graphics - 9/10 - I love the way the system renders the racing. There's never a slowdown or a split 
 in the rendering system. Not that that's ever much of an issue with Nintendo. My single concern 
 is that there can be times when you'll get inside of a given effect and view it from the outside, 
 the blue homing shell in particular. Other than that, the lens flares are tasteful and the cheerful 
 motions of the characters are very sweet.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 - In short bursts or extended trials, this game is amazingly playable. With new 
 tracks just for the DS edition and many ports of old tracks from the old games (in what is charmingly 
 called The Retro Cup) , Mario Kart DS seems limitless with potential for foot-sweating races. Additionally, 
 the ad-hoc and infrastructure (fancy ways of saying close range and over the internet) Wi-Fi play 
 is spectacular. You really can't get better than having 8 people play on one game cartridge through 
 the download functionality. 
  
  Sound - 10/10 - Surround Sound. Two words begin the effects that ride behind your ears during every 
 race. Each track has it's own piece that compliments rather than filling in dead air. The sometimes 
 startlingly lifelike whistles and cheers from the crowd are incredibly adding to the experience.
 
  
  Value - 9/10 - Umm... Generally high?
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - I loved it... As you could probably tell by now. One of the must-own games for 
 the Nintendo DS (lite) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manhunter666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in all ways I mean cmon if u have a ds why wouldn't you like mario? Its a balance 
 of great things like new weapons like the bullet bill. You might think this game is "kiddy" according 
 to you fanboys but it is actually sort of hard. The introduction to the wifi capabilities was fantastic. 
 SPOILER: You can even unlock the R. O. B. robot from the NES era i mean that is just awesome as hell. 
 The graphics are wonderful and look superior to a very good 64 game. If you are looking fora good 
 game for your new ds lite or regular ds this is a top notch choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveGray
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS again puts you in the driver's seat with some of your favorite Nintendo characters 
 in wacky kart races with a variety of flashy tracks and quirky weapons. Despite sticking to the 
 same fomula that made its predecessors popular, it is the first big leap in the kart racing series 
 since Mario Kart 64 added 3D terrain. 
  
  Like the other games in the series, the basic game mode in Mario Kart DS is the Grand Prix, which 
 consists of 4 sets of races, each with 4 all new tracks. These tracks do a great job with both 
 showing off the graphical ability of the DS, and capturing some of charm of levels you might recognize 
 from previous Nintendo games. In addition to the 16 new tracks are 16 classic courses (from the 
 SNES, N64, GBA, and GC versions) , broken up into 4 Retro Grand Prix circuits.
  
  The Battle Mode also returns, this time with control specific to the DS, with a few different game 
 varieties and courses to choose from, as well as a Challenge Mode, which asks you to perform driving-related 
 tasks in a certain amount of time. In addition to adding to the meat and replayability of the game, 
 these missions are designed to help you become a better racer. By completing the different aspects 
 of the game, you'll unlock new characters, new karts, and new race classes.
  
  The game features slight tweaks to the race mechanics, like powerslide boosts and speed-boosts 
 attained from drafting behind your opponents. Also, a few new weapons can be found in your arsenal, 
 like bob-ombs to blast your opponents and squids that squirt ink and blind your competition. It 
 also makes good use of the 2nd screen by showing you a map of your position that allows you to 
 scope out traps. 
  
  What makes Mario Kart DS really stand out as a DS title is its online play. It is extremely easy 
 to use, and you can be racing against 3 other opponents in no time. You can be matched with players 
 around the world, from only your own country, from your friends list, or based on your skill level. 
 It also allows up to 8 players to compete locally, with the use of only one gamepak, and sets you 
 up with bots when no connection is available.
  
  By adding a load of new game modes, unlockables, and a simple-to-use online play, Mario Kart DS 
 is a good choice for anyone with a DS, and and absolute must have for any previous fan of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peanuts5600
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a good game to play with a bunch of friends yet is a game you can't play single player 
 for more than an hour (in other words it gets boring)
  
  The Good:
  
  Good game to challenge yourself on single player
  Good wifi
  Has Yoshi :)
  Came with my ds
 
  Has classic stages
  Combines something from all of previous Mario Kart's (besides the one on gba cause it was practically 
 the same as the one on snes)
  
  The Bad:
  
  Single player gets boring
  Not all stages are available online
  Too easy to snake
  Characters don't hold items like in 
 Mario Kart: Double Dash
  Must have wifi to be good
  
  Mario Kart DS really shows off the capability of the DS and should be bought by all Mario Kart 
 fans or basically anyone who owns a DS. This is how Mario Kart 64 should have been. There is a 
 lot of content in the single player game and excellent for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfaus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are solid. Characters do flips when hit with shells, which looks great. 
 There are no bad spots where the graphics dip in textures. Overall very good.
  
  Sound: Classic Mario Kart music and different music for each course. Well done.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Classic mario kart gameplay. Very easy to pick up and play. Items add a fun variety and mix to 
 the gameplay, which is what I think makes mario kart alot more fun than other racing games.
  
  Value: You will get a lot out of this game. 15+ hours with just single player, if you try to 
 get star on each course and stuff double that. Add on multiplayer and your talking 40+ hours at 
 least on this game. 
  
  Tilt: Just the fact that it is Mario and all the cool stuff in this game taken from other mario 
 games ( such as the bosses in mission mode) just make this game awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi_fan132
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  This have to be one of the best Mario racing games. This game have awesome tracks. It also have tracks 
 from Mario Kart 64, Mario Kart (NES) , Mario Kart Super Curcuit, and Mario Kart double Dash but it does 
 not have all of the track from the other Mario Kart games. The tracks from the NES version and Super 
 Curcuit is 2D (which is not good) . It should be better if they make it more 3D. You are able to unlock 
 characters, tracks, and cars. You are also available to play online. It loads a bit slow but it's fun. It's 
 good to practice first before you play online. Nintendo should make more games like this. It's just 
 very fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I have all of the mario kart games and so far, this is the best of them all. The idea of having 
 a battle mode on a portable system is overwhelming. I found that the greatest new addition to mario 
 kart was the missions. You would never think that there wold be boss battles in mario kart. I loved 
 this game for its multiple modes and 3D graphics. And of course this game also had time trials, 
 grand prix and Vs mode. There is many characters and SO MANY KARTS!!!! There was also many unlockables. 
 Overall, I loved this game and mabye it is the best DS game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is such a great game for the DS. Mario Kart is by far the best racer on Nintendo 
 DS and any Mario fan must get this. First the graphics are surprisingly good for a handheld game 
 and the music & sound isn't bad either. It is also entertaining fun. The thing that i most like 
 about Mario Kart is multiplayer. You can play with your mates & online using Nintendo Wi-fi. It 
 is so entertaining. Playing with your mates is better than playing online though. Online you can't 
 talk hurl abuse at them but when playing across DS its fun & entertaining. Another thing is that 
 i can't fault anything wrong. I can't think about anything bad about playing the game. And the 
 last thing if you have Wi-fi buy it!!!! It will keep you entertained for hours on end. I don't 
 know whether its the best game on DS with new games like Zelda & Star Fox coming out at the end 
 of the year. But it certainly has the ability to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex0130
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game on the ds. If you do not have Mario Kart DS you need to get it. Personaly 
 this is my favorite game on the series because of all the new features and modes and the fact that 
 its on a handhald. Some of the new features and modes are....
  
  Missions: These are fun hard challenges that give you a break from just racing.
  
  Battle: 
 This isnt new but its a super fun mode. They did however put some new thing in that make it more 
 fun. One is that you have two battle modes to chose from one is Shinerunners and the other is Ballon 
 Battle. Both have appeared in previous games so i wont bother explaining them. But they threw un 
 some nice feature like in Ballon Battle you actually *blow up your ballons* using the nintendo 
 ds mic. And another nice thing they added was now you can play battle mode by yourself just against 
 cpus.
  
  Items and Coreses: They have put a number of new coreses in ( they have 16 new coreses) which makes 
 it a new exprience. And they have added like 3 totaly new items.
  
  WiFi mode: This mode lets you play against other real people over the internet. There are three 
 ways to play one is regional, another is world wide, and the last is friend code. The first two 
 are self explanitory but the friend code one may not be. So here is what a friend code is it is 
 a code that is issued to every cart, its like a buddy name, so you and your friends can swope friend 
 codes and any time that you guys want a private race just fo to the friend code option. There is 
 a little more to explain but you should get the main point. This mode is super fun cause it lets 
 you race real people who know what they are doing.
  
  These are just some of the new thing added to Mario Kart DS. I personly love this game and think 
 that everyone should get it. This game is super fun and the new features give it a different feal 
 from past Mario Kart games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wal0026
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS delivers exactly what it promises, a great mario kart game with plenty of new content 
 to keep it from being stale.
  
  The game brings back all of your favorite characters including Waluigi, Wario and many more, including 
 some un familiar ones such as Dry bones and shy guy.
  
  As well as the bright array of characters, Mario Kart DS comes with over 32 tracks to race on, 
 this includes some original tracks from NES, SNES, N64 and NGC. This adds an extra bonus to all 
 us Die Hard Fans of the series.
  
  If your going to get Mario Kart DS for single player you'll probably only get about 10-15 hours 
 out of it, because it's really the multiplayer that adds that much hours on to the game. You only 
 need a single card to have the time of your life.
  
  In summary Mario Kart DS is a great racing game, i recommended it anyone who's into the series 
 or anyone is looking for a spin on the traditional racing game. In other words, this is the sort 
 of game that will convince you to buy a DS.
  
  T 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bocko91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the newest installment in the Mario Kart series. MKDS delivers some of the old 
 pleasures of the MK series and also sports some new ones. One of the most anticipated features 
 of the game was, and still is, the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, in which you can race anyone in the 
 world in a series of 4 races. 
  
  MKDS has been long awaited since it was announced before the DS was even released. People were 
 abuzzz over the screenshots, that weren't even final. Many of the gamers decided that this would 
 be the game that they were most excited about. This is how you can determine that MKDS was the 
 most popular game, and that was even before its release. After its release, people are still gauking 
 over it.
  
  The gameplay is simply phenominal. The controls are suprisingly good, and the graphics are very 
 impressive. New items have been added, as well as courses. The favorite courses from the SNES, 
 N64, GBA, and even GCN have been integrated into this masterpiece of a racer. 
  
  Unlockables will constantly have you playing the Grand Prix mode, in search of those final unlockables 
 that can be used throughout the game. (even WiFi!) There are a few unlockable characters, and karts 
 as well. Each character has their own stats and abilities, as does each kart.
  
  Mario Kart DS is a must-have for any Nintendo DS owner. It provides the satisfaction in a DS racer 
 that I was hoping it would. The Wi-Fi keeps track of your wins and losses and people who disconnect 
 in the middle of a race suffer automatic losses. 
  
  Mario Kart DS has shown awe to many MKDS veterans, who get a race down memory lane with this awesome 
 DS racer. Every DS owner needs to at least experience the gameplay of Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velvetkloud
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I experienced on my own DS, Wario Ware Touched being the first and only 
 game i had played before that. I used a wealth of credit on my game reward card and a moment of 
 spontaneity to buy the DS Mario Kart pack and complimented it with Mario & Luigi Partners in time.
 
  Mario Mario, you are a busy boy.
  Anyhoo, I had recently completed Double Dash on the Gamecube and was still hungry for more Karting 
 Malarky. Hearing that the DS offered certain games (Mario Kart being one of them) the ability to 
 play with players across the globe if you have a wireless internet connection sealed the deal, 
 so it was with much glee that I ripped out my brand new DS, complete with dead pixel, and shoved 
 in the tiny Mario Kart card.
  Anyone who has played a previous Mario Kart will be in familiar territory and within minutes will 
 being tearing round the tracks shoving shells up the asses of those who dare to oppose he.
  Now, despite the severe hand damage you recieve, thanks in part to the DS's slightly unfriendly 
 ergonomic design Mario Kart DS has to be one of the best of the entire series. Admitidly i haven't 
 played much of the N64 or GB advance versions and obviously it just cannot look quite as clear 
 and pretty as Double Dash however I am left in no doubt of its unadulterated greatness.
  Though it offers little new the sheer volume of what is on offer is somewhat obscene, this becoming 
 more apparant as you play it and open up all the usual bits and pieces all over the show.
  As always you get the grand prix with 3 different race classes plus the nicely confusing mirror 
 mode. This is spread over 8 cups, the 4 normal cups (mushroom, flower, star and special) and 4 
 retro cups featuring select tracks from all previous incarnations of the game. Altogether this 
 makes a whopping 32 tracks! The tracks are complimented with about a dozen characters to choose 
 from all with a huge variety of personal vehicles.
  You then have the run of the mill time trials with the ability to save and swap ghosts with other 
 Mario kart players and 2 Battle modes.
  The new addition is the mission mode where you are given objectives to complete such as collect 
 coins, do a certain number of power slides etc. Once you finish a group of missions you will have 
 to defeat a boss, these being characters from other Mario titles.
  Finally you have the all important option to race or battle with players either using the wireless 
 connection or worldwide using the Nintendo Wi-Fi service. No matter how enjoyable the single player 
 game we all play Mario Kart so we can issue red shell justice to our friends and now it is possible 
 to do the same to random strangers in a foreign country!
  Overall Mario kart DS is too good to bother trying to fault, it is such a joy you don't even notice 
 that you are playing on a tiny machine with tiny screens. 
  At least until the R. S. I. starts to set in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikerox101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is by far the best mario kart game that there ever was. The gameplay is fantastic, 
 the sounds are cool, the characters and awesome and the tracks and superb. The Wi-Fi capabilities 
 of this game are a little limited as you cannot choose to play battle for instance, it is just 
 racing, best out of 4 races wins which is a downer. This is great fun with your mates and great 
 to see how well people can play this game. 
  
  I highly reccomend this game if you are the proud owner of a Nintendo DS or DS Lite (like i am, 
 go DS Lite!) . However, if you have this game and do not have a wireless router or Wi-Fi USB Connector 
 for your PC, then i strongly advise you to get one of these devices to widely expand your gaming 
 experience. This, plus many other great Nintendo Games is a must for Wi-Fi.
  
  Great game Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Chances are if youve been following the Mario Kart series (and there are a lot of you) this new 
 addition will have you totally satisfied, especially since it rises above the previous lukewarm 
 installments that didnt really get you as excited as it did when it first graced the SNES.
  
  The Karts control pretty much perfectly and certain attributes such as traction, speed and 
 weight (etc.) vary as they would from character to character AND from kart to kart. Yes, you can 
 change karts now; each character has about 3 varying up the races even more.
  
  New features extend further. Single player mode has a new missions section. Basically you complete 
 certain tasks within the allocated time limit such as driving through gates, head to head matches 
 and even boss fights. Its a good diversion from the mainstream gameplay but it isnt too challenging 
 and youd be done with it in a matter of hours.
  And of course, the main new features here are the multiplayer capabilities. Its quick, easy and 
 you only need one cartridge if you want to play with nearby friends. If you, however, are ever 
 overtaken by the need to verse someone in a different continent, wi-fi makes that all possible.
 
  The additional weapons are awesome, namely the Bullet Bill. The spiny shell however needs special 
 mention. It doesnt skid along the ground anymore, but flies above the track until it reaches the 
 leader at which point it will drop on their head and explode that sucker making a blast big enough 
 to send any nearby second or third placers tumble out of control. It works really well.
  The new tracks are also awesome.
  
  The graphics, while not pushing any standards, does run 
 at a particularly smooth and impressive frame rate with a good draw distance. The dual screen is 
 also used well to indicate a map (like the one on the SNES but better) . The map shows everything: 
 racers, items, icons, just be careful to keep your eyes on the road and not on the bottom screen 
 to see if your shell hit.
  The sound is what youd expect from a Mario Kart game.
  
  If you have friends who own DSs or if you have a wi-fi connection, you are the ones who are really 
 going to benefit from this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalheadbrian
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  mario kart ds is the best mario kart in the series it has 8 cups there are 4 new cups and 4 classic 
 cups it also has a missions mode and a battle mode it has online play as well there are also 12 
 characters mario luigi peach yoshi toad donkey kong wario bowser daisy dry bones waluigi and rob 
 the robot mario kart ds is the best i have played the game online and i had a good time the grand 
 prix is also fun but it can get hard on 150cc there are also new power ups in the grand prix wich 
 are cool this game has a lot of mode's and online play that will keep you playing for a long time 
 so if you have a nintendo ds buy mario kart ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unknown7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is great with many characters to choose from and old and new tracks to race on. I couldn't 
 put this game down when I started playing it, this game is highly addictive. This game has many 
 unlockables and you can play online. You can make many friends as well enemies with this game and 
 with so many characters and karts to choose from, there's many different possibilities which gives 
 this game awesome replay value. The graphics are top-notch for a DS game and it has good gameplay. 
 That's how all the Mario games are. I recommend that you get this game if you have a DS and if 
 you don't have a DS, this game is a good reason to buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Out of all of the games for the DS, this is a must have for any DS owners. There is plenty of contents 
 to keep you busy. There is regualer grand prix, battle mode, Time Trial, Mission Mode, and Versus. 
 The best part of this game is the online play supported by Wi-fi. You can either play multiplayer 
 with you friends, or play against people around the world. 
  Let me explain about the other features in this game. The grand prix you compete against CPUs to 
 win a trophy and also unlocking new contents. In battle mode there is 2 game mode, Balloon Battle 
 and Shine Runner. I Ballong battle you have a limit of balloons and you use the items and kill 
 each other. In Shine Runner you need to get a thing called a Shine around the map, and you need 
 to collect the most before the time runs out. In Time Trial you go through a map then after that 
 the game will make a clone of yourself, and you race your old record you got last time. In mission 
 mode you do varieties of missions. In versus mode you race against the CPU on selected stages. 
 
  For a DS game this game has fine graphics for a handheld game. The sound in this game can great. 
 And the gameplay is fun and addictive.
  After all, this is the most greatest game you can get for the DS. If you have a DS or you're going 
 to get one you, I would really recomment this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Prince
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Gaming Prince Review # 4
  
  Mario Kart DS.
  
  Hello guys, Mario Kart DS is really a stunning piece of plastic and metal.
  
  Featuring lots 
 of characters, race tracks, battle and mission mode, an excellent online wi-fi connection, how 
 could you go wrong!
  
  The graphics for Mario Kart DS are amazing. Characters like Mario, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi look 
 great and are back in action. Although the environment back round could be better, its still very 
 nice. Full 3D graphics completely demolish the ones for N64. 
  
  Game play: Mario Kart DS offers grand prix, with 16 new courses and 16 returning retro contenders, 
 it seems to be the perfect mix of new and old. And good news for anyone who played the N64 one, 
 yes they brought back block fort!!! The best thing to happen since healthy food! 
  
  The characters are looking brand-spanking new and they are ready for the races. I really love the 
 controls for MKDS and especially drifting and speed-boosting. 
  
  Once youre finished with the single player mode, hop on over to the online mode and challenge 
 your friends, play worldwide or even regional! I love the online mode because its quick, simple 
 and easy. The only thing that upsets me is when people drop out on you when your winning  Sore 
 Losers!! :P ahem but as I was saying, you can also create your own Emblem for you kart and personalize 
 it anyway you want.
  
  The music is brought to the DS intact and perfecto. The new music is really great as well. Sound 
 effects for shells, starts, bomb-ombs are great. And there are some new items actually; The Bullet 
 Bill will bring you up a few positions to the other racers. 
  
  Mario Kart DS has so much replay value that Ive easily spent overtime 100 hours + on this game. 
 The Wi-Fi mode keeps you hooked to beat all the really good players out there. Even if you dont 
 have a online mode connection, the game itself is great for single player grand prix. And its 
 a lot of fun playing friends on battle mode.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  MKDS is a masterpiece. With lots of game play modes, online connection, disgustingly amazing replay 
 value, great characters and a lot of charm and spunk; MKDS is great for any racing fans unfamiliar 
 with the series and its a must buy for fans of the series.
  
  Upcoming Reviews from Gaming Prince:
  
  Daigasso! Band Brothers
  
  Nintendogs: Daschaund 
 and Friends
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Fun yes, even without wi-fi yes. It's a fun game that delivers great graphics, gameplay, and a bit 
 sound. It's fun without wi-fi no matter what, if your playing alone or if your doing multiplayer 
 still. Most people might say it's all about the wi-fi but they're wrong cause it so happens i enjoyed 
 this game without wi-fi. The reason the sound isnt so good cause sometimes you might feel that it's 
 balance isn't so good because when i played, i felt that it was only coming out of one side but 
 that still doesnt ruin the gameplay. I also like the items although they could've putten there specials 
 like Wario with the bomb and mario with the fireball. Ok the reason i wrote this review is cause 
 i want you to get this great game, and trust me you'll have a blast with or without wi-fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfman27
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 27, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  What can I say its just a good game I liked it. The online play is pretty awesome. Pretty easy 
 game to beat. Cool driving characters and nice tracks. Its fun to play what I suggest is if you 
 want to play online play just be good in the story part first then you should be good at the online 
 play. On single card play the other player or players will be a ghost thingy. Make sure if you 
 play with someone that has not played it before tell he or she what way is accelerate and what 
 way is to reverse when I did I started going backwards at the starting point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_ghost
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is the arcade kart racer for Nintendos consoles, which has been around since the days 
 of the Super Nintendo. Its always been one of the better racing series and this game is no exception. 
 With Mario Kart: DS, Nintendo brings the best-selling franchise over to the Nintendo DS. The game 
 adds a few new modes of play to the classic Mario Kart mix, and represents the series first steps 
 into online play. It features multiplayer both on and offline, as well as a huge single player 
 campaign. The game succeeds at everything it tries, and is easily the best game on the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  Mario Kart: DS is The Killer App the DS has been looking for. It combines a ton of features, both 
 old and new into one amazing game. Few games manage to do what Mario Kart DS has done, both gameplay 
 and sales-wise. What Mario Kart does best is combine easy to pick up and play Gameplay, but with 
 an added amount of depth and challenge to it. The depth shows in the games additions of boosting, 
 originally found in Mario Kart: Double Dash. The boosting is significant later in the game, and 
 becomes crucial to success. Another touch of depth is the starting mechanic where by revving the 
 engine just right youll gain a boosted start. Its also worth noting that there are some short-cuts 
 to be found, and using them will give you the best chance of victory. 
  
  MK: DS can be played by almost anyone including your parents or your girlfriend. This is because 
 the learning curve is basically non-existent. The controls are pretty simplistic, one button is 
 move forward, one button is brake, one button to use items and the D pad steers. With the time 
 trial mode, mission mode and 50cc difficulty there is something for even the worst game-players 
 to enjoy. The game manages to appeal to a larger market then most games because of its simplicity 
 and easy to use controls.
  
  The game gradually gets tougher as the later challenges come forth, including when you play on 
 the higher difficulties. These challenges require you to use more advanced racing skills, because 
 youre racing against more skilled and vicious opponents. The A. I in the game is what you would 
 expect to see in a racing game. It has that rubber-band feel to it, where no one gets far ahead 
 of each other. The Rubber-band theme works because of the games weapons available for use.
  
  These weapons found on the map appear ask question marks, and are chosen at random, based on 
 what position youre in when you hit the box. They also help to balance out the sometimes frustrating 
 A. I. It features several new weapons new to the series such as, a squid that will squirt black 
 ink on your screen blocking some of your vision, this affects your opponents and they will race 
 worse. Another cool new item is the bullet, where for a matter of seconds a bullet will be on 
 your car, and you will be able to shoot up the standings with super speed. Of course the shells, 
 bananas and mushrooms make an appearance, as they are the standard for any of the Mario Kart games. 
 Unfortunately, its all to frequent that these items will make or break you. This is disappointing 
 as the end of a race should rely on skill not whether your opponent has a blue shell.
  
  The game itself boasts 32 maps to play on. There is also a mirror mode where you can race the tracks 
 backwards. Every map is playable in the multiplayer modes both on and offline. In single-player 
 the maps are divided into sections of four, based on the cup they are found in. Every four tracks 
 form one of the eight grand prixs in the game. The Nitro cup has you racing on entirely new tracks 
 solely designed for this game. The retro cups have you racing on tracks from previous Mario Kart 
 games. Every Retro grand prix has a track from the SNES, N64, GBA and GCN versions of Mario Kart. 
 Allegedly the tracks are the players favorites, but personally I thought the SNES version was 
 missing a few tracks. The retro cup is still a cool feature as it shows where Mario Karts roots.
 
  
  It has a total of 36 karts per character as well. Not all of these Karts are unique, but some are 
 inventive and cool. When you initially start playing you will have two Karts per racer to choose 
 from, a custom Kart and a standard racer. Through challenges and races you will unlock all the 
 karts for each character. There are 12 characters with two new ones. They are dry bones a dinosaur 
 with no skin, and R. O. B a robot of some sort. R. O. B is the hardest character in the game to unlock. 
 The game has the standard Mario Kart difficulty settings of 50cc, 100cc and 150cc. In addition 
 it has a 150cc mirror mode where you race the courses backward. Completing all the modes is challenging 
 and takes up a lot of time, adding lots of value to the game. 
  
  MK: DS adds a new mission mode to the mix, which adds another few hours to the single-player mode. 
 There are seven different levels for the missions, one of which must be unlocked. Each series of 
 missions has eight regular missions and one major boss fight. The boss battles have you racing, 
 shooting or attacking the boss, and mix up the game from getting repetitive. The eight regular 
 missions are comprised of tasks like collecting coins, breaking boxes, racing through gates and 
 beating other competitors. These involve a timer, and you will have to do them as fast you can. 
 Upon completion of a mission you will receive a rating. These missions rank you on a scale of E 
  3 stars. The seventh level can be unlocked by attaining a 3 star ranking on all six original 
 levels. The mission mode is really great addition, and succeeds immensely.
  
  Yet another single-player mode is the battle mode. Unlike previous Mario Kart titles you will not 
 default to a number of balloons. You start with one balloon, but by blowing into the microphone 
 you inflate balloons. This is the stupidest feature in the game, as its amazingly difficult, and 
 can be a real pain in the ass. It counter-acts the whole simple feel of the game and feels very 
 out of place. The combat is quite exciting as it involves racing around the arenas firing shells 
 and weapons. There are six maps to play on, some of which are re-made versions for the DS. The 
 idea of racing on a Gamecube in Double Dash is replaced with competing on a DS. The last battle 
 portion of the game involves collecting stars. You race around collecting stars, trying to get 
 the most. At timed intervals, the players with the lowest amount are eliminated. By hitting your 
 opponent with shells they lose stars that you can then steal.
  
  Its sound is probably its worst feature. The limited dialogue by all the characters in the game 
 shows and is disappointing. They only have a few lines each and they get repetitive. Whats nice 
 is the tracks each have a different soundtrack, and are filled with those catchy upbeat tunes that 
 can be found in any Mario game. The menu has the Mario jingle but none of it is all that new or 
 special. Whats most noticeable sound wise is all the noise on the track. The weapons and power 
 ups all feature unique sounds that play on the track, including the explosion of bombs and shells. 
 The game also has engine noises and countdowns at the beginning of races to help you get off to 
 that amazing and speedy start. The sound isnt amazing by any standards but is still fun to hear 
 and easy to hum to.
  
  The game easily has some of the best graphics to be found on the Nintendo DS. The character models 
 all have a great amount of detail. They look fantastic and are all rendered in full 3D. The one 
 blemish with the character models if your being nitpicky, is that when your driving backward the 
 characters look pretty poor and seem to have some facial distortions. The courses from the older 
 Mario Kart games look fantastic, and the SNES and GBA versions they look like they received a face 
 lift. The touch screen function as a map, when zoomed in the map shows details and locations of 
 virtually everything surrounding you. Tapping the touch screen will go to a full map with the only 
 the other racers on it and the path of the map. You can also see the ranks of the other racers, 
 and the power ups they have. The game looks absolutely gorgeous, and sets the new standard for 
 a good looking DS game.
  
  To say Mario Kart DS is an amazing game is to undersell it. Consoles and handhelds are defined 
 by their games that stick with you like Halo for Xbox, Mario 64 for the N64 and Mario Bros for 
 the NES. Currently, Mario Kart DS defines the DS and it succeeds in everything it tries to accomplish. 
 It combines superb Gameplay, outstanding graphics, great sound and amazing value, into a package 
 that no Nintendo DS owner should be without.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loo-uk
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 26, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  WOW......... HOW LONG CAN NINTENDO KEEP THIS UP ?!?!?
  This game is the most addictive thing i have ever picked up , i have had this game 
  for over 
 6 months now and it is just amazing!! this is a must have for all DS owners
  with amazing courses old and new , fun characters , fantastic game play and very
  impressive 
 graphics and wi fi play just makes this a huge bundle of entertainment 
  that would make any DS owner proud......... also ad my friend code and PM me yours!
  friend code 
 = 3 0 5 0 0 5 - 7 4 8 1 5 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wetdrop
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is a great game if you ar looking for single or multiplayer. 
  The single player takes you through 4 cups with 4 tracks on each. It also has an old school set 
 of 4 cups with 4 tracks on each all from previous games of the series, my favorites are from the 
 N64 game. On top of the cup races there is a mission mode boasting more than 40 different missions 
 to complete and by beating them it gets you star Icons next to your online tag for street cred. 
 Which brings us to the online. Great online play always addictive I just wish they would have included 
 the balloon battle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dydl
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the latest addition to the Mario Kart series, and you can only imagine what the 
 future Mario Kart games will be like after playing this game. 
  
  Mario Kart adds sixteen new tracks to the game while also keeping some of the previous courses. 
 It gives a perfect balance ranging from racing the CPU to playing against other players worldwide 
 with Wi-Fi. 
  
  Characters, courses and karts can be unlocked when you complete certain goals, such as beating 
 a Grand Prix cup. 
  
  Missions are a new addition the Single Player mode and are an entertaining and challenging way 
 to spend your time if you want a break from competitive racing. The missions range from collecting 
 coins to driving backwards but there are a lot more! The missions are in levels, Level 1 being 
 the easiest, Level 7 the hardest. You can only unlock a new level once you have completed all of 
 the missions in the previous level, which ensures that you do every one of the great missions Mario 
 Kart supplies. 
  
  Multiplayer is also included. You can play your friends in Balloon Battle, Shine Runners or normal 
 racing in your favourite courses. 
  
  If you have wireless broadband, you can use Wi-Fi, playing others over the internet. You will usually 
 find someone worse than you, about the same as you and someone better than you in the same race, 
 as you could be playing someone anywhere in the world!
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is a fun, enjoyable game which is hard to put down and sometimes hard to 
 pick up - you don't want to get in trouble for playing it instead of doing work!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortazavii
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  This is a 'Must Have' for any DS owner! The game features Race mode, Time Trail, Battle and Missions!
 
  
  Race Mode: Unlock characters, cars and stars in this mode as you VS AI's threw outstanding tracks!! 
 You can pick VS mode if you want to pick one track and make your game.
  
  Time Trail: Time is ticking.. can you beat your score? You can also create ghosts and give your 
 ghost (s) to friends so they can race your score/time!
  
  Battle: Battle Mode is fun and thrilling! Battle with friends and computers and put your fighting 
 skills to the test in Balloon Battle or Shine runners!
  
  Missions: Okay, Missions are a bit diffrent then anyother mode. I guess you could call it story 
 mode.. anyways go threw missions like collect Coins and Fight bosses of kinds!
  
  This game is really fun and addictive in a lot of ways! And I can prove it to you!
  
  This 
 game has WI-FI wich is Online play! Play up to four players!
  You also get to draw your own Avatar which people can see on the web and friends!
  
  Anyways, 
 if youre a DS owner I assume you buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze1daplayer
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  This was a great game and I bet a lot of people agree with me. This game came with my DS and I'm 
 glad. I've got nothing to say thats bad about this game. I liked the characters and the cars and 
 how you gain things. What I really like is that you can brag to your friends, "see if you dont 
 believe I got a gold medal on this well, look." Cause you can look at all your progress. I love 
 this game. It wwas a good play. I also liked the levels, they were really done well. I don't know 
 why Donkey Kong is in all of marios games. He wasnt in the NES or N64 versions. Why is he in all 
 them now??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Squall_
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those ones you won't play in ages then start playing it one day and say to 
 yourself-why did I stop playing it?. Wellk thats what I did.
  There is no real story line to this game, just win the cups. But when you get to 150cc, it starts 
 to feel like luck plays an important part in winning and you'll feel gyped a fair bit but hey! 
 Who cares. The missions are cool especially the bosses (Cheif Chilly and Goomba King, you guys rock) 
 and are a nice distraction if you get sick of racing. As in any good kart racing game there's a 
 time trial and the addition of Staff Ghosts' it's one good time trial. The feel of this games great, 
 I reccomend you buy it if your a fan of CTR or just like Mario!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart Series has appeared on nearly every Nintendo platform since the NES (with the exception 
 of the Game Boy and Game Boy Color) . Since the day the DS was revealed Mario Kart fans have been 
 waiting for the DS installment of this long running series. Well, these fans have finally gotten 
 their wish. Mario Kart DS is well worth the wait and is the best game in the series to date. Fans 
 of the series will eat it up. People playing a Mario Kart game for the first time will find a great 
 racer which is both incredibly fun and easy to pick up and play. 
  
  Mario Kart DS is one of the better looking games on the DS. Its vibrant colors and silky smooth 
 framerate add to the wow factor. Even the retro tracks from previous versions (GBA, N64, SNES) 
 receive slight graphical facelifts. As a result, they look incredible. The Gamecube tracks only 
 receive a slight downgrade and look very impressive running on the DS. The Weapon effects are very 
 impressive looking as well. The Blue Shell, although a bit annoying, the subsequent explosion looks 
 great. 
  
  The Mario Kart series has long been hailed as one of the best Kart and battle racing series of 
 all time. If youve played any of the previous versions, youll quickly see why. It perfectly balances 
 flat out racing with crazy weapon based combat. Each of the powerups is balanced so perfectly, 
 no one weapon seems to overpower all the others. The banana peel can be seen as the weakest weapon 
 in the game but if you use it effectively, it can really help turn the tide of the race in your 
 favor. The same can be said about all of the weapons. Even with the new weapons added, they do 
 nothing to upset the already perfect balance. My personal favorite of the new weapons is the Bullet 
 Bill. This item transforms your kart into a giant bullet bill and streaks along the track in a 
 pre set path. If any other racers happen to be in that path, well, I really dont need to tell 
 you what happens. The Blue Shell (taken from Mario Kart Double Dash) works well but is incredibly 
 annoying. I cant count the number of times it has screwed me out of a win I needed to win the 
 Grand Prix.
  
  The Grand Prix mode is refreshingly challenging. On 50cc, it is ridiculously easy, but the difficulty 
 quickly ramps up with the 100 and 150cc races. They are challenging enough to keep you coming back. 
 There are also a large number of unlockables, from unlockable characters to unlockable karts which 
 keep you coming back for more. Outside of the Grand Prix races, there are the obligatory time trial 
 and quick race modes. An odd addition is the mission mode. It involves collecting coins before 
 the time runs out, racing a lone opponent to the finish line and even boss battles at the end of 
 each series of missions. If anything, these missions seem out of place in a Mario Kart game. They 
 are a fun diversion, but not much more than that.
  
  Multiplayer has always been a huge selling point for the Mario Kart series. Mario Kart 64 really 
 revolutionized the multiplayer mode by offering four player battle mode and races. Mario Kart Double 
 Dash for the Gamecube offered system link play for up to sixteen players and the new co-op races 
 were incredibly fun. Local wireless play is an absolute blast to play. MK DS offers support for 
 up to eight players offline in any of the games multiplayer modes. Battle mode is the star of 
 the show here, its incredibly fun with eight players blasting each other with shells, laying traps 
 and so on. Youre guaranteed to have a great time playing this mode. Eight player races are just 
 as fun. The multiplayer takes some of the best features of the previous games and is certainly 
 the best the series has to offer.
  
  Mario Kart DS also brings something new to the table. True online play. To be fair, you could go 
 online with Mario Kart Double Dash, but it wasnt officially supported. The online mode cuts down 
 on the number of players, only supporting four at a time. This feature is a great addition but 
 not nearly as fleshed out as fans such as myself would have hoped. This is the first game developed 
 by Nintendo to feature online play on the DS and from the looks of things; it couldve used some 
 extra development time. First off, the battle mode is MIA. The battle mode has long been my favorite 
 multiplayer mode and Im very disappointed that this mode wasnt included. Second, the online interface 
 is seriously lacking in many areas. For instance, there is no lobby whatsoever. To be matched up 
 with other players, you choose from a couple of options (worldwide, regional, friends, and rivals) , 
 and youre randomly paired with one to three other people. I encountered some lag when playing 
 under the worldwide matchmaking section, simply because youre being matched up with people from 
 across the globe, and the data has to be sent between them over a long distance. The friends section 
 is also lacking. There is no way to be matched with a specific group of friends, outside of them 
 being the only ones on your friends list (more on that in a sec) , which is annoying. The third 
 issue I have is that theres no way to chat with anyone, before, during or after a race. For some 
 players, this is a good thing as their opponent cant taunt or make fun of them after beating them 
 in a race. I just found it annoying.
  
  The friend codes are Nintendos way of allowing players to pick and choose who they want to play 
 against and who they allow in their Wifi gaming room as Nintendo puts it. In Mario Kart DS, they 
 allow you to race against your friends in the Friends matchmaking section. Each player is given 
 a unique 12 digit friend code the first time they log in to the Nintendo Wifi Connection through 
 Mario Kart DS. This feature is good, but it could be much better if it was better implemented. 
 There is no way to exchange friend codes in game. To exchange codes with someone, youre going 
 to have to do it another way, through email, over the phone etc. If you raced someone online and 
 theyve been a good opponent, theres no way to add them to your friends list unless you know them.
 
  
  Okay, enough with the complaints, I really did enjoy the online mode. Even with the flaws, this 
 is still Mario Kart, so it has to be good. I didnt experience much lag other than when I chose 
 the worldwide matchmaking option, and even then, the lag was minimal at the worst. The online races 
 are fun and highly competitive. With all the shells and such flying around, the action never lets 
 up.
  
  All in all, the addition of the online mode is great but its far too limiting for players used 
 to playing online games on home consoles, the PC or even the DSs competitor, the PSP. This list 
 of complaints may look a bit long, but Im only complaining because it couldve been so much better 
 if more time and effort was put into it. I expect more in the future.
  
  To wrap things up, Mario Kart DS definitely deserves the honor of being called the best in the 
 series. It delivers on every front, with a fun single player game, an incredible local wireless 
 multiplayer mode and a limiting but still fun online mode. This is one of the best games available 
 for the DS and is a worthy, if not necessary addition to any DS owners library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21163556644918607567002035827911-gunkoi
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Here in the United Kingdom, were usually the last to receive Nintendos goodness but nevertheless 
 the wait is always worthwhile. The launch of Nintendo DS was quite a strange launch as no one had 
 any idea what this console did or why it was necessary in todays gaming culture. A few months 
 down the line and Nintendo announced it would make the leap to online gaming... for free.
  
  Many Nintendo fans and gamers alike jumped for joy as their old favourite videogames company 
 had finally bitten the bullet and accepted that online play would be air in Nintendos body. Surprisingly, 
 for free, the service you receive is amazing to say the least but protection for younger gamers 
 is still upheld but not to an extent where the service would be deemed unusable by older gamers.
 
  
  With the launch of Nintendos online service was Mario Kart DS. Can you see the solution to the 
 sum above yet? Mario Kart DS is by far the best in the 14 year old videogame series of Nintendos 
 racer franchise and is represented beautifully in so many ways with Mario Kart DS.
  
  Power-slides are back, new characters are playable and many, many favourite and new tracks are 
 available in the game. If that isnt enough, being able to race your friends no matter where you 
 are geologically is just a feat of its own. Forget having to cancel any prior arrangements so that 
 you can get home, collect your link cable and pop over to a friends house for a race or two, as 
 now with Nintendo WFC (Wi-Fi Connnection) all you are required to do is find one of the many thousands, 
 if not hundreds of thousands, of Wi-Fi hotspots in your country where you can simply connect to 
 Nintendo WFC for free and get gaming.
  
  Still cant see the solution to the sum above? OK, well lets break down what the game offers. 
 First of all you have Single Player mode, Multiplayer mode and Nintendo WFC mode. Single Player 
 mode gives you the option of playing through the game unlocking more characters, leagues, cups 
 and tracks to race with. This in itself is one hell of mode to get through. Next up you have Time 
 Trails, which in all fairness, is only useful if you either want to practice particular tracks 
 or if youre submitting your fastest time (s) to a magazine, website or to your friends. Versus 
 (VS) allows you to pick your character and your kart, select the rules in which you race with, 
 be it in teams or the first to win 5 races wins as well as selecting the difficulty of the CPU 
 karts, class of race and, of course, the course in which you will be racing.
  
  Next up in Single Player mode is Battle mode where you can face off against your friends or the 
 computer either with Balloon Battle or Shine Runners. Balloon Battles aim is to burst your opponents 
 balloons with items in the chosen arena. Having all your balloons deflated means you lose the game, 
 however Nintendo have pleasantly included use of the mic. in this game and so requires you to blow 
 in to the mic. to inflate your balloons when theyve been deflated. Shine Runners is simple and 
 addictive. Your aim is to collect more Shines than your opponents, steal your opponents shines 
 to overall claim victory. Of course, your opponents have the same aim as you in mind. Unfortunately, 
 Battle mode isnt available to play over Nintendo WFC. Even so, with or without friends close by, 
 these modes are fun both multiplayer and single player and give the game that bit more reason to 
 play on the sly.
  
  The final game in Single Player mode is that of Missions. This is quite an interesting and unique 
 feature to Mario Kart DS. Youre faced with six levels and each level has eight stages. This is 
 reminiscent to the old Super Mario Bros. games and works quite nicely. Each stage has an objective 
 whether it is to collect coins in a certain order, or reverse backwards around a course passing 
 through numbered gates in the right order. Each stage is unique and repetition isnt found much 
 here. When you have completed all eight stages within a level, you face a boss. Bosses can get 
 tedious at times but nothing that would make you frustrated and slam your DS shut.
  
  Multiplayer mode is deceiving in some respects as you would expect to see multiplayer games in 
 which you can partake in. However, upon entering Multiplayer mode, you find yourself with an option 
 to create a group for you and your friends. With this you can set up normal play, for you and 
 your friends who have themselves a copy of Mario Kart DS, or simple play that allows you to share 
 your Mario Kart DS game with others using the download application found on the home screen of 
 the Nintendo DS. When youre finished with setting up your group, your DS then seeks out other 
 players and thus options of what games to play become apparent.
  
  Nintendo WFC mode is where everything regarding Mario Kart online happens. This is where you can 
 set up and search for a Nintendo WFC match, register and confirm friend codes, as well as set up 
 your Nintendo WFC settings. Quite simple stuff really and nothing but a 10 minute learning curve 
 at that. When registered for your friend code you can also register a handle for yourself for online 
 matches as well as design your own emblem that will be displayed by your name on your opponents 
 screens as well as on your chosen kart.
  
  Visuals in this game are of an excellent standard. Considering the Nintendo DS is capable of dishing 
 out graphics that surpass Nintendo 64 standard, along with the fast-paced nature of this game, 
 it is hard to believe you have such visuals from a seemingly simple machine. The videogame is packed 
 full of charming music from past and recent Mario Kart games and will have you humming those classics 
 in no time. Despite the clanks, scrapes and screeching of the tires, the background music is pleasant 
 and compliments the gameplay in every respect. We all know that Nintendo DS features a touch screen 
 but with Mario Kart DS, youll rarely find yourself using it as gameplay is wrapped solely around 
 the directional pad and the four face buttons. This is in no way a downfall to the game, lets 
 get that straight.
  
  Mario Kart DS, without a doubt, is a must have for any Nintendo DS owner and really something any 
 gamer should give a try if you dont already own a Nintendo DS. The game plays extremely well, 
 looks great and is a joy to play. In fact, this videogame is what got my other half interested 
 in Nintendo DS so you would be really missing out if you skipped this one. If youve grown tired 
 of the series and feel like missing this one out, I would seriously reconsider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bungie091
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS was probaly my most aticipated DS title since the launch of nintendos latest handheld. 
 Thy is a big fan of mario kart, straight back to the snes days  __ 
  
  In my opinion, this is the best game on the console so far. Its fast, fun and has lots and lots 
 to offer. The whole game is very big your be playing for many months even after youve finished 
 everything the game has to offer. 
  
  Well, mario and all his buddys, new and old buddys, are back and again have entered in the biggest 
 race event of the year! w00t. Youll be racing through varied, wide, large and crazy tracks in all 
 different cups, and there are also alot of retro tracks. All together there is 32 tracks, yeah 
 thats right! 32 OF EM! Thats alot of racing me boy. 
  
  Through these tracks, youll be speeding over obstacles, dodging all sorts of objects, racing and 
 attacking several different nintendo charecters. Your arsenel of items includes the good old red 
 and green shells, plus some new objects, like bullet bill and the blue leader shell. Getting hit 
 by these objects never really gets frustrating, because there are ways to prevent them from hitting 
 you, and you dont really get hit that often. Plus shooting them is really fun! :D
  
  As well, as racing, there is a brand new, fun, huge goal section, that good be a whole game its 
 self! There are about 60 goals, with 6 bosses. They are all varied, from racing, to collecting 
 objects, to hit things with shells. This adds alot of value to the game, plus its really fun! You 
 get graded on each goal, the better you grade, the more stuff you get. 
  
  The diffuculty of the game is different. Theres 3 modes. 50cc (easy) 100cc (normal) 150cc (hard!) . 
 On 50cc youll just be zooming past them with out a care, so its better to play the game on 100cc, 
 much more fun. And 150cc is just really hard. 
  
  The game suports multi player via wi fi. Which is great! The best multiplayer game so far by far. 
 A downside, if only one of you have the game card, you only get to play half of what multiplayer 
 have to offer. Just tell your friends to buy it, now. 
  
  The graphics arnt quite double dash, but there much better then the GBA, and are about on par with 
 MK64. There a little jaggy, but it stills looks nice and colourful. The track design is just as 
 good as DD!!, with lots of shortcuts, and old retro classics from all the other games. 
  
  The sound is really good, the music is catchy, and never gets anoying. All the sound clips of the 
 charects are all here, such as "wahooooo" ect! 
  
  Mario Kart DS is the best racing game for the system, and you should get it, nooooow. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileyryder34
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has done it again. A Mario Kart that is fun to play for a LONG time. 
  I got this game in December and have played it on a regular basis since then. 
  The game has 
 everything you expect in a mario Kart game. The single player circuit has twice as many tracks 
 as previous Kart games. The new tracks are unique. The view of the tracks is beautiful. The characters 
 are as colorul as ever.
  
  The Retro grand prix is just what it sounds like. It features 16 of your favorite tracks from games 
 past. From the original Mario Circuit from the SNES version of the game all the way to the best 
 of Double Dash. You'll spend hours enjoying memories of races past. 
  
  This game features not only the tried and true single player. It also features single player "Missions" 
 where you try to complete pre set goals as quickly as possible. Some of them are simple and don't 
 require much driving skill, but they also test your driving skills if you're a seasoned Kart driver. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is really solid. Featuring Wi-Fi connectivity, you can test your skills against 
 drivers from all over the world. The only thing lacking from this is the ability to choose just 
 who you are driving. I've noticed that I haven't been able to match myself against drivers of the 
 same skill level regularly. That is a minor drawback to this game. 
  
  All in all I would say that this is a must have game to add to your DS library. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 20, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Anybody who has owned a Nintendo console since the Super NES has at least heard of Mario Kart, 
 and I would bet most have definitely played Mario Kart at some point of their lives. There have 
 been about four Mario Kart games to come out, and each one has made improvements over the previous 
 version. Mario Kart DS, however, makes the most improvements to the series, which can arguably 
 make it the best Mario Kart to come out.
  
  Mario Kart DS is, for the most part, Mario Kart. If you have played it before, you know what to 
 expect. Characters from the Super Mario franchise race against each other in Mario themed race 
 tracks and can attack each other using objects from various Mario games. Mario Kart DS has the 
 biggest selection of characters to choose from than any other Mario Kart, and you would never guess 
 who one of the unlockable characters is. This game also has the most courses to choose from than 
 any other Mario Kart, mostly because it includes a total of sixteen tracks from previous Mario 
 Kart games alongside the sixteen original courses. The objects and weapons from previous installments 
 have all made it into Mario Kart DS, but a couple of extra weapons are also introduced to the series. 
 One weapon is the Blooper squid, which will go to a character and squirt black ink in their face, 
 consequently impairing their vision temporarily. On your screen there will be black splotches all 
 over it, making it very hard to see the road. Another weapon is the bomb-omb, which you can drop 
 behind you or throw in front of you. It will wait until someone is nearby, and then explode. The 
 blast radius is pretty wide, so it can get more than one person if they are close enough.
  
  The game works the same as the previous Mario Karts. In Gran Prix mode, you race in a tournament 
 cup of four races, getting points on each race depending on how you finished the race. At the end 
 of the four races, if you have the most points, you win a gold trophy, and you will unlock the 
 next tournament cup. There are eight tournament cups to play in, where usually there is only four, 
 and you have to beat each tournament on all four difficulties, including the mirror tracks, to 
 completely beat the Gran Prix mode and unlock some stuff. Since this is a DS game, it would be 
 worth mentioning what the bottom screen does. The bottom screen shows a top down view of yourself 
 on the course. The left of the screen will show what place everyone else is in and what items they 
 have, and it can be useful to see if any shells are coming your way. Personally, I was only able 
 to glance at the bottoms screen a couple of times during any race, as there is too much happening 
 on the top screen. I would hate to look down and then hit the side of a wall, which slows you down 
 so much.
  
  In Battle mode, you have balloons attached to your kart, which represents your health. You are 
 placed in a specially designed map with item boxes all around and you have to try to hit each other. 
 Getting hit will result in you losing a balloon. Lose all your balloons and you are out. In Mario 
 Kart DS, if you lose a balloon, you can get one back by blowing into the microphone. You only have 
 two balloons on reserve, so it is not like you can get hit all day and just blow up more balloons. 
 Battle mode can only be played locally and not over the internet.
  
  There is also a new mode, called Missions. This really tests your kart handling skills, and I found 
 it to be a great addition to the series, because I am a veteran to the series and needed the extra 
 challenge. There are six levels, and in each level there are nine missions. The missions will have 
 you race through tires in a specific order, collect coins on any given track, race an opponent, 
 or perform a specific number of drift boosts before reaching the finish line. When you complete 
 eight missions in one level, you will unlock the ninth mission, which is a boss fight. The boss 
 fights were pretty cool as well, and would have you doing stuff like knock a giant Goomba off a 
 platform, or collect all the coins in an area while trying to avoid Big Boo, or just race against 
 a really tough opponent with minimum items. The Mission mode was a much needed addition to the 
 Mario Kart games, and very refreshing to play, especially since I have seen it all before and was 
 getting a little tired of it.
  
  However, the main reason why Mario Kart DS is the best of the series is due to the fact that you 
 can play online. I know I have mentioned that you cannot play battle mode online, and that would 
 have been great if you can, but you can definitely race against other people online. Finally, we 
 get to test our skills against the world, after many years of just having to get your friends together 
 to play. There are few problems with it, though. You can only race against four people, and there 
 will not be any CPU controlled characters as well. That can be a downer, especially if someone 
 drops out of the race and you are left with even less people to play. I have played a few matches 
 where, when someone got in fourth place in the first race, he would just drop out. By the final 
 race, you would only be racing against one person. I know it does not make sense to allow for people 
 to come into a race at any time, for the point system would be unbalanced, but it can be tough 
 to get through an entire series with all four people still there. In the end, you can still play 
 online, and you have stats to show off how good you are, and, well, you get to play online. It 
 is a big deal for Mario Kart and it is an even bigger deal for Nintendo, who has yet to go online 
 with any of their platforms. It is definitely a good start and it can only get better from here 
 on out.
  
  With eight different tournament cups to play on four difficulties, a lengthy and challenging mission 
 mode, battle mode, and an all new online mode, there are plenty of things to do and it will keep 
 you busy for a long time. For the most part, we have already seen all there is to the gameplay, 
 but Mario Kart DS does it the best. On top of that, taking the game online will mean so much to 
 the hardcore vets of the series. If you have played Mario Kart before, you already know what to 
 expect, and if you loved it before, you will love it even more. If you do not like any of the previous 
 games, you probably will not like it now. If you have not played any Mario Kart game before, this 
 is a great game to start with, and I highly recommend you giving it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters121
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game to play on WiFi. The best multiplayer , and the best online use. Its awesome. 
 I mean you can sit on your @$$ in New York and play with some kid from Japan!! Its amazing what 
 the DS and the Mario Kart DS game could do when they are combined. This is a great game and i reccommend 
 this to anyone!! Anyone that loves nintendo, hell even if you dont like nintendo, you still should 
 get, even if you dont have the DS (you can praise the cartridge. It is a amazing game, and i wasnt 
 expecting anything less from nintendo. Simply the best Nintendo DS game of 2005, and maybe 2006 
 (we will see :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshi1s3
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  mario kart is a fun multiplayer-online game with lots of unlockables.
  
  the mario kart controls are very easy to learn and the learning curve is about 10 minutes making 
 it very easy for anyone to pick up and play
  and the range of tracks make sure the game doesnt get repetitive.
  
  the normal 1 player modes 
 are fun and varey from battle and if you get bored, mission mode. mission mode is full of differnt 
 things to do that improve your driving.
  
  the online mode plays great but gets clunky at times and if your into playing with your mates it 
 has a great multiplayer mode.
  the multiplayer mode uses nintendos creative ds download play and, normal cartridge play.
  
 
  nintendo have done a great job of the graphics on the system and is just a load of fun.
  
  recomended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABetancourt
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  In the very first moment that i've turned on mi DS i knew that this game is simply awesome, and 
 this is something to say because i'm a fan of the series since its first apparition in the SNES 
 and i used to think that there's no better Mario kart game than Mario Kart 64.
  
  Obviously i was wrong... the fact that this game puts together the new tracks with the beloved 
 old ones was one of my favorite things. The other of course is the option to compete with other 
 players around the world via the Nintendo WiFi connection which at least for me doesn't fail at 
 all and works very very well.
  
  And i'm not forgiving the colourfully scenarios (Waluigui Pinball for example) , the new items (Bullet 
 Bill is my favorite new one) , the inclusion of a new gameplay mode (Missions) , and a bright use 
 of the capabilities of the system like the microphone, it's just that the first two things have 
 blown my mind away in the moment i've started to play.
  
  Well done for this game Nintendo, now i'm waiting to see if the almost sure Wii version of the 
 game could succeed in beating this one... 
  
  PD. Forgive my bad english... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rageaholic01
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game brings more tracks then the original games but it still allows you to race on the old 
 retro tracks from gba, 64, and gamecube. But instead of just racing there are missions and battle 
 tournaments to be had with either computer or another DS player. But here is the thing, Mario Kart 
 offers online play allowing you to vs other people from around the globe or from hotspots including 
 some Mcdonalds restaraunts.
  
  The graphics are absolutely gorgeous and are slightly better than the 64's version which for a 
 portable is saying something. The controls work out nicely allowing powersliding and snaking. This 
 game also has a new decal feature where you can draw a logo for your kart.
  
  So with new karts for different characters, more characters, decals, great graphics, some music, 
 and over the internet capabilities, this game doesn't dissapoint for a racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avatar_Taxidous
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is just plain fun. It has a variety of new and old tracks to race on, a great set 
 of characters and an amazing number of karts to race with. It can be fast paced, it can slow paced, 
 but it is usually in the perfect medium. 
  
  My only real problem is the bland online setup. However it was Nintendo's first swing at online 
 gaming, so I can look past it. If there was another Mario Kart on the DS, I would expect all the 
 tracks to be playable online, voice chat and a lobby system for friends like in Metroid Prime: 
 Hunters.
  
  This game is just fun, and even after playing it nonstop for awhile, it is fun to return to and 
 test your racing abilities online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeforrrhymes
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 17, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  
  when i first popped this one game into my NDS i was expecting great things with it getting a 5 
 outta 5 on X-Play and then 9.2 on gamespot i expected this game to be pretty darn good two words: it 
 is. this game starts out not too hard but presents enough challenge that u can't beat everything 
 really fast. From what i've got so far there has been over 30 karts and over 24 circits to play 
 on and win stuff on. The only problem is that u have to get a gold trophy to get more unlock another 
 circut race but at the same time this presents a nice challenge. The online is quick and fun although 
 there should be a way to rank players so adavanced players with like 300 wins and like 50 losses 
 don't race against ppl like 25 losses and 7 wins. although that is advanced it would nice all and 
 all this game is fun and engaging with great long single player fun enganging online play with 
 very little restrictions on it. This game is a must must play for any ds owner 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilighted
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart originally debuted for the SNES a while back, it became a popular series with mario 
 kart 64, and even more popular with mario kart double dash for GCN. NOW, mario kart is on DS packing 
 wifi and a tremendous amount of characters. 
  
  The graphics of this game is equivilent to that of the 64 game, basically just like mario kart 
 64. 
  
  The gameplay is really good, its basic mario kart action with racing, and power ups. there are 
 many karts too choose from, and by choosing those karts have different capabilitys. Say u use bowser, 
 u will have slow accelleration, but when u hit ur top speed u go really fast, the same thing with 
 yoshi just the other way around. 
  
  This game really shines with the number of tracks, it packs a wonderful 32 tracks, 16 are from 
 the past. there is also a game where u can play balloon battle, with the computer which was indeed 
 a fantastic addition. 
  
  This game is the first game to feature online DS play, the online play is a 4 person race with 
 about 12 of the 32 stages available. 
  
  Value wise this game is great and definetly one of the best DS games out there, this game is definetly 
 a recommended buy, for all DS owners.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethro244
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 15, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  If you like any of the other games of the mario kart series you'll love this! It has all the modes 
 Battle, Versus, Cup and other modes1 One of the new modes is kind of like training were it teaches 
 you how to drive. But you get to fight bosses like hit them with shells that are from other nintendo 
 games. Half of the tracks on the game are classics like moo moo farm, and baby track. It also has 
 another section with new courses like wario Pinball were you are driving in a pinball machine. 
 In battle they only have to classic tracks: Block fort and the course with all the pipes. This 
 game is also the first mario kart to go online. Only four players! And no battle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semicilp
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  those who remember Mario kart on the n64 as being a classic will no doubt instantly fall in love 
 with this game. those who have never seen or heard of mario kart before are also sure to love this 
 game. 
  
  it is fast paced, challenging, zany and most of all fun. 
  
  one of the better parts in the game is the unlockables. there are so many things to unlock. from 
 new characters levels and new cars. there is a solid 10 hours in the game just unlocking everything. 
 
  
  the fun doesnt stop there. there is a battle mode. in which you and 7 other karts try and eliminate 
 each other from the map. your health is measured in balloons. everyone starts off with one balloon 
 inflated and four in reserve. you literally have to blow the balloons up by blowing into the micro 
 phone. you have a maximum of three balloons on the back of your kart.
  
  this game is just plain fun. if your into multi player it gets even better. with one game cartridge 
 up to eight player can race or battle. for those who like massively multi player games this is 
 for you as well. all you need is a router and you can play anyone in the world who is playing mario 
 kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vrizzle
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 14, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  mario kart, hmm where to begin. this game has to be the best game for the ds period. the graphics 
 are amazing and it has plenty of things to do. the online is stellar and anyway playing a human 
 is always better. the AI is not as good as it should be because sometimes when ur racing on 150 
 cc u can beat them by a huge margin at times, now this doesnt happen as much but it does happen. 
 the AI is superb when u play on the ballon battle though especially on hard mode. the battle stages 
 are very fun to play on even though there is only six. i wish it was more like 12 though. the stages 
 that they do have are block fort, palm shores, the ds, pipe plaza, twilight house, and tart top. 
 there are 32 tracks to race on and then theres mirror mode to make a total of 64 tracks. u also 
 have 36 total karts that u can choose from once u unlock them. there is just so much to do in this 
 game. if u have friends with mario kart u have to play them because that just makes it more fun 
 to play. and if u dont have friends then u can always go online. just go out and buy this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwars_fan
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  what can i say, this game rocks! each character this time has 3 karts, a heavy, light, and medium 
 weight. new guys come into the fray such as dry bones and a totally random guy called R. O. B. there 
 are 2 cups, nitro and retro. in nitro its mostly new courses, but there is a redone bowsers castle 
 stage and rainbow road stage. retro is all old courses such as moo moo farms and donut plains. 
 there is a new mission mode and good multiplayer. also a good wifi but its not the best. there 
 are new items such as blooper and recurring ones as well. cool courses, ine good one being luigis 
 mansion!!!!!!! get this you will not be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananabill
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 14, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds is the latest game in the mario kart series created by nintendo. the game centers 
 around mario and some nintendo characters as they race on whacky courses and use weird weapons. 
 this formula has worked for gamers for years now and mario kart ds does not fail to do so, and 
 even maybe mario kart ds did the best job in the series. the gameplay graphics are great and reminiscent 
 of the n64 graphics, all the polygons are intact even when the gameplay gets fast and furious, 
 the level design is brilliant with different obstructions and conditions. the gameplay itself is 
 the greatest asset of this game. with over 30 courses, 12 racers, tons of karts and all the single 
 player and multiplayer modes, nintendo made a great game by making a solid formula a great one. 
 the in game sound effects are great too, with engine noises and character specific sayings, the 
 game does not fail to make the player feel part of the racing action because the background music 
 of each level puts you in the mood to race. the game itself costs about $35, so ill say its fair 
 enough with all the features and all the fun you'll have, its well worth 35 bucks... maybe even 
 more! the game got me playin even til i got other new games to play, T-I-L-T that?!
  
  OVERALL............ it gets a 9.5!!!!!!!! 
  "SUPERB BABY!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nasty_butler16
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 13, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This is the best mario kart of all time, i think that everyone should buy this game. If everbody 
 bought this game, the sky would rain Skittles, and there would be harmony and piece amoung men. 
 Best DS game as of May 14th. By the way you should listen to Stadium Arcadium by the Red Hot Chili 
 Peppers. And don't sniff Sharpies. Grab a friend and see who can run a quater mile and chug a Dr. 
 Pepper first. Im still trying to get my minumum of 100 word that is required. I mean i already 
 told you all you need to know, Buy the darn game, dang it! Let it do the talking! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomd
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest DS titles available at this time. It just looks great, and sound is 
 high quality. The clear focus was multi-player, and the time spent was worth it. 32 maps are available 
 for play, and eight people can compete. My friends and I have spent lunch period after lunch period 
 playing MK DS, but no experience was exactly the same.
  The single-player experience, though awesome, is not the same quality as the multi-player. As one 
 of the first Nintendo on-line games, it is similar to the local play, but with less competitors 
 in one match.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Aresnal7
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 13, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  I have waited along time till I got this game AND i TELL YOU IT WAS WORTH IT! But I find the computers 
 in the game are prixs and they can pee you of really easy especially 100cc 150cc so you need to 
 be ready for anything I like how they added new characters and cars that was a bonus. They graphics 
 are just amazing and sound I don't need to explain anything it is 100% Asome! Value well it is 
 a good value it will last you till another great game comes out. I perfere to say adding missons 
 and battles are one of the greatest things they have done for the DS and I highly recomed it for 
 multiyplayer to it si ASOME! I think the framrate well it is amazing and deserves a 100% and well 
 my last words are! BUY THIS GAME OR YOU ARE SOME IDIOT SO STOP READING REVIEWS AND GO TO THE STORE! 
 I MEAN GO LEITERLY GO NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwest96
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  I have thoroughly enjoyed the newest addition to the Mario Kart series. This is definitely the 
 best one yet. It combines sixteen courses from previous games, wuth sixteen all-new tracks.
  
  This game is perfectly balanced. It includes a great single player mode including Grand Prix, 
 where you compete against the CPU to unlock new courses, characters, and karts.
  
  Single player mode also includes Mission Mode. This challenged me in a way this is new to the Mario 
 Kart series. These missions include racing backwards, collecting coins within a time limit, and 
 driving through gates in order as fast as possible.
  
  This game also supports multiplayer gaming. Up to eight people may race each other at the same 
 time; or choose to battle it out in Balloon Battle and Shine Runners.
  
  With wireless broadband, it is very simple to experience the gaming difference. You are instantly 
 paired up with others in the world to compete. This is a great new addition to the Mario Kart series 
 as a whole. It can be a real challenge!
  
  Overall Mario Kart DS is a must have for any gamer up for a challenge, especially those who like 
 racing games; both beginners and experts alike will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubguy
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 10, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This is coming from someone who has never played Mario-Kart before. When you first play it, it seems 
 odd and you thought it would be better, but then you can't stop playing it, espiasally the multi-player 
 on long journeys
  
  The graphics are great and it runs really smooth. The weapons are fantastic. The value is superb 
 due to 32 tracks, battle mode and time trial and missions. Of course the beuty of it is the online 
 stuff make your own emblem and race against random people its a shame you cant add any of them 
 to friend but the online still has a lot to offer.
  
  Overall its a superb game and if any others in the series are better than this i cant imagine what 
 there like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluDaSlayer
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS proved to be an all round enjoyable game by gamers of all ages. Although this game 
 does not utilise the DS's touching feature capabilities to the max, its nostalgic and addictive 
 arcade quality grants Mario Kart DS a game to be appriciated by fans and newcomers alike.
  
  The graphics are excellent and the courses come out vibrant, sleek and innovative. The creative 
 tracks may also prove a challenge to those familiar with the series. It's grea to see Mario and 
 the group back again with those hazardous traps and shells to those familliar voice samples we've 
 grown an loved from the N64 release.
  
  The wifi capabilities is what adds the extra challenge and appeal of being able to verse players 
 from all the corners of the globe simply by using the official USB dongle or a wireless router. 
 The multiplayer races are intense, especially when a record is kept of all wins and losses.
  
  In summary, Mario Kart DS is worth the value and definitely should be in every DS holder's 
 possession. It's a timeless classic to remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This is just an awesome game with tons of content. It's got loads of modes to play with and some 
 classic tracks from all the previous Mariokart games.
  I HIGHLY recommend buying this, as it is by far the best racer on the DS, easily.
  The gameplay 
 is good, but again, there's still "catch-up" so be prepared for that.
  Graphics are great.
  Sound is good stuff, it's the typical thing you get in Mario games.
  Complaints? hmmm... That's 
 a tough one. The only thing I'd say is that the control is not as good as it should be, but then 
 again, I think the same thing about all Mariokart games that have ever been released. If you're 
 used to playing these games in this series, it won't bother you a bit.
  It's excellent, Good Job Nintendo. Well worth buying if you like fun arcade-style racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7mastersword7
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS
  
  Mario Kart fans rejoice for we have Mario Karts first lap around the Nintendo DS. Yes we have 
 a review of Mario Kart DS. Even if u you havent worn out your copy of Mario Kart: Double Dash 
 , you should still pick this up. Why you ask? Obviously, because you are reading this review. Well, 
 I will tell you why.
  In single player mode there now five modes not just two. There is Grand Prix, Time Trials, VS, 
 Battle, and Missions. In Grand Prix, there are 16 new tracks and 4 old tracks from every previous 
 Mario Kart game, adding up to 16 blasts from the pasts. There are 12 characters, 4 unlockable, 
 36 karts, and 2 new items, the Bullet Bill, and the Blooper. In Time Trials nothing is really new 
 except the fact that you can unlock staff ghosts, which are people who made the game. So in essence 
 you are playing a developer. 
  In Vs you can play the CPU in case you dont have any friends. (Just kidding, dont leave the website) 
 You can adjust the engine class, CPU difficulty, Course selection, (Choose, Random, In order) change 
 the rules a little bit, and turn teams on and off, but with teams it doesnt really add anything 
 to the game-play. In Battle mode there are 2 battle games, Balloon Battle and Shine Runners. In 
 Shine Runners is basically like a last place eliminator. You hit people to try to get them to lose 
 their shines so you can take them. Have the least Shine Sprites when time runs out and your out 
 of the game. Last person driving wins. Now as you probably know, when Nintendo makes a game there 
 is always some innovation, so you are probably wondering where it is. Well, it is in Balloon Battle. 
 You know the little microphone that is filling up with dust from non-use. Now you blow in it for 
 Balloon Battle. Instead of starting out with three and when your out, well your out. Now you start 
 out with one and you have four spares. You have the ability to blow these spares up so that you 
 have three. This adds some strategy to the game, which has never been present in Balloon Battle. 
 
  The next mode is Missions mode. This, in my opinion, is the best mode in the game. You will play 
 through a series of missions. They vary from driving through numbered gates, to destroying enemies 
 common in the Mario universe. There are seven sets of missions, eight missions in each set, one 
 boss fight in each set, and one set is unlockable. The best thing about missions mode are the boss 
 fights. It goes from knocking Big Bully into the lava, to racing Wiggler through Mushroom Bridge. 
 
  Now that we have finished going over Single-Player (phew) Lets move on to Multi-Player. In Multi-player 
 you can play single-card play (simple) or Multi-Card play. (Normal) Single-Card play, in 2 words, 
 sucks ass When you play your friend in Single-Card and your friend doesnt have the card they have 
 to play as shy-guy, and cannot pick from anyone else. Then, when you go to choose a course, there 
 are only 8 tracks to choose from, which are the first 4 Nitro (new) tracks, and the first 4 Retro (old) 
 tracks. On the other hand there is Multi-Card play. You can play with any character or kart you 
 have unlocked and choose from any course. So it is basically like Vs except you are competing against 
 a human, and you have the additional option of turning CPU on and off. So if you dont have any 
 friends who have Mario Kart DS, playing them is a waste of time. But that doesnt cut you off from 
 the Multi-Player aspect of this game because there is infrastructure (online) play. 
  This game is the first game on the DS to take advantage of the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. If you 
 have the right things, setting up Wi-Fi is a simple 5 minute process. All you need is a high-speed 
 internet connection, and a wireless router, and you are set to go. And if you cant get online 
 at home you can go to hotspots, which are McDonalds across the country where you can play Wi-Fi. 
 So the next time you get a burger you can bring your DS and play Wi-fi there, but I dont recommend 
 it because you shouldnt play this game in public. 
  Actually dont play this around anybody you dont know, because you will be saying every cuss word 
 known to man when you play Wi-Fi. The reason for this is Mario Kart DSs cheap handicap system. 
 This makes the people in last get these awesome items, and the people in the lead getting bananas. 
 Sounds fair right. Not so much. This leads to cheap last minute victories. For example, the most 
 often thing that happens, is that you are inches from the finish line and a blue shell comes out 
 of nowhere blasts you in the air and everybody else will blaze past you. Also if you cant take 
 the heat, stay out of the kitchen. Though the book says rivals will let you play people with your 
 racing skills, after you play for about a week, you will start playing against people with 300 
 wins more than there losses. So most of the time you will be playing your friends or the CPU or 
 just something else. But you dont play to win, you play to have fun right. Anyway, though the 
 online play is usually free of lag it still could learn a lot from Xbox Live. It takes a while 
 to search for people to play unless you choose world-wide and even then it takes a little while. 
 And your friends have to be people you know that have Mario Kart DS. So you wont be playing people 
 in California if you have lived in New York all your life. And for this online service you dont 
 enter screen names you enter friend codes, 12 digit codes that you enter in your DS. Also there 
 is no chat, so there will be no cursing in this online experience. Another bad thing is that there 
 is no battle in Wi-Fi, only racing and there is only 20 courses in Wi-Fi. 
  But considering Wi-Fi is free, you cant really compare it to Xbox Live and since you probably 
 know Nintendo isnt really big on online play, you probably werent expecting much. But flaws aside 
 you should pick Mario Kart DS up, since you can for $30 or $35. It is a must-have for the DS, and 
 it is what you bought a DS for. (Heck, its what I bought my DS for) A 9 out of 10.- Traymon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelAHeywood
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  ... this is a must buy for any DS owner!! Graphics are the best for any racing game on the Nintendo 
 DS and with the online Wi-Fi gaming you will never run out of opponents. Mario Kart DS includes 
 new tracks, as well as retro tracks selected from all the previous Mario Kart games so you'll have 
 oodles of fun. A unique friend code makes it easy to keep track of friends online. You can create 
 your own emblum for you kart to make yourself look cooler than the other racers. Building up from 
 50cc to 150cc is a great way to improve your play. So overall this is the best Mario Kart to date, 
 but you already knew that so this review is pointless really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prankinyou
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 7, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  An extremely great game to play first on the DS if you have never played before. The only thing 
 wrong with this game is nothing! But the only thing I wish is that there would be cooler looking 
 places. The only place that was out of the ordinary is the pinball place. This, I think, is the 
 second best graphics on the DS, Metroid Hunters is in first on my list. Even though Mario Kart 
 DS is ranked number two-hundred and seventy four on GameSpot, I think it should be ranked much 
 higher like around the tens or the thirty's. I said this once and I'll say it again, a great game 
 to start on the DS. But, if you have been playing the DS for a long time now, you should get it. 
 It's very, very fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamteam411
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 7, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  I can't believe HOW much fun Mario Kart DS is. As soon as I got my DS, I knew I had to buy this 
 stellar game. Just how it's so much like the good ol' days of Mario Kart 64 (yes, those are the 
 good ol' days when you're 16...) on a portable like the Nintendo DS with online multiplayer makes 
 my eyes go O_O. But let's get down to brass tacks.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The solid gameplay of the Mario Kart series we've grown to love is still here. Drifting is still 
 a good part of the gameplay... though maybe too much. (I'll get into that later) All the favorites 
 of Nintendo characters are back, and the addition of R. O. B. is excellent. I enjoy all of the new 
 karts tremendously and I love how with the right requirements, we can use any character with any 
 kart. Yes, that's right, Toad in the Bowsermobile*
  
  *Bowsermobile is not a real kart.
  
  The online play is good, with one flaw that, in my eyes, keeps it from getting a 10. Drifting. 
 The way players can "snake," if you will, keeps the players that try to play fair left far behind. 
 Even in the online "Skill Calculator" that exists for Mario Kart DS, the only way to get a gold 
 or a silver is to snake like there's no tomorrow. Drifting's just a bit too powerful for my taste.
 
  
  The next part of gameplay that I really like is Simple Mode. This mode allows you to race against 
 someone else and have battles against someone else next to you by letting them download a simple 
 version of Mario Kart DS onto their DS without having the game. It's great when my friends forget 
 their Mario Kart or with friends who have a DS, but not this game (for whatever insane reason.)
 
  
  The last great point I have about the gameplay is the sheer brilliance in the Retro Cup. I LOVE 
 playing all the old courses, especially the Double Dash ones because they're so Mario-y. Luigi 
 Circuit GCN is the best. The SNES courses comparatively suck, but they were great when they first 
 came out, and they work well for Super Mario Kart.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I don't recall if the graphics are quite N64 quality, and they're probably not, but they're really 
 good for what the DS can handle. I've had more than one schoolmate look over my shoulder while 
 I was playing in the hallway and say, "wow, those are really nice graphics." And yes, yes they 
 are.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Sound's nothing I'm going to buy a soundtrack for (like I did for Sonic Adventure 2...  _ ...) 
 but they're catchy tunes that work really well for the courses that they're on.
  
  Value:
  
  I think the replay value for this game is stellar. The multiplayer is amazing, even 
 if the whole "Rival" search isn't quite up to par... (I mean I'm like 15-11 and the rival search 
 paired me up with someone who was like 500-100... that doesn't seem exactly fair...) It's great 
 playing with friends too. I wish battle mode was available online, but you can't have everything. 
 It's just TOO much fun to be battling on the good ol' DS.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  
  Uhm. 10. It's just too much fun to handle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DZAPPER
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a great DS game and a great online game for people of all ages. The single player is standard 
 Mario Kart. But this game has MORE TRACKS THAN ANY OTHER MARIO KART GAME EVER MADE!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 The controls are on point and the graphics are almost perfect except for a little pixelation in 
 the character models. Also the tracks offer plenty of executible shortcuts to exploit online.
 
  Speaking of Online play it is great. The beat multiplayer game I have ever played. Basically you 
 can face any one by setting the search filter to Rivals, Friends, Regional, or Worldwide. So you 
 can search for 3 other people to play with. Well I would tell you every great detail about this 
 game but I'm about to go play it now. So get off your butt and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  Mariokart for the DS with WI-FI.
  
  This is my second GS review, containing Mariokart DS.
  
  The game has new tracks ofcourse, 
 and a oldschool/unlockable GP. You will be able to race a nice mix of SNES, n64 and G-Cube tracks. 
 The gameplay is still Mariokart, press A, don't take your finger of it, and have a blast.
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks amazing in my opinion. For a handheld the textures are very detailed 
 and the animations are also very properly done. The colours are nice and bright and let you know 
 your playing a Mario setting game.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is very very good. The stereo soundsystem of the DS makes the music and soundeffects 
 very good to listen to.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where it all comes down. Mariokart has a simple formula. Race and have fun. Play online 
 against your friends or random players, play the Grand Prix in single player, or play the new missions (wich 
 are a blast, tho some to short) . You can pick up Mariokart for 15 minutes or a whole afternoon 
 online. 
  
  Conclusion:
  This game will keep you playing for a long time, the long single player, with some new twists, 
 and the good mulitplayer online are a blast to play.
  If you have a DS, or thinking about buying one, and you like to play Mario setting/race games. 
 This is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiblam
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Mario kart was alot better than expected, You would think it would have the same concept as the 
 n64 or the gamecube one but its totalyy Different! The story mode is challenging with 4 different 
 modes and tons of unlockables. You can unlock over 30 diiferent karts for eachplayer with there 
 on unique abilities. Well you think that mario kart ds is just one big story mode but its totally 
 ddifferent once you play wi fi. Wi fi defentaly pushes mario karts score sky high. You can keep track 
 of your friends list by ading and deleting friends. You can also do battle mode wich is very enjoyable, 
 you can do mode such as baloon mode were you actually blow up the balon with the mike! Its a very 
 enjoyable hame and I recommend it to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sda100175
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  My favorite system of all time is the Nintendo 64. I'll always remember the joy I had playing Ocarina 
 of Time, Mario 64, Banjo-Kazooie, etc. But the game I would always threw into my N64 during a lunch 
 break or party was Mario Kart 64. It easily logged more hours than any other game.
  
  That's the feeling I get playing Mario Kart DS. What can I say, it's Mario Kart! It plays exactly 
 like previous Mario Karts, only this one has more tracks, more karts, more characters, more items, 
 more modes! The classic Grand Prix, Time Trials, and Vs. mode return. There's also an Adventure 
 mode that's kinda like the story mode in Diddy Kong Racing, and a lot of fun to play through. Of 
 course, there's also the wireless multiplayer which is probably pretty awesome but I'm more of 
 a single player guy.
  
  The bottom screen is put to good use, showing you current standings as well as an overhead track 
 view which shows you everything - other racers, obstacles, track layout, you name it. It's totally 
 possible to play the game using just the bottom screen, and this is useful when Mr. Ink Octopus 
 sprays your windshield.
  
  The new tracks are typically fun and varied. But the cool thing is that MKDS includes 4 tracks 
 from each of the previous Mario Kart games (SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN) . That's a total of 32 tracks, 
 which is the most ever for the series. 
  
  If you played and enjoyed Mario Kart before, you'll love this version. If you haven't... you call 
 yourself a gamer? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 4, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  thsi game is the best game yet for the ds, and im going to get it in 2 days. but i have actually 
 played the game, and i must say, it is the best in the series. all of the old tracks, and some 
 new ones, thats really tish. (word picked up from www. weebls-stuff. com ) the only thing missing 
 in this game is the ability to have 2 people in your cart, thats not good. overall, if you have 
 a ds, than you should get this game. it is an essential. it really should be the number 1 game 
 on the list, but hey, i dont make it, so whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snaggleoooo
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  I got Mario Kart DS for Christmas last year, and it has got a workout since then. It is fun to 
 play on your own, with friends over the wireless connection and on Wi-Fi over the Internet. If 
 you liked any of the other Mario Kart games, Mario Kart DS will rock your world.
  
  The gameplay of Mario Kart DS is similar to the other Mario Kart games. You, as one of the Mario 
 characters (from Mario, to DK, to Bowser, to Yoshi and Peach to name a few) , race against 7 other 
 people on tracks inspired by the Mario universe. But it isnt quite that simple. On the racetrack, 
 there are item boxes that you can pick up. These items can be used against your fellow racers. 
 Some of these items include the low-key banana and fake item box, to heat-seeking red shells, to 
 the bouncing green shell and the all-powerful blue shell, which travels to the leading kart and 
 explodes, blowing the leader and everybody around him sky high.
  
  But racing isnt the only option on Mario Kart DS. There is the extremely fun battle mode. In balloon 
 battle, you start with one balloon blown up. To inflate more balloons, all you have to do is hold 
 select or blow gently in to the microphone. You can only have three balloons inflated to a time, 
 from a maximum of five. The aim of the game is to burst everyone elses balloons before yours do; 
 using the normal Mario Kart weapons. The other half of battle mode is shine runners, where you 
 have to collect as many shines as possible from around the track, and every 30 seconds, the one 
 with the least shines is eliminated.
  
  The other mode in Mario Kart DS is Mission Mode. There are 6 levels of missions which 9 missions 
 in each. These missions range from beating someone in a race, to fining item boxes, to destroying 
 creatures with the items. After you have completed 8 missions in the level, you have to defeat 
 a boss as the 9th mission. In the later levels, these bosses are quite hard, but all are fun.
 
  
  The graphics of Mario Kart DS are very good. They are better than all the other Mario Karts on 
 the other systems. The dual screens are a big help. The top screen shows your character in third 
 person view, but the bottom screen shows a top-down view of the course, which means you can see 
 all the obstacles and items before you even reach them.
  
  The music in Mario Kart DS is good, but it does get repetitive very quickly. Much of the music 
 is from the old Mario Kart games, which adds to the repetitiveness; weve heard them before and 
 we dont really want to hear them again.
  
  The value of Mario Kart DS is staggering. There are over 30 tracks to race on, there are 6 battle 
 arenas and over 50 missions to complete. Though Mario Kart DS is fun on your own, it really is 
 a party game. Gather 8 friends and get ready for the most fun youve had in a long time. Therell 
 be swearing, cheering and laughing even after the first race (more if alcohol is involved) . Ive 
 never tried the game over Wi-Fi, but the reviews of other people cant all be wrong; most of them 
 say its fantastic.
  
  If you want a game that will be fun for the rest of your life (longer if youve got friends with 
 a DS and the game, Mario Kart DS is for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spuddge
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great game with a large amount of replay value. Combing previous Mario Kart 
 tracks with all new ones, any fan of any Mario Kart game would have a fun time with this. Although 
 the graffics arent as good as would be expected, it is easily made up for by the many differant 
 game modes including time trial, battle, and the all new mission mode. Mario Kart DS also has a 
 great soundtrack with some amazing engine sounds as well. Its online wifi play is also quite fun 
 too. (though only four can race at one time rather than eight) Along with this, its difficulty 
 levels allow you to play other computer players that are just right according to your skill. So 
 in short, Mario Kart DS is a highly addictive game with some decent graffics and some good sounds 
 coupled with amazing replay value and fun online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLeBlanc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Goods
  ____________________________
  1. 12 Characters to choose from.
  2. New and old tracks able to choose.
  3. Online play.
  4. 32 karts.
  5. The snaking feature.
 
  6. Awesome powerups.
  7. Make your own emblem.
  ____________________________
  
  Bads
  
  1. No battle mode on Wi-Fi.
  2. Shortcuts from 
 the old games were tooken out.
  3. Some courses not avaible to choose on Wi-Fi.
  
  Yup, Mario Kart is back, and better than before!
  
  The controls for this game are as easy 
 as 1 2 3. Also, there is a technique called "snaking" that allows you to power slide constantly. 
 It may be hard at first, but once you get use to it, it goes smoothly.
  
  The graphics are not really complete. Some things like goombas, look like they were colored, and 
 cut out from a piece, of paper. But Karts, Characters, and landscapes, are still 3D. The sound 
 to this game is as usual to al other games. The music goes perfectly on the map you are on, and 
 the sound effects are right on time. And the music is the same as the classic tracks which are 
 the SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN tracks.
  
  The online play I think is what brings most of the players's attention. It highly increases the 
 replay value and there are more to MK : DS than it seems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlepat117
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 1, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok Nintendo fans how long have we been waiting for the online capabilities for Nintendo. They finally 
 make the jump with the best addition to the seires with Mario Kart DS. This handheld version of 
 the chump plumber riding a Kart is probably tied for the best title on the DS . Unlike in past 
 Mario Karts this version soars to the top with almost every Mario Kart Racing track to date, and 
 even some new characters. Too add on you can unlock up to 36 karts for each character. In the weapons 
 category the new face is Bullet Bill and the octopus.
  When your trailing behind your friends You will transform into Bullet Bill and he will give you 
 a fighting chance. And the octopus will blind your enemy's. The graphics are okay, but the gameplay 
 is excellent, and it will keep you addicted for hours on hours. In the end Mario Kart DS is great 
 game and we finally see how good gameplay can over come goo graphics anyday. I give it a five out 
 of five 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangetrucks
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I love this game simply because it is just another racing game from Mario. The sound is great and 
 so are the controls. Not challenging and hard to remember, but simple. The new modes added are 
 great too. Mission mode is just like the old games, where you pick where you want to go. The challenges, 
 some are easy, and some will have you playing for hours. The Grand Prix is just like in the Gamcube. 
 Four races, if you win you unlock something. Pretty simple, but you keep coming back for more. 
 One character is new to the games, but the rest are the same. A ton of karts to choose from, and 
 some old tracks and some new tracks. You won't run out of anything to do! You have great multiplayer 
 options too! WiFi or local. The multiplayer layout is just plain fun with your friends, even if 
 THEY don't have Mario Kart. Simply, this is just one new Mario game you can't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarkFusion-
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I'm not too much of a racing type gamer but Mario Kart DS really draw my attention.
 
  
  The gameplay is simple and fun, all you have to do is win the race and defeat the other competitors
 
  The really intersting feature in this game is the fact you can use all kind of obstacles and "gifts" 
 in order to win the race, such as a banana peel in order to make the other competitors slip.
  
  The game has really cute and sharp graphics and it features all the classic characters from 
 other mario titles (Yoshi, Peach, Wario etc...) .
  
  Although the sound is very cool and clear, the previous Mario Kart titles had better sound which 
 really puts you in the mood to play.
  
  With out a doubt the most intersting feature in Mario Kart DS is the fact it uses the Nintendo 
 Wi Fi connenction which allows you to compete with players all around the world!
  
  If you own a ds and your looking for just a fun game to play with a friend or by yourself, Mario 
 Kart is what you are looking for.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is Mario Kart, 'nuff said. Let me get to the point.
  
  Gameplay: Fun and addictive is the right wording. This game will keep you playing in your car and 
 at home for hours. Many ways to overtake your opponent, secret passages, power-ups, and a variety 
 of tracks. But, it's too much of the same so once you do get tired of it; your tired of it enough 
 to sell it back to where you bought it from for a new game.
  
  Graphics: Great for a DS, great models, great overall package.
  
  Sound: Music gets on your 
 nerves, otherwise the car sounds and power-ups are great.
  
  Value: Mario Kart DS, also includes multiplayer, so it's worth a try.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I 
 love Mario Kart games but I'm kind of getting sick of them, but give this one a try and see if 
 you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clubhaxor
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  This game is in my opinion the best the DS has to offer so far. With unlockable features that you 
 actually FEEL like attaining and not feel like a chore. You feel compelled to finish missions and 
 then go back and better your score especially when playing with a friend, trying to better their 
 score. As I have yet to play wifi i'm sure it can get even better but I have played wirelessly 
 with 2 other ppl with DS's and it was nothing short of an adrenaline rush, granted playing wireless 
 races/battle can get a bit laggy from time to time but it overall does not take away from the whole 
 perfect experience :)
  
  The graphics are the best of the Ds's capabilities and the sound is excellent. You get the most 
 out of the money you paid for it and it is really a MUST HAVE for all DS owners. It's the best 
 Mario Kart game in my opinion and is a great portable treasure. Great new levels, modes, characters 
 and the mission mode is such a great feature of this game. And it sure doesnt baby you with some 
 of them being quite a challenge. Overall it's A highly addictive Mario game that you can pick up 
 at any time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tocool340
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I knew this game was great, but it exceeded my expectations. The game is has everything from single 
 player and to multiplayer. This game will keep you going for ages and over.
  
  First off, if you truly want to expand this game replayability, you will need to get DSL and a 
 2wire homeportal, which is what I'm using or nintendo Wireless adapter. That way, you can play 
 the multiplayer mode from the start. The game the game is completely well structured and has a 
 easy accessible menus. At the start screen, you have Single player mode, multiplayer mode, WFC 
 connection mode for online playing, options, and records. The single player is basically the same 
 as the previous mario kart games of single player mode only you have 16 new levels, while the other 
 16 is classic game levels, you can play multiplayer with computers, and you also have a mission 
 mode. In mission mode, it's more like having a training mode to increase your ability and skills 
 in mario kart DS. It has small little missions to complete, then you have to face the boss. The 
 bosses are mainly the bosses from super mario 64 bosses only you must defeat them in a whole entirely 
 different way. You only have 6 missions to complete, mission 7 you must unlock. As usual, you have 
 the championship cup that you must play to unlock things from the game such as new characters and 
 the use of all the racing tracks. The CC will start from 50, then the speed increase in the karts 
 and the computers are a little difficult when it reaches 100, and you have the 150 and the 150 
 mirror CC. After you have done that, you have the options of getting even more good by trying to 
 get better rankings in the cups. You have ranking E, D, C, B, A, *, **, and ***. The three stars 
 is the highest you will have in any cup. The more star's you get, the better because once you get 
 stars from the 100 CC, it will show how what you average in the online mode. If you have one star 
 over your name, it means you are good but not perfect. If you have two stars, it means you superb, 
 but can be beat with the right techniques. Then you have the three star's which means you are the 
 best and will be very tough to beat. Now on to multiplayer.
  
  In multiplayer, you can play all the level you unlock and played. You only have the battle option 
 on the multiplayer mode, not the online mode though. In multiplayer mode, you can choose either 
 use a single cart mode which means you only need one cart and the other people who is near you 
 can download the multiplayer from your cart. But the only person the people who don't have the 
 game can only use shy guy. And they can only play the level the person who have the cart wants 
 to play. But in the other multiplayer mode when everyone has the game, they can choose the character's 
 they unlock and choose the level they desire. They also have a battle mode where you can play in 
 a arena and battle it out in a shine mode or the balloon mode. The balloon mode takes advantage 
 of the ds microphone and you can blow in it to inflate your balloons faster. Shine mode is when 
 you must collect shines and hope that you don't get disqualified by having the least shines. You 
 can knock shines out of your opponent and steal theirs, but they can also do the same to you. Both 
 modes can also be played in the single player mode where you can play against the computer. I think 
 that raps up the mulitplayer mode. Now it's time for the online mode.
  
  Little could be said about online mode, but it is still worth the wait of and nintendo did a well 
 job on it. The online mode has been stripped down from the multiplayer mode. You only have I believe 
 16 level you can play on and some of the fun ones were left out. Battle mode was taking away and 
 you a basically left with a standard online multiplayer game. And you can only play against four 
 people where in multiplayer, you can play against eight. But it did not stop the online mode from 
 being more funner from the the multiplayer mode. When connecting, you must setup a access point 
 so you can connect online. As I said earlier, you will need a 2wire homeportal or any wireless 
 connection you are using, or you can buy nintendo's wireless usb adapter. Once you have set up 
 your online account and everything, you can finally connect. You have four modes to choose from: 
 Friend, Rival, Regional, and Worldwide. When you connect online, you then recieve a friend code 
 which is located when you as soon as you click the WFC connection on your main menu. It would give 
 you the option of storing other peoples friend codes. Your friend code should be right there. Once 
 you have another person friend code to your friend list, you can get online and play against them. 
 Rivals is when you are searching for someone who is on your level of skill in playing mario kart. 
 Regional is searching someone in your country. And Worldwide is searching for someone across the 
 planet. And that about's wraps up the online mode.......
  
  Gameplay: The controls is very responsive. The computer on the other hand seem to move in one path 
 then actually get out of a way of a shell or a banana. And for some reason, the pass you up like 
 they have a mushroom, but they don't. Each character has his or her own types of kart. The heavier 
 it is, the faster is go and the more hard for you to control. And the lighter it is, the faster 
 acceleration it has and the longer for a mini boost will last. Speaking of mini boost, you can 
 jump and use it. By jumping and turning, you will start a mini boost. And when you press left and 
 right, your mini boost will be ready. Once you release R, your mini boost will ignite. There is 
 also a few new items such as bullet bill and blooper.
  
  Graphics: They are much better looking than the N64 version, but lesser looking than the GC version. 
 But they are crisper and cleaner on the small screens the have.
  
  Sound: It's nintendo music so of course it's good. Every one has their voice. Mario kart has some 
 tunes from previous mario kart games and they have new ones that is remixed from some of the other 
 mario games out. 
  
  Value: I think thanks to the multiplayer that this game will have month's and month's of gameplay 
 left for it. Once the single mode is complete, you may want to also play the time trail too so 
 the multiplayer is also keeps the value of it up.....
  
  Overall: This is the best kart racing game I played, period. So I will say this, if you have a 
 DS now, WHY THE HELLL DO YOU NOT HAVE THIS GAME YET. QUIT READING AND GO BUY IT NOW. Thank you 
 for reading my review....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukevsLuffy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is very well thought out. Even though the graphics are not the best around, they are 
 pretty good for the DS. Whether it's you racing in Grand Prix mode, or duking it out in the 2 battle 
 modes, this game is very fun. One great feature is that there are four cups which contain races 
 from the old games, which makes you feel like your with an old friend. Online play just rocks. 
 Though you cannot do battle mode on Wifi, the fun of playing with very skilled players is a real 
 challenge, compared to single player. This game is the best Mario Kart game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nradd99
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I have never been particularly fond of the Mario Kart series. Admittedly, the N64 installment brings 
 back memories of the period when I first started playing video games, but the nostalgia hasnt 
 been enough for me to enjoy the rehashes such as Super Circuit, Double Dash and now, Mario Kart 
 DS. The problem mainly lies in its simplicity and repetitiveness. In every game, there are for 
 the most part the same exact items, and similar tracks. Not only does this get old fast, but the 
 items also detract from the gameplay experience. This is mainly due to the random selection. Whenever 
 you hit a block, the game cycles through all the available items. Some items, such as the star 
 and lightning, affect the race so drastically that you can go from first to eighth place in a matter 
 of seconds. 
  
  Playing a primarily multiplayer game that revolves more around luck than skill is far from entertaining; 
 its just frustrating. Therefore, Id only recommend this game to a younger and/or casual audience, 
 as opposed to those who are looking for a competitive experience. I should also mention the DSs 
 Wi-Fi capability. While things usually run at an acceptable speed, the multiplayer still ends up 
 being little more than a temporary amusement. First of all, there can only be four human players 
 at a time, for some strange reason. Secondly, there is not a latter or tournaments. 
  
  This would all be excusable if the gameplay was addicting, but that is not the case here. One might 
 say this is because it is Nintendos first online game for the DS, but thats no excuse. If the 
 company wants to compete with Sony and Microsoft, it has to equal them in terms of quality. Take 
 away the items (which really serve to cheapen the game) , and you essentially have a sub-par racing 
 game that happens to feature Nintendos colorful caste of characters. Im no expert on the genre, 
 but if youre looking for a racing game worth your time and money, look elsewhere or be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is definitely one of the best in the series. It brings a game to the DS which can 
 be enjoyed by anyone at any age at anytime throughout the world.
  
  Mario Kart DS follows in the traditional footsteps of the series, where you choose from one of 
 the Mushroom Kingdom stars and race around circuits. You can either play as Mario, Luigi, Peach, 
 Yoshi, Bowser or others and race franticly against either the computer or wirelessly against your 
 mates.
  
  Mario Kart DS has the usual cups (Mushroom, Flower, Star and Special) which you can compete for, 
 or you can go against others in the Retro Cups, which have courses from the previous 4 Mario Kart 
 games. Each course is unique and uses the power of the DS to the full.
  
  The bottom screen allows for the first time to see what other items the player behind you has. 
 The addition of the item list lets you use a whole lot of new techniques and strategies. The map 
 is also very useful to see where your opponents are and what items are around the bend.
  
  Graphically, there is no better racing game on the DS. The colours are superbly done, shadows are 
 excellent and physics are great. Every character has their own unique action and movements. The 
 items are extremely accurate and there are only a few occasions when you have a problem.
  
  The gameplay is second to none. The heart and soul of Mario Kart is the gameplay and replay values. 
 The addition of rankings makes a sort of goal, which also increases the replay value. Wi-Fi and 
 wireless multiplayer with DSes opens up another form of replay ability  multiplayer. While it 
 is good racing against the computer, Mario Kart would not be the same without multiplayer.
  
  Sound is superb. The music is catchy and the sound effects each character has shows their unique 
 emotions and personalities. You can also hear layers coming from each side of you and hear the 
 bombs in the distance. 
  
  There is no doubt this game is worth the $35 - $60 needed to buy it. A great game with limitless 
 replay ability, what else could you want from a Mario Kart game? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmm_chocolate
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is LOTS of fun, full stop. 
  At first, it doesn't seem that there is all that much to do, but when you start to unlock things, 
 it gets better and better. 
  As well as racing, you can participate in battles, and complete missions.
  
  The music is great, 
 although slightly repetitive at times, the graphics are really cool, and the game makes use of 
 the microphone (but I haven't really found a great way to use the touch screen in this yet; it's 
 almost easier just using the buttons) . 
  
  I bought it for (Australian) $64.00, and it's worth the price you pay. 
  
  9.8 from me. 
 
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandon1001001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is well thought out, very complex and not so hard to learn. But learning different driving 
 skills is a bit challenging, but thats what people want in a game, parts to stay on so you won't 
 forget how to pass them if your little sister or brother erases your progress. So you come back 
 and say, "Man!! Im still not pass this level!". I beat the whole game, and yet, I still erase everything 
 and do it over and over again, and thats good replay vaule for a game. So you know MKDS has a super 
 high replay vaule. Power sliding is a good thing to learn in a game, especially if your racing 
 in 150cc or MIRROR mode on the game. And different shortcuts in the level makes it easier to beat 
 the computer, because they don't use the shortcuts like a real human player. They get to be very 
 hard to do, but once you try it like on time trail, it gets to be very simple, and never to actually 
 look at the DS, which most people don't but if they do, they are very new players to the game, 
 and the DS also, and thats what you call playability, which is very much needed in a game. I give 
 this game its props, and its oscars too. And because there is so much good, and no bad in the game, 
 it deserves a perfect score, but most people don't think so. They think its a turd or something, 
 but thats because they can't win, but before they know it, they'll be popping this game in there 
 DS 5 years from now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiora
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  So here I am, with my DS. Nothin' to play but Nintendogs. So I check Gamespot to see what's new 
 and BANG! Mario Kart DS! Just had to have this one, and you do too.
  
  What's new? Well, along with the usual new tracks we've got Retro added to the mix. Everything 
 you loved about Mario Kart returns. There's bots to play against in versus and battle mode now, 
 so you don't have to wait for your friends to come over. Now it shows stats for karts and you have 
 your own emblems. 
  
  The only thing that stops me from giving gameplay a 10 is because it's nothing new, but it's still 
 fun. Graphics are fine, but not GREAT. Sound is good, but it gets annoying hearing Yoshi and Mario 
 scream their usual catchphrases every time they pass you or hit someone. For what the game is, 
 along with FREE online (except for the hanging out at McDonald's part) it is pretty good value. 
 Tilt comes from the good multiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer has a few issues. There is no way to trace anyone you've played against and there is 
 NO chat. The records of wins and losses seems a little whacked... it counts every time you don't 
 get first place on a course, not every time you get first on going through the tracks. There is 
 no way to punish people who quit in the middle of the game. And parents, there is a bit of a risk 
 to letting your child play online. There is no censorship for inappropriate emblems and nicknames. 
 It's alright, considering it's free.
  
  All in all, the best game to hit the DS yet. Buy it. You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassplayer27800
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Once again, another must buy game for your DS. Let's start this review with the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is simple, press A to move and the D-pad controlls it, hit the blocks 
 to get items to stop your opponents from winning. There is 32 courses to play, you start out with 
 8 and play the grand prix to unlock more, you also can unlock more characters, cars, and multiplayer 
 courses. There is also old courses from all the previous maro kart games, plus new ones that are 
 introduced in this game. It also has online multiplayer with up to four people, 8 if your not online. 
 I wish it had voice chat though, that is the only problem with the multiplayer.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are exceptionally good for the DS, It is probably one of the best looking 
 games for it so far.
  
  Value: $35, average price of a DS game, with all the unlockables and things like that this game 
 is worth your $35.
  
  Overall this game is a must buy, it is one of my favorite DS games that I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero232
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I sometimes wish I owned a Nintendo DS instead of a PSP, so I can start playing Mario Kart DS. 
 It's Mario Kart, on the DS, and it is one of the first online Nintendo game ever in the world. 
 It has great racers. It has good tracks, from the classics, to the new tracks, and you shouldn't 
 forget the online play. With Nintendo Wi-Fi Collection, you'll play lots of complete strangers 
 from Jersey, to even Sydney, Australia. I have to say, Mario Kart DS has got to be one of the greatest 
 online games yet. I'm just a little peeved that I would play at a McDonalds. Oh Well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christhepenguin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Forewarning! Don't buy this game if you want a realistic racer. That's never gonna happen on a 
 portable. Buy this game if you've ever enjoyed a Mario Kart or you want great portable online play. 
 Mario Kart is a great series. I loved all of them. Mario Kart 64 being my favorite until this came 
 around. It's fast, exciting, and so addictive, some people break their DS's!
  http://riprbutton. ytmnd. com/ (I didn't make that btw)
  i keep falling back on this game. Kind 
 of like I keep falling back on Battlefield 2. The game surprisingly works well with the DS's D-pad. 
 The multi-player is an expected greatness from Mario Kart and they hit this one on the ball. It's 
 wondeful. This was Nintendo's first shot at an online game and they did surprisingly well. They 
 have some things to work out in newer online games but that will be done. This is definitely a 
 must-have for anyone who owns a DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is worthy of the franchise for certain. While it doesn't live up to its Nintendo 
 64 predecessor I feel it surpasses Double Dash. The graphics are reminiscent of Mario Kart 64 but 
 with full 3D character models that are much better. The tracks are great for the most part although 
 a few are bland. As normal there are 4 cups with 4 races each but this time they have another whole 
 set of 4 cups with 4 retro races each with one race form each previous Mario Kart game. Still it 
 doesn't feel like enough tracks for some reason and they could have definitely have choosen better 
 retro tracks than they did. 
  
  There are the standard eight racers with a few bonus ones thrown in there and a few kart choices 
 for each. The kart determines how the character races based on its speed, acceleration, etc... 
 . The standard items are back with a few interesting additions like the blooper, Bomb-om and such 
 and they really add some interesting new strategy to the races. Another new addition is the ability 
 to drift behind players to get speed boosts, they also brought back the hop and standard power 
 slide which is certainly a good thing.
  
  The bottom screen acts as a map which is updated with player positions and the items they have 
 which is in practice good enough to use as your primary screen since it shows everything of significance 
 on the track.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biobug
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  32 tracks and 12 racers, need i say more? It has tons of replay value and the multiplayer is great. 
 I do not have wi-fi so all i played it on was local network, which worked flawlessly and was very 
 fun. The singleplayer is very vast with multiple ways to play from ballon fights to time trials. 
 It has good graphics and controls. The only complaint would be the lack of stylus functionality, 
 but otherwise uses DS to its potential. This game makes me wonder why i do not stop buying 3rd 
 party games, its just that good. The mission mode is fun and multiplayer battles are very fun and 
 make it a classic right when it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Blade29
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game is definatley a game that will become a legend in years to come. Also the music cannot 
 be beaten. The online gameplay is spectacular. There is nothing like proving to your mates that 
 you are the best driver in your group of friends. You can also boast to them through your DS microphone 
 to add insult to injury.
  There are loads of coluorful charatcers to choose from such as Yoshi, Bowser, Peach, Mario etc. with 
 some new racers which you enjoy.
  Another great feature of Marion kart Ds is the mission modes. Some may be easy but others will 
 test your skill at maximum levels. A good feature for online play is the battle modes. Aswell as 
 destroying your friends which will never get old you can rule several different battlefields. You 
 can choose two modes. Balloon Battle or Shine Runners. In Balloon Battle every person has five 
 balloons you must destroy. In Shine runners you must get the most amount of shines before the time 
 runs out.
  These are just some of the reasons to love and enjoy Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supafroman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  This review will be short sweet and to the point, This game is unbelivable Wifi, A decent Single 
 player, and all our favorite Mushroom land heroes. The game is fairly easy to get control of same 
 basic controls as prior mariokart, The Charaters all have different stats for speed Accel, Ect 
 , Ect, Ect. The graphics look however sumwhat sub par, but stll good. Online play enables unchallenged 
 Replay value. And its playable by just about anybody. This is truely a must buy for any ds owner, 
 and if your not a Ds owner wait till the DS lite then buy one and this game, DS is currently way 
 better then PSP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phalanx_Titan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series has always been successful, and this is by far the best game so far. And 
 what makes it better is the fact that it's portable.
  I enjoyed this game from start to finish. The graphics are good for DS, as are the gameplay and 
 sound. As you progress through the game, things become more interesting as you get harder modes 
 and more of a choice as to where to race and what in. Nintendo hasn't forgotten about the past 
 Mario Kart titles, and for all you nostalgic players, there are tracks from previous games available 
 (yes, even from the SNES!) .
  Mission Mode and Battle Mode give you a break from racing and are fun to play. The only problem 
 about the game is that once you've mastered the game, you'll find even the hard difficulty too 
 easy. The Wi-Fi play makes up for this, as you can get some real challenges on there.
  All in all, a nice game. It's never boring to play. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torvus14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  The moment you play this you will be awestrucked as you gaze at the visual quality of the game 
 glimpsed in only a few of the current DS range. The variety of tracks and modes will keep both singleplayer 
 and multiplayer ranges busy for a long time though the lack of unlockable characters are a bit 
 of a let down. The singleplayer has been completely revamped with missions and singleplayer battle 
 no available as well as the usually 50cc,100cc,150cc and Mirror mode. Multiplayer is where the 
 best of the changes have occurred with wireless multiplayer no available and online gameplay this 
 game has lasted far longer than most of my other games. Though the skills needed to be a good driver 
 are a pain at first to learn, once you get a hang of it you'll feel like a gaming god. 
  
  A must have game for any serious DS gamer or even any gamer, you'll be a fool to miss this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  When it was announced that there would be a Mario Kart for the DS, my doubts about buying this 
 console has suddenly vanished, I bought it right away and it paid-off completely.
  Mario Kart DS has the usual number of championships, races, ccs, etc. that are new and very good! 
 Its amazing how Nintendo is still able to do innovative tracks even after the launch of so many 
 MKs!!
  There is also a collection of other 4 championships with a nostalgic purpose; it has 1 track form 
 GC, 1 from GBA, 1 from N64 and 1 from SNES each. Which is so very cool!
  Another addition in this version of Mario Kart are the missions... Little quests that you need 
 to complete, which are really challenging!!
  One of the most important advantages of Mario Kart DS is the possibility to play it online, so 
 that you can enjoy the multiplayer mode more often. The online mode ables you to play not only 
 with friends, but it also can look for other people that are online at the moment for you to play 
 with, allowing you to play it whenever you want.
  There are a lot of things you can unlock during the game, the graphics are very good and the sound 
 is nice.
  The battle mode is really rich in this game and you can play it against the computer, besides with 
 friends via the wireless communication.
  In conclusion, this is an indispensable game for the DS, it is an awesome game, and the possibility 
 of playing it online is wonderful! You still havent got it? Head to closest store right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silly_Monkee
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Playing Mario Kart on the NES and SNES many years ago with school friends is the oldest and one 
 of my most memorable moments in my gaming career. I have always been a fan of Nintendo game's and 
 Mario Kart is, for me, the best Nintendo game series. In recent years though, I'd moved to PlayStation 
 and hadn't played any of the N64 or handheld Mario Kart's until recently when I've played both 
 Double Dash and MKDS. I have to say I was extremely impressed with both games, but in particular 
 the DS version.
  
  MKDS just blew me away, I still wonder how they got N64-like graphics onto such a relatively small 
 machine. Making use of the DS' dual screens, you can race on the top screen, while on the bottom 
 touch screen you can view a map. Pressing the screen you can change from viewing the whole track 
 with players going round, or view the section of track that you are on. It displays it in so much 
 detail that you race perfectly well by just looking at the map!
  
  The game has a number of options which include the normal single player game, battle mode, time 
 trial and online play. The normal single player experience is relatively short, and I completed 
 it within about a couple of hours. Battle Mode can extend single player gameplay quite a bit more, 
 so in all, I got about 10 or so hours out of the game by myself before I got bored. 
  
  But the feature that extends replay value even more is playing through wireless head-2-head or 
 going online with Wi-Fi multiplayer. I myself have only played the wireless head-2-head with my 
 sister, and we've had a lot of fun racing, and battling it out on the Battle Mode. For a complete 
 gaming novice, even she could give me a run for my money, proving how well Nintendo design their 
 games for both beginners and hardcore gamers alike. I would truly recommend this game for anyone 
 of any age.
  
  If you are thinking about getting this game, don't think again, it's an awesome experience, and 
 you definately won't be disappointed. But make sure you try to get online through Wi-Fi, to get 
 the most out of MKDS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunmer_Lord
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Tho i don't like it as much as Double Dash, this is a very great game. It's got good controls, 
 sound, music, and race tracks. The diffuculty is perfect. It starts easy and gets hard, but you 
 start to catch on as it gets harder, and tho it still is challenging it isn't frustrating. I love 
 that they brought some classic tracks into the game. I only wish that you could do battles online. 
 I think that would have been better then raceing online. Plus it still is easy when the AI is high. 
 I recommend this game to anyone who liked any of the previous Mario Kart games. Or just anyone 
 who likes Arcade style raceing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backflipkingds
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the all time best Mario Kart game and the best racing game for the Nintendo DS itself. 
 It will have you sitting for hours online competing for the number one spot. It has great graphics 
 for a DS game. Even though it doesn't have a story, it is pure fun for all DS owners. Don't leave 
 this game in the dust because it is the best Nintendo Wifi game also. It is worth all the money 
 in your pocket. It may seem easy in the beginning of the game but it gets harder with every race. 
 Its easy to learn but hard to master. This is a amazing DS game and online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreepyNerd90
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  I remember way back to 1994. I had just a normal NES with some pretty good games. Super Mario Bros, 
 packaged with Duck Hunt and some kind of Track & Field game, was one of my favorites, next to Super 
 Mario Bros. 3, which I still hold to be in my top 5 favorite games of all time. Then Christmas 
 came along and I had gotten a SNES along with Super Mario Kart. To date, this is the only racing 
 series I have ever enjoyed playing.
  
  Along with Nintendo's consoles have came a Mario Kart game. And now the DS has one it can call 
 its own. This is by far the best of them all, in my opinion. The gameplay plays like you'd expect 
 a Mario Kart would. You have Grand Prix, your time trials, and battle modes (Balloon Battle, which 
 you can use the DS Microphone to blow up your balloon, and Shine Runner, much like the one from 
 Double Dash) . And now you have an added Mission Mode, which is composed of 6 sets (until you unlock 
 the 7th) each with 8 missions with various tasks to complete, plus a Boss Battle. For Grand Prix, 
 you start out with relatively few selection, but as you play it, you eventually unlock more karts 
 and new racers, eventually getting 12 racers and 36 karts total to choose from, which adds a great 
 variety of combinations to try out and find your best. The game has 2 sets of 4 cups to race on, 
 giving you 32 total tracks to race on. One set is the Nitro series, which are all original tracks, 
 each with its unique features and all are cleverly designed and put together. The other set is 
 Retro, where each cup is made up of 1 track from each of the older games, giving you 16 of the 
 great tracks that have defined this great series. The game supports up to 8 players on local multiplayer, 
 and now the Mario Kart series goes online, supporting 4 players on Nintendo WiFi. The online play 
 is fun, but there are not enough options to choose from when setting up your game and some tracks 
 are excluded from the selection.
  
  The graphics are very good, one of the best in the DS. There are a few graphical glitches, but 
 these are only noticeable on a rainy day and you have nothing to do but play Mario Kart and you 
 begin to get curious about the things you can do. The karts look great, the characters are great, 
 and the tracks are all very well designed.
  
  Each of the tracks all have their unique music. Some are, of course, better than the other. They 
 all do fit their course though. And the characters have appropriate sound bits, though there could 
 be more variety for them.
  
  This game is definitely worth the money you pay for it, and might even be worth buying a DS if 
 you're a Mario fan of any sort. I have played it a large majority of the days I've had it since 
 I first got it back in November and still haven't gotten bored with it. It definitely has enough 
 things to do in it, and with the grading system, makes you want to keep playing things over until 
 you finally get that 3 star rating. This is by far one of the best DS games to date, and is worth 
 your time. It's easy to get into, but very hard to master 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grodus5
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This is so the best Mario Kart game I've ever played, and I have every one besides the SNES ones. 
 It's a great game that has a slow-paced learning curve that allows you to learn at your own pace. 
 There are plenty different characters each with different characteristics that make you want to 
 try them all! Plus, with 16 new courses and 4 courses each from the SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN versions. 
 And, with the new emblem feature, you can make a design to go on the front of you're car! Or, you 
 can be cheap (jk lol) and go to Google and look up really cool emblems! (Trust me, I have found 
 AWESOME emblems on the internet.) Plus, with the new missions feature, you can do what was once 
 impossible! And, put your best to the test with the Time Trails! It records your time and your 
 best time's ghost (that you can race! It's like racing yourself!) If you get a good enough time, 
 you unlock the staff's best time's ghost! And if you think I don't know what I'm talking about, 
 I do. I'm 3 stars and beat all the staff ghosts. And I beat all the missions with 3 stars. So, 
 yeah, I know what I'm talking about. To sum it up, if you have a DS, GET THIS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MR_BIG_SHOT44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has finaaly went online (wi-fi ) on us, and its made Mario Kart DS best in the series. 
 So how sould i break it down?
  
  Gameplay- the controls of it is Plain and simple, easy to get in to and perfect for this game, 
 A is Accelate, B is Brake (just like every driving game out there) , X & L are both the same to 
 use item, while Y &the touch screen are use to change the map. The items from the other Mario Kart 
 are here as well as Two more, the bullet, that transform your Kart into a Flying bullet hiting 
 anything in its path and the squid that will shoot ink at your opponites. Online is easy to do, 
 just connect your DS to a hot spot or your wire-less router, and start playing and it getts really 
 addictive really quickly.
  
  The Graphics- the Graphics is what you'll expect from your Ds, Close to the Mario Kart 64, but 
 a little bett better. i must tell you, that there are 2d courses in here so don't expect PSP graphics, 
 but the courses are from old games, and though that sounds like a Bad thing, that does mean that 
 the Graphics are still very good.
  
  Sound- From the sound of the Carts to the Music in the main menu, it all good, but it sometimes 
 sound cartoony but its not realist, so it works perfectly with the game, just that i got anyoned 
 at the sound of the soundtrack frist time, but now it has grown on me.
  
  Value- This has to be the most replayable Mario Kart game EVER! there more tracks to play, more 
 cups to win, unlockable characters and karts for them, and sence its Online, you'll have it glued 
 to your DS for a long, LONG time! (PLZ note: do NOT really glue your Mario Kart DS to your ds, 
 it may not get out!)
  
  In conclusion: it DS was made for this game, so why don't u already had it? BUY, BUY, BUY!!!! it 
 a must have a if the words, "GLUED TO YOUR DS" isn't good enough for u, than u must HATE VIDEO 
 GAMES!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamaroChevySS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  I got this game with the red DS deal for Christmas and I still play the hell out of Mario Kart.
 
  
  Gameplay: Terribly addictive, when I first got this game I played until my DS battery ran out of 
 it's charge, it's simple but effective and tons of fun. 
  
  My only problem with the game is the A. I. When you play the VS mode you can tell the A. I. is preprogramed 
 to be in one assigned spot throughout the entire race, still you can fix it buy turning up the 
 difficulty. 
  
  Graphics: Best I've seen on the DS, now framerate issues or any graphical problems. This is as 
 good as it gets on the DS. 
  
  Sound: It sounds like a Mario game, nothing bad or too annoying with the sound and sound effects. 
 
  
  Value: Ev en though it came out in November '05 there's still a huge demand for it at the Gamecrazy 
 I work at. 
  
  Tilt: Overall I'd give this game a 10 out of 10, this game beats out some of the console games 
 I have in terms of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megacharge
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  i really loved this game. this game makes me remember the good old times on the gba and the snes 
 and my personal favorite, the n64. i used to stay up for hours beating anyone that raced me on rainbow 
 road. now, i can race (and beat) anyone and i mean anyone on rainbow road. i Thank Nintendo for making 
 me feel like that little kid who used to played Mario kart 64 for hours at a time. I hope that Nintendo 
 can dish out a few more games, just for the hell of it. and if the do, i'll be buying them. thats 
 all i gots to say for know. i gotta be out. ok game spot, peace out y'alll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballar123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  What's my favorite racing game? Mario Kart DS of course. Out of all those fast and furious racing 
 games such as Burnout 3 (which I am still trying to decide which ones better, Mario Kart DS or 
 Burnout 3) , A more quirky game makes the top of my list instead. Just the thrill of bumping karts 
 with my opponent makes Mario Kart DS worth while. Driving smoothly through these wacky tracks were 
 a blast. The cartoon graphics made the game really appealing. The sound is fun and silly to listen 
 to just like every other Mario game. The game is never ending because you have tons of battles, 
 races, and minigames to complete. Even when you are finished, you have a great multiplayer to look 
 forward to. The multiplayer does not disappoint. Out of all the multiplayer game, this is my favorite. 
 The tilt is fine because you can see every item directly in front of you. There are plenty of unlockable 
 characters and tracks but that does not matter because you will be choosing your favorite Mario 
 character right off the bat. Go to my blog and vote for your favorite Mario character right away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superelite2688
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart ds is must buy game for anyone with a ds!
  it is very polished all round and is very good value
  
  the gameplay in MK: DS is a good as 
 always and is excellent when playing with friends be it with wi fi or not.
  
  MK: DS graphics are fairly good and are decent for the ds, the sound is also of decent quality and 
 presentation.
  
  MK: DS gives u alot to do be it by urself or with friends. The decent grand prix and missions to 
 do give many hours of gameplay especially when trying to achieve the maximum rank on each lvl b 
 it mission or grans prixs
  
  MK: DS is a high quality game with alot to offer so if ur hesitating to buy it wait no longer!
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorilla_Knight
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS lives up to its series. It is one of the best games for the Nintendo DS.
  
  The Gameplay is some of the easiest to master. It's basically just like most of the other Mario 
 Karts: D-Pad steers, A accelerates, L uses items, etc. The controls are easy to remember and it 
 won't take a long time to get used to them.
  
  The graphics are good for a DS game. There are some games that have better graphics, but this game 
 has decent graphics.
  
  The sound is all right. There are some catchy songs in the game, but you won't really be wanting 
 to listen to them. You'll be wanting to race. However, the sounds are good enough to get by without 
 completely sucking.
  
  The single player aspect to this game won't take long to beat. However, this game isn't known for 
 how good it is single player. It is known for multiplayer, especially with Nintendo Wi-Fi. My friends 
 and I play Mario Kart with each other frequently. Nintendo Wi-Fi is also a great way to pass your 
 time. The only problem with Nintendo Wi-Fi, however, is that some people are hackers and disconnecters. 
 You rarely get paired up with a hacker, but disconnectors are very frequent.
  
  All in all, Mario Kart DS is a very fun game that will keep you playing. The multiplayer is great 
 if you have friends with the game or if you get on Nintendo Wi-Fi. This game is addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  This was one of the highly anticipated games for the ds simply because it's mario kart and because 
 it was announced way back before the ds was released. I sought of passed this game up for awhile 
 but I came to my senses and bought this title. And when I first played it, the experience of this 
 3D racer on the handheld was mind blowing and addictive. I found myself picking it up 5 minutes 
 after putting it down. It's a game where you are determined to get every gold cup so you can unlock 
 new characters and new karts to race in. And if you didn't get the gold then you had to retry to 
 get it.
  
  The graphics are excellent for a ds game. The different race courses are both interesting and beautiful 
 to look at. Sound was good to with all the explosions and character noises in the game. There's 
 also retro cups in this game. These retro cups consist of 4 courses each and the courses are taken 
 from the SNES, N64, GBA and GCN versions of mario kart. Theres the all new missions option in the 
 main menu where you complete the task in a time limit whether it be smash a certain amount of boxes 
 or drive through the tyre loops in order by number. And then there's the classic battle mode with 
 battle arenas that you'll recognize from other mario karts.
  
  This game is excellent and it should definately be in your ds collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Culminating all of the games that bear the "Mart Kart" name. "Mario Kart DS" is a great contemplation 
 of long running series, as well as a great game on its own. Not just is this new foray into the 
 series a great game on its own. Its online play, induced by Nintendo's Wi-Fi service, is quite 
 possibly an amazing service that drives this game into amazing beatifully gorgeous territory. Making 
 this ambitious title just that much better.
  
  Complete with a bevy of playing modes. The single player experience is full of races from begining 
 to end. Complete with 8 different grand-prix races lines, as well as time attack and mission modes 
 that really add a lot to this game. As well as many other features, the aspect that keeps this 
 interesting is that none of these modes feel like throw away features. They are all crafted to 
 there greatest potential making it fun to come back to time after time.
  
  The online play, through Nintendo Wi-Fi, is the games greatest strong point. Using buddy list and 
 friend lists. As well as playing against random people. It really feels like an online game from 
 a console view point. Getting in a game is incredibly easy, and if a game looks like it is going 
 to take a long time. The game auto-matically throughs you in a game, keeping you from waiting. 
 The Wi-Fi play is crafted amazingly and revolutionary in many ways from a handheld stand point. 
 And if you cant get online ( though its on of the biggest features of the game ) , then you can 
 play against friends. Though playing an more then one cart will get you more features. Its quite 
 amazing that you can play the game with up to 8 players on a single cart. Which is technically 
 amazing.
  
  The gameplay is amazing, and the presentation of the game is not faultered at all. The charming 
 looks of the series and colorful look is still intact. As well as making the game look quite possibly 
 amazing on the DS. Colorful, and fluid looks make the game run smooth threw and threw. having the 
 game looking easy on the players eyes. The graphics can look muddy at times when the game getting 
 furious. But nothing serious, and definitely not taking away from the overall look of this otherwise 
 beautiful game to grace Nintendo's handheld system.
  
  The audio is also quite amazing. The sounds and quirks of the mario universe is still here and 
 comes threw the speakers amazingly. Sounding just like the games on the consoles. "Mario Kart DS" 
 sounds just as great as any of the other games to have Mario show his grace. However, in the end, 
 you would have wished there could have been some more new material done, then reusing the same 
 sounds. By doing so, the game could have always sounded more fresh and great. Instead of hearing 
 the same sounds from all of the characters over and over again. However, the game still sounds 
 very nice and quite amazing for what the DS can do. Just not perfect.
  
  "Mario Kart DS" is the complete package. It will keep you coming back for long after any other 
 handheld games have ran there course. The single player game complete with tracks from all of the 
 games thuse far, as well as new and interesting tracks that give the game its own new feel. And 
 the online mode is the one feature that will keep you hooked till rapture. Showing the maturity 
 of Nintendo, and the amazingly professional team's strengths. Nintendo's has created an amazing 
 title that will keep in players minds for some time now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Wow. That's all I have to say about Mario Kart DS. If you haven't ever played a MK game, this isn't 
 a bad place to start, especially for all of the Nintendo handheld afficionados. Let me first say 
 that MK DS was the first game I could truly get addicted to for the DS. I tried Super Mario 64, 
 AoE: Age of Kings, and I couldn't get addicted. But the Wi-Fi capabilities and the addicting single 
 player game modes just kept me hooked. The graphics are also phenomenal compared to the other DS 
 games I've played. While, as in most games, the sound gets a little annoying, this game really 
 showed how consistant Nintendo is at releasing good racing/MK games. While other racing games like 
 Ridge Racer may seem funner due to their realism, I would take Mario Kart anyday over any racing 
 game on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyBlaze_815
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a aa a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whack_Angus
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Wow. That's all I have to say about Mario Kart DS. If you haven't ever played a MK game, this isn't 
 a bad place to start, especially for all of the Nintendo handheld afficionados. Let me first say 
 that MK DS was the first game I could truly get addicted to for the DS. I tried Super Mario 64, 
 AoE: Age of Kings, and I couldn't get addicted. But the Wi-Fi capabilities and the addicting single 
 player game modes just kept me hooked. The graphics are also phenomenal compared to the other DS 
 games I've played. While, as in most games, the sound gets a little annoying, this game really 
 showed how consistant Nintendo is at releasing good racing/MK games. While other racing games like 
 Ridge Racer may seem funner due to their realism, I would take Mario Kart anyday over any racing 
 game on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafaelcorq
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  mario kart has been getting better and better every time and with mario kart ds, its just an amazing 
 game.
  
  this game is the best mario kart game, i just cant stop playing it and i have it
  from the release 
 date till today. great gameplay perfect tilt and cool graphics.
  this game also has wi-fi conectivity so that you can play with people all over the world thats 
 like a dream that came true so all mario kart fans dont hesitate at buyng this game it will keep 
 you busy for some time.
  
  now the items added to this game are: bullet bill and blooper their effect is really cool for instance 
 lets say you have been smashed with... a lets say blue shell and now your position is 8th you grab 
 an item box and voila a bullet bill!
  then it blasts you in to 4th place and th best of it is that it will blast anyone in your way, 
 after that you use a blooper and make every one infront of you blind so you get to 1st place without 
 problem isnt that just great.
  
  well in battle mode there is the shine runners and ballon fight, my opinion on 
  shine runners 
 is that its plain boring but on the other side its ballon fight a game in wish you have to blow 
 into the mic. to inflate baloons and then smash every one else until you win, about 6 courses and 
 that is just great.
  
  in this game you can get up to 12 characters and 36 karts that every one can use and any way im 
 just telling you this game is going to make you a mario kart addict. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Super mario kart back on the SNES was a great game. When the fans wanted a follow up, nintendo 
 delivered with mario kart 64. Once again, nintendo brought mario kart back with super circuit for 
 the GBA. Finally, nintendo did mario kart double dash, and refreshed the experience with all new 
 tag-team kart racing. But for a while the fans have wanted the series to go online. This is where 
 mario kart DS excels. The multiplayer in this game is great. You can race people in regional areas 
 or worldwide. You can choose from having nintendo WiFi connection match your own rank, or you can 
 just find random people. I would've liked to see the game take the battle mode online, but aside 
 from that, multiplayer is great. Now as far as single player goes, it's immersive, highly addictive, 
 and just plain fun. (Yes I know that I just used 3 gamespot quotes in a sentence) . There's tons 
 of unlockables including an all new missions mode for those who have totally beaten the crap out 
 of grand prix. OK, bottom line, simply buy this game if you own a DS. Regardless if you have the 
 WiFi adapter or a wireless router. It's got enough features to keep you busy for a long long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meweus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is realy good. 
  There is alot of gameplay here. i love the number of carts avalible.
  tracks are realy nice.
 
  i love the traps.
  
  3 things are bothering me here.
  1. missions are lame, the missions are like go around the track 3 times in 3 mins.
  2. It gets 
 a little bit repetitive after a while. 
  3. we need a story line here people!!!!
  
  sound is realy not bad.
  grafics are great.
  pop the ballon mode is awsome!!!!!!!!!!
  multiplyer 
 is not bad.
  
  DS owners buy this game now!!!!!!
  
  This game is suprisingly good.
  
  but if never played rent it first!!!!!!!!! but check it out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Mario kart ds came with my ds console (red) . As my first game, I found it easy, it took me three 
 days to finish it except for the mission level 7 that I had not unlocked yet, cause I needed at 
 least a 1-star rating to get it. but then I started playing online. I found it great! I had never 
 played an online game in any console (pc is not a console) unlit that day and I found this characteristic 
 was cool. There was no lag, great! But sometimes the enemies started bouncing and then fell but 
 then they appeared 100 meters forward... They had problems with their connections. Then i saw a 
 guy that had three stars in his head and i thought: "how did he get that?". I won him :) and a 
 pair of other noob guys as I was :) . Then i started playing inspired to get the three stars, I 
 discovered that you got these three stars if you won the complete game with three stars. My worst 
 rank was C. So I was a C... I never got a worse grade than that but never tried to improve it. 
 Now I tried. It took me 2 WEEKS to get this three stars in missions (now with the 7th level) and 
 cups. I found the graphics great, the multiplayer was intense and exciting. but it was too easy 
 except when i found another three stars. 
  
  But I got angry with some stupid newby players that DISCONNECTED thinking that they would not lose 
 score... but here is the truth: IF YOU DISSCONECT WHEN PALYING AGAINST 1 PLAYER YOU GET 1 LOSE 
 POINT, iF YOU DISCONNECT WHEN PLAYING WITH 2 PLAYERS YOU GET 2 LOSE POINTS, AND IF YOU DISCONNECT 
 WHEN PLAYING WITH THREE PLAYERS YOU LOOSE THE COMPLETE 3 POINTS, YOU GET 3 NEGATIVE POINTS EVEN 
 IF YOU WERE SECOND PLACE! and WHEN YOU FINISH THE GAME IN SECOND PLACE: YOU WIN 2 POSITIVE AND 
 1 NGATIVE POINTS, WHEN YOU FINISH 3RD: YOU WIN 1 POSITIVE AND 2 NEGATIVE POINTS, AND WHEN YOU FINISH 
 FOURTH: YOU GET THREE NEGATIVE POINTS AS IF YOU DISCONNECTED, AND WHEN YOU FINISH FIRST (ALL THIS 
 IN A FOUR-PLAYER MATCH) YOU WIN THE THREE POSITIVE POINTS. So just don't Do it please. Make the 
 game fun because this characteristic of cowards disconnecting made me decrease some points in this 
 game's rating. 
  
  Question: How do you paint your character (not your emblem) ? I once saw a Japanese-named guy that 
 had I red and white rob.. how did he got that? But he was also noob because I was winning him in 
 a four player match, he was second and he DISCONNECTED!!!!!!! (that makes me furious, it is not 
 good for you and the other ones get bored!) Please mail me if you now how to do it :)
  
  Now I play Metroid P. Hunters and I am a 1 star noob in this game but I just won a three stars 
 guy and another one star guy :O :) , if you have it, here's my FC: 4123-8510-8840. Mail me with 
 yours if you are interested :)
  
  Thanks for reading. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: treehopper29
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I must say this is one of the funnest games I have ever played. When I bought my DS I was just 
 hoping that some good games would come out soon. There isn't much better then Mario Kart DS.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is perfect. I know perfect is a strong word but it is, its perfect. 
 Everything from the menus the standard Mario weaponry is great. when you race its just fun and 
 thats all that a game is for, to have fun.
  
  Graphics: There isn't much to say about the graphics. Except that they are great for the DS and 
 it just fits with the whole game and the mood and fun af it all.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is to be expected. There is the classic Mario Kart theme and the 
 themes for all the classic tracks along with the new tracks. Like I said with the graphics it just 
 fits.
  
  Overall this a perfect game. Although I have some problems with the Wifi nothing worth subtracting 
 any points. All in all the combination of the old and the new, plus the Wifi connectivity its just 
 awesome. A must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jediwannabeon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been fun for me, but also (at least in mind) it has always gotten the short 
 end of the straw for any Nintendo system it's been on. However, this is not the case with Mario 
 Kart DS! While it can not hope to beat graphically with Mario: Double Dash on Gamecube it is by 
 FAR the best looking game on the DS! Amazing 60 fps and vibrant colors and resolution! But not 
 only is Mario Kart a good looking game it also has the more stuff to do then any Mario Kart I know 
 of to date! Not only are there tons of tracks to race on and loads of karts and people to choose, 
 but also the battles are all there and even a new level game. WIFI is also included so you can 
 share your experience with everyone. This game is the best game I've seen out for DS right now, 
 and defintly the best Mario Kart of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  i'm just going to start with the words "play it, play it now damn you."
  ahem, ok so it's great yeah, gameplay, unlockables, the works. this will last a long time because 
 there is so much to do. there is a good few new race courses and as a bonus, they include old tracks 
 from previous Mario Kart games such as Sky Garden and Luigi circuit. there is also some new unlockable 
 characters but i don't have any yet. for each character i think there is 7 different cars i'm not 
 sure but i thought i read it somewhere.
  the battle mode is a laugh to play. so much happens on screen at a time and can easily become addictive. 
 there is 2 modes in battle, Shine runners and balloon battle. in balloon battle you have to hit 
 your opponent and burst their balloons, whats fun about this is you can blow into the ds mic and 
 the balloon will inflate, alternatively you can just hold the select button. 
  shine runners you collect "shines" and the people with the least amount of shines get eliminated.
 
  W. F. C (wi-fi connection) is absolute balls out fun to play, against rivals, friends or just people 
 from round the globe.
  the main thing though about mario kart is that it one of the most fun games to play on your ds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameshark5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart ds is another game under the name Mario Kart. Theres been Mario kart, Mario Kart Super 
 Circuit, double dash, and now DS. This game i think is the best out of those, to the review.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Mario Kart DS is the basic kart racing game. You can do a little 
 hop, reverse, fire weapons, and.. drive. There are tons of weapons in this game, but sadly you get 
 the worst end of them when your up in front. I mean bananas, fake blocks and maybe a shell once 
 in a while. Now, these sound good, but there are a lot of other weapons out there too. 
  
  There are a good few levels in Mario Kart DS. Theres the new levels, plus old levels from previous 
 games.. 
  
  There are a few new people to play with, theres wifi connection, friend codes, and you can make 
 a nickname and emblem.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look great. The levels are detailed, and there is definetly alot of thought 
 put into them. The characters however, could look better. Mario seems a little, whats the word 
 pixely? He looked better in Super Mario 64 DS, but it still looks better then the N64. 
  
   oh yeah. There are plenty of levels with great detail and i guess 
 the word great summarizes the levels. Quite a bit of choices for emblems, you start with 2 different 
 looking carts for each player, which are all unique for each player.
  
  Sound: The music is good, the voices sound unique, the sound effects are good. Plenty of shell 
 smacking action, boo screaming, thunder zapping, voice cracking, high pitched, vroom vrooming, 
 boing boinging... the works. 
  
  Main screen music is catchy, and wont disapoint you, great sound effects, cool music. Grand.
 
  
  Value: Lots of levels to go through, characters to use, balloon fighting, new star shine mode, 
 the levels will give you a lot to do, multiplayer mode, online play, you wont be bored at all, 
 racing against computers is fun enough for me. 
  
  Tilt: Great game, great music, great levels. Great. This game is an excellent choice for DS owners, 
 racing fans, mario fanatics, this is overall an excellent game for anybody.
  
  Difficulty: Variable
  Time: 10-20 hours ( i had to pick something)
  Curve: 0-30 mins
  Class: 
 Masterpiece
  
  9.3 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is by far the best mario game on the Nintendo DS. Playing single player mode one 
 can pay multiplayer mode (with the computer controlled rivals) A first to the series, and very much 
 welcomed. It has the amazing balloon battle and shine runners both very addicting you can split 
 into teams or every person by themeselves. It also incluse missions where you must meet your objective 
 to pass on to the next level. It also introduces new characters like dry bones and classic tracks 
 like N64 Choco Mountain, and GCN Baby Park. Also, since it has wi-fi connection u can go online 
 and play with anyone around the world, so replay values are endless. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS has to be the greatest game out for the DS right now. For the DS, Mario Kart has 
 some great graphics and amazing racing! So much to do with this game .... from the selection of 
 characters, weapons, and karts. You get to personalize your own emblem and name which is awesome! 
 And Wi-Fi for this game is also another feature that makes this game go over the top! Wi-Fi Tag: 
 BurtOnBoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart for the DS is excellent. The gameplay is lengthy and competative. There is a variety of 
 characters and cars, as well as unlockable ones too. The wi-fi is also worthy too. Though you are 
 limited to a certain number of tracks, racing through wi-fi is fun and the gamers you may encounter 
 are unique and you might even learn their tricks of the trade.
  
  There is also mission mode, where you complete tasks and once completed, you move onto harder missions 
 that test you skill. I have difficulty with some mission, but overall they add to the game's fun 
 factor.
  
  This game is a must have for the DS system. It's simple controls and easy use make it easy for any 
 gamer to play, while still making it fun for anyone who plays it. I highly recommend this game. If 
 you don't own it, you're missing out on a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_MKRPG
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is by far the best mario kart game in its series. Playing single player mode one 
 can pay multiplayer mode (with the cpu) A first to the series, and very much welcomed. It has the 
 classic balloon fight and shine runners both very addicting you can split into teams or every person 
 by themeselves. It also incluse a missions where you must meet your objective to pass on to the 
 next level. It also introduces new characters , and classic tracks like N64 moo farms, and GCN Baby. 
 Also, since its wi-fi one can go online and play with anyone around the world, so replay values 
 are endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuts24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I don't own this game but when I play it on my friends ds, I can't let go of it! True the Wi-Fi 
 is the best part of this game, but I do not believe any of the other features are "wastes of time". 
 Unlocking characters is fun, and the mini missions are cool too. I don't mind at all the repetitiveness 
 of the courses, because all the other features are exciting and unique. Nintendo really scored 
 off of this one. If they keep making games like these, PSP will really be out of its league. Nintendo 
 makes great use of both screens, and they realized that you don't "need to touch" in order to make 
 a good game. The unlockable characters adds replay value to the game, and so do the mini games. 
 All in all a great solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggon1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  One of the top 10 games that must be in your collection. It contains every mario kart track ever 
 made. Plus the characters in the game are plentiful which means it will stop the bickering over 
 charectors. The only way you will stop playing this game is if a sequal comes out (or when the new 
 zelda game comes out) . The game has good sounds, the graghics hold up well, And the the single 
 player portion is rewarding. Also there will be boss misins unlocked from smaller missions. the 
 real game is the multiplayer part. You can play with people every where all over the world (Made 
 easy with mcdanalds wifi connection support) . It should defintly not be passed up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best out of all Mario Kart games if you dont think so then your not a true 
 gamer this game besides Metroid Prime Hunters is what makes the DS what it is thats a trie definite 
 fact that i truley beleive in!!! Anyway ,its got all of the great charecters from the unverise enclding 
 more it also has more new tracks as well old tracks the one down side is the wi-fi takes a long 
 time to get others to play i know it takes a while but come on well this a game that you should 
 want to get if you dont already have ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigatwo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  You Knew it was coming Mario Kart DS. Get Ready to put the Petal to the Metal. This is the game that 
 outsold all psp games put together. This is the latest addition of Mario Kart. A mario franchize 
 that started on the Snes. This is the reaon many people bought the DS. This game is Highly Addictive 
 from the time you start 50cc to the time you Get 3 stars in every race on 150cc mirror mode. The 
 new nintendo Wi-Fi is one of the best online services since xbox live first came out. The best part 
 is ....... its Free. Thats Right free. The Best thing i like about mario kart ds is you only need 
 1 game and up to 7 more people can download the game.8 people on 1 card thats amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXDenieru
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I bought a Mario Kart DS-NDS bundle in Chistmas. Since then, I have my DS with this game all the 
 time.
  With amazing DS graphics, nice music and gameplay, this is a NDS musthave game.
  
  The courses are well desingned, and its a nice detail to include some courses of old-versions of 
 MK.
  
  The graphics are great, only when use a Green Shell, it seems like a flying photo, but it's only 
 a little detail.
  The difficulty is a little weird sometimes-somewhat unfair-.
  I haven't tried the WI-FI connection, but some friends say that's very fun to play with other people 
 (excluding the disconnecters) .
  
  You have a great Racing game in front of you ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeddimaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS packs a whole Mario Kart experience into your handheld. It is my absolute favorite 
 DS game, has incredible gameplay, and great lasting appeal.
  
  If you've never played a Mario Kart game before (doubtful) , then you know how original of a game 
 it is. First introduced on the SNES back in the day, Mario Kart has evolved on the N64, the GBA, 
 the GC, and now makes an appearance on the DS. Its graphics are very comparable to those on the 
 N64, and are some of the best 3D graphics on the system.
  
  The gameplay of Mario Kart is top-knotch. It's a blast to play, and the creative level designs 
 take full advantage of the driving mechanics. In 50cc (easy) mode, all you have to do to win a 
 race is hold down the B button (gas) and use left and right to steer. In the more difficult tiers 
 (100cc and 150cc) it is necessary to have a few tricks up your sleeve. Proper use of weapons comes 
 into play. All weapons are used to temporarily slow your opponents, or speed up your own kart. 
 It's all very Nintendo, as there are no traces of violence in the available arsenal of weapons 
 (turtle shells, bananas, and the like) . It will also be necessary to drift in order to win a race. 
 This is the equivalent of using a handbrake to turn in other racing games. By drifting around turns 
 you can maintain speed while turning, avoiding time loss. Once you've mastered drifting, it will 
 be necessary to pull off a "drift boost," which is accomplished by rapidly alternating left and 
 right while drifting. The learning curve to get to this point may sound hefty, but by the time 
 you master all of it you'll have had a lot of fun, and once you use the drift boost to defeat all 
 your opponents in 150cc mode, you can move on to online play, and this is where it really gets 
 fun.
  
  Which brings me to value. Without Wi-Fi, this game has a lot to do. Beating all cc modes is tough, 
 and really requires that you hone your skills. There are a number of other modes, too, including 
 missions, battle, versus, and time trials. There's plenty to keep you busy for hours and hours. 
 Even if you finish all this, you have the option of Wi-Fi play. You can race against up to 3 other 
 opponents from around the world. It is unfortunate that only 4 can play at a time, but extremely 
 entertaining nonetheless. You can also play against a friend if they own a DS.
  
  The graphics are some of the best on the system. Every aspect of the game has incredible graphics, 
 and I only award it with a 9 because Metroid Prime: Hunters is a perfect 10.
  
  Sound is great. The music is a perfect 10, but the character voices could have been a lot better. 
 Donkey Kong sounds **** (literally) , and Bowser sounds like Timmy from South Park.
  
  This is my favorite game by far on DS, and gave it the maximum tilt.
  
  If you own a DS and 
 don't have Mario Kart, then you've been missing out! Get down to your local game shop NOW and pick 
 it up. If you're considering buying a DS, this is the reason to own one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game for Christmas, I knew it was going to be fun. Turns out, it was 10 TIMES more 
 fun than I could have possibly imagined. The online races.... ahhh..... the sweet new  
 tracks!! Apart from Perfect Dark 64, Mario Kart 64 was probably the best game for that system. 
 I was thrilled to see the old tracks brought back. The gameplay, on the other hand, is simply suberb. 
 I actually feel like I'm in control of my vehicle; and trust me, there's not many racing games 
 nowadays that you feel that kinda control. The graphics are awesome, and the environments are great 
 was well. It's nice to see what the DS can do, since so many developers are giving the system a 
 bad name by just porting GBA games and adding some screwy features that accommodate the touch screen.... whatever. 
 This is the second best DS game out to date, with Metroid Prime Hunters being in first. The fun 
 lasts forever, since there are so many features apart from online and grand prix. Keep playing 
 and maybe I'll see you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcebdan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  The newest entry in the kart-racing series is back! Mario Kart DS for the Nintendo DS delivers 
 in many ways. This is Nintendo's first stab at its Wi-Fi connection service. 
  
  Mario and his friends (and foes) are all back in this small cartridge. There are 8 characters at 
 start and 4 to unlock. The first 8 characters you have are: Mario, Luigi, Toad, Peach, Bowser, 
 Donkey Kong, Wario, and Yoshi. Each character has their own characteristics. The new twist in this 
 game is that every character has their own special karts. You start off with three karts, but you 
 can unlock more of them as you progress. The karts will ultimately define how your character and 
 you, will perform in a race.
  
  Karts have their own characteristics such as, items, speed, weight, acceleration, and drift. The 
 higher the items bar is, the more likely your character will get 'better' items. There is a drawback 
 also, you will also be affected by items for a longer period of time. Speed is...... well, how fast 
 you can go. Acceleration is how your kart will start performing when you start pressing the 'A' 
 button to accelerate. Weight is very noticeable in the game also; the higher the weight, the more 
 power you have to puch other players around and the more you will slow down offroad. A double-edged 
 sword.
  
  The sound in the game is great. All the characters are back with their annoying little grunts, 
 moans, and catch-phrases. The music in each course is unique and enjoyable. Some classic tunes 
 might make some feel at home too! You'll find yourself humming a song while you are playing.
  
  The classic style is back. You have 4 different Gran Prix courses to start off with. The first 
 is made up of all-new courses and the next is all classic courses from the past Mario Kart games. 
 You can unlock more as you progress. 
  
  The graphics are amazing too. Nice and smooth gameplay. The frame rate is also great. One of the 
 best looking games on the DS to date. The classic items are back as well and there are some in 
 this game that were left out of the GameCube Mario Kart. These items are: Boo, Bob-omb, Bullet 
 Bill, and Blooper items. The Bullet Bill item turns you into a super-fast Bullet Bill that crashes 
 throught every character in front of it and you are invulnerable to attacks during this transformation. 
 The Blooper Item sprays ink on every opponent in front of you, blocking most of their top screen. 
 Drifting is also back, a great mechanic for miniboosting through corners. You might see some people 
 abuse this though. The jump or 'hop' is also back in this game, making it is for you to drift.
 
  
  Aside from Grand Prix there is Mission mode. You embark on missions that have you doing something 
 different, then you fight a boss. These missions are a nice addition to the Mario Kart series, 
 as it adds replay value to the game.
  
  Multiplayer mode; the meat of the game is here. All the modes you would expect from a Mario Kart 
 game. Standard races with other players. There is sigle-card play and multi-card play. SIngle cart 
 only allows you to choose from 8 courses, while in multi-card, there are no limitations. Balloon 
 Battle is Back with 2 classic stages; Block Fort and Pipe Plaza and 4 new stages. In this version 
 you start off with only one balloon, but you have four in reserve. You can either blow in the mic 
 or hold select to inflate your reserve balloons. There is also shine runners. In this version of 
 Battle you must collect the most shine sprites before the timer runs out. 
  
  The newest and most obvious addition to the game is online Wi-Fi play. You have a 12-digit friend 
 code that you can exchange with people if you want to play them, but you can also play complete 
 strangers in Worlwide, Rivals, or Regional modes. The online is fun, but there are differences 
 in gameplay. You can't hold items in the back of your kart and the 3 red shell, 3 green shell, 
 and 3 banana items are not present in online. Also, only 20 out of the 32 courses are playable 
 online. 
  
  Even with some minor disadvantages in the gameplay and online in Wi-Fi connection, this game holds 
 up very well. This is by far the best Mario Kart entry and a great way to start of Nintendo's Wi-Fi 
 connection service. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is absolutely brilliant I think the game is so fun my favourite character is Yoshi 
 but my favourite Kart is mario's. If you read this review can you message me to tell me how to 
 powerslide turbo boost thanks. The graphics aren't the greatest I think the gameplay is brilliant 
 the sound can be a little annoying the value is great. This game is the best on the DS my favourite 
 mode is VS I like the competition that you get the hardest part of the game is the missions. I 
 recommend the as I thought it was exciting and I loved the all the races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Se_BBB_e
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  This is a great fun racing game. There are many tracks, karts and characters to choose from, which 
 are all inspired and unique. Some of the retro tracks are pretty "flat", though. There are also 
 several game modes. Tournament, multiplayer over internet och locally (single-cart) , two battle 
 modes (one destruction derby kinda, and one where you collect shines) and a story mode where you 
 are given missions and boss fights.
  
  The graphics are really great for a DS game. The karts and characters are in full 3D and they are 
 really detailed. Ugly textures are VERY uncommon, and the frame rate stays smooth even when there 
 are eight detailed karts on screen. I've actually never experienced any slowdown at all. The tracks 
 are creative and interesting and there are some nice twists in some of them, like traffic and pinballs 
 (!) .
  
  The sound effects are great, too. All characters have their own voice and they scream things like 
 "yahoo" during the race. But in the sound departement, it's the music that really stands out. Composed 
 in real Nintendo style, it's as good as ever and it adds a lot to the game. There are pleny of 
 sound tracks and you are sure not to be bored by them.
  
  This game fits best to play in short bursts. There are a ton of things to do but if you want to 
 sit down and play a game for a couple of hours, you're better off getting a game with a storyline. 
 Still, this is one of the best games for the DS now, and it both looks, sounds and plays great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atofu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  well, i got it 3 days ago and i've completed all the grand prixs, there is a lot to unlock but 
 you have to get a gold trophie / award every time you win. Don't worry you can always do the cup 
 again. The first one yo unlock dry bones, then Daisy, then a 3rd kart, wailuigi, 7 kart, mirror 
 mode 150cc, R. O. B ( a character) , mario background and a different thank you for playing sign for 
 that last cup lol.
  Well, at first i found it quite hard to master when i was in 100cc but then i improved and found 
 150cc easier and 150cc mirror EVEN MORE easier. They also have missions which are quite hard, if 
 you get at least a star overall rating for the levels you unlock level 7. I am currently on the 
 boss of level 3 and believe me ITS HARD! The graphics were superb. Also the music was quite good 
 and i liked how it speeded up on the last lap ( always gets you more excited!) It is very easy 
 to learn the controls as all racing games literally have the same ones. You can do Wi-FI and multiplayer 
 and it is so fun! Me and my friends always meet up and have a massive race. I haven't got a wirless 
 router or a Wi-F- usb plug thingy so i haven't experienced it, but appearently it is really fun. 
 ( by the way sorry for my spelling mistakes lol) You can also do time trials where you can improve 
 you racing times, also you can use the ghost option which always helps. Also if you want to find 
 a shortcut it is easier to use time trials rather than the gran prix.
  overall it is an excellent game and is an ESSENTIAL for all DS players!
  Atofu
  OUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Real_Madridista
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  this is best game ever. it is `awsome. No dout. Im going to say u should get this game and dont pay 
 attencion to bad comments. they just haters. I onyl play with Yoshi. I got it like a little bit ago. I 
 havent won it yet but im close. This game owns all DS game. (equal to MP: H) Not to leave out that 
 it has 32 race track. (wide varity) This game is worth the money, time and wait. Its one of the best 
 mario games ive played. (since the NES) It a great caloboration of classic and new. I love fighting 
 in the Block City (ballons) havent gotten wifi but going to soon. Cant wait to kill ppl on wifi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmkyle
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok Mario Kart games have always been amazing and it makes me happy to say that they still are. MKDS 
 is the most fully featured Mario Kart there is. There are tons of modes, maps and unlockables to 
 keep you busy for months. You probably wont need any other game for a long time.
  
  The game plays a lot like you would expect from a Mario Kart game, you race and collect items to 
 destroy and confuse the other racers. That works well in MKDS and there are new items like the Squid 
 that inks your screen keeping you off balance in the race but a mushroom or two will wipe it off 
 fast. The game has standard racing types (50-150cc) and mirror mode which turns the level opposite 
 direction. There are a ton of new and old levels to race on and its safe to say the multiplayer 
 is back and better than ever, there are three multiplayer modes Balloon Battle, Shine Thief and just 
 racing in general and map favorites such as Block Fort and Pipe Plaza are back. Theres also a WIFI 
 mode and its pretty basic just join a game and race. Though the game can be hard at time because 
 its easy to run out of luck and get items like blocks and bananas the whole race while AI gets 
 red and blue shells every second.
  
  The game looks pretty amazing and the level design is fantasic and its very colorful and cartoony. Although 
 it does sometimes look blocky and it can get very laggy online so it brings the graphics down a 
 peg.
  
  MKDS sounds friendly and exciting but ther racers make repetitve noises and its really annoying 
 such as Daisy screaming out WAH HHOOOOO every single time she passes you.... It makes you want to 
 take a knife and slit her damn head off. But other than that everything else sounds top notch. The 
 game sounds like a Mario game should.
  
  Theres a lot to do and see in MKDS, tons of unlockables, races and of course wifi will keep you coming 
 back for more and more until your DS battery can work no longer. But its a real shame the WIFI mode 
 couldnt have been fleshed out a little better and had more variety options.
  
  But overall if your wanting to check the racing genre out there would be no better way to do it 
 than here. And if your a fan of MK you have to own this game as many will probably think its the 
 best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parksits
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I picked up the game i didn't put it down for hours, it is highly addictive and extremely 
 fun. There is a new mission mode with easy, medium, and perplexingly (not sure is a real word) hard 
 trials. The battle mode is also back along with a new way to get balloons, all you do is blow softly 
 into the mic. Which is a fairly innovative way of using this DS exclusive microphone. The classes 
 are all well varied, I thought that the 150cc mirror mode was extremely ####### not only your brain 
 but also your fingers, but what you unlock by doing so is soooo worth all the work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painx_9
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  if you've ever been the proud owner of a Nintendo system, or have at least befriended somebody 
 with one, odds are you've encountered a Mario Kart game at some point. The popular racing series, 
 which first appeared on the Super Nintendo in 1992, lets you race your favorite Nintendo characters 
 against each other in karts that can be armed with such devastating weapons as banana peels, opponent-seeking 
 red shells, and opponent-shrinking lightning bolts. The series has evolved steadily with each iteration, 
 up to and including 2003's Mario Kart: Double Dash, which retained most of its predecessors' features 
 while introducing a new team-based mechanic that saw each cart manned by both a driver and a gunner. 
 Mario Kart DS, then, might seem like something of a step back for the series in that it more closely 
 resembles the Super Nintendo and Nintendo 64 games than the GameCube version; but, as the first 
 game in the series to boast integrated online play, it also represents a major step forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Captain_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, you can't go wrong with this game. Sure, there are bad things about it, but with the 
 extraordinary amount of content, how could it be bad?
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  Extremely solid with awesome AI. Sometimes, the AI is so good it actually feels as if you are playing 
 with real people. Some people would argue that this game is luck over skill, but I strongly disagree. 
 Skill is the main part in this game. Strategy too. With some of the new items and stages, you could 
 be coming up with a new strategy every time you pop in the game until you get the absolute perfect 
 strategy. Another factor in gameplay is snaking. Snaking is when you weave back and forth doing 
 powerslides to move much quicker than normal. Many people snake, while many people are strongly 
 opposed to snaking. Personally, I snake, but that's just because if something helps me move faster, 
 I'll do it.
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  
  Absolutely gorgeous for the DS. They are, in fact, better than Mario Kart 64. The reason I give 
 it a nine, though, is because a jaggie might pop up once in a while, and some 2d objects on certain 
 tracks are awkward. Other than that, the graphics are amazing.
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  Music is amazing. Believe me, you'll be humming the tune to Waluigi Pinball once you buy this game. 
 The sound effects are good, but get repetitive easily. Sometimes sound effects don't entirely come 
 through for some reason, and you'll hear the first part of the sound, but it'll be cut off by another 
 sound effect. I really wish that there was a sound test, to listen to the awesome music.
  
  Replay- 10/10
  
  This game has it all. I'd say that I'll be playing this game well until the 
 next Mario Kart releases, which doesn't seem to be soon. Trying to unlock every cup, every character, 
 every kart, every staff ghost, and getting 3 stars above your name online will take a LONG time.
 
  
  Content- 10/10
  
  This is where the game really shines. With 4 stages from each previous Mario Kart, you can never 
 bored with all the stages. This game also features Battle Mode, which puts you in battle/racing 
 type situations, ending in a boss. It also features bots for Battle Mode, something I've been yearning 
 for since Mario Kart 64. The new versus mode lets you have teams of four pit each other out, and 
 the online mode is amazing. Extremely simplistic to use, once you get the hang of it. New items 
 include the Blooper, which covers everyone in front of you's screen with ink, making it hard for 
 them to drive. This is the only part where the AI might seem a little messed up, because all that 
 they do is drive back and forth. There is also the Bullet Bill, which turns you into a giant Bullet 
 Bill so that you can smash through everyone in front of you and move much, much faster than normal.
 
  
  Controls- 8/10
  
  I wish that they would let me choose the controls, but sadly, it ain't happening. The usage of 
 B for acceleration results in hand cramps and sore thumbs. Other than that detail, it's fine.
  
  Online- 10/10
  
  Most people would strongly disagree with a ten because of the random choosing 
 of friends, long wait times, and short friend rosters. However, once you get the hang of how everything 
 works on Wi-fi, it's a snap. I'm also extremely patient, so long waits don't affect me. Lag is 
 one thing I don't like though. Lag in Mario Kart DS causes opponents to shake uncontrollably and 
 make it look like they fall off cliffs when they really didn't. Again, I don't really care about 
 this because I know that it is lag. 
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  Amazing game, must buy for Mario Kart fan or anyone who is new to Mario Kart. With all of the content, 
 anyone, and I mean ANYONE will love this game. So I urge you to go to your local retailer, pick 
 it up, try it, and buy it. You won't regret it. Thanks for reading, and I hope this helps you!
 
  
  ~Cap'n
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 5, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Finally, Mario Kart geeks can get their fix on the go through the DS. This game contains tracks 
 from the SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN mario karts, along with brand new tracks. Their are a couple of 
 new racers also. Their is tons to do. People to unlock, and other karts. The main draw of this 
 game is the wi-fi modes. Mario Kart DS +wi-fi= pure pwnage. The wi-fi will keep you busy for months. 
 This is probably the best DS game to date. And with the growing number of great DS games, this 
 is a perfect game to get if you just got a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honeysyrup
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the fifth Mario Kart game developed and it's for the Nintendo DS handheld console. 
 When I first encountered this game I was saying to myself that this game will be no better than 
 the other Mario Kart games. Well my friends, I was certainly wrong. I really didn't enjoy the previous 
 Mario Kart games because of the lack of effort, but Mario Kart DS changed all of that for me. Read 
 my review to find out why:
  
  Gameplay: Just like every Mario Kart game, Mario Kart DS's gameplay is similar. You drive in karts 
 to aim to get first place and you use items to help you achieve that. Mario Kart games have always 
 had great gameplay and have never really changed from that and Mario Kart DS is really no different.
 
  
  Graphics: Now this is what I call taking advantage of the DS's power. Mario Kart DS proves to have 
 good graphics on the handheld console and is probably one of the best on the Nintendo DS.
  
  Sound: The sound is done well in Mario Kart DS. The sound isn't annoying at all and is actually 
 enjoyable rather than annoying. Well really no surprise here all the Mario Kart games have always 
 had good sound and enjoyable music as well.
  
  Value: This is always what all Mario Kart games lacked in and that was value. All Mario Kart games 
 were really fun at first but then when you got all the gold trophies you really didn't find yourself 
 really wanting to go back and playing again. Even the multiplayer because with 3 or 4 people there 
 were no computers and that was just plain boring unless you actually liked being in a kart with 
 someone else in Double Dash. Mario Kart DS changes all of that with the value even better. For 
 each cc Mario Kart DS has you to get all the trophies in all 8 cups and also with the unlockables 
 it makes you want to actually do it. Also, in multiplayer you can race with computers even if you 
 have more than 2 people which makes the value much better for multiplayer. And with wi-fi the value 
 just gets better for you racing other people around the world or with your friends.
  
  Overall I thought that Mario Kart DS was a very good game. If you don't like racing games and you're 
 not a fan of Mario then just skip buying this game because you will be bored. If you're just a 
 fan of racing and not Mario then I would still check this game out and see if you like it. Mario 
 Kart DS is one of the best out there for the DS currently and I think there could've been things 
 to make it better, but it's still a game worth any racing and/or Mario fans time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olip
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  I play Mario Kart DS now for approximately 15 hours and it never gets boring. Sometimes I get really 
 angry and stop playing, but a few minutes later I try again. The game is very addictive. Mario 
 Kart DS also has a great value. I bought it for 40 Euros and it is really worth the money.
  You can unlock additional cups and characters and it takes very long to unlock everything.
  There 
 are also new weapons. For example the blooper (a flying squid) , which squirts black ink on the 
 screen or the Bullet-Bill power-up, where your player turns into a bullet.
  Very cool are the race missions, which are very challenging. The missions are separated in 6 levels 
 and one secret level. In every level there are 9 missions and at the end of each level you are 
 facing a boss.
  The competition mode is also back. You can choose between the battle-mode games: balloon battle 
 and shine runners.
  All in all I really recommend Mario Kart DS. You will have a lot of fun with this game and you 
 will not be able to stop playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grim_reapez
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  this game has to be the best ds game out there, i mean within this game youve got endless hours 
 of fun and i mean endless especially with the wifi.
  
  the graphics are the best the ds have given to us, they really do push the hh to the limits! there 
 are very few graphical errors and the ones that are there are only minor that you wont even notice.
 
  
  the gameplay is a superb you cant really fault it, there are not many issues with gameplay and 
 if there are any i can say almost all the games for the ds have them.
  
  the wifi is the games strongest point as you can enjoy either just a few races or a full out few 
 hours and never get bored you can enjoy the game to the fullest with the wi fi and we all now mario 
 kart ds wifi is where its all at with the game.
  
  th sound is just as good as any other racer you can hear the screech of the tires as you spin round 
 a corner and you can hear the "rev" of th engine, but whats best is hearing bowser get hit by a 
 blue shell!
  
  this game delivers what it should a fun, action filled, addictive, ds game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hangid
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in series period. Not only does it have new courses it has courses from Super 
 Mario Kart, Mario Kart Double, Mario kart 64 and Mario kart super circuit. Not only that but it has 
 Nintendo WI-FI connection single and multi card play multiplayer. The single player also has many 
 selections. You can also sharpen your skills in battle and racing by V. S CPU. Olso another interesting 
 thing is the emblem on your kart which can be different designs. Mario kart DS has 8 original characters 
 and for secret characters. The news cars are very creative From Mario's shooting star to Yoshi's 
 cucumber they're all very cool. If you have a DS you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmorey01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is the sole reason you need to get a DS. The gameplay is truly addictive and will steal 
 months of your free time. There is alot to do, they even added missions you can do if by chance, 
 you get bored of racing. They added a couple of new wepons for this addition which makes this even 
 more worth playing. The graphics are the best for the DS even though i thought the shells looked 
 kinda cheesy. There is loads of value, unlockable tracks, retro cup which brings back you favorite 
 tracks from previous titles, unlockable missions and 4 people can play with just one game card. 
 The sound is great although the music is very low and can barely hear it over all the carnage. 
 So if you like mario kart, or like having fun at all, you should drop everything and get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelfer320
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm no fan of the Mario series at all even though his first game was the first game I played in 
 my life. I picked up this cause I just like the Mario Kart series because its always been really 
 fun since the first Mario Kart on the SNES. As soon as I started playing, I couldn't stop (just 
 like I do with almost all of my games in my collection) . I haven't tried the Wi-Fi yet. I'll buy 
 the adapter soon so any of you who owns this game now and would be honored to race me. Everything 
 about this game is great, fun, and highly addictive. You have to buy this game if you own a DS. 
 No matter if your a fan of Mario or not. If your looking for a great racing game for your DS, this 
 is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, the GBA version was more addictive than heroin and nobody could get enough of Yoshi 
 and his supremeness.
  No, owning a DS and NOT owning this game would just be an absolute crime!
  The game in itself 
 has allready sold millions before the DS version came out, backing it as an allready good game, 
 but the DS version is one of the best around.
  The characters to start are all fantastic, very individual and very colourful. This time, Yoshi 
 isn't the greatest racer by far because each racer has a different driving style.
  Dry Bones and Yoshi are the most casual, Toad and Peach are lighter with the touch and Bowser is 
 a heavy racer that slams people aside. Whatever the style, you know there's a character in there 
 for you.
  Personally, i like Daisy over the others, her lightness and easy breeze chic makes it easier for 
 me to win.
  The characters themselves you will know and soon find it easy to love, the tracks are all wacky 
 with the crazy little bombs and mushrooms plotting their evil ways to prevent you crossing the 
 finish line in 1st place.
  
  But by far the most impressive features about this game are the wi-fi system and retro tracks you 
 can play after completing the varieties of difficulty.
  The wi-fi system is fantastic giving the game a fun and enjoyable multiplaying ride which you and 
 your friends can really enjoy.
  
  If not the best DS game created so far, definetly the greatest racer the Dual Screen Handheld has 
 seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario is allot of people's friends. From long, long ago when he made his big him to now with Mario 
 Kart DS. He has had a long trip from 1981 to now, and he still grows in fame.
  
  Mario Kart DS is more or less the same game that has came down from NES to N64. It feature's great 
 graphics for what you would think of a hand held. It also has many game play modes. Grand Prix, 
 Time Trials, VS, Battle, and Missions.
  
  It also has multi player which ranges from single card play where other people with a DS who don't 
 have Mario Kart can download for you and play with you to the brand new Wi-Fi where you can play 
 with up to 3 other players (4 including you) from around the world.
  
  It also feature's many character's we have come to know and love such as Mario himself, Luigi, 
 Yoshi, Donkey Kong and many others. Enjoy this game alone or with other players the choice is yours, 
 but what ever you do you will get you're money worth out of it.
  
  If you are in need of a DS game that will promise you hours or even days of fun get Mario Kart 
 DS. I give this game an honest 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zimxz1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS has basically every single track from the original games Mario Kart 64, Double Dash, 
 Super circuit and the original for the SNES.
  
  So it has a lot to offer in terms of levels, but many of the old ones seem boring after having 
 played a level from double dash.
  
  After playing portable racers like Wipe-out-pure Mario kart DS just seems to slow (yep slow)
 
  
  SoO0 there are problems but with REAL online play and tons multiplayer (up to off 8 off 1 friggin 
 card) this a game you wont want to just pass you byez N stuff
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murasaki-kun
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Getting this game made me appreciate racing games. I'm not too good, but it's still fun to play. 
 With four different settings to race on the Grand Prix, a Time Attack, and a Missions setting, 
 this game is overloaded with play time. In the game, you basically race to unlock cars, or new 
 tracks. While racing, the better place you are, the worse items you get. Some people think that 
 this is a stupid thing, but I think it's FAIR. I mean, if you were in first place and got a squid, 
 it'd just make everyone more behind, making the game too easy. When you go online, you usually 
 don't find easy opponents, so you don't win so often. But once you get pretty good, the online 
 part is fun. You also get to create your own emblem, which people are able to see. A few things 
 that I didn't like about this game is that it stopped being fun after a while. Although there's 
 the WiFi, there are still people bailing out of the games if they're losing.
  
  -the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildWorlds
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great game with no major flaws. The overall layout of the game is outstanding. 
 It takes 16 classic tracks and adds them to 16 new ones plus some new cool modes making this the 
 best Mario Kart yet. An fun new feature is the new Mission Mode. I played it as the first thing 
 when I got the game, and I've never looked back. It's great. It is really satisfying when you get 
 a three star. The grand prix mode is amazing, no need for improvement, and the characters are well-done. 
 Each character is beautiful and well-animated. They each have their own set of charachteristics, 
 as do all the karts. You start out with two karts per character and build up and get a lot more. 
 Speaking of characters, there are eight when the game starts and you can unlock more (for a grand 
 total of 13 characters) including a new one. A flawless robot named R. O. B. 
  
  Here is the list of Characters: 
  
  Mario 
  Luigi 
  Peach 
  Yoshi 
  Wario 
  Bowser 
 
  Toad 
  Donkey Kong 
  Dry Bones 
  Daisy 
  Waluigi 
  Shy Guy 
  R. O. B. 
  
  Did I mention the graphics? As good as they get on the Nintendo DS. Nintendo really out-did themselves 
 with Mario Kart DS. Also, the superior controls do no harm to the game. 
  
  What about the multiplayer? As good as ever. Direct multiplayer is amazing; as always. But where 
 the game really shines is in the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. This first ever Nintendo game that 
 takes advantage of the feature that the Big N announced in their Spring 04' E3 Press Conference. 
 
  
  After you play it, you realize why it took so long to bring it out. It's nearly flawless. No connection 
 breakups or anything. I was playing a guy in Japan with a slow connection. The game automatically 
 re-adjusted his choppiness so that I could barely see it. You can also import a friend's DS code 
 to see if he is online looking for a match. Although it is slow to load, and very very slow to 
 find a competitor, (let alone four; the game's max) it is still great overall. Once connected and 
 loaded you have a posse of options to choose from, such as Battle Mode and Versus. Each has a great 
 amount of settings that can be fiddled and tampered with making the game's lastability endless. 
 
  
  However, no game is perfect. To every great game, there are some minor flaws. First off, when you 
 play the last course in retro mode, it automatically skips to the credits once you're done. I don't 
 want to see the damn credits. I turn my DS off and back on, and that really starts annoying you. 
 Especially so when you are stuck on it in 150 CC (Mirror Mode; as I am.) Speaking of Retro Mode, 
 what's with the course selection. I don't know who picked them, but they are terrible choices. 
 Both of these are small prices to pay for one of the best games I've ever played. And what about 
 the difficulty? It starts out easy but then surprisingly becomes one of the most challenging games 
 I've ever played, on any system. That's a real plus to the game as that makes this a great gift 
 for young children, and for teenagers alike. 
  
  Overall, if you have a Nintendo DS already, this is a must buy. You have to, it's incredible. If 
 you don't have one yet; this might be the game that would make you want to buy the system. Any 
 fans of the Mario franchise or racing games in general will want this game. And if they don't; 
 something is wrong with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp4ever
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  As the new millennium proceeds, more racing games come into existence. The Mario Kart series takes 
 a new turn in this fast-paced racing game. Mario Kart DS displays the usual classes of racing (50cc, 
 100cc, 150cc) and of course, my personal favourite location, the Rainbow Road which seems to take 
 a change during all the other Mario Kart games. In this game, however, you get 4 more series of 
 races that display classic roads from the SNES, GBA, N64 and GameCube. Also, you get R. O. B. after 
 you beat Mirror Mode (mirror mode is a series of races you win after you get the Gold Cup in all 
 150cc races) . This game gives you all kinds of things including a new Missions feature where you 
 defeat missions and beat the baddies to win more features. A great Mario racing game for a portable 
 device. I, personally, enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you mix Mario and a glass of wine? No, not Mario Party nor Mario Strikers, 
 you get a car accident. Kids, you should not drink any kind of alcohol under the influence, like 
 Mario. Mario had been in AA for six months after his Kart crash with Peach.
  
 I never wanted to kill her, nor %$#$ her up, or is the same thing? I shouldn't had that green 
 shell, or was it a uh, red shell?" Mario said in his Interview.
  
  Back to the review, the game is easy, very easy if you know how to play the game. With campaign 
 being a blast when you are beginner, all things drop to the bad place when it comes to online play. 
 There is 50cc, 100cc, and there is 150 and Mirror Mode. You can have old tracks from previous game 
 too.
  
  Online Play is one of the biggest highlights of the game. The only problem is, it's not balance. 
 Certain karts will break the siege of fairness in the game. What ever you do, don't do drugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pahoeho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is an absolutely amazing game combined with the best multiplayer ever. The single player 
 mode was a bit short but was extremely good fun, the multiplayer will last you for ages and the 
 choice of karts is pretty impressive this is a must-have for a ds owner. The powersliding takes 
 a while to master but once you're done thta's about the only thing you that you will have to learn 
 to do. The two new items are pretty good The Blooper squirts ink at the other racers and Bullet 
 Bill will have you racing down the track like a raving lunatic! Get this game!!!!!!!!
  Then join my union http://www. gamespot. com/pages/unions/home. php? union_id=AntiLame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmataSSKKorosu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is developed by Nintendo. It is intended to play on the Nintendo DS. ESRB has given 
 it a rating of E for Everyone, meaning anyone can play this game.
  
  Almost every Nintendo system had a racing game featuring Mario. Throughout the years we had Super 
 Mario Kart on the Super Nintendo Entertainment System; Mario Kart 64 for the Nintendo 64, Mario 
 Kart: Super Circuit for the Gameboy Advance and Mario Kart: Double Dash!! for the Nintendo Gamecube. 
 Mario Kart DS is the fifth game in the series.
  
  Mario Kart DS is a racing game that features the popular Mario cast (such as Luigi, Peach and even 
 Mario himself) as racers. The objective in a racing game is to go around a racing track a specific 
 number of laps (usually consisting 3 laps) faster than anyone else. What makes this game different 
 from others is that there are special blocks in the tracks that upon being touched, the toucher 
 would receive an item after a quick roulette. The racer can use the item for his own benefit in 
 getting first place. Such items go from banana peels to even exploding bombs (known as Bob-ombs 
 in the Mario universe) .
  
  Each racer has their own stats and kart that make themselves unique and not just a cosmetic change. 
 An example of this would be Mario with his B dasher. While his stats are all around, he excels 
 in the Items stat (which provides better chances at getting a good item) . Meanwhile, Donkey Kong 
 (with his kart the Rambi Rider) has much more weight but his handling is much poorer. There are 
 eight playable characters plus 4 unlockable characters in the game.
  
  Mario Kart DS' single player has 5 playable modes, which will be described below:
  
  Grand 
 Prix is the main course of the game. There are 3 classes to choose from: 50cc, 100cc and 150cc. 
 Think of it was easy, normal and hard respectively. Once you choose your class, you select your 
 racer and then you select a Cup. There are eight cups in total, each consisting of four tracks 
 (giving a grand total of 32 tracks) . Each race will be played with 8 racers. The winner of the 
 cup is decided by points. Points is decided according to which place you placed in the race. Whoever 
 finishes the laps first will get the most points (and so will the runner-ups) . Four of these cups 
 are actually reused from older Mario Kart games, each being converted to a 3D perspective and a 
 bit more detailed on the spot. They take tracks from Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, Mario Kart: 
 Super Circuit and even Mario Kart: Double Dash!! .
  
  Time Trials could be considered as training mode as you can see how fast you can clear a specific 
 track (with only 3 mushrooms that are speedboosters) . If you liked your performance, you can record 
 it as a ghost and send it to friends around you to see if they can beat your record.
  
  Vs is merely a costume game in which you can decide the class, the performance of the A. I. in the 
 game, the course and rules. The course can be decided by yourself or randomly. Rules would consist 
 of either how many races or wins would decide when you're done with it. If you wish, you can divide 
 the racers into teams.
  
  Battle has two modes: Balloon Battle and Shine Runners. Balloon Battle has everyone with three 
 balloons. The objective is to make your opponents' balloons burst by using items on them. Once 
 all the balloons on a player are busted, the player is out of the game. One neat thing about it 
 is that you can blow on the microphone to inflate balloons.
  
  Shine Runners' objective is to collect Shine Sprites that are scattered throughout the course. 
 Players must collect shine sprites within the time limit. Whoever has the less sprites will be 
 taken out of the game. To win, you must have the most shine sprites out of everyone. Be aware that 
 there are item blocks around the course as well, and if you get hit by a projectile or item of 
 some sort, you will lose a shine sprite.
  
  The last mode in Single Player is missions. There are 6 levels in total. Each level has 8 missions 
 plus a boss. Missions usually consist of getting a specific number of things with a certain character 
 and stage, though. So while it doesn't sound so varied, some of them could be hard to execute.
 
  
  Next, we have Multiplayer, which is the meat in most racing games, as it's fun to play with friends. 
 You can either play with friends that have a game card or just use one. The thing is that if you're 
 only using one, you will play as Shy Guy (only playable in single-card multiplayer) .
  
  Later on, there is Nintendo WFC. This is a network thing in which players can connect and play 
 with other people all around the world with just an internet connection. The only catch is that 
 only up to 4 people can play and only a specific number of tracks can be played in the game. Each 
 person has a friend code in which they can share with anyone in the world to play with. If you 
 prefer to race random people, then it is possible. You can also design your own decal for your 
 kart to show when you're playing. It can also be shown when you're playing alone as well.
  
  Each of these modes are performed nicely, as all of them can be frantic and fun. The controls 
 are responsive in the game and it works adequately well with whoever you're using, so no one is 
 exactly broken. In the Mario Kart games, however, anyone has a chance to win, even if they're in 
 8th place, as some of the items can bring the loser atleast neck-to-neck with the leader. This 
 could lead and conclude that even if the racers have the same skill in racing, all it really takes 
 is items to pull a comeback and win the match.
  
  As for graphics, everyone looks active and ready to race and the circuits you race in are just 
 fitting in every scene. The only thing that is not 3D in this game are some specific items, in 
 which in this case they are shown in 2D sprites. While it's not animated, it's presentable.
  Everyone's voices in the game are sound crystal clear. Everyone sounds just like they're supposed 
 to hear. The sounds that your engine does as well as sirens and the sound when a shell hits you 
 is done just like it's supposed to be. The music also accompanies well the track you're in, even 
 if it's used more than once. For instance, Boo's Mansion has a creepy like and dark theme to it, 
 with the haunting music making you feel like you're really lost. Of course, it's not exactly important 
 as most of the time you'll be hearing the racers' screams to really care about the music.
  
  In terms of playability, you have Grand Prix consisting of 8 cups (as well as 4 classes for 
 every cup, one class being an unlockable) , the secret characters, the 6 levels of missions galore 
 and time trials to see how fast you can finish a course. All this should give you plenty of time 
 to play and enjoy this game. And if that is not enough, you can connect to Nintendo WFC to play 
 against other people, further extending it's lifespan. You can also experiment with characters 
 and karts, which should give you some fun to do when you're feeling like trying something new even 
 if you've finished the game 100%.
  
  To sum it up, Mario Kart DS is a good racing game for the Nintendo DS in which anyone can play 
 to enjoy. While some may argue it takes luck to win, it doesn't stop it from having frantic, intense 
 races with people.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky7s76
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Over the course of Mario Kart's history, we have seen plenty of ups and very few downs. Mario Kart 
 DS is exactly what gamers are looking for in the newest installment of the head-to-head chaotic 
 racing world of Mario and friends.
  
  At a glance, Mario Kart DS is already better than any of its 3-D counterparts; The characters are 
 full-fledged 3-dimensional models and are animated with excellent fluidity. Even the 2-D objects 
 used in the game are a nice touch.
  
  For gameplay, this is as good as Mario Kart gets. The use of the D-Pad gives the player perfect 
 control. The only downfall is having to have your index fingers resting on the DS's shoulders to 
 drift or use items (fingers sometimes get sore) . In addition, the game has given the player plenty 
 of single-player modes that will keep plenty occupied for hours. Amongst these modes are the usuals: 
 Grand Prix and Time Trials. But Mario Kart DS offers even more with V. S. (where the player goes 
 against eight AI racers) , Battle (the player battles in one of two modes against eight AI) , and 
 an interesting Mission Mode where the player must complete a specific goal before a level is passed.
 
  
  Another thing that makes this Mario Kart stand out from the rest is its online capabilities. Taking 
 your race online is as easy as a few presses of a button. You can race players from your region 
 or from around the world. One thing that surprised me the most was the absence of lag.
  
  Do you have a DS? Do you have Mario Kart DS? If not, you'd better get up and go to your nearest 
 retailer to pick up your own copy. This is definitely one Mario Kart you'll not want to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  WoW i was so surprised when the is game came out and i was also pretty happy as well.
  
  The Good: This that really stands out with Mario Kart are the graphics and the greaty sound that 
 it has, you might not believe me when i tell you put this game has pretty damb good games for a 
 hand held i was so shocked when i saw them for the first time, the sound was just as good but a 
 bit better. Had no problem playing this game just picked up a DS and started playing with no problems. 
 Perfect for all ages, also brings back a lot of memeries from playing it on the SNES and N64.
 
  
  The Bad: If you are real good at snacking your racer than you will never lose which is something 
 i thin kshould have never been put in this game, the graphics could have been a tad bit better 
 but they were still good. Also i thought that the weapon thing was messed because i only got the 
 bomb power up when i was in last (turned me into a big bomb) sorry forget what its called and when 
 you got in first the blue sheles hit you like crasy and i barly got them when i needed them.
  
  Overall if you are DS then this is one of the must have games for it. If you are an old time 
 gamer this will bring that Kart feeling back in your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is just so awesome... the gameplay just couldn't get any better... very nice controls...
 
  
  And the graphics are very nice... they don't look as polygonal.. lol.. especially when you're driving... it's 
 a very smooth game...
  
  The sound of this game is just a bunch of angine noises and weapons fliying all over the place... but 
 it's very good quality..
  
  This is such an awesome game... and I would recommend it to any DS owner... ANY!..
  
  lol.. don't 
 miss out on this game... if you don't have it already... it's very addictive....
  
  It's also wi-fi enabled... so you can race with people around the world whenever you want..... so 
 the wi-fi is pretty nice.. don't miss out... and try to take advantage of the wi-fi... but even if 
 you can't.. it's still an awesome game that you'll always wanna play.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaschmo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  For the past 25 years or so, Mario has been one of the great icons of gaming. He has hundreds of 
 games to his (and the majority of them are excellent) and has a fan base the size of North America. 
 This time, he's back in the kart and ready to go. 
  There's plenty of things to do in this game, from racing in the Grand Prix, to time trials, battles 
 (competitive mini-games playable over wi-fi, LAN or against the DS) , and even a set of missions. 
 You will find yourself spending at least 20 hours playing this game, it's that good.
  Things start off easy. There are three difficulty settings for the Grand Prix, which are based 
 around engine power: 50cc, 100cc and 150cc. 50cc is simple even if it's your first time playing 
 a Mario Kart game, allowing you to get used to the controls and style of gameplay. You will find 
 yourself easily besting your opponents, and you might even get a little bored. Of course, that's 
 when its time to move on to 100cc. A fair bit harder than 50cc, but still easy work for Mario Kart 
 GBA veterans. You should only move on to 150cc when your confident on 100cc or have lots of experience 
 from a previous play through etc. Overall, Mario Kart offers a meaty challenge that'll satisfy 
 even the most scructinous of completists. 
  The graphics for Mario Kart are some of the best on the DS. The game is one of the few that is 
 in full 3D, and the graphics are sharp and colourful, that match that of the N64. The sound track 
 is full of catchy, jingly tunes that are hard to forget, with some classic Mario tunes and some 
 fresh ones in there too.
  Mario Kart is one of the best games I have played (especially for a handheld) , and any DS owner 
 should definately check this out. You WON'T regret it, guaranteed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredatorKostas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart from point of view is a fantastic game for a beginner with DS. Well I must also add 
 that it is a great gaming experience because Nintendo did its best to make it support the Wi-Fi 
 feed and Nintendo has surely had a success.
  I am more likely going to tell you more about the Wi-Fi races with players around the world than 
 the original 1-player and 2-player games. Well, Nintendo sure has made an awesome title but forgot 
 the chating among the players after and before races. Nintendo could have possibly added to the 
 game chat rooms that the players can visit before a game and talk.
  The game also did come up to uor expectations adding the friend code to the game. This is the code 
 of your friends given to you so that you can race with your friends through Wi-Fi. They have also 
 added the stage selection through Wi-Fi by voting in which stage you would like to race. After 
 all 4 votes are given you can start racing at the racing arena that had the most votes! Theres 
 also the choice of where you want to play. And when I say that I mean continental , world wide, 
 and other areas.
  Well, I hope you enjoyed my review and I also hope I didnt miss anything!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkragnorak216
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS has to be one of the best racing handhelds compared to that other crap they gave 
 us. I've personally played 64, DD and DS and they rocked, But DS has to be my favorite.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Awesome, has the brand new mission mode where you have to complete certain things 
 in a time limit, me and my cousin enjoy beating each others records. The grand prix mode has 50cc 
 and 100cc and 150cc too, but it has mirror mode carried over from double dash. If you have a wireless 
 router/Nintendo Wi-Fi usb connector, you can play online against 3 other players around the world. 
 If you don't have it, and you have other friends who have DSes, they can download off you (8 ppl 
 max) or have the card, you can all have a blast. If you don't have either of these, you can play 
 againsts bots, which gets a little boring.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Perfect, has wicked graphics and always keeps your eyes on the game with the eye-catching graphics. 
 The star looks nice when you used it and Boo looks really cool when you use him, shells are look 
 fantastic and stuff, but the one thing that really is wierd that Bowser's butt sticks out of the 
 Mushmellow car and looks really wierd, doesn't really do anything though.
  
  Sound:
  
  Not really anything new but I can't really explain it so onto...
  
  Value:
  
  You'll be 
 playing this forever if you have friends/Wi-Fi connection, if not bots will suit you well, theres 
 getting perfect records on everything like 3 stars and if you have wifi connection/LAN (local area 
 network) you can prove you rock by having 1, 2 or 3 stars.
  
  So if you just like pure Mario fun or Racing, or you never tried out the genre, this will definitely 
 give you a boost in both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  The game has better themed tracks than in the other ones and also brings back some of the older 
 tracks from previous Mario Kart games, but the older tracks are not necessarily the favorites. 
 The controlling is great and there are many characters to choose from, but single player just goes 
 way too fast. The beef of the game is the multiplayer, but because there is no penalty for quitters, 
 everyone pretty much quits if they lose making online no fun. Other than that, gameplay is pretty 
 good and Mario Kart has all the classic weapons that the other Mario Kart games have.
  
  Graphics:
  The game has the best graphics I have seen thus far on the DS.
  
  Sound:
  The 
 game has the typical Mario Kart soundtrack. Neither good nor bad.
  
  Value:
  Whereas you won't be playing single player much, the online mode is very fun and will keep your 
 attention for a long time.
  
  Tilt:
  The game is easily worth the money and since it is the first online game, it is an experience you 
 must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemonSUPERFAN
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good top rated of the ds games. never new they'd bring back R. O. B in the any 
 of the new mario games he is a very old skool character. Any way this game shows that other ds 
 game makers could do alot better on there games. this game has very good graphics and a very good 
 game line. heres some secrets for u in the game when u start a race and it goes 3,2.1 GO! start 
 ur engine a 2 and u'll get a boost. to unlock waliuigi beat 100cc on both cups under retro. anyway 
 if u like naruto and mario and 5o cent or rpg's or halo add me or track me  pokemonSUPERFAN
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buccaneers445
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  MArio Kart DS has only 9 characters, which is a disappointment, and only 3 classes. They are all 
 varied and have their advantages and disadvantages. The graphics are cartoony and colorful, and 
 the framerate is solid, too. The gameplay is superb at it's core, there are several modes in single 
 and multi player, and there is a schmoregesborg of tracks to choose from. The biggest disppointment 
 is that there is a BIG rubber band effect, meaning that the person in first goes 50% slower than 
 everyone else, making you lose countless races that you should have won easily. This is basically 
 the same game as 64, for better or worse. There is great replay value, shortcuts, weapons, nice 
 music, and average sound effects. It isn't a system-seller, but Mario Kart DS is still the best 
 racer on the DS yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  I love this game. That is the only phrase I can get for it. I love game. Me and game will be wed. 
 Yer right.
  
  Anyway, moving on, this game has the playability of a 2 hour car journey and half a pack of biscuits 
 on arrival. Thus it must be good. But how good is another thing. As soon as you load it up 9 out 
 of 10 people go straight for wi-fi. I go for 1 player and do the whole "I've never lost a game 
 at mario kart before" thing and own each race. And I have to say the courses are stunning. Every 
 level feels as though each detail was made for a reason and each item is as good as the one before 
 (except the squid, thats just annoying) , and also some of my favourite N64 levels (the first ones 
 I ever played) were not included including Wario Stadium, Peaches course and the original Luigi 
 Stadium. However Moo Moo farm is here as well as banshee broadwalk so 99% here.
  
  The offline multi isn't too bad either, but it is ruined by the new battle levels. Nintendo, your 
 meant to be good at this. But what were you thinking with these battles. Ok the balloon battle 
 is decent enough with rashioned blloons but sometimes I want three balloons and three shells to 
 pop them. And why hasn't the bomb-omb from the N64 re-amerged here? Speaking of N64, where is the 
 skyscraper level? 70%
  
  Then the wi-fi. Now this is shocking. Shockingly good. OMFG why wasn't this released earlier. PSP 
 wouldn't exist cos everyone would still be on mario kart. There are two things though. My favourite 
 level (wario pinball) isn't available and there is no battle. Yes I know I ripped the crap out 
 of it but wi-fi would of done battle good. 90%
  
  All in all if you get this game, you won't come out of your room for a year. It is that good, but 
 if you don't get it, you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterEllison
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing. It's interesting how the 64 graphics on the DS look absolutely amazing. 
 The multiplayer alone makes this game worth the wait for it. All in all this game is worth the 
 34 bucks you spend on it. With tons of unlockables and different Kart selections. Also as far as 
 WiFi and wireless support is unbelievable for a system like the DS. To sum it all up this is a 
 perfect racing game for anyone looking to kill a few (maybe a ton more) hours. I'd recommend it 
 for just about anyone unless you don't like Kart racing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireEmblem_Man
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  An amazing game deserves an amazing recognition. Mario Kart DS finally deserves to be one of the 
 greatest handheld games ever made.
  
  10 on Gameplay for its easy to learn and no use of the touch screen which other DS racing games 
 are trying to do
  
  8 on Graphics, not the best looking DS game but at least its full 3D for all the classic levels. 
 Could have done better with the character models though. Actually impressed on adding GC tracks 
 to a low power system
  
  8 on Sound, The classic songs from the old Mario Kart games are back and they have improved, but 
 its still great to listen too
  
  10 on Value, Fans demanded Online on Mario Kart on the GC and it didnt happened but Nintendo delivered 
 on the DS which makes it a great online game.
  
  9 on Tilt, I believe old fans and new fans will come together with joy and online as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_zax
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I just bought a Nintendo DS the other day, and of course the first game I pick up has to be Mario 
 Kart.
  
  I was not disapointed. The graphics are great, the controls are smooth and a banna peel, and the 
 Nintendo WiFi was realy easy to set up and get on with.
  I think my wife may like this game more than me though, she robs it every night. The only thing 
 THat got to me was sound design. I actualy fealt more involved in the game with my headphones off...
 
  But I guess it may just be me. I am always critical of sound in games.
  
  Super fun, super sweat. Need I say more?
  
  If you have a DS,
  BUY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakes-DK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  I played Mario Kart 64 a long time ago, and i still play it for its multiplayer.
  in this Mario Kart sequel you have the oppotunity to play online aganst other players around the 
 world, and continential. its a really good mode that allows you to play against players from other 
 countries, and test their skills.
  The single player is traditional Mario Kart against the computer, exept there is a new mission 
 mode added. overall, its a game that anybody can enjoy and every Nintendo DS owner should run down 
 to their local gamestore and buy it, its a game you must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario Cart + Wi-Fi = Fun
  
  Gameplay:
  You use the D-Pad to steer your cart. A to accelerate. You can get pick ups on the track to use 
 against enemy carts. You get many of mario people to play as. There is just about every track from 
 all of the Mario Cart games to race on. It is kinda hard to get used to the controls because use 
 item is right next to accelerate. The gameplay is really easy to pick up and play. A minute to 
 learn, a life time to master!
  9/10
  
  Graphics:
  Everything anamates well is pleasing to look at. Each area is well put together and look amazing! 
 The menus are cool looking and fun to go around. It is hard to think menus being fun, but if they 
 are this pleasing, it IS fun. 
  10/10
  
  Sound:
  Not the best part of the game, but hey this is the mushroom kingdom, not NASCAR in California. 
 The character voices are anoying as hell but, they are still really classic. If select the character 
 it will do it's own little battle cry. 
  8/10
  
  Value:
  Here is the one reason to buy this game..... Wi-Fi!!!! Forget all of the friend code stuff, just 
 search for another game and you just link up and play. You do have lag problems, but this is online. 
 It comes with the package. The single player is short but hard. You unlock new characters by beating 
 some of it. It just keeps you coming back. 
  
  Tilt:
  I love Mario. He is my favorite game character of all time next to Solid Snake. My tilt for this 
 game is high but not really enough to low ball this game. It is genuinlly a good game. You have 
 to buy it really soon.
  
  9.5
  
  Even without Wi-Fi you will not have a bad time with this game. If you do though its value is greatly 
 increased. Also, make sure you play with people on your skill level. Other wise..... you will lose 
 ALOT! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi443312
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  wow this game has really good graphics and really good gameplay and also good and very fun items 
 and very fun races but not a reaslly good way to organize races it has the nitro cup and some other 
 cup and inside those cups are seperate prx and inside thos prx races they are very specific when 
 they organised this but maybe just a little to specific i dont think they could be any more specific 
 and to me the vset charecter has a lame kart speaking of wich some o f the charecters have the 
 same kart and those karts really suck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outbreak201
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Its not that much of a hard game unless you play on WiFi. The gamemodes 
 on single player are grand prix ( race in any of the 8 cups against 8 racers, Trial ( race your 
 fastest on any of ur favorite tracks) , VS ( race agsint 8 players in any of your favorite tracks) , 
 Battle ( play either balloon battle which is hit your enemy so he pops a balloon or shines where 
 u have to race to find a star before your players ) There are a few more but why dont you look 
 in the gamespot review for more infomation? I would reconmend this game if you have a nintendo 
 DS. But be warned playing online is NOT FUN trust me.... unless your good at cheating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is the hugest racing franchise for Nintendo (always has been and always will be) and 
 Mario Kart is very successful in bringing Mario Kart to the DS. Everything feels right when you 
 first pick up Mario Kart for the controls are perfectly rock solid as always. Another thing that 
 enhances the experience is the huge selection of courses at your disposal from classics to new 
 tracks theres a track for everyone. But, there's one problem theres nothing really that fresh or 
 new with this Mario Kart except the inclusion of Wi-Fi so for the offline bunch theres really nothing 
 revolutionary with this title, but there is two things PURE FUN AND ADDICTION to keep in mind. 
 In conclusion, if your Mario Kart fan you are going to love Mario Kart DS and if your not you are 
 not going to like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_LL
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been a just decent series, most of the games get only so-so critic reviews 
 but really different ones from the players themselves? Most of it comes from the multiplayer and 
 just the sheer fun of the games, and Mario Kart DS is the same if not better than those. 
  
  So you start up your DS and look at the screen, hmm looks the same, plays the same... So whats 
 the difference? Well this is THE only game that gets me addicted for hours on end, and the strange 
 thing is that I dont know why. The graphics are only N64-era and the gameplay is just the same 
 as it always has been, but it just feels right. 
  
  New features pack a big punch in the role of carts and statistics. You have multiple carts for 
 each character now, each vary by size and the new stats they have. Some might be good in speed 
 (Bowser) but slow in accelation and handling. Others might be slow (Bonedry) but have a near-perfect 
 accelation and handling. This may seem like it would cause a balance issue, but it doesn't. Most 
 of the time it is just your favorite character and the coolest looking cart availible. 
  
  Replay is strong in the online play, put lacks in the grand prix. Once you've unlocked all of the 
 hidden characters you start feeling a little empty, but nothing a good battle-mode with bots or 
 friends can't handle. Speaking of which, the AI is really good up to 150cc or 150cc Mirror Mode 
 then it becomes a challenge to get the right amount of points.
  
  Items have stayed the same over a decade and a half, but new items like the squid keep it from 
 becoming a stale chore. There is one problem that has made me curse, the infamous blue shell. That 
 little shell has cost me the lead many times and is unavoidable, resulting in a sense of tenseness 
 when you are leading by a second or two. Other than that flaw, this game is a definent game to 
 buy if you are looking for a good DS title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  This game is the L33Test game so far to your DS.
  
  Basicly, Mario and Co goes into gocart racing. And brings the guns with him. And fun, a lot of 
 it.
  
  This game features 10 diffrent drivers from the fat Mario to the even fater Wario.
  Evreyone 
 can have one of the games 36 gocarts, which is diffrent in terms of look and speed. Some is teh 
 sux when it comes to handling, while others kick ass at it.
  
  You can drive on up to 32 driving tracks, while the half of it is called "Retro Grand Prix". Oh 
 yeah. Retro tracks.
  
  It's retrosexuellty that makes this game so good. Mario Circuit 1 and Donut Plains 2 is as sexy 
 as ever, and you will get a hugh boner while listen to its song. Also tracks like Luigi's Circuit 
 from MK: DD and Banshee Broadwalk from N64 is here. I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_hunter_1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  To introduce the whole review i would like to say, "This may be the best game i have ever seen 
 that walked the way from one console to another, in the same company".
  
  Mario Kart DS is one of the best, if not only, driving game on Nintendo DS were you actually can 
 sit down, relax and have a race on line or with your friend, not to forget the AI. The only thing 
 im sad about is that the AI (Artificial Intellect, the computer) that they got this annoying "Catch-up". 
 It dosen't matter if you are shooting them down with all you got and drive as fast as you can, 
 they will always catch up to be pushing and fighting for the first place and the 10: points.
  
  Since this is a review i will try to keep myself short, this game rox and helps me take away 
 the boring time on the school bus. Buy it, or trade it, this is a must for Nintendo DS users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic2DAmax
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart is one of the classic games reincarnated over and over again. Much better than its gamecube 
 companionm the ds version offers wi-fi and friend code so that your friends can race whithout interfierence. 
 This offers new items like bullet bill. Though the downside is the items from Double Dash are gone. 
 Attention new to the cast................... ( drumrole ) ........ R. O. B! This game also allows you 
 play with the others karts. Each player has 3 of there own uniqe karts. Its great that they post 
 there stats according to which place you want to go through any way i loved it. ( not as detailed 
 as double dash ) But nintendo could`ve done better if they brought back the loved characters like 
 baby mario and baby luigi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogogoman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  I have personally played through each and every mario kart game and have to say that this one trumps 
 them all. With twice as many tracks (or so) more single plyer modes, more charachters, online play 
 and great graphichs to boot. 
  
  The graphics look easily as good, if not better than any other mario kart game to date, possibly 
 worse than DD.
  Each track has a fun and catchy tune that plays well with no hiccups.
  It is probably one of the best if not THE best racing game i have ever played in terms of gameplay 
 and the new modes make it even better.
  
  This is a staple for any DS owner to buy and I highly reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart ds is just as good if not better than the other games in this popular racing series. 
 You start off with a nice selection of characters each with 2 karts to choose from. The grand prix 
 are fairly straight forward, all you have to do is get first place on each of the cups to unlock 
 new levels and characters. The inclusion of previous tracks from older games and the mission mode 
 also help make the single player game deeper and more fun. On the multiplayer side of things you 
 can expect standard racing online with four other people or battle mode with four of your friends 
 who have a ds. Overall this latest entry in the series adds both a classic feel with some old tracks 
 and it also gets a fresh coat of paint with the inclusion of online racing and drifting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BountyHunterNH
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Everybody that is reading this im saying BUY THIS GAME!!!!! This is definetly the best of all the 
 mario kart games and perhaps the best game i have ever played why u ask well ill tell you. Ok this 
 is why im giving this game a ten nintendo wi fi connection!!! you can play world wide with this 
 game but before you do practice because Japan is kinda hard but i beat them. The levels o my god 
 are the best especially since they added some old levels it is just a solid performance.
  
  I agree with evrything the guy says in the video review. This is the main reason i bought a ds 
 and let me tell you it was worth it. They also added new characters which also make the game really 
 fun but the karts are the only thing i have a problem with they dont have much of a variety. Thats 
 all i can say for this game and im saying this is definetly a most wanted game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHomestarmy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  When you play this game you won't get tired of it at all. You'll play each cup again and again 
 on a higher difficulty until you get and beat 150 mirror mode. When you beat the missions you need 
 to get a star on each of the 6 levels until unlock level 7. This level has cooler missions. 
  If you complete the grand prix and get a star ranking on each one and you finally get bragging 
 rights on online play. Speaking of online play it is the best of all. It is great and unless you 
 get some mastermind that has 2000 wins 0 loses and he goes side to side and dodges your blue shells 
 it's fun.
  Bottom line. Buy it. You'll love it more than any other DS game. If you already have it then play 
 it.  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliot2005
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  This incarnation of Mario Kart is easily the best I have ever played. It's simply fantastic - the 
 mechanics are delightful, welcoming to beginners - but can be learnt (especially via the missions) 
 to an expert level, until you're snaking your way around every track.
  
  The 4 new grand prix's are great fun - with some really well-designed courses 
  (Mario Circuit, 
 Peach Gardens) ; and a few ones just for fun (Waluigi Pinball!) . The 4 retro grand prix's are chock-full 
 of nostalgia - and I was grinning with anticipation at some of my favourites from previous versions 
 (especially Bowser's castle from the GBA - that course is fantastic. 
  
  The mission mode is another delightful addition, that really helps lengthen the game - together 
 with the ratings going up to 3 stars (I finally got the top ranking on everything today!) . They're 
 really good for learning the game too, and the boss battles again have some great nods (especially 
 to super mario 64) .
  
  The multiplayer is great fun, although it can be a little frustrating with some of the people who 
 have practiced this to a ridiculous extent are zooming round the track. Overall though a fantastic 
 addition that makes the game even more worth your while.
  
  All I can say this is probably the most essential game for DS at the moment, and everyone should 
 play it. If you don't have it, go and get it right NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOhkonut
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  PROS: -ONLINE!
  -Variety of karts/racers/tracks
  -so smooth with beautiful graphics
  CONS:-Snaking controversy
  -cheap items
  -limited online play
  
  Mario Kart is a game that 
 has gone a long way. Nintendo tried new items, more characters, two in one kart, and never really 
 hit the spot. Close, but not there. That's when MK: DS comes in. With a huge variety and online 
 play, Mario Kart: DS is the best in the series.
  
  The graphics and sound on this game are truly top notch. Take MK64 for example, and look at the 
 difference. I remember my friend saying, "But MK64 was launch title for the '64." I quickly replied, 
 "You mean just like Gran turismo 3?" The only way you can find pixelated areas and such, is if 
 you crash into a wall and examine it. But come on! It's a handheld! Sound is great. Nothing much 
 on that.
  
  The gameplay is very... interesting all depending on who, where, how, and all that. Say if you're 
 playing a friend in a friendly one-on-one. You're in 1st and about to cross the finish... BAM! Blue 
 Shell. He wins. "OMG! Yo that was so cheap man lolzzzz" On the other hand when you're online... you're 
 playing a 4 player match while three of you are easily owning the 4th by a few feet. You're about 
 to come in second... ZAP! Boink! 4th uses lightning and 3 uses red shell. In the end fourth comes 
 1st while you come last. "WTF! THAT WAS SO FRIGGIN CHEAP I'M GONNA **************!!!!111" So ya.
 
  
  There's also that snaking controversy. Just go to the MKDS forum and make a topic called "Snaking."
 
  
  Value: Online.
  
  .... WELL! THAT'S MY MAMA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipaX21
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  A spectacular hectic racing game that you can take on the road. The multiplayer is the best part 
 of the game, as you may have guessed. The graphics get the job done and are actually some of the 
 best for the DS. The sounds of the weapons are all pretty well done, the character voices (for 
 the few things that they actually say) are all good and the music for each map definitely sets 
 the mood for each race. The gameplay is classic, everything you would expect from a mario kart 
 title. 
  Please buy a copy of this game, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallebe10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  We all know that racers on the DS have never been really good. The turning wasn't good and they 
 didn't make great use of the touch screen. Leave it to Nintendo to give us the best racer on the 
 DS. It controls great, the graphics and sound are outstanding, and you'll be playing it for a looooooooooong 
 time. This is the game that features some of the best graphics on a handheld alone. The sound sounds 
 like Mario Kart so we got no problem there. The thing I don't like is it gets a little repetitive 
 because it is a racing game and it uses some of the courses from past Mario Kart games. With the 
 wi-fi you'll probably be keeping this game forever because it's online multiplayer. What's not 
 to love? Overall Mario Kart DS is an awesome racer and should definetley belong in your DS game 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoDSChik2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  There's so much to do in this game, that you definitely won't get bored of it in a flash. 
  
  Options include Grand Prix, Time Trials, Multi-Player, Wi-Fi, Missions and Battle. 
  
  
 There are loads of tracks and items. There are three levels of difficulty and top level is a challenge, 
 even for the most experienced drivers.
  
  Graphics are quite good. Music is great because there's different music for each track so we don't 
 get bored of the same, repetitive stuff (we all know how frustrating that is) . 
  
  This game is a must have for all DS owners (unless you can't stand racing, then i suggest you don't 
 purchase :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 8, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Nintendo have done it again and this time they brought the great Mario Kart action to 
 the DS, which is not a bad move. Mario Kart is liket he GC version but is more improved and much 
 better.
  
  The game features all the classic characters from Mario - Bouzer (spelling) ,
  plus each Kart or character has his or her own abilities. The game does improve ont he quality 
 of mario games because its PORTABLE.
  
  Graphics - are quite well and are very well done with the whole environment of the game and the 
 actions.
  
  Sound - is very maziong to have the mario music playa nd have some of the characters voices int 
 he agme at the same time is quite impressive.
  
  Gameplay - is easy and does get a bit challenging through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysse23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I loved this game when i first got it, but after like 2-3 weeks it got a bit boring
  though, the game is great, its my favourite DS game so far, maybe its just me with that it gets 
 boring after a short while, well i don't think so.... but i highly recommend to buy MK DS.
  I haven't tried the Nintendo WI-FI yet because we don't have a wireless router home... but when 
 we get one... I'm going to try it out.
  I haven't tried every MK games, but i favour-ise this one. MK DD wasn't so great, I've completed 
 it like 5 times with one of my friends (I know 5 times ain't much, but whatever) . And then it was 
 MK 64.... i think, well i kind of miss it now I wish i didn't give away my N 64 to my nephew.
  Well back to MK DS.... When you drive Wario, it looks like his arm's are all flat, I can't explain 
 see for your self, and another thing, DK's voice sounds like a donkey/horse, and that is NOT a 
 gorilla, and Bowser has an ugly voice, same as in MK DD. One thing that is cool is that you can 
 paint your own emblem, and write your own nickname (DUH) .
  And there are missions to get done in there too, plus staff time's on the time trials (YAY) and 
 they are HARD to beat, with the same car as them,
  or maybe its just me... I'm not really good so its hard for me (lol... its true) .
  The only bad 
 thing with this game is that my thumb started to hurt a bit after playing, for having my thumb 
 in same position for an hour or so: (. 
  
  That's all I have to say about Mario Kart DS so , good day to you sir/miss.
  
  PS. This was 
 probably the worst review ever, because I don't know anything about writhing reviews, and because 
 it was my first... please forgive me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhufford
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  For those of you living in a cardboard box that may not be familiar with this series, this is a 
 kart racer. You are in essence racing against people in go-karts. There are three main types of 
 carts. They are classified by engine size. Either 50cc, 100cc, or 150cc. Their have been many kart 
 racers to come out over the years, everything from Looney Tunes to Crash Bandicoot. The Mario Kart 
 series is the original. 
  
  Arent we all just a little bit sick of the Mario Kart series by now? No, were really not and thats 
 why Nintendo keeps pumping them out assured in the knowledge the minions will scoop them up faster 
 then free beer at the homeless shelter. 
  
  This edition of Mario Kart doesnt nearly innovate as much as Double Dash for the Gamecube did, 
 but nonetheless it appears to be just as riveting and hair raising. It has the same basic setup 
 we have all grown to love. A full cast of Mario related characters, wacky karts and outlandish 
 weapons. 
  
  The game is full of unlockable characters, karts, and tracks. It will eventually give you a total 
 of twelve characters with which to traverse. The most notable new edition has to be Rob the Robot. 
 Now I remember when Rob was sold as an add-on accessory for the NES. I just dont remember what 
 his purpose was. Nobody I knew actually owned one. Most people put Rob into the same category as 
 the Power Glove. A worthless add-on to help line Nintendos pockets. That aside, he is extremely 
 quick and agile in the game. You simply must take him for a ride if given the chance. 
  
  Nintendo decided to get real nutty with the karts this round. Most characters have up to thirty-six 
 different karts to choose from! This literally makes for hundreds of driving combinations. The 
 only real problem here is trying to decide from so many options. That is never a bad thing.
  
  The tracks in this game are what really allow it to shine. There are sixteen new tracks and 
 sixteen retro tracks. They managed to take the best tracks from every version of this series and 
 cram them in here. They managed to perfectly replicate a few tracks from the Gamecube version. 
 This made my jaw hit the floor. I was not aware that this little DS could have graphics on par 
 the Cube. But it does somehow.
  
  The weapons are all basically garden variety. You will find the requisite turtle shells, lightning 
 bolts, and bullets. They took the liberty of adding some sort of ink blot weapon. When you get 
 hit with that your screen temporarily goes black, thus increasing you chances of wrecking. They 
 have also placed some annoying little ghosts around that can steal your weapon and give it to another 
 opponent. This is frustrating, especially when you get a really good item. 
  
  You can expect the usual faire from this series, such as quick shortcuts, hidden jumps, and monsters 
 that seem to pop out of nowhere. Some monsters are more original then others. Of course you will 
 have to deal with Chomps on a chain. I think the Chomps have shown up somewhere in about every 
 game with Mario in the title. Some of the more hair raising obstacles include racing a giant pinball 
 and a giant snowball down hill. Nothing makes you hit the gas harder then the possibility of getting 
 smushed. 
  
  If there are any criticisms of this title it would be the controller layout. Powersliding is simply 
 not easy. I find that my hands get quickly fatigued playing this. I can only go out it for about 
 an hour or so. 
  
  I think what kart fans will most enjoy with the title is the multiplayer. For the first time you 
 can connect to the internet via Wi-Fi and bounce people all over the world. I quickly discovered 
 I am not the legend I think I am. I feel that most gamers of all sizes and types will enjoy this. 
 If you are an ultra serious gamer, you will find the competitiveness of the game exhilarating. 
 Kids and females will also enjoy this title for the cartoon-y aspects and humor. This is a game 
 that you could play for five minutes or six hours depending on your schedule. Thus making it an 
 excellent portable title for when on the go. I would recommend it for anyone with two thumbs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenyuki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Hi this is my first review. Mario Kart DS is a very excellent game. It truely is every Mario Kart 
 gamers dream. The graphics are satisfying, gameplay is unbelievable, just a great game all around. Well 
 I am now going to get into detail. Mario Kart DS delivers a combination of previous Mario Kart games 
 for your DS handheld system. What really impressed me was Ballon Battle on single player. Just the 
 interactivity of the Balloon Battle game mode.
  You are able to blow Balloons by using your mouth to blow on the mic or holding the select button. But 
 don't get too excited you have a limited amount of balloons. Also the game has a mission mode. Which 
 gives gamers a challenge. The basic Grand Prix mode is excellent, and the new set off tracks makes 
 it more interesting. Also there is a Time Trial mode which if you get a certain time you can actually 
 challenge one of the Nintendo's staff time. For those who haven't heard there is online play called 
 the Wi-Fi Connection. The Wi-Fi Connection allows you to have access to play other player from over 
 the world, which is very fun. So well here's my review I hope you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -X-Caliber-123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  When you play this game you won't get tired of it at all. You'll play each cup again and again 
 on a hire difficulty until you get and beat 150 mirror mode. When you beat the missions you need 
 to get a star on each of the 6 levels until unlock level 7. This level has cooler missions. 
  If you complete the grand prix and get a star ranking on each one and you finally get bragging 
 rights on online play. Speaking of online play it is the best of all. It is great and unless you 
 get some mastermind that has 2000 wins 0 loses and he goes side to side and dodges your blue shells 
 it's fun.
  Bottom line. Buy it. You'll love it more than any other DS game. If you already have it then play 
 it. 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Freak2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! The online is great but snaking makes it unfair and the record tracking isnt 
 much great. but the online manages to be SPETACULAR!!! but when you go on Wi-Fi the game randomizes 
 who your playing so u really dont have a choise who your playing unless your have a friend on your 
 friends list. the single player is great! 3 difficulty levels. 50cc, 100cc and 150cc and an unlockable 
 one. Also so many tracks. Nitro cup is new tracks and Retro Cup is old tracks from all of the mario 
 kart games. You also get to make your own decals. Also there is sooooo many karts to choose from. 
 And great charecters to choose from. Like Mario, Luigi, Bowser, Peach, Toad, Yoshi, Donkey Kong, 
 Wario. GREAT GAME. PICK IT UP NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truegamer1988
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The addition of the wi-fi multi player and of the mission mode truly revives this old school arcade 
 racer. All the while remaining frustrating to wait 5 minutes to find an opponent, the online play 
 feels solid while lacking the chat mode. Whit a total of 36 cars to unlock and 8 cups to unlock 
 ether in 50-100-150 cc or mirror. The adition of Nintendo staff ghost in time trail mode adds a 
 new level of difficulty to the inter package. The DS version of the game looks pretty like its 
 N64 successor while surpassing it graphically. I cant tell much more about this game except that 
 is a must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoFreak01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is truly, the best game in the series.
  There are 32 courses!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! That is the most amount of courses any Mario Kart game 
 has. The first 16 courses, known as the Nitro cups, consist of brand new courses. The other 16, 
 know as the Retro cups, are all courses from the SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN (all past Mario Kart games) . 
 As you win gold cups on cups, you can unlock new characters and karts. Eventually, you will be 
 able to choose from 36 karts for each character. There are 3 karts specificaly for each character, 
 and the other 33 you will be able to unlock are the karts from other characters. Unlockable characters 
 include: Daisy, Waluigi, Dry Bones, and ROB the Robot
  The WiFi could have been better... you cant choose from all the courses, and you can only do VS 
 races (no battles) . Also, other players look like theyre flying around the screen unless your/their 
 connection is perfect (3 bars) . And overall... it just could have been better.... but its still cool 
 being able to play anyone in the world and friends.
  
  Gameplay: never gets old, fun and addicting
  Graphics: characters and courses look GREAT... items 
 look like they did on the GBA/SNES
  Sound: cool course music, different for each course, retro course tunes sound great
  Value: lasts 
 a really long time (the grand prix's dont take long to beat, but there's also wifi, missions, time 
 trials, and battles... you get more than what you pay for!
  Tilt: superb
  
  get this game ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markbridges
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a must-have title for anyone wishing to engage in some seriously fun and competitive 
 online play. I'll make this quick:
  
  Pros: 
  
  - Online Play
  - Nice selection of courses (Over 30)
  - Sound enhances the "Mario" feeling and enhances the 
 Kart racing experience. 
  - Includes an all-new Mission mode.
  - Unlockable characters
  - Over 30 total Unlockable Karts
  - Online Play rocks
  - Customs Icons available for Online 
 play
  - Online play is easy as hell to set up
  - Stays true to the original Mario Kart Series
  - Serves up the right amount of "Nintendo"
 
  
  Cons:
  
  - No online Balloon battling
  - Recovering from a losing streak online is hard
  - No Online Lobby
  
  Conclusion:
  
 
  Mario Kart DS is an instant classic. Featuring simple yet engaging online wi-fi enabled play, 
 this is a must-have for and DS owner, Mario Kart fan, Gamer... Well everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCubeN24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS does not reinvent the wheel, it perfects it. Mario Kart DS has to be the most fun 
 you will ever have with a hand held game ever. The graphics are good for a DS game and show off 
 the DS's horse power with surprising flair. The sound is exactly what you expect, Mario sounds 
 like a cheep Italian stereotype and Yoshi sounds like he needs some laxatives quickly. The game 
 play is where this game shines. The kart racing is just perfect with plenty of karts and drivers 
 to keep this game from getting old fast. The only real problem with this game is that the games 
 difficulty can range from soo easily you can sleep half the race to pulling your hair out and hitting 
 your Grandma in the face hard. Overall if you have a DS, buy Mario Kart DS; and if you don't have 
 a DS, buy one and buy the game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rocks29
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS would have to be the best Mario Kart game ever made and possibly the most fun racing 
 game out there.
  
  Unlike the other Mario Kart games, DS has a wide variety of single player modes, such as 4 tournaments 
 with 8 cups in each. It also has a new addiction to the series, Missions, where you have to complete 
 certain goals in order to unlock the new set of missions. The very good thing that I like is that 
 you are able to do VS and Battle modes against bots, meaning you can do them in single player.
 
  
  Mario Kart DS defenitly has the best multiplayer out of all. You can play VS and Battle modes against 
 other people who have DS's which is fun. The best thing of all is Wi-Fi, where if you have a wireless 
 router or go near a Wi-Fi hotspot, you can play online against people all over the world. Since 
 the game is very popular, there is always someone waiting to play against you so you do not have 
 to wait long.
  
  Mario Kart DS SHOULD be owned by any DS owner, if not, by the game right now. If you do not have 
 a DS and like Mario Kart, buy the DS/Mario Kart bundle NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario makes his dual-screened carting debut to rapturous applause.
  Nintendo's decade-old franchise gets the DS treatment. Mario Kart DS represents a significant step 
 forward for Nintendo's much-loved racing series, and not only because it's the first to feature 
 on-line play. This is a must have game for the Nintendo DS and is possibly even good enough to 
 make you go and buy a DS unit for it. Nintendo have really managed to put together an extremely 
 fun game and with the on-line options, the Nintendo DS really does house the best Mario Kart game 
 ever. 
  
  Perfect game-play; high replay-ability; great multi-player; excellent presentation, and tons of 
 unlocking.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedzoom93
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Throughout the Mario Kart series we have seen new features, new karts, new characters, and most 
 of all... new tracks.
  
  Mario Kart DS simply ha sit all. 12 characters to drive as, 36 brand spanking new karts and 16 
 breath-taking new tracks, not including the 16 retro tracks.
  
  
  Hours of fun can be spent completing the 8 Grand Prix's, the seven sets of missions and hundred 
 of hours will be spent of wifi. I give it 10.
  
  
  This would of gotten a 10 but I started to notice that alot of the objects on the tracks were 2D, 
 that kind of spoiled it for me. Apart from that, it's like playing MKDD. I give it a 9.
  
  
  The fresh new sounds add to the excitement of MKDS but after months of playing they can start 
 to annoy you. This gets 7.
  
  
  I rate the game a pure 10.
  
  Jordon Ward 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviliPodMan99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  An AWESOME driving game for the DS. You pick between a selection of characters including 2 secret 
 characers! On 1 player you can pick between 50 cc (easy) , 100cc (normal) , 150cc (hard) and mirror 
 mode (everything is the opposite) . Then on multiplayer (8 players!) you can play a race, shine 
 battle or balloon battle. On multiplayer you can pick teams (if you want them) . Balloon Battle 
 is when you hit people with items to make them lose there balloons. Shine battle is just King of 
 the Hill, where you try to have a sun until the time runs out. You can lose the sun by falling 
 off the edge or getting hit by an item. This game is perfect for all ages and is very popular. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunte86
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS.. Must I say more? It's a Mario Kart game and I have yet to play a MK game I don't 
 like. This one strays wawy from Double Dash and goes back to a more old school feel. The graphics 
 are nice and smooth. And they finally made it to where in multiplayer you can add computer oponents. That 
 means you can do battle mode all by yourself if you want to, or if there are just 4 human playing 
 you can put 4 cpu opponents also to spice up the race. THere is a new misson mode which helps to 
 make you a better driver through different situations. Now onto the online play. It's great for 
 what it is but it could be better. I do enjoy being able to play my friend in Florida from Texas. 
 I just wish there was a more absolute way to get your friends or some way to communicate. I have 
 had many races with random people and have wanted to race again.... but couldn't.... Oh well. This 
 is a great game to launch the wifi support and things are not perfect which is ok. The wifi gets 
 better with each wifi title. Animal crossing adds communication and now metroid will have voice 
 chat. The only thing I hate about online play is snakers which is not nintendo's fault... but i'm 
 not going into that.
  
  Great game will keep you coming back for more for months. 
  
  Decent wifi
  
  FUN
  
  If you have a DS GET THIS GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  This is far and away my favorite installment of Mario Kart to date. 32 count them THIRTY TWO tracks 
 in all, 16 of your favorite retro tracks and 16 brand new ones to race on. Not to mention the multiplayer 
 battle mode maps and slew of challenges/boss battles almost Crazy Taxi style. The controls are 
 very precise using the D-Pad instead of analog stick, and turbo sliding has never been easier. 
 Unlike any other Mario Kart yet once you have unlocked everything in the game, any character can 
 drive any kart. Oh the combinations! If you have WiFi playing online is simply a blast with the 
 one limitation that you can't hold a shell or bananna on your butt to protect against those nasty 
 blue shells. WiFiers beware, snake or be snaked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofakingdom92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  i swear, play this game and you'll be addicted. i have this game and i played it for soo long. 
 i set up the wi-fi connection at my house and i do that 2 hours everyday. i've never seen nobody 
 online. every time i go on, there are like lots of people wanting me to play with them and it was 
 soo fun. i think this is presently the best online handheld game that i've ever played. i like 
 mettroid prime hunters and...... OMG i forgot about animal crossing! that is also one of the best 
 ones! well, this game would be almost perfect if you could play with more people online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilstuffs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  if u dont have this game, u should!
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Mario kart. wat do u think u do? u race mario characters in karts! but unlike 64, this one has 
 hardly any bugs. infact, its the second cleanest one ive seen. and guess what: ONLINE! youll spend 
 many many hours on this awesome game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  I still cant get over portable games being 3D. im sorry, i just cant.
  
  SOUND
  Whats better 
 than mario music? mario music with daisys bloodcurdling screams in the background, caused via your 
 red shell! heh heh, im dark!
  
  VALUE
  worth your money even if there werent any unlockeables, but because there are ur almost ripping 
 the store off buying this game!
  
  TILT
  I still havent finished it, yet i play it nonstop! Its quite addicting, but if u get frustrated, 
 take a break and play later, or u might find ur DS broken! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigaman299
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I must admit, this is probably one of the *best* DS games I have ever played, and might, 
 possibly be one of the best games I have played... But I still don't see why everyone keeps on 
 saying this is the best game in the world.
  
  You'd have to say, the gameplay is amazing. They implemented a few, favorite maps from the previous 
 MK's and added a ton of new ones. Some maps are just plain crazy. It allows you to connect to Nintendo 
 Wi-fi, therefore giving the capabilities to let you play online. There are emblems which you can 
 draw, that appear on your vehicle. They added a Mission Mode , where you are able to play missions 
 , which are quite fun. However, races against the CPU may get a little boring for people who've 
 played this game for a long time. But I guess that's why there's Wifi! (Although D/Cers spoil it) 
 =)
  
  The graphics are probably everything you'd expect from a DS game... Just pretty much amazing. The 
 only thing that could qualify as ugly are the shells, but they aren't anything to mind about. Beautiful 
 vehicle designs. Amazingly detailed tracks. What more can you ask for? Well, the music can get 
 a little too... repetitive. This is probably where the game lost it's score, in my opinion, that 
 is. No, the songs do not sound as though they were just slapped on. In my opinion, the songs all 
 fit perfectly, but they do get, however... a little annoying after you play too much. I like the 
 sound effects though...!
  
  This game should be popped into your DS for a long time though. Gosh, it could probably be stuck 
 in there for life. And probably if you stick it onto your shelf somewhere, you'll probably be proud 
 you have it. It's an amazing game, with pretty high replay value. =)
  
  Overall, I think you should get this game. Probably, once you pick this game up, you won't wanna 
 put it down. It's quite fun, if I do say so myself. Trust me, it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NGC101
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game on the DS. Anyone can get into it. Its got old school tracks along with 
 some new ones. They have new karts but you can alson use the old ones.
  
  Gameplay- You can play this game for hours and never get bored! It is great that you can play it 
 with the wi fi. It has many game modes. They are all very fun. The computer racers are not easy. 
 It is a very chalenging game. You can just race your self in the time trials. The battle mode is 
 fun. It is greaqt how you can have team battles and you dont need multiplayer you can just battle 
 the computer. The Grand Prix is like i said before very chalanging. There is another new game mode 
 called Missions were you can raise your racing skill with doing chalenges.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are very good for a portible like the DS. There isnt any blurring or anything 
 like that.
  
  Sound- The sound on this game is very good. You can hear the motors reving and it is very clear.
 
  
  Value- It has a lot of value.
  
  Tilt- The lilt is great. There are no bad angles.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone that has a DS. Even if you didnt like the other ones you will 
 like this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  What makes a great Mario Kart sequel? Certainly there are things that are iconic to the series. 
 But one thing that has happened with every iteration of Mario Kart is innovation.
  
  Things that are seen throughout the series are the wide range of difficulty of the tracks, a wide 
 selection of characters (and later, karts) to choose from. Those signiature Mario World graphics 
 that about every thing you look at has eyes and a smiley face, big blue skies, bright colors, puffy 
 clouds...
  
  Innovation however is the key to a successful Mario Kart sequel. The first Super Mario Kart (for 
 SNES) was revolutionary due to the Mode-7 graphics, which involved a textured plane being portrayed 
 in a 3 dimensional slant. These "3D" graphics were very efficient and speedy, and worked quite 
 well on a racing platform.
  
  Next came the Nintendo 64's "Mario Kart 64" gave flesh and blood to the graphics with actual 3D 
 polygons. A whole new set of tracks, new characters, and lots of new stuff was included.
  
  The GBA version "Mario Kart Super Circuit" was probably the least innovative of any Mario Kart, 
 as it was a step back to Mode-7 style "textured plane" 3D graphics. In my opinion this one raced 
 a little wierd as well.
  
  Next came the Gamecube's "Mario Kart: Double Dash" which beefed the graphics up to the extreme. 
 The tracks included were all new and graphically stunning. A new dual rider feature on the karts 
 mixed up the action so you had a driver and effectively a gunner who would throw items at opponents.
 
  
  What could top all this action? What could surpass innovation on this level? MARIO KART DS!!
 
  
  Mario Kart DS is revolutionary for one reason, but that one reason unlocks so much potential that 
 it makes this game better than any other Mario Kart yet. Wi-Fi functionality. This crucial element 
 allows you to do something noone has ever been able to do until now: challenge other players over 
 the internet.
  
  You can enter Nintendo WFC (Wi-fi Connection) mode, and challenge users regionally (US) , worldwide 
 (EU, JAP) , or even people on your friends list. Rivals mode will attempt to find racers of similar 
 skill levels depending on your scores in grand prix mode and other accomplishments.
  
  All you need for internet connectivity is the Nintendo Wi-fi USB Connector, or a compatible router 
 (I've got a Linksys Wireless one that works great, though for successful "friend detection" I had 
 to tweak port forwarding and DMZ slightly) . Finally, instead of dragging people in off the street 
 for a match of Mario Kart in your living room, you can sit around in your PJ's and put your skills 
 to the test!
  
  You can also connect wirelessly from DS to another nearby DS (within about 50 feet or so) . So connected, 
 you can not only challenge one another, but another DS user without Mario Kart can join in the 
 fun with the "download play" option (this does not include all the tracks, only certain ones) . 
 Another feature on DS to DS is to share ghost data, which is basically instant replay info for 
 time trial mode. Think you've got the best time trial scores ever? Download your friends and check 
 them out.
  
  Graphics in this game encompass both screens of the DS. The best way to describe it is comparing 
 the top (racing action) screen to the N64's approximate capabilities (perhaps a little better than 
 that) , and the bottom (maps and menus) screen to that of a beefed up SNES (mostly Mode-7 graphics) .
 
  
  The game includes 4 brand new "Cups" which include 4 tracks each. There is also "Retro Cups", 16 
 tracks in total, which cover previous platforms from SNES, GBA, N64 and GC. They are translated 
 beautifully, and play just like they did on the previous platforms. Included also is an unlockable 
 "Mirror Mode" which will let you race all the tracks backwards.
  
  Another single player mode included is Battle Mode, with a twist. In this rendition you can allow 
 the CPU to control opponents... 7 of them! Balloon battle and another mode where you collect Shines 
 are included.
  
  New to the Mario Kart universe is "Mission Mode" where you pass levels by doing various tasks like 
 collecting coins, breaking boxes, beating opponents to the finish line, etc. At the end of the 
 level you fight different Bosses to move to the next level. It's very different and very fun.
 
  
  When I used to play Mario Kart on other platforms, I would practice and practice trying to get 
 better and better, but ultimately, aside from one friend I really had no opponents. But now with 
 Mario Kart DS, I have 10's of thousands of opponents!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Money16
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was controlls suprisingly well for digital control, it has great graphics, great audio 
 and is all around a joy to play. The game modes are numerous and stellar. The multiplayer options 
 are great, as you can play against someone who doesnt have the game. This game is a fun to play, 
 plain and simple and it has lots of replay value. The online play is an added bonus, but is not 
 necesarry to enjoy the game. Also of note for gameplay: you can drag stuff behind you, which i 
 like. Antoher note: This game DOES allow for snaking which is very helpful, (but in my opinion 
 cheap) when playing online or in 150 cc modes. Please don't snake online though, its cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebop89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been long running series dating all the way back to the SNES. I have played and 
 beaten every Mario Kart with the exception of Mario Kart Super Circuit for the GBA. Something about 
 Mario Kart that has been true since its sequal debuted on the Nintendo 64 is that each addition 
 to the series is always a major improvement to an already fantastic game. This game is the epitome 
 of improvement, being without a doubt, the best Mario Kart ever created.
  
  Graphics
  
  The Nintendo DS is only a 64-bit system (Nintendo 64 graphics basically) , so obviously the graphics 
 are not going to be on par with those of Mario Kart Double Dash, but they are none the less amazing. 
 The graphics lie somewhere between Mario Kart 64 and Mario Kart Double Dash. They are not quite 
 as good as MKDD, but they are much better than MK64. One thing that actually surprised me about 
 this game, is that on the Double Dash levels included on the game, you probably won't notice much 
 of a difference between them and their Gamecube counterparts graphically until you put the two 
 next to each other. All maps, characters, weapons, and vehicles look fantastic and very detailed. 
 I honestly have no complaints about the graphics, they are 64 bits of perfection.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in this game is quite amazing. It takes full advantage of the DS's surround 
 sound capabilities and it utilizes them well. All of the games sound effects sound fantastic and 
 they will really pull you in to a game. This is the first time I've been majorly impressed with 
 a game's sound, but Mario Kart DS's sound is phenomenal. I only have one complaint about the sound, 
 and that is with the music tracks. Now the music is by no means bad; no song will ever annoy you 
 or get on your nerves. Mario Kart DS, along with Mario Kart Double Dash and Mario Kart 64, has 
 one minor problem musically that only the original game was able to master and that is the fact 
 that none of the songs are going to be rememberable. I can still remember the opening theme song 
 to the original Mario Kart easily, but I really have to think hard to try and remember songs from 
 Double Dash or MK64. This game is the same way. Great music, just not rememerable like the first. 
 The sound is still fantastic though.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Here is what makes or breaks a game. The sound and graphics of a game could be great but that means 
 nothing if a game has poor gameplay. Nintendo has proved though, they know what they are doing. 
 The gameplay here is nothing short of perfection. There have been new weapons added, as well as 
 the readdition of a lot of weapons that have been taken out of the game over the years (such as 
 the ghost for example) . The new weapons are cool, especially the missle. The missle will turn you 
 into a giant missel for about 5 seconds, but you are insanely fast and and a powerhouse at the 
 same time. The new courses are great too, as well as the ones brought back from the original game. 
 There are 16 old courses (which is insanely awesome to have) , as well as 16 new tracks. This combines 
 to a total of 32 tracks, and they are all great. The Rainbow road in this game is the best rainbow 
 road in any Mario Kart. I'm not going to spoil anything and say why, but this rainbow road is so 
 much better than any of the other ones it's insane. Everything you've ever loved about Mario Kart 
 is intact in this game, as well as many new stuff. There's Grand Prix, Time Trial, Versus, Battle, 
 and a new mode called Mission Mode. Every game mode here is a blast, and every one of them has 
 been expanded upon. Versus mode, for example, allows you to create rules and race in teams through 
 random courses to see what team can get the highest combined scores. Grand Prix now not only gives 
 you trophies for winning, but it also rates your driving ability as well. Everything here is phenomenal 
 and better than it has ever been in any Mario Kart game. The controls are very tight and responsive, 
 and your cart doesn't feel clunky like many did in Double Dash. Everything about the gameplay is 
 simply perfection. Nintendo hit its mark and it hit it hard. The gameplay here is better than any 
 Mario Kart game ever made and it shows.
  
  Value
  
  The value here is just like the rest of the game, amazing. For only $35 you get online racing (which 
 is very easy to navigate and fun) , as well as 5 different offline modes. This game is worth every 
 penny and will keep you playing for a very long time. I'll go as far as to say this game is worth 
 picking up a DS just for it. There are many courses, karts, and characters for you to play to unlock, 
 so there is plenty to keep you going.
  
  Conclusion
  
  All in all this is is a fantastic game. The game is one of the best racing games out tehre and 
 definately the best Mario Kart out there. This is a must have if you have a DS and the game alone 
 is worth getting a DS for.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qupidxoxo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Yea so i was pleased, when i craked this Ds game open and played it, its fun and a total blood rush, not 
 knowing if your gonna lose or not, but in my reveiw box i said i had one issu acttually its three, the 
 first is the paste of this game i mean it pretty slow, besides the fact you can do many boost, get 
 speed boost, and gain speed from behindsome on, the otheir issue is people that are online, you know 
 the discconectors, and they mess you up and the last issue, is playing the same levels on every cc 
 over i mean the box saids 30course hmph i wish, but otheir then that i love this guy, but im playing 
 MPH: right now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ritchiegrc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a great series and has visited the handheld befoe and has done good but not this 
 good. The gameplay is great and has many tracks plus more racers. The tracks look just just like 
 they would on the systems that the tracks were orginally on. The extra tracks look great as well. 
 The graphics are amazing and I don't believe I have seen to many games on the DS that are like 
 this. Just amazing. The sound is traditional to the mario Kart series which is great becuase of 
 a beat to keep people playing. This game is a game that any DS owner should have in their collection. 
 If you don't you don't have a complete collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Quagy_Giggity
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best titles for the DS out there. It's graphics are top notch (except 
 for Donkeys' teeth :P) , it's game play is amazing, and it's re playability is respectable for a 
 racing title.
  
  The multiplayer is where Mario Kart truly shines. Despite the long wait for a match to start, and 
 slight lag, it is a very solid addition. Online games can be frustrating at first, but then once 
 you get the hang of it, enjoyable. Races can be intense, and I find myself with an adrenaline rush 
 when you beat someone who was 20 milliseconds behind.
  
  All in all it is an amazing game, and I'm glad to own it
  
  9.3/10
  
  Brendan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gersh100
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  A good game. (as long as you do not have blood pressure problems) The game is very good and very 
 addictive, I couldn't put it down for more than a half hour at a time. 
  At 50cc the game is fun but not very challenging. Your almost always in first place which is good 
 but you always get hit with those blue turtle shells (remember blue turtle shells = BAD.
  At 100cc mode it picks up a lot. It becomes more challenging, not hard but challenging. The players 
 become harder but its still not that hard to beat them.
  At 150cc if your a true catholic you should go to confession 2,3 times a day. Yes the players become 
 so annoying F*** and a** will be top of your vocabulary so be warned.
  Anyway to sum it up this is a good game with many tracks and unlockable characters
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabianmo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This Nintendos fifth installment in the Mario Kart series. For me this is the best game in the 
 series for been able to keep some old things and make them better, some new thing wich are great 
 and the online playing. This game has 3 mode: Single player, Multiplayer and Nintendo WFC. The 
 single player sections divides in 5: Grand Prix, VS, Batlle, Time trials and Missions. The missions 
 menu makes you do different task and complete some objectives. In Multiplayer up to 8 people can 
 play at once with a single card in Wi-Fi up to 4. This game features a memory for your friends 
 and keeps track of your records. I highly reccomend this game, one of the best for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TinHaxor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS was the first game I got for my DS, and it is still the most used. IT seems to me 
 that the multiplayer and wi-fi connectivity features are a massive hit with the DS users.
  
  The mission mode can be extremely fun. Each course different to the next and I am happy to 
 say that they have included some of the old favourites. Some courses are hard, some easy but that 
 is the way games work.
  
  The ghost data feature is also quite popular. Not only can you show your friends how fast you are 
 but they can race you basically as much as they want without you even being there.
  
  The multiplayer and wi-fi connectivity attract vasts amount of attention. These features can never 
 die down. Unlike the mission mode, there is nothing to complete and therefore you can repeatedly 
 play the game without it getting boring.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfemanTRITON
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like all the Mario Kart games before it. They just compiled some newer tracks 
 with the best classic ones and put them all into a DS game. The balloon battle and multiplayer 
 racing is still fun and competitive, but you got to have a Wi-Fi hotspot you can go to to play 
 multiplayer. Some people don't eat at MickeyD's all the time, so for them I say have fun playing 
 the CPU until you get bored. The only other Mario Kart game I have played is the N64 version twice 
 and I still was bored to death after beating the game in 3 hrs. If the rating I gave this game 
 seems high for the review I gave it, then it's because I still like the multiplayer side of Mario 
 Kart. Shooting turtle shells at your friend's kart never seems to get old, yet single-player mode 
 does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi5165
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  I got this game at Christmas and I am still playing it. The new Missions mode is extremely fun yet 
 some levels are really easy. Combining ghost data and wifi was a very good move. I love sending 
 my brother a ghost that he can only dream of beating. The global wifi is a little slow and might 
 be hard to beat other people but is really fun if you have some friends in another state. The Grand 
 Prix mode has many courses from previous Mario Kart games making it so you can still enjoy your 
 favorite levels from the Game Cube, Nintendo 64, and others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Man
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. It's probably the best game i have. There's always something to do and 
 there's alot to unlock. There's about 4or 5 characters that you can unlcock. You start of with 
 about 8 people. There's 5 carts to unclock. You start of with 2 for each character. The Battle 
 stuff is pretty awsome. The Balloon Battles are fun. Its hard to steal other player's Balloons 
 though. Shine Runners is my favortie. The hardest part is finding Shines. The Wifi looks really 
 fun. But the down side is that you can only have 4 players in one game. But if you just have the 
 people in your living room and you get all 8 players, it would be the best game of Mario Kart ever. 
 Over all, MARIO KART DS is the best game ever for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilihead7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of nintendo, mario kart, mario, racing games, or anyting else, purchase mario 
 kart as a favor to yourself! this game has to be one of the best games released in 2005, epsecially 
 it's compatability with massive multiplayer wi fi. The game itself is great, boastigng second best 
 graphics to any mario kart game yet (gamecube beats it) over 30 courses, over 30 different karts 
 to choose from, over 8 different racers, several game modes, and a whole lot of fun. this game 
 takes courses from the nes, snes, gba, and gamecube, plus brand new ones and mixes them altogether 
 to create one great game. plus, there are even more racers than ever before, which means the replay 
 value is extremely high. regardless, is there is a single thing wrong with this game, nobody must 
 have figured it out yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computerman92
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a fantastic game. Though it has pros and cons. One of the bad things is most of 
 the modes were in Double Dash and they were better, you could have two people on a kart. Also you 
 could hold three items in back of you. The good things of Mario Kart DS is the Wi-Fi. It's Wi-Fi 
 lobby is so simple and takes a long time to get someone to battle. I know this is the first Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi game. I am sure Metroid Wi-Fi lobby will be better. Even though there are alote of cons of 
 Mario Kart DS it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecube_sp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game takes classic Mario Kart and add tons of content. They didn't really do much to change 
 the fundamental Kart game. But the multiplayer (especially the internet mode) really extend the 
 life of the game. I find my self returning to the game to play online every now and again. I really 
 like the time trials and the staff ghosts. The track selection is good and the addition of classic 
 tracks really seems to fit in well. I don't really like most racing games, but I have always loved 
 the Mario Kart. All in all well worth the 30 bucks. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddery
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that makes you buy the console. I followed this instruction and I am 
 glad I did. 64 tracks 32 classic ones, new characters (R. O. B is questionable) , Wireless racing, 
 and mission mode. The only thing that i disliked was the fact that it only took me 4 days to finish 
 it completely, which appears to be happening with alot of the new Mario Kart's. All in all another 
 milestone for Nintendo to someday overpass with something better. Until then, I highly recommend 
 purchassing the game, and if you don't have a DS. Get the Combo Pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is a near flawless racing game. The steering and control of your kart is perfect 
 and the Wifi play is a great addition to the wonderful singleplayer modes. What makes Mario kart 
 a great game is the number of tracks and all characters and karts to choose from. In most racing 
 games you unlock "better" cars but the suposed better karts handle and feel just the same as the 
 normal cars, in Mario Kart there is great differences and values in each kart you can choose from 
 which makes the process for choosing a kart and character more thoughtfull. Overall Mario Kart 
 DS is a wonderfull game every DS owner should get, and if u dont have a DS then go buy one just 
 for this wonderfull game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newmanmaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  i got this game and already knew it was going to be great before i opened it. and i was right, it 
 has new and old things such as single player nitro grand prix which includes tracks like luigis 
 mansion , shroom ridge , airship fortress , and rainbow road (personal classical favorite) . then 
 you have the retro grand prix which has some great classic tracks such as mario circuit , bowser 
 castle 2 , koopa beach 2 , and banshee boardwalk (another another one of my favorites) . so you have 
 8 cups in all the mushroom cup , flower cup , star cup , and special cup. then for the retro grand 
 prix you have the shell cup , banana cup , leaf cup , and the lightning cup. so there are 32 tracks 
 in all not including the battle mode courses. yes the battle mode is really fun and amazing because 
 you can blow into the mic to inflate your balloons that have been bursted by enemy objects such 
 as koopa shells red koopa shells banana peals and much more. then there is a new feature which 
 is called mission mode. here you can complete curtain missions like driving through ten numbered 
 gates in order or ten numbered gates in order while driving backwards. there are 8 missions in 
 each of 6 levels and at the end of every level there is a boss to battle which is also something 
 that can be played over and over. so mario kart ds is a great game and the sound is great as well 
 as the graphics and game play. this game is amazingly fun and worth anyones time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperLinkX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  if u like mario u will like mario kart ds. if u like racing games u will like mario kart ds. if 
 u like both well u no. it is awsome. i bought it the day it came out and im still lovin it. its 
 like the game never gets old. my fav is luigi. its cool everyone has different stats and everything. 
 there are all kinds of kool wepons. overall this is an extradinary game that mario fans definitly 
 should like. so if u dont hav it i sugggest getting it ull like it trust me. peace out. if u want 
 to contact me my email is mastergamerpsp@netscape. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psynergy2001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  
  Like I said before, a very good game which is worth the money and more. I like the new choice of 
 different karts for each player quite a bit , mostly because it gives new variety in playing style 
 and strategy. I also like the new charachter "Dry Bones", Who is pretty cool, considering one of 
 his karts is a tank! 
  The game is totally immersing, the missions challenging, and the 150cc GP can keep you occupied 
 for quite awhile. the new battle type, Shine Runners, takes it to a whole new level where you're 
 not just trying to destroy the enemy, youre also trying to steal his shines. All in all, this is 
 a game definitely worth having. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. The multiplayer was even better than the single player and the Nintendo Wi-fi connection 
 made the multiplayer even better.
  
  The graphics were exellent. They couldn't be much better. They could have remade the snes and GBA 
 courses a little better though.
  
  The sound could have been a lot better. Waluigi's voice sucked, it couldn't be any worse than it 
 is. When they launch a blue shell the sound it made, made it way to easy to tell if it was coming 
 so all you have to do is get into second in a certain amount of time to make it hit the person 
 that you made pass you. Bowser's, Daisy's, and R. O. B.'s voices/sound they make could also have 
 been better.
  
  The value could have been a little better but it is pretty good. It could have used more characters 
 though.
  
  The gameplay couldn't be much better. It could have new special battle modes and all the previous 
 battle form other Mario Karts. Another thing it could have is a special non Wi-Fi racing mode where 
 you get to choose 2 players and have a double dash mode. Other than those thimgs it couldn't do 
 any better. The best Mario Kart game in the series. Its tied for the best game for the DS that 
 I have played. I don't have anything else to say exept if you have a DS get Mario Kart.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  This game will have you racing Mario for a long time. The graphics are top notch, the gameplay 
 is unbeatable, the sound is just right, and the multiplayer is insanly fun. If you own a DS dont 
 pass this up, go get this asap! First go get a wireless router or that usb thingie Nintendo is 
 selling and get yourself online with this game. The players are a little unevely matched but its 
 ok, its still fun to be in 4th place and kick the 1st place players ass with a blue shell ohh yes 
 its that great! Nintendo really worked hard to put out a great game and what a value you gets tons 
 of options and modes and get a wonderful multiplayer only for $34.99. Cant beat it anywhere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluejay64
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS returns to the winning formula of the original SNES game, the handling of the karts, 
 some of the tracks and the hop technique used that was not included in Double Dash. This is not 
 to say that MKDS has evolved at all, it takes the best parts of the other Mario Kart games too. 
 Techniques like item dragging and power sliding are used to great effect in MKDS.
  
  One of the best parts of MKDS is the superb handling of the karts and the variation in the 32 unlockable 
 karts. After the lackluster handling of Double Dash, MKDS is a joy to play, each kart has its own 
 clear attributes and faults and power sliding can be used effectively and skillfully.
  
  The games graphics are crisp and smooth, and arguably the best on DS yet. The game's music is typically 
 cheerful and does the required job but its nothing special.
  
  Its in the all important multiplayer modes that MKDS really flourishes, 8 player single and multi-cart 
 modes are included as expected. MKDS is a brave new foray for Nintendo with the inclusion of WiFi 
 gaming. Although it is new ground for Nintendo, I'm still a little disappointed in the way that 
 WiFi play is executed. There are multiple options to decide who you play, worldwide or continental 
 and friends and rivals. Friends are people who you have traded friends codes with, or those that 
 you have played in real life. Rivals matches you against players of a similar win to loss ratio. 
 While these modes work well, the lack of choice is the main problem. When searching, there is no 
 choice of whom you play and actually meeting a friend online is rare. Another key issue with online 
 play in MKDS is not specifically Nintendo's fault. This is the problem of disconnectors, those 
 that quit when losing and take your precious wins away. While not Nintendo's fault, no preventative 
 measures were included by the big N. Thankfully Metroid Prime Hunters rectifies this issue.
  
  In many ways, MKDS is the perfect Mario Kart game and the inclusion of online play is a welcome 
 one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegopher3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart was the third game that I had gotten after Warioware: Touched and Meteos. And I loved 
 the new courses and the oldschool courses also. You can get into a race or start your Grand Prix 
 right away. And if you want to take some time off from competitive racing, then do some of the 
 fun missions or just have some fun in the battle mode. And don't skip the Time Trials, too. Try 
 and see if you can beat the Nintendo Staff member's time on the Eight Figure Circuit! And the editing 
 your name into the car is very fun, also. Add some symbols or just put your name, and you'll see 
 your characters car with your design. From many unlockables like several new characters, getting 
 new karts, and the 150 cc mirror engine class, this game is the must buy for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorax73
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best games you can get for the Nintendo DS. It loses the double drivers 
 that Mario Kart Double Dash had and goes back to its roots. It really feels like a mix between 
 Mario Kart 64 (my personal favorite) and Super Mario Kart. It utilizes the DS's features pretty 
 well with the map on the bottom screen and the balloons in battle mode plus with the addition of 
 online play and many many classic levels from all the mario kart games this is defenitly a welcomed 
 entry in the mario kart series and many could argue that it is the best in the entire series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevo14
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  mario is back with his crew of mushroom mayham. Thhis Mario Kart is probaly one of the best games 
 for the DS. Its wonderful gameplay makes this a MUST BUY. It also comes with wifi which makes its 
 over the top great game. Play wirless local mult. player or play with up to 4 people useing wifi. 
 the game modes are back and they even added mission mode which is fun. If you are think of buying 
 a DS then this is the time to. LOVE THIS GAME 
  Never miss with mario sony . And dont forget to go to nintedo. com where you can see your stauts 
 and records and compare them to other peoples record to see how you stack up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawmanrevolutio
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting almost a year and a half for this game to hit the shelves and this is easily 
 worth your 30. This edition to the Mario Kart Franchise is even better than its Super Nintendo 
 counterpart, not only because of online play if you keep reading you will find out why.
  
  This Mario Kart has 16 new tracks and 16 Retro tracks from the Super Nintendo, Nintendo 64, Game 
 Boy Advance and Gamecube Versions. Old favroits including Baby Park, Sky Garden and Moo Moo Farm. 
 One thing that lets this down is only 4 Unlockable charecters they could of had a lot more unlockable 
 charecters like Baby Bowser or King Boo. Mario Kart DS also comes with 2 New Weapons the Blooper 
 which blocks out your enemies View on the Top screen and the other new item is the Bullet Bill 
 which sends you speeding off at high speed Knocking out any other racers in your Way. most of the 
 old weapons are still here like Green shells, Red Shells and Banana skins, unforchanetly Nintendo 
 decided to ditch the Special items which is a mighty shame oh well Nintendo have all so cut out 
 the double item boxes but i dident care about them.
  
  But Online is easy to set up and so much fun. it has 4 ways of finding oponent's Worldwide, Continental, 
 Rival's and Friend's Worldwide is any random person from across the world, Continental is Any one 
 from your Continent, Rival's is any one of similar skill levle to you and Friend's are people who 
 know your friend code and they know yours. all this needs to improve on is 8 play online and more 
 courses.
  for more information on Nintendo Wi Fi Connection go on to http://www. nintendowifi. com/global/index. jsp
 
  
  You can now battle against your Mates in 8 Player Races or Battle and they dont even need a copy 
 of Mario Kart DS all they need is a DS (But it is better to play with people who do have Mario 
 Kart because you have more arena's)
  
  Graphics 8/10
  Good but not fantastic, the Charecters look superb but the tracks look really under detailed, the 
 Karts look really flash as well.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Mostly engine noises, and charecter taunts. the Backround Music is classic Nintendo this is so catchy 
 you'll be singing this on the way to school or Work
  
  Inovation 7/10
  the Top Screen displays the action. While the touch screen is used conservativley, it displays 
 a map of the arena which is worth a look at from time to time as it shows you what weapons the 
 other players have.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  This plays Perfectly Smooth Handling, Fantastic Sense of speed and all the weapons fire just right. 
 The Powerslide system is spot on unlike the other Mario Kart's the boost's the power slides give 
 you is actuly noticeable.
  
  Controls 8/10
  Good A is accelarate, B is brake, X ot L is fire weapon and R is Jump/Powerslide
  but Y should 
 have been accelarate not A. other than this the controls work well enough but it hurts your thumb 
 after a while.
  
  Lifespan 9/10
  8 Cups to Beat, 3 difficulty's all new Mission mode or Race or Battle against the Computer. And 
 when you have done all that play it on Mirror mode (All the tracks are Backward. But you will be 
 playing this online for Months. but the single player will keep you playing for about 3 weeks to 
 finish it But even then you will want to play online.
  
  Pro's
  Its online and its easy, safe and best off all free
  
  Plays very smoothly
  
  your Mates 
 dont even need a copy of Mario Kart DS to Play against you
  
  The Best Game on the DS so far
  
  Con's
  Not a lot of unlockable charecters, Double Dash 
 Had them
  
  after playing for an hour your thumb feels like a bruised pulp
  
  Only 8 tracks available on Download Play and downloaders have to play as shy guy
  
  You will 
 like this if
  you like racing games
  or like Mario
  or if you like Manic Multi Player
  
  You wont like this if
  You like realisum
  like games with Guns and Searing
  you want 
 a long single player game
  
  This the best game for the DS so far and if you own a DS shut down your computer and run to your 
 nerest game shop and buy this game.
  Your life is incomplete with out this Buy it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrokmyds
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I was shocked when I received this game for free. I hadn't planned on buying it, and didn't really 
 like it, but the fact is that it is a well-done game. My friend had an extra copy and gave it to 
 me. I don't know why he didn't sell it.
  
  This game is probably the best Mario game, and definitley the best kart game. It has plenty of 
 characters, cars, tracks, and unlockables. 
  
  The wi-fi connection is decent, but everyone hacks and cheats. That's what you get from slow, free 
 internet. I have not won a cup yet (on wi-fi) , even though I am probably better than most racers.
 
  
  This game improves on the strange mechanics of Mario Kart, which were left in the dark on the N64. 
 Powersliding is an ease, plenty of new items are available, and the AI is, well, (dare I say it) 
 hard. Yes, a difficult Mario game.
  
  The music is frightfully annoying on most tracks and the voiceovers are stupid. It flies for a 
 Mario title though.
  
  I mainly like this game because I got it for free. Even if I had known the quality of it, I wouldn't 
 have bought it. It just isn't great, but it's all good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best racer available for the Nintendo DS and one of the best ever. This version 
 of the series features tracks from all of the MKs and brand new characters including R. O. B.; the 
 NES robot. Hours of racing are in your hands with flawless aspects. 
  
  Single player races are fun, but it gets loads better. Mario Kart DS is Wi-Fi compatible and lets 
 you play via internet against your friends and players from around the globe. The graphics are 
 solid and the controls are very responsive. This game definitly beats Ridge Racer DS and Asphalt 
 in terms of... everything! 
  
  Overall, you simply can't go wrong buying this game. It is awesome! What's even sweeter is that 
 it actually outsold GTA: Liberty City Stories for the PSP... It's that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a must have game for the Nintendo DS. It's a lot of fun and is great for killing 
 time while on the go. As with the previous Mario Kart games, this one have multiple tracks available 
 to race on, with either a quick race in a grand prix. The tracks are some of the most creative 
 I've seen. For example there's a track that is built into a giant clock, and you drive on the different 
 gears within the clock.
  
  Graphically the game is one of the best on the DS. The graphics are fully 3D with a lot of details. 
 The sound and music are also pretty good. This is one of the few games on the DS that I play the 
 most. Now that I've unlocked all of the bonus tracks, I pick it up to race a quick race here and 
 there.
  
  The two screens are really great for this type of game. The track on the bottom and the action 
 on the top, means that you can concentrate on the race and just glance at the lower screen when 
 you want to see the standing.
  
  Another great feature is the wi-fi capability that's included. Playing a couple wi-fi races was 
 easy to setup and I was racing right away. So if you want a game that is a lot of fun pick up Mario 
 Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakeus124
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I bet you that the only thing that can rivall this game of all DS games is the metroid prime hunters 
 game that's coming out. With 3 different classes and many characters to unlock, this game has an 
 awesome single player. Along with the normal racing, people can play fun mini games such as ballon 
 battle and shrine battle. With Wi-fi, this game is the BEST. Play anyone around the world at anytime, 
 and stack up wins to try to get in the high scores. Definetely is the BEST game so far. You can't 
 even complain if you dont have wireless internet at home because of the hotspots around neighborhods 
 for wireless net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon790
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best mario kart to date. It has singleplayer, multiplayer and online over nintendo 
 wifi connection. The singleplayer has four modes: grand prix, time trial, mission mode and quick 
 race. Grand prix is great, mission mode is ok, nobody (I mean nobody) plays the time trial and quick 
 race is great too. Where the game really shines is in the wifi connection, you face three other 
 random people of friends from your friends list. THE FRIEND CODES ARE TOO LONG! You can even blow 
 into the microphone in battle mode to make the ballons grow. Oh sorry I frogot about battle mode 
 it's the best part of the game!
  
  Good: lots of modes!
  
  Bad: long friend codes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55david55david
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  this games is really good lots of unlock ables it has good graphics not that bad of sound grat 
 battle modes i love the new modes there is bomb blast and
  shine thief and the orginal and still fun balloon battle my favoutrtie is the balloon battle on 
 block city it is a pretty easy game once u get used to the manuvers and controls of the cacherters 
 the best thing is to try to unlock the new carts and charters but my favourtite cup is specical 
 becasue it has the best races it is great that they have included the mario players from three 
 other games 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  MARIO KART DS-when i first played this game i notice that it was so fun and simple, first off i 
 will say the good things albout this game .the controls were perfect, Eight players with a single 
 copy of the game; classic gameplay is better than ever; plenty of single-player content; lots of 
 fun stuff to unlock; human competition alround the world. There were no lags and the musuc is great 
 also a good almount of plp ,karts. track ect. the new missin mose helps you get better the graphics 
 are good. its also hard to find plp to play agiast but its still the classic mario kart even though 
 it has alot more in it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aviex
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forwards to this game long before it arrived. I was always a mariokart fan, so it 
 would be extremely hard to dissapoint THIS fan, but then again....
  
  The game is still WAY too easy on singleplayer. It wasnt long untill i had finished everything 
 there was that i could (bar the staff ghosts. Their still hard. Mostly) , and then what was i to 
 do? Online!
  
  Online was good and all. But it seemed to be missing something, so i didnt end up playing it that 
 much.
  
  So what makes this a great game? The pick up and play nature of it all. If im bored and have a 
 small amount of time, i can have a quick race, or for a long time, i can have a 32 course grand 
 prix. This is where the game continues to win me over. And the reason it is the best mariokart 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazimman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has released the latest version of Mario Kart for its Dualscreen handheld system, and 
 if you haven't played it yet, it's good. It's really, really good. At last check, Gamerankings. com 
 had 97 reviews of the game, with an average rating of 92.5 per cent . You can add Play's five red 
 dots rating to that tally.
  
  
  The Good: Wireless on-line multiplayer! Racing response time on-line is excellent. Lots of modes. 
 New maps, and maps from the entire history of the franchise. Good, simple, clean fun. 
  
  The Bad: Only race modes are played on-line, none of the battle modes are supported. Depending 
 on where you live, you might not have a supported hotspot near you, so you will need to purchase 
 the Wi-Fi Connector if you want to play on-line. 
  
  The Verdict: Get it. Now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pop7934
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  This is most likely the best DS game to date. And it will be till metroid hunters comes out. It 
 is highly addictive and with online play it shines as the Best in the series. It has provided months 
 of game-play for me and you should definately buy it. So stop reading this and go.
  Buy it! Are you still here, what, you need more reasons?!? Well, this mario Kart has tons of unlockables 
 and 32 Tracks. That's the most in a mario kart game. Also it is highly addictive and the music 
 is great. The graphics are top-notch and it is definately worth it. Go buy it now fool!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feelgoodinc2005
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun!!! Better than the one on the SNES, N64, the GC, and the GBA. Mario Kart, 
 is personally, one of my favorite games on the DS. Yet, the Ds is personally one of my favorite 
 systems. This game is a great game, and is the best game on the DS with 3-D graphics. ( the other 
 ones are Sk8land, Wild World, Touch and Roll -i think-, Reasident Evil DS, and Nintendogs and King 
 Kong - which is a peice of crap) Yet there are some 2-D games that are better, like Castlevania, 
 Advance Wars DS, and Phoenix Wright Attorney- which is as good as MKDS. This game, not like any 
 other mario kart games, has a mission mode. There are ten- i think- missions in a level. There 
 are ten- i think - missions in the game to beat it. In every level, there is a boss, which are 
 always so easy. Still, this game goes into the outside world, with WIFI. WIFI is fun, yet, the 
 only people who do WIFI are the people who know they can kick your ass. Also, if you just wanna 
 play with 8 friends, and don't have a computer wherever you are going, there is a Multiplayer mode. 
 In Miltiplayer Mode, you can either race, balloon battle, or Shrine Runners - i think that's what 
 it's name is. You can't do that in WIFI. You can also get secret characters, like Dry Bones, Daisy, 
 Waluigi, and a few more. You can also design your own LOGO that you can put on you car. This game 
 is fun, and one of the best games on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LFCR2005
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  I just have not words to describe the excelent job that nintendo did in this game....
  
  It's a masterpiece of the Mario Kart games, not only for its graphics, gameplay and sound... The 
 online mode by the nintendo wi-fi conection made that this game won a side in the list of my favorite 
 games
  
  Another thing that I like about this game was the new elements, items and characters.... and talking 
 about characters let me tell you that my favorite in all the MK series was toad, but now when I 
 play with Dry-bones I trown away toad and take like my new best player to Dry-bones, It's just 
 funny play with this guy, well skeleton tortle...
  
  If nintendo keeps jobs like this in the DS, I sure that the DS will be the Best of this Next-gen 
 even more than REV, PS3 or 360... (I don't name the PSP because in my opinion it doesn't is a new 
 innovation for me)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhovey
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is great in every way. it is so fun to play with your friends wirelessly. the graphics 
 are amazing and so is the gameplay. there are plenty of characters to choose from and a lot of 
 karts to choose from. there are also quite a bit of items in this one which made me happy:) . the 
 controls were pretty accurate and thhey did a real good job on how the karts had good things and 
 bad things, or their stats. this is a game i won't stop playing for a while. i have to go now, 
 hope you enjoyed reading! bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesz25
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  well to tell you the truth this "mario cart" game is worth buying a new ds and then getting the 
 game lol... just to play it... i say buy it as soon as possible you wont be let down. i had never 
 played a mario game before in my life but when i played this i enjoyed it as much as i enjoyed 
 every other "superb" game that i have played... so i urge you buy it... now... if you dont have a 
 ds buy one of them as well... you wont regreat it promise=) i played this game over and over and 
 over and i never got bored... enjoy many hours of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vic_Vega1994
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best racing game out on a handheld. I agree with X-Play at giving this the 
 best Racer Award at there award show last month or two ago. PGR3, NFSMW, GT4, Burnout Revenge are 
 good games but Mario Kart DS kicks all their a$$. It have great replay value and great graphics 
 for the DS and it also has some of the tracks from the other Mario Karts. The sound is pretty good 
 and the controls are great. Its only 35$ and its worth the price. The Nintendo WFC is the best 
 thing to happen to the DS since the system was launched. You can play anyone in the world and play 
 your rivals that you lost to in other races that you raced. Message me if you have the game so 
 i can give you my friend code for the Nintendo WFC. So if you played the originals Mario Karts 
 or just have a DS buy this game is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendayzmylife
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  The Koopa shells fly as Mario, Luigi, and the whole crew are back in probably the best DS game 
 so far! With several different race styles, difficulties, and many characters, it's no wonder this 
 is the highest rated DS game! People of all ages will grow attached to Mario, not to mention Yoshi, 
 Peach, Wario and all the lovable characters from Nintendo 64, not to mention tons of unlockables 
 and mission mode to keep you coming back. Now with wi-fi connection, you can play in many different 
 styles against people acress the room or across the world. Nintendo has struck gold again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthbowser89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  If you like racing and mario, than you owe it to yourself to buy this game. With 3 engine classes 
 and mirror, 32 tracks, many characters, battle mode, multiplayer, missions, time trials and Wi 
 fi play, this game will keep you busy for quite some time. 
  
  Not only does the game have great value, it also has great graphics, gameplay and sound. 
  
 
  If I had any gripe about the game it would be the simplicity of its online multiplayer. Not that 
 it worries me that much, but it might put off a few of the more hardcore gamers that have been 
 weened off XBOX live.
  
  Still MKDS is an excellent game, it takes what we know and love about Mario Kart, enhances it and 
 add to it things that are new. A very welcome edition to the Mario Kart franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is so far the best DS racing game! I love this game. I mean, if anyone played the 
 Mario Karts on the Nintendo consoles, maybe you'll know what I mean. Mario Kart DS is an addictive 
 game. I mean, not only you can play anywhere, you'll play this game. New characters are added, 
 new modes such as missions and others. The gameplay in general is very very good. In terms of graphics, 
 you could say that the graphics are those of Nintendo 64. But personally I wouldn't care for he 
 graphics, the gameplay is more important. I would recommend this game to anyone believe me, it 
 IS worth it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis06
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Although, from my point of view, Nintendo DS has not been totally exploited, this game is incredibly 
 fun! The wireless connection feature makes this game too much addictive, that you'll never stop 
 playing. Also the battle and the mission mode makes it the perfect race game for DS. 
  Talking about the difficulty, this game is more challenging; probably that's why it's more entertaining. 
 Although it could be childish for some people, I really recommend it to those people... you won't 
 be disappointed!! Really, trust me!!!!!!! 
  The unique problems that could be found are the wireless connection in other countries (it's sometimes 
 difficult to connect, as there are differences between the connection in the US) , as well as I 
 think they chose boring courses from the Retro Grand Prix; I would rather prefer the rainbow roads 
 courses (for e. g.) Finally the characters are good, but it would be a nice idea of bringin the 
 Game Cube characters in this game (Such as Baby Mario or Baby Bowser) .
  Besides that... EXCELLENT GAME for the DS collection... and I'm gonna repeat this... you'll never 
 regret for buying it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambitheking
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Alright this is how it goes, this game is good, and since i said it it is true. The gameplay is 
 totally awsome, and though repetative, still totally awsome. Also with all the stuff that you can 
 win it makes you want to win at the 100cc, 150cc, and even mirror mode. wifi is awsome to. I mean 
 come on. Beating people you don't even know on mario kart is one of the best things ever to happen 
 on wifi (except Metroid Prime) . Also all the tracks and karts make it even more cool, which is 
 very hard to do. but MarioKart pulls it off nicely. Overall this game is one of the best on Nintendo 
 DS so far. ( Metroid Prime will be better) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littletimmy81
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  We finnaly have a good racing game, and dispite what my friends say this is a racing game. Not 
 only is it a racing game, its a game for everybody. Not just twelve year old kids who sit in their 
 bedroom playing this game all day, and making up friends to play with so that when your mom comes 
 in saying that you're pathetic, you can tell her you're racing against friends. This is not a game 
 like that.
  
  This games graphics are amazing i was so stunned at the cartoony goodness this game offers. The 
 graphics show up everywhere in the game in the games menu's and everywhere else. The controls in 
 this game are extemely good and easy to get used to, the only thing I had troubles with were the 
 items, and the turbo charge. The Gameplay is also very interesting, it had the map which you can 
 use for navigation on the bottom screen and had the d pad and the rest of the buttons working very 
 good
  
  Online wi fi is fun when you have friends to race against, but for those who have no friends you 
 can play the other features like balloon battle and that star thing, it also has racing outside 
 the main story so you can pretend your a regular Mario Gorden. But i must say that the items werent 
 that random they consist of your ranking in the race, the worse you get the better items come your 
 way, but that isnt exactly hit and miss. The unlockables are good in the beginning of the game 
 but through the end not so much. But this game could posibly be the best game on the ds right now, 
 if you own a ds you better own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akodikosako
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a fun packed, kart racing game on the Nintendo DS. Before you start saying, "Not 
 a Mario Kart game again", think before you speak. This game blows it's competition away, even those 
 not in it's genre.
  
  Mario Kart offers single and multiplayer capability. Do remember that this is a HANDHELD; not many 
 of it's competitors offer multiplayer (even the PSP) . You can either race ala Grand Prix style, 
 or take a series of missions. Both are equally fun and equally challenging.
  
  Taking on one, you now get to pick your racer. Heavyweights, in the like of Bowser and Wario, take 
 a while to speed up but have a good top speed and can push others around. Mediums, like Mario, 
 are equally good in every stat. Lightweights (Toad) have a super quick acceleration, but have the 
 lowest top speed and can be pushed around easily. Each is suited to their category (There are more 
 than 8 characters and more than 15 karts to choose from) and can be defined to the player's personality.
 
  
  Technically speaking, Mario Kart DS is one of the best graphical games to set foot on a DS. Everything 
 looks as good as it's Gamecube predecessor, Mario Kart Double Dash, and might be even better. Sound 
 is above expectations for Mario Kart, due to the DS' stereo speakers. Gameplay is just plain fun 
 and can be played over and over again without getting you bored.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart should be picked up by DS' owners and is a game that can be a reason to buy 
 a DS alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero_omnislash
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  this game was awesome i played this game on my friends ds and i could not stop playing it. this 
 game has really nice graphics for the ds, and great game play. This game brings back the best of 
 the SNES, N64, GBA, and GC tracks. The only bad thing about this game is that damn moo moo farm 
 level. this game gives you three new items i don't really use them though since im always in first 
 place. this is the best racing game ever. this game you could play forever there is soo many things 
 to do from doing GP to multi-player. over all i thought this game was really awesome and for you 
 Mario kart fans this game is a must if you have a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoFreak1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game is terrific. The controls are traditional D-pad which make for a great kart racing experience. 
 The single player has every level from every mario kart game ever made plus some new courses, making 
 for a long game. The online play is a good first step for Nintendo and could be perfect for the 
 next kart game they make. Saying that, the online play is still great because of no slowdown and 
 the fact that you can make lots of friends while playing this game online. This game is nearly 
 perfect in every aspect so I'm assuming that the next game they make will be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  This game has what all the other Mario Kart games have plus more. There are a good amount of options 
 in this game that include grand prix races and Wi-Fi play, and with the addition of the mission 
 mode, even the single player can get tons of amusement. The graphics and sounds look stunning for 
 a DS game, and have that same Mario charm that all the previous Mario games have. The gameplay 
 is simple set up, allowing anyone to pick up and start playing. There are also a good amount of 
 unlockables, including new tracks and characters. The professional reviews don't lie, this is a 
 must-buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supadan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  YES!!!!! This is the best Mario Kart game to date, it is awesome, it has much more tracks, better 
 weapons and quality new cars... Personally it is the best DS game yet!!! It is well worth the money, 
 the multiplayer is cool, up to 8!, i am really impressed with this game, you can either use the 
 D-pad to drive, or touch screen, there are yet again 3 levels of difficulty, and you keep winning 
 new characters and new cars, you can also make you own time trail records... There ia also a mini 
 game where you battle against the computer to keep your balloons or to get the most stars... For 
 anyone who has a Nintendo DS, you have to get it, you will not regret it, if you are a true racer, 
 it out classes Ridgerace DS by far, get it now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irongrinder1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the Mario Kart games since the SNES version. The only Mario Kart game I 
 missed out on is the GBA version. So it was obvious for me that Mario Kart was a game I just had 
 to own.
  
  First of the graphics and sound are great! It really pumps out some great visuals for the DS and 
 this is what all the other games making use of 3D engines on the DS should look like. Nice colorful 
 tracks with great enjoyable music and other sounds.
  
  The mechanics of the game are just plain and simple again (no double dash tricks) and it's easy 
 to learn how to race through the tracks. Of course the little slip/slide trick to take faster turns 
 is back which takes a bit to get used to. But there's an objective mode where you'll have to use 
 this trick a lot which will help you master it. In this objective mode you'll have to do all kinds 
 of things like finishing a round in a certain time, kill all the enemies and at the end of every 
 set of objectives a nice boss battle against one of the bosses from Super Mario 64 where you now 
 have to beat them while in your car.
  
  There's a total of 32 tracks, some new, some old. Nintendo gave the game 16 old tracks from the 
 SNES, N64, Gamecube and GBA versions of the game. Some of these I'm very happy to see again, others 
 could have been left away in my opinion. All in all there's enough diversity to keep you entertained 
 for quite a while and all the maps are very well balanced and finished for some great fun. As with 
 the old maps there will be tracks you'll come to hate and tracks you'll come to love.
  
  The power-ups are mostly the same with some minor adjustments and new ones (like the squid squirting 
 ink on your screen) . They still stand for the same fun they have always stood for. Beat the opponent 
 or be beaten.
  
  Then there's also the normal multi player for wireles fun with friends. This can be done in gran 
 prix races, one on one races or just fun battles in the shape of the good old balloon popping fights, 
 coin grabbing, some kind of tag racing and some other modes. 
  
  So far so good, so why not give this game a nine or a ten? Well, Wi-fi. Wi-fi was supposed to be 
 this game's top mode, but all I can say about it is that it's very disappointing. There's lots 
 of lag, people constantly disconnecting and it's too much based on competition. I miss the old 
 feeling when friends would come over where the score didn't really matter much, just who won the 
 last game with which you could tease each other. Now people are just trying to get their win/loss 
 ratio up so when they are about to lose they disconnect their DS etc. Another problem is the lack 
 of communication, there is no real way to communicate with the other players somewhere over the 
 world.
  
  Of course the Wi-fi-mode also gives you the possibility to put in friend codes, so you can see 
 when friends are online, but I much rather play the game face to face where you can laugh when 
 you hit the other guy with a shell and he'll end up hitting you in the shoulder for laughing. 
 
  
  So, is it fun? Hell yeah! Just don't buy the game for the Wi-fi possibilities and just buy it for 
 the old school fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  When I first purchased this game I was slightly worried it was going to be a half made game stolen 
 from other Mario Kart games. I was wrong. This game on the surface appears to be a normal MK game 
 with its Tournament section but theres the 50cc, 100cc & 150 cc to keep you busy. Once you've done 
 them (unlocking some new characters and Karts along the way) you can get mirror mode which will 
 keep you as equally busy. After a good few days of racing you still have missions to complete and 
 battles to win and this is way before you even think about stomping your friends using WiFi. Inevitably 
 you are going to see things from previous MK games (especially in retro mode :D) but all round 
 a good game and extremely entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdirauf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  This is an extremely fun game. It is also highly addictive. The graphics are very good indeed but 
 not as good as PSP games obviously. This game has a lot to offer. It has single card multiplayer 
 which is a good idea. It also offers the highly anticipated Wi-Fi online multiplayer. Making the 
 game even more fun. There are a lot of race tracks to choose from , including some very funny ones 
 such as the inside of a pinball and mountains of chocolate. The game has a lot of characters. Most 
 of the characters are old Nintendo Classics such as Yoshi and Wario. This game is a must have. 
 Go on what are you waiting for. if you haven't got a copy go get one NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyleM
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing!!! Just the courses alone will keep you playing for days, but if you 
 get bored of that the core of the game comes with the online play. When playing online you have 
 even more fun because you get to match your skills out there against someone elses skills. Its 
 great because you might think you are the best at this game cause you beat everyone of your friends 
 but then going online you might get your butt kicked! That is the main best part of this game and 
 if you own a Nintendo DS you must buy this as fast as possible cause if you are a Nintendo fan 
 this is a must have!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetLag123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  lets just say that nintendo knows what they're doing. 
  mario kart ds is a fine example of how to improve upon and existing franchise and appeal to the 
 hardcore fans as well as those who are modest gamers. mario kart ds has fun and varied gameplay 
 while remaining true to the spirit of the original. though the graphics have a low poly count, 
 there is so much more in this title to keep you coming back. 
  
  the gameplay is well done and easy to pick up and though wi-fi support may not blow you away, there 
 is some satisfaction to hitting the elites in other countries with oh so many color variations 
 of shells. 
  
  you will keep coming back to this game, that is all you must know for now, to learn more, buy the 
 game, play waluigi pinball or airship fortress, partake in battle mode, design your emblem for 
 online purposes, actually go online, and if you happen to be in last place, rely on my friend named 
 bullet bill. 
  
  who would have thought such a high quality experience could be on an "underpowered" portable.
 
  
  go buy it imediatly, if you dont own a ds, this is the reason to get one, just try not to get owned 
 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a fun racing game for the Nintendo DS. It has tracks from the four past Mario 
 Kart games as well as some great and fun new ones. Also Mario Kart DS has the best battle stages 
 in any other mario kart game. Who wouldn't like to race on a Nintendo DS or a tart. Though the 
 graphics aren't that good the gameplay will put sweat all over your Nintendo DS. Don't forget about 
 new power ups and new karts. That is why M A R I O K A R T D S is more than good it's grrrrrrrrreat! 
 Forget Frosted Flakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Cloud46
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best DS game that I have played so far everything about it is INCREDIBLE! Even 
 just the single player can keep you going forever. But then wait until you get into the wi-fi. 
 It can keep you going for hours on end with non-stop fun gameplay. If you were to buy any DS game, 
 put this one on your list. It adds all the fun of past mario karts, combined with the new points, 
 to make an incredibly amazing game. The graphics definitely show off what the DS can really do, 
 the game looks great and plays better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aumala
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kat DS has the same good gameplay that the other Mario Kart games had. It also features old 
 techniques like drifting and mini-boost that make the gameplay seem cooler. Great items are back 
 like red, green, and blue shells, and there are new ones like the bullet bill. The grand prix mode 
 is better than ever featuring 8 cups, 4 cups with a total of 16 brand new tracks, and 4 cups with 
 16 retro tracks that have appeared on Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, Mario kart Super Circuit, 
 or in Mario Kart Double Dash!! Mario Kart DS also has a brand new mission mode. The mission mode 
 is is 6 levels of 8 missions and a boss level. These missions are simple tasks which can get quite 
 tricky but they are helpful to master some of the game's techniques. Online game play is AWESOME. 
 You find other players around the globe and play 4 races. The winner is the one with the most points 
 at the end of the four races. In online games not al the tracks are available. Only half of them 
 are available. There are rumours that there are people who can play all tracks online.
  This game has some cool graphics. The characters are somewhat polygonal but they still look cool. 
 The karts look superb. The tracks are intact but graphically they are better.
  Mario Kart DS has good music. The retro tracks have the music intact. It sounds as good as if you 
 were playing these tracks in their original games. 
  Mario Kart DS is one of the best racing games and the best game for the Nintendo DS. I really recommend 
 it to all the DS owners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flint247
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  U have got to buy this game!! Its a perfect online game!! It is perfect for on the go or at home. 
 It's like the olden days but better. The battle mode is excellent. There is an all new mission 
 mode and that's fun. You can create your own name or emblem using the stylus. All your favorite 
 tracks are included. Mine is mushroom bridge. The wifi is excellent! The word snaking is a advance 
 techinique that you learn to do ASAP because you may need it. So get off this computer and go buy 
 that game ASAP!! YOU will have fun. You can race me if you like. Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amir_manu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds is one of the most fun games you can find these days.
  all you have to do is pick up and play.
  first of all ill start of with the modes, they are: 
 grand prix, time trials, battles and all new mission mode.
  the speed is up to you, either 50cc , 100cc, or 150 cc
  it also has all the retro circuits like 
 choco mountain and others from classics.
  you can also go online and play.
  the graphics are probably the best in the whole series of mario kart. 
  it just can hardly get 
 any better.
  this game is a must buy, even if it costs u all your money you got!
  
  please by this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asimplerapper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  The new mario kart now for the ds is one of the best games for the ds, and one of the best racing 
 game ever! Single player is sweet and long until you can unlock all cars and tracks through completing 
 32 tracks four times over. Unique kart selection and VS mode, battle are cool new for the single 
 player mode. Online wi-fi is sweet but the only problem is that you can only play against 3 others 
 in VS mode. Mission mode is new and greatly adds replay value. 
  Graphics are nice 3D with smooth framerate but can be ulgly close due to visible pixels.
  Sound 
 is sweet and nice'n smooth.
  
  Overall it is a great game recommended to every DS owner and generally 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConfuseRay
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is awesome. The graphics are great, the controls are great. THere is nothing bad about 
 this game and if you have an SNES and no gamecube this will bring back quite a few memories and 
 give you some new tracks. THis game is another reason to buy a DS. It's fun and innocative. It's 
 not perfect, but it's still great!!!! There's nothing wrong with this game and the missions and 
 unlockables are fun. It's pretty easy and when you start memorizing the tracks and then you go 
 to mirror world, you'll wish you hadn't. IF you have a DS and do not yet have this game why are 
 you on the computer right now? GET UP AND GET IT YOU LAZY BUM!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mega324386
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok Mario kart has been out for a while and I have decided to do a review on this game. When you 
 first play the game it starts out hard to control but after awhile you get the hang of it. Ok lets 
 talk about gameplaye well like all the past mari kart games there are a bunch of cups and some 
 secret carts and characters also there is a new gamplay mode called mission where there are 8 levels 
 with 9 missions in each the first 8 are just colect stuff in a certain amount of time and things 
 like that but then the 9th is where the fun begins you battle a boss using items I though it was 
 pretty fun. But then the difficulty of the game altogether is very hard once you are in 150cc the 
 cpu are very hard to beat unless you are a hardcore racing gamer. Next the graphics they were suprisingly 
 good for a game on the DS but everyonce in awhile the graphics would blurr abit but otherwise very 
 good. Now sound well at first the music is pretty good but after awhile it gets annoying and same 
 old-same old but the definition of it is ok. Now the value well generally on the market or at least 
 where I bought it it has a 20 dollar cost well it should be worth maybe 15 dollars because after 
 a short while the game gets very boring except for the multiplayer and WIFI that I forgot to mention 
 which after awhile with thee game will be the only things that will keep you playing this game. I 
 give this Game a 9
  out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jts9
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  i have all the mario kart games up to date and this one is the best. it has great graphics, great 
 multiplayer, it's just great! it has different modes to make this game have some use for a while. 
 i got this game on christmas and been playing it ever since. the only flaw this game has is that 
 once you've got all the extras and new characters, it starts to get boring. but overall it is a 
 stupendous game. the wi-fi is even better. you can race people online. you even race your friends!! 
 most of my friends have this game and on half-a-days we play crazy all day until our parents pick 
 us up. 
  
  this game is recommended for those who only have ol' school games like pong and pac-man =) . this 
 game is game is definetly worth $35 bucks. i don't know what the tilt is but i suppose it is great 
 =D. if people don't buy this game then they have REALLY BAD taste in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummerwerd
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Personally I found this game to be pretty fun at first. But, after beating both Grand Prix and 
 Mission Mode I did not feel like going back and trying to get a star ranking. I also did not feel 
 a need to go back and do the time trials and beat the staf ghosts. Although it did include online 
 play I found it very hard to get a match with multiple people unless it was arranged and you exchanged 
 friend codes. Overall, I think that if you are a person that likes a game where you can go back 
 and unlock items to get your ranking higher then this is a game for you. But, if you do not like 
 to and you just play it to beat it you might want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexchou30
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  Perfect balance between adventure and racing. The addition of the missions is a interesting way 
 of making the game more fun. Even if you finished all the race, trying to beat ALL those ghosts 
 in time trial is a real deal.. Watch out Mario Kart fans, the party will last all night with this 
 amazing game. Making 36 race tracks is a very good idea because when we add the little 16 track, 
 the fun was going down more faster. The graphics are awesome for a portable machine. All I can 
 say is that this game is a perfect game to own... Even if Mario Kart is not your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeykenny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best games that have come out for the nintendo ds. The gameplay, everything 
 from top to bottom is great. In the game, you get to play as any of your favourite characters and 
 try to get to the finish as fast as you can. During the race, you pick up items that you can use 
 to attack others, or increase your speed. If you use the items wisely, you can be at fifth place 
 and end up at first before you know it. Mario Kart DS also added another battle game to the classic 
 one of balloon battle. Balloon Battle is just using items to hit your opponent's balloons. If you 
 are the last one with balloons, you win! The new battle game is Shrine Runner. Shrines appear anywhere 
 on the map, and you have to get it. Mario Kart DS also has an all new mission mode. In this game 
 mode, you have goals to complete in a limited amount of time. This new addition is very fun. There 
 are also new items: such as the amazing power of bullet bill, the blue shell that could just be 
 the thing to put you in need; and why not use your friend squid to block your friend's view. And 
 don't even get me started with wifi. Playing with others over the internet has revolutionalized 
 gaming. It gives you a whole new experience, letting you test your skills with others. Mario Kart 
 is a easy game to learn, but very hard to master. Mario Kart DS is a must have for a true nintendo 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglefan831
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  i love this game i got it when it first came out and its still as fun as it was the first day. the 
 only bad thing was the graphics they weren't so good to me they were as good as the n64 graphics 
 thats all the bad stuff now the good stuff i think it is fun to try to beat people in a race especially 
 when you are trying to unlock something. i like that new 1 player mode where you do objectives then 
 battle a boss. i also like how you can play vs and balloon battle and a few others by yourself over 
 all this game is pretty good so i recommend to get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  Normally, this paragraph would concist of a brief overview of the game. The problem is, the game 
 is so vast and has so many things to to I can't fit it all in one paragraph. so I guess I'll make 
 you read all of these paragraphs instead.
  When you start up the game you are greeted with i nice little title screen on the top (beat the 
 game to get a different one) and a fully touchable menu on the bottom. so lets start with the firs 
 option, SINGLE PLAYER.
  When you select this option you are greeted with the following choices: Grand Prix ,Time Trials, 
 VS, Battle, and Missions. Grand prix is your standard four-race set. but here's the cool thing, 
 there's what called a NITRO Grand Prix and a RETRO Grand Prix. The NITRO has four cups with four 
 totally new tracks in each whereas the RETRO has four cups that each have four of your favorite 
 tracks from all previous MK games. Oh, and did I mention there are still 50, 100, and 150 cc levels 
 to chose from as well as a 150cc mirror mode in which all tracks are mirror imaged (fun but tricky) .
 
  Now, on to time trials. In this mode you can run the course and save ghost data just like the 
 other games. but this time once you try a course you can try and race against the uber fast staff 
 ghost which is the ghost data of some little japanese dude who has mastered the ins and outs of 
 this game. In this version of MK you can also wirelessly send your ghost data to a friend via the 
 DS's LAN. 
  Next is VS. this is like the "quickrun" of other versions. You set up the AI the CC's the difficulty 
 and how many wins untill the game is over (optional) . After that you can pick whatever track you 
 want without having to play everytrack in the cup (way cool) .
  THen there is the classic battle... with a twist. In the awesome Balloon batlle you use the DS's 
 built in mic to inflate the balloons by blowing in to the mic. There is also a shine runners battle 
 mode. your team tries to collect the most shines and thereby win the match.
  MK DS has an interesting new Mission mode. This is full of little missionsthat are geared towards 
 improving your driving skills. some are "collect all 10 coins" or grab all 15 item boxes. there 
 are six levels of missions and each one has a cool boss at the end (pretty dang hard bosses too) . 
 Well, that about wraps up Single player lets move on. Although the multiplayer of MKDS does attribute 
 greatly to the games value, I do not wish to spend a lot of time on it. You can either race or 
 balloon battle with one or more gamecards however the level/kart selection is less with only one 
 card.
  That brings me to the coup de gras.... WIFI CONNECTION!!!!! *crowd roars it's approval* This is 
 an awesome new feature for the DS. This allows you to hook up with people near you, people with 
 a similar win loss percentage as you, anybody in the world, OR people you have exchanged friend 
 codes with. it does take a little while to set up a match but once you get going it all works without 
 a hitch.
  Oh, I almost forgot. There are four characters to unlock and when its all said and done there are 
 a total of 36 karts to chose from. you can all pimp out your ride with decals you draw on the touch 
 screen.
  So, overall, this is the best DS game out there and I honestly could not find a single thing wrong 
 with it so I give it a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zorfshadow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS just looked like any other Mario Kart, but it wasn't. Mario Kart DS is Mario Kart 
 at it's best. The game by itself is pretty darn good. It has an bit of every thing from every Mario 
 Kart, a few track here and there. Any how to me the game is like Double Dash with more levels but 
 no double dashing. 
  If you own this game then you must buy the Wi-Fi for the DS so you can play online. It makes the 
 game 2x better minus not being able to play the party mode online. This game is the best Nintendo 
 DS game I have ever played but it better watch out for Metroid Prime Hunters for the DS because 
 it has just as good title and maybe better Wi-Fi options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wordtoyomama
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best DS game for many reasons. First, It has great multi player. Second, Mario 
 Kart DS has a great cup mode bringing back old races and bringing in new ones is great. Third, a 
 mission mode with many missions including many types of play from drifting to breaking item blocks 
 ( they even have boss battles in this game ) . Fourth, a battle mode with shine runners and a balloon 
 battle. Nintendo has outdone their self , they kept true to the original Mario Kart and added new 
 features. No wonder this is arguably the best racer, portable or not, of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmjavier
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  The good: This awesome new hand held version of Mario Kart is excellent. It comes with brand new 
 tracks and new characters. With every single character (except Shy Guy) you can pick from seven 
 different carts. The colorful graphics are attractive. I haven't seen any glitches or bugs so far. 
 There are easy and simple controls. The wi-fi connection will connect you to people across the 
 globe. You can challenge them and become a champion.
  The bad: The single card download play could be improved. Your maps are limited. There is only 
 one character to be (Shy Guy) for the person who downloaded the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogameslover
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  I would like to start off by saying that I played this game all the time on N64. I would play it 
 day and night. Then Nintendo came out with more Mario Kart games and I got addicted to those games. 
 Mario Kart Double Dash is cool and I give that a perfect 10 for a score too. Now there is finally 
 a handheld Mario Kart game. Nintendo is brilliant for thinking up a game like this one. I can't 
 believe the graphics on this. When I play this game I'm thinking I am playing it on the Nintendo 
 Gamecube. Multiplayer is great. Sound is awsome. The Nintendo 64 version, when I first got it, 
 I had some problems with the game but then I fixed and I played it all the time. Well I have to 
 finish by saying this is a great game and I hope we get more Mario Kart games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAmariochamp
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  A long time ago, we all played Super mario kart for the SNES. It was incredibly fun and addictive, 
 a truly great multiplayer game of the time. Following the succes of SUper mArio KArt came Mario 
 KArt 64, a game that has truly become a classic with its limitless gameplay and pure addictiveness. 
 Mario Kart Double Dash improved the concept with brilliant visuals, entertaining music and a fun 
 multiplayer. The "two people on the same cart" idea was received with mixed emotions, both positive 
 and negative. But yet again Nintendo surprised everyone with what they came up with next. Initially 
 looking a bit dull in lead up demos, Mario Kart DS is a pure gem and has to be part of every DS 
 owner's collection. With a huge number of 32 tracks, 16 old and 16 new, Nintendo had outdone themselves 
 once more. The game features a large collection characters, both old and new. The addition of stats 
 given to each cart added strategy when picking who to use with what car. With 8 cups in total and 
 four difficulties per cup, the siungle player would keep you going. A completly new concept was 
 that of a mission mode. Different objectives were set ranging from patheticly easy to unfairly 
 hard. THe huge number of unlockables kept you going until you felt satisfied in that category and 
 the new star rank system kept many among us Mario Kart owners repeating cups until we had 2 or 
 3 star rankings on all cups which would then show up in multiplayer, but more about that later. 
 Of course time trials are present as usual and the feeling of beating staff ghosts with your skills 
 is very satisfying. But now to the multiplayer. Download play is unusually fun, as it has a variety 
 of tracks to choose from, even if only the host can pick their car and driver. The actual Multiplayer 
 is fantastic, with up to 8 people racing you on the 32 different tracks or you and your mates can 
 go bannanas in a variety of battle modes. Apart from the classic variety there is Shine Race which 
 is a rather lame and unpopular game mode in which you have to collect shines and so forth. Online 
 PLay for mario kart ds is quite entertaining but can be ruined by quitters and snakers. (I'd like 
 to say at this point that snaking is a skill and not a form of cheating, a skill which takes some 
 skill to master. I snake on occasion but not online.) The multiplayer with your friends will have 
 you hooked most of the time though. At the moment i have a VS Record of 499 wins and 188 losses. 
 Which is quite a decent record. 
  
  ANyone with a ds should definitly go out and buy this game if they dont already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a good game to add to your Nintendo DS collection. This game offers great game 
 play and has various modes to fit any persons needs. It has the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection feature 
 that allows you to play friends all over the world. Or for people with out Broadband or DSL you 
 can play your friends who have the game or you can do simple play which allows your friend (s) to 
 play with out the game itself. Overall this game is fun, creative, and give you something new everytime. 
 The game also has unlockable characters. and karts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda4ds
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  MARIO KART DS IS THE GREATEST DS GAME THAT IS OUT!!!!!!!. everyone should own this game. it is the 
 first game that has the nintendo wi-fi caplebility and it rocks. mario kart is one of the greatest 
 racing games ever ( maby thats why it won racing game of the year from x-play [a show on g4 channle 
 222 for all of you who has buckie cable. its a video game channle] and many other awords. get this 
 game it rocks. oh and if you dont have a ds get one .i no what all u sony fans are saying "I DONT 
 WANA I DONT WANA" well residant evil 4 came out 4 the game cube and all of u sony fans were saying 
 "I DONT WANA I DONT WANA" AND THEN WHEN IT CAME TO THE PS2 U FELL IN LOVE WITH IT! AND GUESS WHAT 
 MARIO KART HAS NO CHANCE OF COMING TO THE PSP SO GET A DS NOE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexalexaelx_10
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game on the ds. If you do not have Mario Kart DS you need to get it. Personaly 
 this is my favorite game on the series because of all the new features and modes and the fact that 
 its on a handhald. Some of the new features and modes are....
  
  Missions: These are fun hard challenges that give you a break from just racing.
  
  Battle: 
 This isnt new but its a super fun mode. They did however put some new thing in that make it more 
 fun. One is that you have two battle modes to chose from one is Shinerunners and the other is Ballon 
 Battle. Both have appeared in previous games so i wont bother explaining them. But they threw un 
 some nice feature like in Ballon Battle you actually *blow up your ballons* using the nintendo 
 ds mic. And another nice thing they added was now you can play battle mode by yourself just against 
 cpus.
  
  Items and Coreses: They have put a number of new coreses in ( they have 16 new coreses) which makes 
 it a new exprience. And they have added like 3 totaly new items.
  
  WiFi mode: This mode lets you play against other real people over the internet. There are three 
 ways to play one is regional, another is world wide, and the last is friend code. The first two 
 are self explanitory but the friend code one may not be. So here is what a friend code is it is 
 a code that is issued to every cart, its like a buddy name, so you and your friends can swope friend 
 codes and any time that you guys want a private race just fo to the friend code option. There is 
 a little more to explain but you should get the main point. This mode is super fun cause it lets 
 you race real people who know what they are doing.
  
  These are juust some of the new thing added to Mario Kart DS. I personly lovethis game and think 
 that everyone should get it. This game is super fun and the new features give it a different feal 
 from past Mario Kart games.
  
  So happy raceing!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is just like the previous Mario Karts: win the races, get the cups, unlock characters.
 
  But what is better about it than the previous ones? For one, the new tracks are fresh, cool, and 
 much more exciting. You can play on some classic MK tracks. There is a mission mode (ie: collect 
 all the coins withing 20 seconds) in which you can beat a boss. There is some cool new characters 
 (Dry Bones and ROB) . And best of all, you can test your abilities against worldwide opponents (providing 
 you have WiFi) .
  This is definetly a must-get even if you don't have Wifi because you can replay it until you get 
 a one, two, or three star rating in EVERYTHING.
  I highly suggest you purchase this game if you have a DS and if you don't have a DS, purchase a 
 DS and then buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games5522
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a good game, but it's not perfect. No game is perfect.
  
  Let's start with the flaws. There has been many complaints about this technique called 'snaking'.
 
  Snaking is when you do powerslides across straight lines of track. People have been claiming
 
  it is a new way to cheat, but it has acually been in Mario Kart games for quite some time. Some 
 
  of the new tracks looked like they have been rushed (Figure 8 Curcuit, I'm looking at you) .
  
 
  The graphics for this game are quite good for a handheld. While it may look simple in screenshots,
 
  it runs very smoothly. Most of the time is spent looking at the track, not whats around the track 
 anyway.
  
  The multiplayer is decent too. You can use the nintendo Wi-Fi connection to play online for up 
 tofour players, or you can play local multiplayer with up to eight players, with bots if you can't 
 get 
  eight people to play. If you play single-card multiplayer, however, the people without Mario Kart
 
  DS have to play as Shy Guy. He's not that bad.
  
  Thank you for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerpunk101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  if you're a begginer this might be the game for u .a lot of courses, charicters, and karts. If i 
 could chose i would say this game could a nomnee for the best game of the year. Pretty good game 
 in graphic wise for a ds. Way better tan double dash and more. One of the best games for the ds. nothin 
 less less less less less less less less less less to say. hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
 i hi hi hi hi hii hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pheonix8465
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  A good game, but lacks chat or VOIP I just wish it would also have more levels, characters, shortcuts, 
 and especially items. They should also have create a character mode and create a cart mode (no 
 that would be too NFS) In addition VOIP would be good thankfully it will be in Metroid but not 
 ingame : ( i think that they did a good job with these but not all tracks are availible online like 
 my favorite (tick-tock clock) i dont know why they didnt include stuff. Finally no baloon battle 
 online. For the game it is a good experience online and is a fun game to play. 
  
  MKDS friend code: 429561062655
  name: mad8475 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YANNIK92
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  
  This Mario Kart game is for sure one of the best game for the DS. It's the best game a Mario Kart 
 fan can have. It has tons and tons of different courses and up to 8 cups!!! The new courses are 
 well done and very addictive and the retro courses are fun and very well adapted to the DS. They 
 could have chosen different N64 courses but that's only my opinion. The graphics surpasses N64's 
 and the sound is very good. It has plenty of karts (more then you need, trust me, and up to 13 
 characters to play with (counting Shy Guy) ) . The online gameplay if good and the multiplayer options 
 are great.
  
  I have 2 more things to say:
  
  1. Buy it if you have a DS, because you wont find much better games.
  2. If you have someone 
 to play with, you can be sure you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunderground2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Mario kart ds is a very good game. Its graphics look good for a nintendo DS game. The controls 
 are very good. and the sound is pretty good. This game is very fun because you can use nintendos 
 wi fi connection to play with other people. and you can also create youre own emblom. there are 
 like i think 5 characters to unlock and there are 7 karts foreach of them. Theres also a lot of 
 tracks to select. and theres time attack mode and challenge mode this is a very good game with 
 solid graphics and good controls and alright sound overall i thibnk that mario kart DS is a very 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wan_Flan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  This is on of the best games on the DS thus far! with great online play (with up to 4 players) , 
 single card download play (with up to eight players) , and also multi card ad hoc play (also up 
 to eight players) . great single player mode such as the classic Grand Prix and VS, but this time 
 around there are also single player missions where you do things such as driving through numbered 
 gates and pushing big bullys off of platforms, and remember battle mode from the day of the N64? 
 well now those hours you and your friends would spend playing battle is avaible in single player 
 with classic tracks such as block fort . FINAL VERDICT: this game is a must get for any body that 
 owns a DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizaro1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  This game is worth your attention. Great gameplay, a bit easy though...... A. I is one of it's biggest 
 problems though. It's nearly always seems the computers are after you.... And that you always have 
 a rival in it:
  
  E. G
  
  Just say you're R. O. B and you came second on the third lap and second on the second lap, most likely 
 that the person in front of you will be the person who beat you on the second lap.
  
  But now for the good things......
  
  The graphics are great for the D. S and if you're in last 
 you get better items....... In you're in eighth you're more likely to get a Bullet Bill and Star 
 then if you're in first place. If you're in first you normally get rubbish items like Bananas Skins 
 and Fake Items.
  
  Missions are O. K but not the best things. Grand Prix is quite easy depending whether you played 
 Mario Kart before. Wi-Fi is the best thing since Ice Cream. You can play against your mates or 
 complete strangers! Across the World of Continental! You could be playing against your Cousens 
 Roomates, Brother's Sister!
  
  FINISHED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchetcomand
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The fifth Mario Kart game in the series, and quite possibly the best out of all of them. Same great 
 gameplay, some retro tracks, and the infamous online play.
  
  Graphics:
  A beautiful game in terms of graphics. Each character is detailed, each kart is detailed, as is 
 each weapon. The tracks are among the best I've seen, in particular Rainbow Road... which was always 
 amazing to begin with. A new addition is the Retro Grand Prix, which takes tracks from SNES, N64, 
 GBA, and GCN and puts them all in one cup (sorry, no N64 Rainbow Road) . The SNES and GBA tracks 
 are flat, but your racer and items aren't, but the colored boundaries have been elevated to serve 
 their purpose. N64 tracks looks almost identical, perhaps a slight boost in graphics. The GCN tracks 
 are, as expected, not as good looking as they were on the GCN, but the same thing in terms of gameplay 
 and layout.
  
  Music and Sound Effects:
  The sound is the same in any mario kart game
  Story: 
  Absolutely no story. It's a racing game.
  
  Game play:
  Mario Kart has been known 
 for its great game play, which is unlike any other racer on the market. The R button lets you slide 
 around corners, and alternating between left and right will initiate a power slide, which makes 
 you kart move very fast around corners and gives you a mini-turbo once you stop sliding. Of course, 
 there are the items that drastically change the gameplay. You have your classic shells and bananas, 
 but a new addition is the Blooper, who is a squid who spits ink all over your screen, leaving you 
 with impaired visibility and screwing up your racing and aiming abilities. The map on the bottom 
 screen allows you to track the position of everyone in the race, and can also help your aiming 
 by studying any patterns that players may be using to race. There is also a Mission mode that gives 
 you objectives on sections of a track that even further expands the single player mode of this 
 game.
  
  Control:
  The control are so easy to do prest A To move faster , R or Y Shoot wepons , well you get what 
 i mean , there just easy 
  Multi-player:
  WiFi could quite possibly be the best invention since canned beer. Being able to play any friend 
 with a DS around is a priceless adaptation. Multi-player gives you many options for gameplay, whether 
 or not you would like to use computers, the speed of the race, even a team option. But enough of 
 that, let's talk about playing online. With a WiFi capable router or a Nintendo WiFi adapter, you 
 can play online. Or, you can go get a booth at the nearest McDonald's and play online there. There 
 is no chat function online, but you can see other player's name and emblem. One of the downfalls 
 of online play is that you can't drag items behind you, so using them to guard against green or 
 red shells is useless. However, being able to play any MKDS player from any country whenever you 
 feel like it is a truly fun thing to do.
  
  One of the first games that uses the DS online, this is definitely a game worth checking out whether 
 or not you like racers. Personally, I can't stand any racing game, but Mario Kart has always been 
 able to hold my attention, being the masterpiece that the games are. 
  
  Overall: 9.8
  Fan or not , Mario kart is fun to enjoy , it a must buy !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_tom_2k6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  its a bit plain and i have seen many better race games and its wi-fi is lacking beacause theres 
 no chat system and you dont know who youre racing. then again there is alot of things i could see 
 that would make it more exiting by having profiles so you could know who your racing ,a chat system 
 so you can socialize more so you could talk with your whells and your gob and finally longer gameplay 
 like a story mode or something you would never get bored of i mean if u dont like it loan it of 
 a friend first to see if you like it but then again there always is a goodside its more competitive 
 playing online i just love challenging other people its more fun and you coudnt get bored just 
 i dont know them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hijack74
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  I spent a few months now playing mario in my spare time and i love it! Waluigi is my favourite 
 character with his digger car cos its a good balance of speed and acceleration.
  
  I would recommend this game to any mario lover or person who likes racing games. I give this 9.2 
 out of 10 because of its good graphics and awesome gameplay, also the music is quite good.
  
  Tic-toc clock is my favourite course becoause of the interesting obstacles but i believe bowsers 
 castle is the most technically advanced . 
  
  Thank you nintendo for bringing out such a brilliant game cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComicalGamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Wonderful, absoloutely out of this world
  
  Mario Kart DS is the game which brigns back the plumber into a kart, talk about randomness!
  
 
  This game is written perfect all around it, considering it has the Wi Fi connection, also the great 
 gameplay!
  
  Do you remember Crash bandicoot? The derby cars one? its similar to this only with better agmeplay, 
 better texture, mroe items, HUGE amount of secrets and much more to be discovered!
  
  My recommendation is that its worth the wait, and suitable to everyone!
  
  when i first bought 
 this i thought ill get addictd to this for about 2 days, frankly iw as wrong im getting so addicted 
 t this when i bought this until now, great game, abgsolutely superb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padawon2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS, is a very high quality game, and is a must have for DS owners! The game really takes 
 racing to the maximum, through different gaming areas, with plenty of charactors. The gaming goes 
 beyond the max when you and some fiends link up for battle! The game can realy have you on your 
 feet screaming, Hey cheater how come he is so fast and I'm not huh tell me? This game is bery fun, 
 the same thing as in all the other Mario Karts! Very good game I recommend it to anyone! This game 
 drags on little by little but goes a little fastr once you get the hang of it and play it nonstop 
 for speed like, like Netzero high speed internet only $9.99 a month!! LOL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratrace666
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  The game is really good in the races it buts other racing games to shame. It has that easy going 
 fun wacky weopens that make the gamethat much better but is lets itself down in the shine runners 
 part. The game is to stupid and pointless at the shine runners part of the game. It was a waste 
 oftime to make that part. But, we do see some of the old classic in the retro races that make it 
 that much better but it has to be said it could be better. Overall i would say buy this game because 
 it is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimateblader
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  this game kicks ass its so cool, but very hard on som stages all thos classic characters, and heaps 
 of retro courses and new ones. plus there the wi-fi thts pretty cool as well. i like to use yoshi 
 but dry bones is probly the best on turny coarses. its the 2nd best game 1st is jump superstars, 
 im tlking about ds games u know. and this game has the all new missions thing and 8 player single 
 card or u can do multi card its your choice.* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakecqc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  If you own a Nintendo DS you were probaly waiting for this game like me (maybe) . This is another 
 great Nintendo game to come for the DS and if you own it you should buy unless you never like Mario 
 Kart this wouldn't change your mind. The gameplay is always gonna be excellent and nonthing gonna 
 change it for a long time. The game graphics is not the best. The character models look kinda of 
 blocky but the environment looks very great. The sound is also great on each character and the 
 sound of the items is one the best. The game has online play so this would last you a long time 
 and the single player is pretty long as well. The missions add more depth to the game and all of 
 them are fun. Overall this is a fun game and one the best buys for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustSuperMario1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best nintendo games ever made. this is a must play game if you like 
 mario games of any DS games. If you own a DS you have to buy this game. fun for every one . this 
 game is great in single player and muti player as well. this game is one of the best online games 
 with the wi-fi. so just buy this right now, you are missing out on a great game. if you want any 
 tips on this game just read the gamespot tips or send me mail asking for help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubo07
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  A must have great game for all DS owners. The online WI-Fi feature makes this the number 1 ds game 
 currently available. The only thing I don't like is that you can only play with 3 other players 
 online, I would have likes at least 5. The ds to ds multyplayer allows for a max of 8 players. 
 I beat all the cups within 2 days and all the missions in about 10 days. Overall the best Mario 
 series game ever created. Im anxious too see the Mario Kart game for the upcoming revolution, bound 
 to be even better. I can't wait for Metroid Prime Hunters, I hope it's what I expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josheat
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to playing this game, and luckily for me I got a copy for Xmas! After 
 many hours of playing, and late nights on WiFi I have come to a conclusion on how this game actually 
 turned out.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  My first impression of this game was that it if it wasnt fun, then it would be a complete waste 
 of my time. As soon as the race started I soon learnt that this game is very hard to put down! 
 After learning about drifting and powersliding to get boosts around corners, I was instantly hooked 
 to honing my poor skills. The levels of difficulty are pretty standard. You have your 50cc, 100cc 
 and 150cc engine class's. 50cc was extremely easy to win with Yoshie, but it slowly got harder 
 as I got into the fast engine class's. There are lots of racers to play with, including all your 
 old Mario Kart favourites plus a few new ones added like the Bones guy and Daisy. There are a few 
 karts to choose for each racer, including the standard and unique kart. The fluid gameplay has 
 to be Mario Karts main hook in playing this game. It is easy to just pick up and have a go, but 
 it will take a long time to master the aspects of your character. It will also take you a while 
 to master playing against those japanese guys on WiFi...
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  The graphics are on par with almost every 3D DS game out there, but because of the expansive level 
 designs they sometimes lack in detail around the edges, But of course you can only really tell 
 if you are looking hard enough. Which you probobly arent when you are zooming around trying to 
 dodge massive metal balls on chains while trying to get the perfect powerslide. They are very similar 
 to N64's Mario Kart and do look great on the little portable DS. The framerate never skips which 
 keeps your eyes on the game for every split second. The level design is very good with ports from 
 every Mario Kart game made. The snes levels are nice and flat, they manage to capture all of the 
 N64's glory and the GCN levels are great fun to play on, plus the new courses which are just as 
 good as every course ever made. They keep things interesting with shortcuts and little things here 
 and there that you can use to your advantage or disadvantage.
  
  Sound: 8
  
  The usual sound of kart engines burring away, small taunts here and there of passing opponents 
 and the sound effects of items whizzing past you. Typical mario Kart sounds and music that has 
 a happy appeal to it and keeps the overall experience nice and friendly. How Nintendolike :P
  
  Overall Value: 9
  
  You will keep going back and back to play this game. There are heaps 
 of game modes to have a go at. There is the normal Grand prix single player, where you battle it 
 out against 7 opponents to win the trophy, and of course something unlocked in the game. There 
 are the Time Trials which are a must in any driving game, The battle comes back with the usual 
 3 balloons but this time you can make teams of you and other racers. There is the VS mode where 
 you can just free race against opponents on the set conditions that you define at the start, Plus 
 the new mission mode. There are 6 levels of missions, each with 8 missions and 1 boss mission. 
 They are made to improve your skills wether it be powersliding, cornering or using items effectively. 
 They are great fun and definately worth playing a few times.
  
  Extras \ Online Play: N/A \ 9.5
  
  Mario Kart DS is the first DS game to include internet WiFi 
 to play against opponents from all over the world. It is compatible with a range of wireless routers 
 or you could buy the DS WiFi adapter from the shops or ebay. It plugs into your computer via USB 
 and lets you play with the DS WiFi with limited range from the adapter. Setting it up is easy enough, 
 pretty self explanitory. Joining games are easy, with you connecting to the internet and then waiting 
 for people who are availible to your settings. You dont host games though, you just wait for players 
 who are free and off you go. You can select to find players who are Regional (in your country) , 
 Rivals (people with the same skill level as you) , Worldwide and Friends. You register friends with 
 unique "Friend Codes" that each gamecart has. The only bad thing about that is that the only way 
 to get friends codes is to tell people exactly what code you have. You cant see them in the game 
 at all. So if you meet someone who you want to play again, you have no way of getting their friend 
 codes. That and not being able to select game modes are the only turn offs with playing around 
 with WiFi. They are small problems though which dont distract that it is extremely fun to play 
 with your DS in your living room against anyone in the world! It has great replayability.
  
  Overall this is an awesome game. I reccomend anyone with a DS to get it. Even if your not a 
 mario fan, this game appeals to anyone with a DS and WiFi. Great Fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  
  
  This is one of those classic games. Mario Kart has amazed us gamers for the past few years. Now 
 it is on the DS. 
  
  This game is great for single mode, but it really shines when you play it on multiplayer mode. 
 Get a few friends and start racing. 
  
  And there is a wi-fi option too. This way you can test your racing skills with people from around 
 the world.
  
  You can also play with friends even if you are not near each other.
  
  So now there is a way to beat your friends form anywhere.
  
  This may be the best out there 
 so far. It's easy to pick up and play.
  There are many characters and karts to choose from, so you won't get bored.
  
  If you own a 
 DS, this is the games to get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lebanese_boy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This is Mario Kart DS, the first game to introduce the all-new Nintendo Online play system, The 
 Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Let's debut the review of the best Mario Kart game to date !
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  The gameplay has been improved greatly in this game, by adding those drift turbos, 
 or what you would call, the snaking move. This game has a big item librairy to use during a race, 
 wich adds lots of fun to the race. It has a great multiplayer mode with Race/Battle. Race is just 
 a simple race with your friends or with characters in the game. Battle mode has Shine Runner and 
 the classic Balloon Fight. In Shine Runner you must battle with every players to get the most Shines 
 ( Shines are the little thingy that ressembles a star in Super Mario Sunshine) , The one wih most 
 shines win. If you are familiar with the classic Mario Kart, you might already know about Balloon 
 fight. You basically have balloons attached to your Kart and you must defeat the other players 
 by hitting their Balloons with an Item like a shell or banana etc... For the tracks, you have 24 
 new tracks and 24 tracks that have been taken from the SNES/N64/GC/GBA Mario Kart games. 
  Online Play: Sadly, the Battle mode isn't online, but the race mode is still good there, you can 
 play up to 4 players in  mode. It's well made
  
  -Graphics-
  
  The graphics in this game are one the best on the DS, everything is well presented 
 but sometimes when you play online, you may throw a shell at somebody, you see the shell hiting 
 that person but it doesn't affect him/her . also in Online mode, sometimes you see people falling 
 off a cliff and reappearing in front of you as if they never falled, this is due to a lag so don't 
 worry, they are not using a cheat system of anything.
  
  -Sound-
  
  The sound in Mario Kart is pretty good, some tracks have some music that may remind you of past 
 Mario Kart games. Also, all the retro tracks have kept their original music wich is good.
  
  -Value-
  
  Mario Kart DS is a game that you want to play over and over again, the fun never 
 stops and the online play makes the fun more eternal.
  
  -Reviewer's Tilt-
  
  I consider this, as the best Mario Kart game in the series, the game is simply fun to play over 
 and over again with a friend, people all over the world and even alone.
  
  Overall we've got the best in the series and I give this Superb game a 9.4 , a well deserved score. 
 I recommend this game to any Mario/Mario Kart/Racing games fan.
  
  Thank You for reading my review. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: miaoman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those classic games. Mario Kart has amazed us gamers for the past few years. Now 
 it is on the DS. 
  
  This game is great for single mode, but it really shines when you play it on multiplayer mode. 
 Get a few friends and start racing. 
  
  And there is a wi-fi option too. This way you can test your racing skills with people from around 
 the world.
  
  You can also play with friends even if you are not near each other.
  
  So now there is a way to beat your friends form anywhere.
  
  This may be the best out there 
 so far. It's easy to pick up and play.
  There are many characters and karts to choose from, so you won't get bored.
  
  If you own a 
 DS, this is the games to get.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Heeey it's me MARIO!
  EVERY person heard about mario the little italian..
  it's a funny story how the men who does the voice of mario became mario.
  He was playing in a 
 play as italian and there was a part for mario and he's friend told him to take this job. He was 
 on the set and he must say something because the poeple where waiting and then this accent came's 
 out and soon he was SUPER populair. Mario has a lots of games on he's name like
  Super Mario 64
  Super Mario Kart (SNES)
  Super Mario Kart (Nintendo 64)
  Mario Kart DOUBLE 
 DASH (Gamecube)
  and so on..
  As soon the DS went to came out mario was the first game on it.
  Later they made Mario bros.
 
  Mario parthners in time and so on.
  And also the LEGENDARY Mario kart can't miss on this HANDHELD.
  with a WFI -conection you can 
 play with all people over the world.
  this is a fun thing to do..
  The graphics aren't REVOLUTIONARY but they do a great! job.
  This is a awesome game when you 
 are bored or something.
  This is over 40 dollars worth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyber360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has been always fascinating us with different style's of games, this is series that really 
 sticks in the minds of people when they think Nintendo Racing.
  
  Nintendo last left us with Mario Kart: Double Dash which was great in it's own unique, but did 
 not please everyone. Now Nintendo has tried to rebuild the series with what gamers wanted and it 
 seems that they have succeeded in doing so.
  
  This game when you first start it up you will see three major buttons, Single Player, Multi-player 
 and NWC (Nintendo Wi-Fi connection) . The single player is what helps you get the stuff you need 
 to help you throughout the whole game. The Grand Prix is first up on the Mario Kart DS in the Single 
 player and that is the normal classic style play style that has been known in every Mario Kart 
 game since the beginning.
  
  In Grand Prix mode you are given the option of CC (pretty much speed of karts and level of CPUs) 
 characters, karts and the Cups you have unlocked to play in, each cup has four tracks you must 
 do your best in, and try to take home the gold. If you get gold you usually get to unlock things 
 such as More Cups and Karts (which will come in handy later as you need the best combo to get you 
 through tougher levels) .
  
  Next Mode is Time Trials try to get your best time in on this mode on the tracks. You can record 
 ghosts and race yourself to see if you can improve on yourself or even staff ghosts you unlock 
 by getting within Staff Ghosts time limit.
  
  Battle Mode is a mode known to Mario Kart veterans as what can be chaotic and crazy, this is usually 
 very frantic as items are laying all over the place as you attempt to stay alive, by keeping your 
 balloons from getting popped in the classic balloon battle. You can play this mode either through 
 Multi-player, Bots or both, and the neat new feature to balloon battle, is it adds the strategy 
 to it and makes you start out with 5 balloons one is inflated at the beginning. You can hold up 
 to three, but you have to manually inflate the balloon, by either blowing into the mic (fastest 
 way) or holding select (Slowest way) you can only blow up the balloons while letting go of the accelerator 
 which can be challenging if you are playing good players that are on your tail always. Shine Runners 
 is new, similar to shine theft in Double Dash it is a battle of how many shines you have now rather 
 than who has them the longest. After the time runs out on each interval, the player (s) with the 
 least amount of shines is knocked out (Starting with 1 minutes and then 30 second intervals following 
 the first interval) , and does this until one player is left.
  
  A new mode is Missions mode, it lets you do a variety of missions, mostly helping you get better 
 at certain parts of the game, such as short cuts and tricks that might come in handy in points 
 of the game. You do boss battles as well in this mode.
  
  Versus mode is just a mode like Grand Prix except you get to have options on how hard the characters 
 are on each CC, whether you play teams, how the game picks the tracks (Random or manually) , and 
 you do any track in any order that you want. It's a great way to practice on the tough tracks that 
 you have the hardest times in on Grand Prix and get better at them before you find out you just 
 were not ready for the track.
  
  Multi-player (Normal LAN) is the common multi-player is has the Balloon battles, VS and Shine Runner 
 battle. It's a great way to have fun in your friends and all modes are available through Download 
 play as well but with limited tracks or arenas.
  
  The last mode is NWC mode, it is the online portion of Mario Kart DS it is great addition for Nintendo's 
 first time, it allows only normal Racing sadly with Four players, that isn't really that bad, they 
 most likely wanted to make the first impression of the quality of online good so that they don't 
 get too many players in one game making it have latency issues. The good thing about this mode 
 is it gives much more Mario Kart to fall back on when you get bored and need some people to play 
 Mario Kart with when you can't with your friends. Whether or not it's limited this mode keeps the 
 replay value up for this game, mostly because this game is Mario Kart and it is a unbelievable 
 game.
  
  The graphics in the game are nicely animated fluent and colorful nothing seen on any hitches in 
 the frames on this game. The water is nicely animated. So are the characters.
  
  The Music and sound effects in this game are nice and catchy the quality is very high and fits 
 the Mario theme-ing well and has some of my favorite music heard in the Mario Kart games I have 
 played.
  
  This game has a lot to offer for the cost, lots of options and customizing in the game can be done 
 to keep the game interesting, and the online holds together well for a simple design of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ-Sephiroth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart games have been fun and addictive. They are fun multilayer games ever since it first 
 came out on SNES. This game offers tracks form the SNES, N64, and GC versions of it's predicsors. 
 There are more new items in this game as well. There also new tracks for this as well. 
  
  The mulitiplayer is awsome. weather it is with you best buddy, girl/boy-friend, brother, or someone 
 who you see with a DS it's a fun experience. There is now online play for this game. now you can 
 race some fat middle aged guy in NYC or some small canadian guy in this game. This brings the gamplay 
 up perfect plus it has awsome replay value.
  
  The graphcis are real nice for DS and the sound is that good old mario kart music.
  
  This 
 game is a must have for DS owners. You have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the best game out for the Nintendo DS and is the flagship for Nintendo's online 
 service. It takes the great elements of all of the previous installments in the franchise and adds 
 a great multiplayer aspect. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  The controls, the levels, and the multiplayer all add up to a flawless gameplay that really does 
 not have any downfalls. The game conrols great and thus makes it easy to see why so many people 
 play the game online. There are three engine classes (basically difficulties) with eight cups in 
 each and thus 32 maps to race on. There are plenty of great Nintendo characters and more that can 
 be unlocked and the battle and racing system has never been better. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics in this game are very good for the Nintendo DS, but do not come close to the graphics 
 in other games like Nintendogs. This is the only blemish on the game. The framerate is excellent 
 and the graphics of the characters, karts, and environments are your standard Nintendo DS/ N64 
 graphics. 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music in the game is very upbeat and fun. It is basically classic music from all of the different 
 Mario Kart games from the series. The sound effects for all of the different characters are really 
 funny and sound good and the items make good sounds. 
  
  Value: 10/10
  This is very easy category because of the online play aspect. Of course you will need a wireless 
 router that is compatible with the DS, but if you can't find one you can purchase one specifically 
 for you Ds that hooks up through the computer. The game has great racing online and great wireless 
 play with friends. Although I would have liked to see the battle mode available online it is still 
 a very impressive start to Nintendo's online ventures. The game has unbelievable replay value and 
 is just great fun to play whenever you have time. 
  
  If you have a DS this is the game you have been waiting for, if you don't have one than it really 
 is a great excuse to buy a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOLIDUS_SNAKE
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This is my first game review, please pm me some feedback. 
  
  Let me tell you, this game is simply amazing. I bought my DS just for this game and I would say 
 it was well worth the $129 for DS alone. At first, I thought it was a good game but thought it 
 did not live up to the hype. Then I got involved in 8 player multiplayer and WFC and became addicted, 
 always trying to improve my skills. 
  
  Single player- The single player has the same modes as always (grand prix, time trial, vs.) and 
 some new modes (mission and battle) . The new modes were added to increase the replay value. They 
 do this on a very mediocre level. Sure the missions may keep you busy for a weekend but there is 
 no real reason to finish them. Overall they seem like they were tacked on at the last minute. Battle 
 mode has been in Mario kart games since the beginning but it is now available for single player 
 against CPUs. This mode would have been better if the CPUs were better. They stand hardly any 
 chance of winning. The old modes are the same as always and are as good as ever. I find myself 
 doing time trials and trading ghosts with friends a lot more then on older versions. 
  
  Multiplayer- this is the best part of the game, online and against friends. The WFC is great and 
 very easy to use. Its nice how you are always ranked for how many wins and loses you have. The 
 only problem is snakers and quitters. Snakers are people who drift the whole course. Its very annoying 
 unless you do it (which I do not suggest) . Quitters are people who quit to keep a good record. 
 Sometimes you see people with records like 300-wins 0-loses. Yeah right. If you play against friends 
 its really fun because it keeps records for each friend individually. You will constantly find 
 yourself competing with friends to get better records. 
  
  As for sound and graphics, I would say they are pretty good for the DS but not spectacular.
  
 
  if you have access to online play or 7 friends with this game go and buy a DS and this game right 
 now! You will not regret it. If you dont have a router or 7 friends with DSs I would say get 
 it and not expect this to be a revolution.
  
  Please send me some feedback via private message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meatwad_Gamer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Ds has possibly been one of the most addictive games I've ever played and definately 
 the best DS GAME. There's nothing like the emotion to win a race at the last second or like using 
 a star to win the race. The gameplay is just perfect. The races are fun and engaging.
  
  The graphics arew the best seen ona Ds game, and the graphics are evEn better than the N64 version. 
 The sound is great and has all the sounds you can expect of a Mario Kart game.
  
  You can spend all day playing Multiplayer with your firends, and the Multiplayer is highly addictive. 
 You will spend some time unlocking all the stuff and you will definately have a lot of highly addictive 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This is mario kart DS. you dont even need to play the game to know this game is going to be great 
 because all of the other versions on other consoles have been great successes and this game is 
 nothing short of it. Mario and his pals are back and they are faster, crazier and better than ever.
 
  
  Yes mario is back in another racer and has bought in new weapons and the option to choose your 
 kart which is great and a mission mode which adds to the 1-player longievity of this game. There 
 is a grand prix mode where there are 16 new tracks made from scratch and 16 classic tracks from 
 previous games which is really nice, especially if you haven't played some of the other games which 
 feels new to you.
  
  There are things to unlock in this game like new racers and most importantly, new karts for every 
 single character. there are new characters like waluigi, daisy and drybones and a hidden one which 
 are all real fun to unlock and play as. The difficulty modes vary and the speed and the sudden 
 shift in positions is great in this game, you can come from 8th and no chance of coming back to 
 winning by a mile which is great, its more challenging and more fun.
  
  The weapons have all the classic ones like the green and red shells and the blue one of course 
 and the lightning strike and many many others but now theres a few new ones, like turning into 
 bullet bill, which makes you fly past a few opponents while taking them out at the same time, and 
 another one that lets you lob a bomb and there is 1 or 2 more new ones which you should find out 
 when you buy this game.
  
  The Wifi is such a pain to connect, it took me so long to get it to work with a compatible router 
 and the router's help team werent very good at helping me to set it up so i had to do it myself, 
 and ive done everything and got a cnonection but just overall somehow doesnt work so dont count 
 on it connecting unless you have a highly compatible router and of course there download play and 
 battle mode which is back and better than ever.
  
  The mission mode is very nice too, where you go around doing various things like killing bosses 
 by firing shells at their weak spots or getting through gates in order within a time limit or beating 
 something to the finish line, its all very much fun and is going to keep you occupied to this game 
 for a very long time.
  
  This game is very smooth, nothing wrong with the slick graphics in this game, the characters and 
 the explosions and the revamped levels look very nice, better than before. The sound of course 
 is the typical, happy, cheerful mario music you expect from every mario game, very nice and the 
 choice quotes from every character when you overtake someone or get hit is great.
  
  This game has to be bought by everyone regardless of their taste, if you own a DS, you must get 
 it, no questions asked, this a game you do not want to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cxj_7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The online play is very good and the game is a great sequel to the Game boy Advance super circuit 
 game. This is a must buy game!!!!! Anyone who likes a good racing game should buy this one here. 
 It has plenty of characters and many karts to choose from. The mission mode is also very good and 
 everything. Also, since it is portable, you can basically play it anywhere. The online and multiplayer 
 game modes are also very good. You can basically play this game anywhere where there is an active 
 internet connection. Mario Kart DS is a must buy game for anybody who like racing games that you 
 can play almost anywhere in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateGame
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  I think that this is probably the most fun you will have with a racing game ever. Sure, some games 
 are realistic and let you customize your car, but winning is based mainly on the performance of 
 your car. This game gives you a variety of cars that all serve different needs and it all counts 
 on how good you can drift and how well you use your items instead of what car you have. You will 
 definetely be playing this game for a while.
  
  The gameplay is key to most racing games and this game definetely excels at it. There are a couple 
 changes that may seem unneccessary, but they help separate the good racers from the mediocre racers. 
 Drifting and mini-boosts have been perfected in this game. Drifting is key to winning some races. 
 If you aren't good at drifiting, you better be good with items or dodging them. Anyway, the karts 
 have different ratings on skills. They're: Speed, Acceleration, Weight, Handling, Drift, and Items. 
 Usually, if a car has high speed, it'll have sucky acceleration. Acceleration is key to recovering 
 from items. Weight can help push karts off the edge when you bump into them, but it can make you 
 slide a bit. Handling really helps during races when the road gets really narrow or dangerous with 
 items. Items can really help get you in first. They've added some new items like the bullet bill 
 and the squid guy that both help you get ahead of the pack. The startup boost has been changed 
 and I had to resort to my friends to find out how it works. Instead of when it says start, you 
 have to hold the peddle when the sound of the 2 goes by. Time it right and you will have a boost 
 that surpasses your friends. The levels are great. The new ones are already classics and the edition 
 of some older levels adds a lot of depth. I don't think that Double Dash can get anywhere near 
 the level of greatness that this one has reached. 10/10
  
  The graphics are pretty good. The SNES and GBA levels have had some serious makeovers while the 
 GCN levels have reall been dumbed down to fit on the DS. The N64 levels look pretty much the same. 
 The karts and racers look great on the DS while the environments are a little lacking. Shells and 
 most items are 2D but the artwork is awesome. I think that games shouldn't become photorealistic 
 because it seems to take away some of the nostalgia that old games had so I think that these graphics 
 are somewhat lacking and could have been better, but they still have a lot of nostalgia. 8/10
 
  
  Sounds and music are always key pieces to a game. Bad sound equals bad immersion. This game has 
 okay sounds but great music. The sounds are regular Mario Kart sounds, nothing special. Each character 
 has their own little whines and cries that they make when the are passed or pass someone and the 
 edition of Rob and Dry Bones sounds are great. they're little things (whatever they're saying) 
 are really nice to hear. They can remind you of the old times that these characters have had with 
 Nintendo games. The music is really cheery and great. They always help when you are doing bad in 
 a race. Then again, I never do that bad. The new levels and their music fit in well and the old 
 music is redcone and fits the DS great. 9/10
  
  This game is probably the best DS game there is so far. (Still waiting for Hunters...) The Internet, 
 multiplayer, singleplayer and personal emblems will keep you addicted for a while. I think that 
 I've enjoyed this game more than some of the games I've played on PC and console. I got it with 
 my DS, so it was a great addition to start me off. The ranking system is also really nice. You 
 will be playing for probably years after it's come out. It's the Halo of handheld. There are some 
 frustration to be had with this game, and 34.99 isn't the greatest pricing ever. 9/10
  
  Mostly anyone who has ever played a kart game will love this game. I've seen some anti-DS people 
 fall in love with this game the day that they played it. Some people get so addicted that they 
 play it during school. I love this game as much as I do Halo 1 and 2. This game is enough reason 
 to get a DS alone. I don't think that you can't like it, unless you have no soul.
  10/10
  
  If you've ever played a kart game or any racing game and felt disappointed, pick up this game. 
 It will make you love racing games all over again. BUY IT!!! That's all I can say... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  [Presentation 9/10]
  
  Not much to say here. The menus are simple and good looking.
  
  [Graphics 10/10]
  
  The graphics are amazing for a ds game. They really tried to make it look 
 like DD and they succeeded. 
  
  [Control 10/10]
  
  Up until mario kart ds I always thought the controls for mario kart games were a little off, especially 
 with no hop in DD. The controls are amazing and they brought back the hop feature! Until mario 
 kart for the rev comes this is the best controls for the series.
  
  [Sound 9/10]
  
  Everything you would expect from a mario kart game. Nothing special.
  
  [Single Player 10/10]
 
  
  Beside the usual grand prix, time trial, and vs mode, they have added battle, and mission mode. 
 I know what you are thinking but DD had battle mode, well this is the first time you can play the 
 computer in battle mode. In mission mode there is 7 levels made up of 8 mini levels and a boss 
 stage. In each level you have a goal to complete. Based on how good you complete the goal you get 
 a score. 
  
  [Multiplayer 10/10]
  
  The best part of mario kart is the multiplayer. Lets start off with ds download play. In this mode 
 you are limited to only playing mushroom and shell cup, and the player that is downlaoding is limited 
 to only playing as shyguy. If both you have a copy of mario kart then the fun really begins. If 
 you play over LAN you can play all the tracks with every charatecter and you can play battle mode! 
 Maio kart ds is the first mario kart game to "legally" go online. In wifi you have 4 options 1. Play 
 against friends 2. Play against people with similar records 3. Play people in your region 4. Play 
 anyone worldwide. once you have collected the people to race you will vote out of around 20 different 
 courses to race on. You will play 4 races and at the end you will get a wins/loses based on what 
 place you get.
  
  [Overall 9.8/10]
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  yes a little dissapoining, a lack of character selection as in mario kart double dash had a ton 
 of kool characters but than again it was, DOUBLE dash. Wi FI\i isnt great as i thought it would 
 be, it is very annoying waiting for 5 minutes for 2 people to join and then leave before you even 
 start. Rarely i have a 3 person race, but than they quit during the race, or they are hardcore snakers 
 with records of 100-0 but enough of wi-fi. If you it felt great to play the classic courses from 
 the N64 and NES on a handheld. Also the GBA and cube levels were good al long with the maybe 5 
 or 5 new additions. There are tons of cars to choose from which is also great. But i felt that it 
 was a little boring after beating it and having nothing else to do. But sofar in the DS there is 
 not much competition besides Animal Crossing and soon to be Tetris and Metriod Prime Hunters, so 
 i would highly recommend a purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the411monkey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been around since the SNES days, and boy was it a great day for casual gamers. A 
 couple of sequels later and a pinch on online play, you get Mario Kart DS!
  
  Mario Kart has the average single player mode, includuding tournaments, and just VS. mode. Both 
 workout to be a really great game if you looking to kill some hours in the car or at school. It 
 includes maps all the way back from the original to the Gamecube days. And some nice maps specially 
 designed for the handheld itself.
  
  Dont get me wrong, Nintendo also added Mission Mode to keep the replay value up as well. In mission 
 mode you have to perform certain moves, collect or destroy items. At first it gets easy, but the 
 DS' design will eventually cause you to have cramps in your hand when you are trying to perform 
 power slides. Also the ranking for those mission can be somtimes tedious, you get an A on the maps 
 didn't mean you past it with flying colors seeing how the ranks go up to 3 stars.
  
  Online play has been a nice touch to the game as well. You can play anyone online in the world, 
 who is available for a race. You do need to recieve a friend code from Nintendo, and that is how 
 you are able to race your friends by trading Friend codes. However, Nintendo also added matchmaking 
 for matches as well. You will be matched up with someone near your exp and race with them. There 
 can be 3 others in the match not including yourself. The online is very limited, you can only race 
 and not battle, which is kind of a let down, and not being able to communicate with the other racers 
 is also a crying shame. Another thing, you can't add people you play with. So the only way to increase 
 your friend count is with people you already know which is a real disappointment.
  
  And as far as the downfalls, the A. I doesnt get smarter when you try harder leves, instead their 
 cars get faster, and they get the better weapons of the bunch leaving you with bananas and green 
 shells. Also the online play is riddled with hackers and latency problems causing you to lose a 
 lot of matches
  
  Still, besides its flaws, Mario Kart DS is a solid game for the system and adds a great replay 
 value to the handheld and the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_cajun88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is the best DS game ever. This game brings the beloved Mario Kart game that I loved from the 
 SNES, N64, GBA, and Gamecube and brings it to the DS in a way that no one saw coming. As aforementioned, 
 I don't play online, I usually play alone or with two of my friends who have DS's. I heard wonderful 
 things about the Wi-Fi connection thing, and I hope to see all of you expert racers there soon. 
 The thing that surprised me about this game is the fact that some of the old courses make their 
 own cups, making the game effectively twice as long as the other Mario Kart games. The missions 
 mode is short, but enjoyable. The only thing I can say negatively about this game is that it dosen't 
 contain tracks like the N64's Yoshi Valley or the Gamecube's Wario Colosseum. All things considered, 
 Mario Kart DS can cause lack of sleep and is a worthy addition to your DS game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V_J
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the best Mario Kart game to date. It has challenging tracks, multiple characters 
 and karts to choose from, and the ability to play online. 
  
  Most racers tend to play only the 150cc class, but in order to get the full experience, you have 
 to race all the engine classes. There are several characters to unlock and when you beat all the 
 engine classes, you can choose to race with every single kart featured in the game, a grand total 
 of 36 karts. 
  
  The true challenge is trying to get a triple star rating on any given cup and I've only managed 
 to get so far. With the online playing, you can race anyone from around the world to see who really 
 is best Mario Kart racer. Playing against the AI is fun, but against other people is so much better.
 
  
  See you at the races.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceTore
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This game have it all, fun tracks, hard missions (some of them is quite is though) and of course 
 ONLINE playing. You can play against people from all over the world. And that might be one of the 
 things in this game that is the most fun to do. As always you can unlock new characters, there 
 is also some new ones and you can play circuits from GBA, GCN, SNES and N64, and many new ones. 
 
  
  If you have played the last Mario Kart games, then its going to be a lot easier than it would 
 have been if this would have been your first Mario Kart game (and if it is, shame on you and it 
 was about time) .
  So what I am trying to saying is that the difficulty on the game depends on if you have played 
 mario kart games before or not.
  
  The only problem you might meet is, online. Its not always that you would have such a good connection, 
 and if you do have a bad connection, then it is very certain that you will lose youre connection.
 
  
  So I am saying if you dont buy this game and you have a Nintendo
  oDS, you might just sell the DS to someone who wants this game!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest racing games of all time. Forget "driving Sims" Mario kart brings us 
 what we want from a racing game, no nonsense driving with weapons thrown in for good measure.
 
  
  The usual gameplay is here, you choose your racer from a list of famous Mario names and whip round 
 famous locations from previous games. The carts handle beautifully and the weapons add a new dimension 
 to the game instead of swamping the driving like it did in Super Circuit and Double Dash. This 
 game is very focused on the purer Karting joy, weapons are stingier so it is harder to win by simply 
 firing your way to the top, the carts are more classic and the famous jump has returned. If you 
 loved the original and the N64 version but the focus on weapons in Super Circuit and the alterations 
 to gameplay in Double Dash put you off then this will take you back to heaven once more.
  
  It doesn't hurt that the graphics are amazing either. Lots of people criticize the DS graphical 
 capabilities just because the PSPs are better. This game shows you that the console is capable 
 of sweet 3D and it looks about twice as good as the N64 game. One of the best thing about the graphics 
 is the draw distances, you can literally see all the course while driving so there is little to 
 no pop-up at all.
  
  Sound wise this game rarely fails to disappoint, classics return and some sweet new melodies have 
 been put in, these too will go down as classics in time.
  
  In terms of value this game is the deepest and richest Mario Kart to date. There are DOUBLE the 
 normal amount of tracks, half are remakes but they are no worse for it. Missions and bosses help 
 to mix up the gameplay and the multiplayer will literally own your life. 
  
  In multiplayer you can race 7 of your friends at once with only one cart but your options are limited. 
 If everyone has a cart then this game is in a league of its own, I drained my battery from a full 
 charge with one session of multiplayer. Battle mode returns with some brilliant lands for you to 
 fight in. A new mode called Shine Run sees you collecting Shines and when the timer runs out the 
 player with the least will be booted. It makes for some hectic gameplay as you frantically attack 
 your friends for their shines before the timer hits zero.
  
  This game makes progress in some ways but also regresses. An online feature and a more comprehensive 
 single player experience take the series forward but the gameplay elements from Double Dash are 
 gone. This could be considered regression but it is more of a good thing.
  In terms of the genre Mario Kart DS shows the others what a real kart game should be like.
  
 
  On the side of innovation this game can't be faltered. The second screen is used as a map and 
 the touch functions let you zoom in and out. This isn't particularly big but racing games aren't 
 designed around a touch screen but the map is invaluable and after a few hours of gameplay you 
 will be using it instinctively. The mic is used to blow up you balloons in battle which just adds 
 more fun. The real innovation comes in the multiplayer. Even with one cart the multiplayer is un 
 matched and the addiction of online (the first for Nintendo not just Mario Kart) makes this game 
 one of the most pioneering on the machine.
  
  This is the best DS game available and brilliant for both novices and veterans. 
  
  Overview
 
  
  Gameplay - Takes MK back to its roots, great driving with the weapons adding to the fun (not taking 
 away from the driving)
  10
  
  Graphics - The best on the DS, looks sweet with great draw distances and only the slightest hint 
 of lag online
  10
  
  Sound - What you would expect, hum along tunes that complement the gameplay
  10
  
  Value 
 - The deepest Mario Kart game to date although the missions get a bit dull. If you have friends/online 
 this could lasts a YEAR easy, if not then a month
  at most
  9
  Innovation - great use of the lower screen, not much touching or mic. but online shows just what 
 this machine is capable of doing.
  9
  Progress - More of a regression than a progression but in no bad way. It seems more pure than Double 
 Dash and the gameplay is definitely more focused for it. The online takes the series forward better 
 than Double Dash did. In terms of the genre this shows the wannabe kart racers what they should 
 be like.
  9
  
  Overall a brilliant experience and worth getting a DS for 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_ds412
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  If you ever owned a Gamecube, N64, GBA, or SNES before, you'll know that Mario Kart is one of the 
 best and most addictive console racers out there to enjoy. Well now Mario Kart goes portable.
 
  
  Mario Kart DS is a new installment in the Mario Kart franchise. Now, I bet some of you are saying, 
 "Meh, it's getting kind of old. What will make me want to buy it?", well my friend, the game provides 
 new features that any Mario Kart veteran would be proud of.
  
  Let's start off with the Grand Prix. In Grand Prix, you have two cups to compete for. The Nitro 
 cup and the Retro cup. If you've noticed the Retro cup lately is that it takes some of the tracks 
 from the previous Mario Kart games from the other consoles. 
  
  Like the Banshee Boardwalk in the N64 version and the Luigi Circuit from the GC version. Nitro 
 Cup provides new tracks in the Mario Kart universe. The rules of Grand Prix haven't really changed 
 since the last 3 installments. Just score the most points to become the winning racer. 
  
  Now we're done with Grand Prix. So if you're a fan of random stuff, you may like the new Mission 
 Mode, some missions go from finding the coins, to battling bosses. It gets quite fun and provides 
 a relatively good challenge. Battle mode hasn't really changed either but it is fun.
  
  But the main new feature here that would make Mario Kart fans do the happy dance is... ONLINE PLAY. 
 Yes, online, a magical place of wonders with nine year olds constantly owning you or noobs who 
 think they're better than you. It's all right here. Sadly, there are some flaws with the online 
 system. The matchmaking is a little unbalanced, there's no online battle mode, and you can only 
 race up to 3 other people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revo_360
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  If you ever owned a Gamecube, N64, GBA, or SNES before, you'll know that Mario Kart is one of the 
 best and most addictive console racers out there to enjoy. Well now Mario Kart goes portable.
 
  
  Mario Kart DS is a new installment in the Mario Kart franchise. Now, I bet some of you are saying, 
 "Meh, it's getting kind of old. What will make me want to buy it?", well my friend, the game provides 
 new features that any Mario Kart veteran would be proud of.
  
  Let's start off with the Grand Prix. In Grand Prix, you have two cups to compete for. The Nitro 
 cup and the Retro cup. If you've noticed the Retro cup lately is that it takes some of the tracks 
 from the previous Mario Kart games from the other consoles. 
  
  Like the Banshee Boardwalk in the N64 version and the Luigi Circuit from the GC version. Nitro 
 Cup provides new tracks in the Mario Kart universe. The rules of Grand Prix haven't really changed 
 since the last 3 installments. Just score the most points to become the winning racer. 
  
  Now we're done with Grand Prix. So if you're a fan of random stuff, you may like the new Mission 
 Mode, some missions go from finding the coins, to battling bosses. It gets quite fun and provides 
 a relatively good challenge. Battle mode hasn't really changed either but it is fun.
  
  But the main new feature here that would make Mario Kart fans do the happy dance is... ONLINE PLAY. 
 Yes, online, a magical place of wonders with nine year olds constantly owning you or noobs who 
 think they're better than you. It's all right here. Sadly, there are some flaws with the online 
 system. The matchmaking is a little unbalanced, there's no online battle mode, and you can only 
 race up to 3 other people. 
  
  Needless to say, it's an enjoyable racer that no Mario Kart fan or racing fan should ever miss.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Yes, you read it right, this is the best Mario Kart game to ever grace a Nintendo Console. It's 
 the first Mario Kart that can go online, and that is probably the biggest reason of what i said, 
 but definitely not all. The game adds a new mission mode that allows you to play through several 
 missions of varying difficulty levels, a real fun addition. Another great thing about it is the 
 inclusion of both new and retro courses, all of your favorites are here, but some new classics 
 show up as well. You get all kinds of things to unlock too, like characters, race modes, and karts. 
 That will keep you busy playing it for quite a while, there are also two new power-ups during races -- the 
 bullet bill and these ink jet things. All of the new additions plus classic gameplay make this 
 the game that ALL DS owners should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghettoace22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This is quite an amazing game. First let's start with the good things. While graphically the DS 
 isn't capable of much the visuals are sharp and colorful. The controls, suprisingly since it uses 
 the D-pad obviously with the DS missing and analog stick, are tighter and better than previous 
 mario karts. The number of tracks are good and almost all of them are superbly design. (Tick-Tock-Clock 
 is amazing, along with Waluigi Pinball and The floating ship level thingy) Wi-Fi play is very fun 
 and it's interesting how you can sync your account with your nintendo one to keep track of your 
 stats and compare them with other players. However is not without its fualts. The main thing that 
 bugs me is that the wifi play is limited. Extremely limited. Beyond voting for tracks, choosing 
 a player, and drawing a logo thats seen by other players (expect to see many penis and booby doodles.) 
 Theres not much to custimize. Also the CPU offers a decent challenge at first, but gets to become 
 extremely easy and GP becomes nothing much more than Time Trial. Also this isnt a fualt with the 
 game, but many people dissconect if your winning. Allmost everytime you play people are going to 
 quit. About 80% of the time ( Unless youre very lucky ) And one final thing, while lan play with 
 only one kart with up to 8 ppl is fun, everyone can only choose shy guy and you can only play 8 
 different tracks, but its just download play so its cool. Overall this game basically just kicks 
 much ass. Also you'e going to get beat down by most players in wi-fi play. See you online : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkdragz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  this is an amazing game. its got some of the best graphics on the ds and has noslow down what so 
 ever. it has the classictracks from previous mario kart games and it shows that nintendo still have 
 originality with there new tracks. some of the new tracks are going to become classics. theres new 
 weapons as well and missions. the missions are a nice change from the racing and have a boss at 
 the end. the wifi adds 2 the hours of play u already get and theres nothing more satisfying then 
 beating ur m8 who lives half way around the world or it could just b someone who lives in the next 
 town along. all in all ill say it again
  this is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario and friends are back in the racing business in Mario Kart DS. This time, they're going around 
 the globe with Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, and more. Here's my review:
  
  Gameplay: There certainly alot of things to do in MKDS. First off, there is the usual Grand Prix 
 Mode. It's the usual: grab first place in each cup and "cc" (difficulty) , and, in return, get to 
 unlock secret karts and characters. This time, however, you can race in TWO Grand Prixs! The Nitro 
 Grand Prix, having the new tracks, and the Retro Grand Prix, having the classic or "retro" tracks, 
 one for each system (SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN) for each cup. They also have a Mission Mode, which 
 are leveled challenges to play against (It's structured like those classic Mario games, except 
 with the facts that you're in karts and have little to big challenges to play against. But they 
 do have boss levels.) . There is also a create-an-emblem mode, where you can create your own emblem 
 for the karts. It also helps to have the bottom screen as a map, too. And there's also new items, 
 such as the Bullet Bill, which can give you a huge boost back to the top if around last. All of 
 this will give you the practice you''ll need for playing against your friends and the world. That's 
 right, you heard me. The world. Nintendo has made Mario Kart to play on line via a wireless. And 
 it's a huge success. Basically, It's like multiplayer, except you play against fellow pros that 
 can be pretty good. Now, don't get me wrong. I think Wi-Fi was one of the main reasons why this 
 could be the best Mario Kart game out there, but there is a few problems with it. First of all, 
 you can't play battle mode. Second, you can only race against four people, sadly not eight. And 
 third, you can't play all of the tracks for some reason. But that's it. This game truly captures 
 the high adrenaline/addictive gameplay that can be the main point to be the best arcade racer out 
 there. And it is.
  
  Graphics: The game looks closer to a low-detailed Gamecube game than anything else. It looks very 
 nice indeed, but doubtfully will "ooh" or "ah" you, as it is a little more technical than artistic. 
 But really, the inventive tracks, great-looking karts and characters, and a non-chuggy engine makes 
 this game really fun to look at.
  
  Sound: It is nothing to complain about. It is the the almost around the same as the other games, 
 which you really can't be astounded by, either. Just non-repetive music.
  
  Value: With tons of unlockables, online and offline multiplayer, and replayable gameplay, there 
 is just nothing else to call this but Mario Kart paradise. 
  
  Tilt: Anyone who owns a DS should get this game. This is probably the best Mario Kart game and 
 fans of the basic racing genre should not be disapointed and will be playing this game for a long 
 time. Only true racer haters will have something to complain about with this game; others should 
 positively love this game. Once again, a must-buy for any DS owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSox09
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  If you have a DS you must buy this game it is one of the best DS games out. Everything I loved 
 from the 64 version is back. I dont think nothing is wrong. Sure the graphics arent the best I 
 have seen, but that doesnt give in to the great gameplay in this game. If you have been waiting 
 for a good DS game to come out this is it its Highly Addictive and fun to play. So if you own a 
 Nintendo DS you must buy this game its great. All the characters are back in the DS version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNYROCx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  its all-buttons control makes a game that could be made on an SP.
  LOL! COOL WHIP! ^_^
  
  GAMEPLAY: slightly repetitive, but it stays fun for a looonngggg time
  all button control make 
 it less complicated like games such as the sims 2 ,
  which uses both the buttons and the stylus... very annoying for a lefty like myself.
  
  GRIPHICS: 
 very realistic movement, though i dont get it why they bob their heads when they turn...
  
  SOUND: very realist revving. small taunts are funny.
  
  VALUE: i got it for a gift, so i dont 
 know the price, so i give it a respectable 8
  
  TILT: well, if i COULD choose two categories, i would choose old-school, AND just plain fun. Great 
 game. Great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilsonbz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  mario kart is a brilliant game and the aded wifi online multiplayer makes it the best hand held 
 game ever!!!! with all the nintendo and over 7 karts for each racer. and all the racer are cool 
 from mario to peach from luigi to toad this game has it all. it also has boss levels were you have 
 to destroy it. and on the racing side of it its just as good!!! there are all new tracks and even 
 some of the clasic tracks!!! its a hands on game and from the moment you start playing you get 
 sucked into the game. the wifi part is a good subject 2 talk about. normaly you have to be close 
 to you're friends.... now you can be on the other side of the world AND STILL PLAY!!!! 
  
  basicly you must buy this game its a classic that every one can enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7Red7Raven7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  This game is fun with all the WiFi, multiplayer, classic Mario modes, new karts, new characters. 
 But in the higher level like 150cc I know some gamers who alot of trouble, so I've helped them... 
 But when I was in 150cc I was like  : ( DIE MARIO KART DS! mwuhahahaha. But once I got mirror mode 
 it was all over... What a relief. I like how there is WiFi, because if you're bored of Mario Kart 
 DS you have WiFi which helps bring up the fun if you have no friends in the area at the time. I 
 do recommend this though even after the attempt to kill Mario Kart though 150cc. But not much to 
 worry because I don't play 150cc I only play mirror mode and I almost never play MKDS any more 
 because I have better games. So I reccomend to get, and be careful near those 150cc's. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been anticipating this game since it was announced, waaay back. After getting used to MK: 
 DD!! I was a bit skeptical about not having 2 racers. Now I see that having one racer makes it 
 perhaps, better. 
  
  The gameplay is similiar, yet different. The steering is easy to maneuver, the weapons are still 
 great and the racers add a sense of consideration to what you want to do in a race. Do you want 
 to get a lead early? Do you want to get a good, moderate start? Or do you prefer to get a lead 
 later on in the match? In MKDS, you can consider all these things, all the stats have been complexed 
 since MKDD. The arnt just Weight, top speed and acceleration any more, youve got handling, items, 
 and more to consider. The courses are nice to play on, and all are great. The new ones are probaly 
 better, but the classic courses are still fresh and invigorating to play. There are new modes to 
 keep you busy, the 8 (count them) Grand Prixs are great to complete. There are four modes of speed 
 as well, so if you do the maths 
  (4x8=32, 32x4=128) there are 128 races in grand prix alone. Thats a lot of races. Theres also the 
 classic time trials to keep you trying to beat that top score a while to come. Theres also the 
 new Mission Mode... which is superb to play. Some can get on your nerves, but its satisfying to 
 complete them all. There are the 2 modes which were only available in Multiplayer previously - 
 Battle and Versus, so you can have a muck around with the CP to test your skills, these can also 
 be played on regular multiplayer. There is also the huge Wi-Fi capabilities with this game. Playing 
 one of the most sucessful franchises against people across the world? Yes please! So theres a lot 
 of enjoyment to be had there, too.
  
  The graphics are groundbreaking, as well, considering its a handheld. The courses look fresh and 
 converted well to a DS. Its amazing playing a GCN course on a DS. The karts look very good as well, 
 with the ability to have different karts for each racer, and all of them look splendid. The racers 
 are crisp to look at, the details on them are nice. Another thing I liked about the graphics is 
 the ability to make your own logo. Its good to show off your artisticness to the rest of the world. 
 Nintendo have definately done a great job of doing some great textures on a handheld.
  
  The sounds are familiar to hear, and is bliss to the ears. The recognizable sounds such as letting 
 a banana loose or firing a red shell or hearing people moan when you take over them is fresh, yet 
 familiar. The music is a fine piece of work, too, and having it speed up on the last lap adds a 
 sense of tension and the question "Am i gonna make it?" are also done well. The engine noises are 
 authentic, yet none too realistic. They sound like engines, but dont go over the top in making 
 them sound too real in NFS speed games, for example.
  
  Overall, everything new adds a great atmosphere. The Mario Kart formula is revitalised, and renewed 
 once again, and the latest version is welcome to the series. If you have Wi-Fi, or even if you 
 dont, this is one awesome racer that you dont wanna miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotvic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been one of the best series by Nintendo. With the awesome power-ups, and 
 cool tracks, and online play, you can be sure that this game is a knock-out.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  
  Hey, It's good ol' Mario Kart. But now online; which is a welcome addition 
 to the series. And it's very easy to connect. Just find a Hot-Spot and start playing. There are 
 two new power-ups, the Blooper and Bullet Bill. Both can help you in your race excellently. The 
 new tracks are niffty, and imagined well. And there's also Mission mode, witch has you completing 
 certain tasks.
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  The Graphics certainly deliver. It almost looks like the Game cube version of the game. Everything 
 looks great, and full of color. The characters look awesome, the Karts look fantastic, and the 
 tracks are nicely detailed.
  
  Sound - 9
  
  The sound is great too. The music is nicely done. The Karts sound real. The characters sound good 
 too. So we once again hear the excellent voice talents of Charles Martinet (the voice actor for 
 Mario) .
  
  Value - 9
  
  Hey, it's Mario Kart, plus two words: Online Play.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 10
  
  All-and-all, if you have a DS, and have played the previous MK games, 
 or have never played it before, Buy It. I grantee that this game will tide you over for months 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troll_jackal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been my favorite racing game. I liked it heaps better than the serious racing 
 games, with its mix of weird items and wacky levels. The first Mario Kart on the DS is a great 
 game, with all the nice items and more.
  This game adheres to the classic Mario Kart principles of racing with items. In terms of items, 
 it has all the classics (shells, bananas) as well as a few nice new ones (e. g. bullet bill, where 
 you turn into a giant bullet) . The graphics for these are brilliant, like the graphics and sound 
 for the whole game. The second screen is used as a global map, and it also shows which items your 
 opponents have. However, taking you reyes off the main screen for more than an occasional glance 
 is very risky.
  In single player, it is all about getting points baased on your position to complete circuits and 
 unlock stuff. There is a mission mode, but most mission s are boring (drive through the gates in 
 order, etc) . They could've been more interesting (e. g. defeat the computer in a combat mission 
 with only 1 life to 3) , and the boss battles are very easy. This game really shines in multiplayer, 
 with either single card download play, multicard play, or online play.
  I only did the download play, but that was very fun. Their is a limitation on the tracks available 
 to race (8 out of 32) , and those without a game card can only be Shy Guy, but it was still extremely 
 fun, and you're able to race with up to 8 players or computer, or do combat mode, etc.. I didn't 
 try online play, but in the instruction manual it sounded awkward.
  Overall, a very fun game with great sound, graphics and gameplay. Its only weak point is its missions, 
 but all the other mode s make up fo it.
  
  http://spaces. msn. com/trolljackal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brightshadow525
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is just an amazing game. It definitely lives up to the standards of Double Dash!! and 
 it's earlier ancestors. I'll do the best first so, the gameplay was just as usual, amazing. The 
 game takes out the realistics in other sims, and replaces it with pure fun. It was just so amazingly 
 fun. Here it gets a little bad. The sound was creative as usual, but I think they could have done 
 just a little more with the quality of it. The sound effects matched fine, making that score not 
 drop down anymore. Here comes the bad part. I have been playing the Mario Kart series since like, 
 forever. And I really don't like when there are even the slightest flaws in any of them. The graphics, 
 are in my point of view very basic. It could go up to a lot more than it is. If you're a fan like 
 me, I know it's hard to accept it, but the graphics aren't too great. However, the MKDS developers 
 have an ace up their sleeve. Wi-Fi connection! YAY! Wi-Fi connection lets you hook up to the internet, 
 and play other eager racers! This was probably the best feature of this game. This is what made 
 my gameplay hours soar. It probably soared so high for me, because I love the series, and I like 
 it more than the usual person... like a lot more.... But anyway, you will spend great hours playing 
 this game with the Wi-Fi. And mainly because of this I gave the value a ten. So even if you beat 
 the game, go online and battle the rest of the people with MKDS. I superbly liked this game, so 
 I give the tilt a ten. And so leaving the score with a 9.5. Good job Mario Kart people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  If you own a DS, why haven't you already gone out and purchased this Nintendo masterpiece? Go now! 
 If you've ever played a previous Mario Kart game, then here is your dream. Of course, this is portable 
 entertainment, but who knew the DS was capable of such fun?
  
  Ah! I'll start with the gameplay. The control using the d-pad, which didn't exactly work so well 
 with MK Super Circuit on the GBA a few years back, is unbelievable! It's so fluid, you'll never 
 want to go back to the analog stick again! The drifting is a little different, but once you get 
 used to it, you're right at home. Series fans, i. e. those who played the SNES and N64 versions, 
 will love the return of the beloved hop move, which was sadly missing in the recent GameCube installment. 
 All of the best items return (except for the "special" character-specific ones) , and several new 
 items appear, such as the blooper, which sprays ink into the faces of the cars in the lead, obscuring 
 their vision. Their are tons of characters, including (SPOILER ALERT!) several unlockable characters, 
 such as fanboy favorite R. O. B. the Robot (end spoiler alert) . There are 32 tracks, all of them 
 3-D, many of them original, fun, innovative tracks. 16 of them, however, are some of the best tracks 
 of old, featuring favorites from the SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN games. The biggest new feature is 
 undoubtedly the Wi-Fi. You have standard local multiplayer, where up to eight people can race (or 
 fight, as is the case with the returning Battle mode and the new Shine Runners mode, the latter 
 of which has players hustling to get as many shine sprites as possible within the time limit) , 
 requiring only one game card. But... there's ONLINE PLAY! Finally, you race race people from your 
 own country, or from all over the world, day or night. It's a flawed system, and only four people 
 can race at a single time, but it's the first step in the right direction.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, considering you're playing on the DS, so there's not much to complain 
 about. The system can't do much better. The music is made up of good old Mario tunes at their finest. 
 The sounds can get repetitive, but it's fun, upbeat stuff nonetheless.
  
  There is no better way to spend $35 for a game. The game offers so much variety and challenge that 
 you cannot go wrong with Mario Kart DS. But are any of us really surprised? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutefo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  i absolutely love this game, i have played most of the other mario games and this is the best one 
 yet, it would have a full 10 / 10 if it was a double dash feature again, the 3d graphics, the bril 
 sound, i absolutely love it! great value for money, i think you should buy it too, plus it is the 
 first game of its kind to use wi-fi connection, an absolute must buy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! you can 
 race mates, you can do missions and fight bosses, you can race japanese blokes sitting on the toilet 
 if you really wanted to! this is racing comedy and sheer brilliance at its best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nilihist
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  yeah you heard ,buy this game i mean this game is almost perfect you can create an emblem, more 
 tracks, cooler characters, and the wifi online is awesome. iT is even fun offline ,so people with 
 dial-up dont feel mad, if friends with other ds's you can play single card play up to 8 players 
 thats awesome i wish i had more friends with ds's. this is a superb game and anybody will like it, unless 
 your stupidity gets in the way and think its stupid.
  
  
  buy this game buy this game buy this game buy this game buy this game buy this game buy this game 
 buy this game buy this game buy this game buy this game buy this game buy this game buy this game 
 buy this game buy this game buy this gamebuy this game buy this game buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keibo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Xmas and I have to say that I've not put it down. the whole game has such a 
 tight control system, and all the races tend to go down to the last stretch, which makes for some 
 excellent racing. If you've not played it before they've even included a mission mode to teach 
 you the ropes, and then it has got the most races any mario kart game has ever had. with 2 grand 
 prix that's 8 cups and 4 races in each cup, totaling 32 races. that is the most ever.
  
  To put it simply this is the most value for money game you can possibly get on the DS right now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, I thought it was the best Mario Kart game ever made. With tons of levels, 
 a variety of characters, and very tough staff ghosts to beat in time trial, I think that this game 
 was a good start for the DS. Hopefully there will be more DS games with this kind of quality. The 
 wi-fi connection connection abilities are very well used in this game. I believe the DS will last 
 longer than the PSP both sales wise and game wise. Mario Kart DS deserves a sequel and there should 
 be more racing games for the DS with this kind of quality. If Nintendo continues making good games 
 and systems that work, their company will be around for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wu-Tang-Clan93
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The moment i stole Mario Kart from i brothers hands and put it into my ds i knew this was the best 
 racing game ever. Its controls are perfectly balanced to the player you are using. Such as Wario: 
 his grubby hands make it hard to grip the steering wheel making his handling hard. The tracks are 
 awesome they feature all the classic tracks that made MK what it is today. The Wi-Fi however has 
 to be the best feature the ability to have freinds and rivals adds to the excitement as you play 
 anyone from the nintendo staff to a panasonic supervisor to just a guy from a random city in ohio. 
 Players have their own styles of racing the most renowned style being snaking. This is defintely 
 worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Ds is an excellent racing game that builds on the fundamentals of the previous mario 
 kart games. There are plenty of playable characters with lots of varying abilities and a vast array 
 of circuits and game modes. The grand prix has 4 different speed settings with 64 race tracks to 
 try out. 32 of the tracks are new racetracks to the series and the other 32, favourite classics 
 seen in games form the SNES, Nintendo 64, Gameboy Advance and Gamecube. The races are better then 
 a lot of the more "realistic" racing games which appeals to many people's philosophy of game-play 
   graphics. The game features many modes such as time trial, battle, mission, grand prix not to 
 mention the online mode. In time trial you nto only get to race your own ghost but you cn trade 
 ghosts with friends and go head to head wit the ghost of one of the japanese staff who made nintendo 
 ds. There are over 250 races in grand prix mode that you need to win to beat it, with various difficulties, 
 meaning a lot of possible game-play. battle modes consists of various new and retro tracks which 
 you can use to fight your CP opponents or friends with the vast array of items available. The missions 
 are little tasks which you must complete in a given time, when you complete all the tasks in a 
 round you face a boss from the mario games. The multi-player of this game is outstanding with one 
 mario kart ds game you can play with up to three other people and if you each have the game you 
 can play in eight-way battles. The online function is second to none making mario kart ds a game 
 not to miss. The game is fundamentally better then it's predesesors and will provide hours upon 
 hours of enjoyable racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonoy619
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  It would be pretty cool if you could make your own racing kart with this game.
  The graphics and sounds are awesome. Its a game I wont get tired of because of the Nintendo WI-FI 
 that is pretty SWEET!!
  I think Mario Kart DS is one of the best games to come out on DS, wonder if they make a 2nd edition.. 
 it would be TWICE as better.. hopefully they will add more stuff to keep the game exciting. I like 
 the unlockable karts as well. They made it pretty good, that you have to play the game to get the 
 unlockable cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytdhjnfgbvfjvgd
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  This game is basically the same game as the Classic Nintendo 64 one the only thing different is 
 this one is better! There are more charecters to unlock. There are more tracks now. Each charecter 
 has three karts. If you go online you get an extra charecter. Basically the online play is the 
 best thing about the game. And there are also little side challenges they are fun too! So if you 
 have a DS I say go out and buy this game. It is awsome! Or if you don't have a DS go buy one and 
 this game. Trust me this game is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D00nut
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Many years have passed since the first Mario Kart came out for the SNES. Afterwards came Mario 
 Kart 64, Mario Kart for the GBA, and Mario Kart Double Dash for the Gamecube. 
  
  So Mario Kart DS is most recent addition to this long series. The game doesn't try to reinvent 
 the SNES and 64 version gameplay like Mario Kart DD tried to do, but although it brings back the 
 old gameplay, Nintendo tweaked it by some to make it not only fun as it has always been, but even 
 better than before! 
  
  When you first pop the cartridge in the game and start playing. You will have 4 cups, 2 from each 
 series already available. There is the regular cup which features all the new tracks or tracks 
 that are slightly tweaked. The Retro Cup features tracks from the SNES, 64, GBA, and Cube. With 
 4 tracks per cup and 8 cups, you will eventually unlock 32 tracks for you to do all the kart racing 
 you would ever want. 
  
  There are 3 different engine classes to choose from, and after completing the series with each 
 class you will unlock something. This will lead to new karts to choose from, new characters, and 
 a new engine class that will have you doing things the other way. 
  
  The Gameplay in Mario Kart DS like I said hasn't been changed a lot from its predecessors excluding 
 Double Dash. You will choose from a selection of characters hailing from the Mario series and select 
 their kart, then you will be in the race before you know it. The Item boxes return for another 
 round along with the memorable items will all love with a few new ones. The red, green, and blue 
 shells return to give us annoyance from behind. The Banannas are back to make you skid out even 
 more. The Star and Lightning are back but the star's timer seems to have been decreased for balance 
 purposes. 
  
  The new items in the game include the squid, which will temporary squirt your top screen with ink, 
 not allowing you to see very well. Other items include the rocket which allows you to zip across 
 track up two places, knocking any enemy out of the way. 
  
  The new items are fun, but for what seems for balance purposes. The better items such as the rocket, 
 lightning, star, and such will only be available to those who are in the 4th-8th place. 
  
  Powersliding also returns for Mario Kart DS and it is very important this time around. Making the 
 right timing will help you get an edge over your opponents, and hitting the D-pad left and right 
 multiple will give you a boost, when you stop powersliding, the boost will go into effect. Drift 
 I think is new to the series. Getting behind an opponent and letting them take the wind will help 
 give you a boost also. 
  
  Another new gameplay addition is with the bottom screen itself. While it doesn't affect the gameplay 
 too much, it will be used as a map. When you are blinded by the squids, the map screen does come 
 in handy. It will also show what your opponents items are so you won't be caught off suprise if 
 you keep an eye on it. 
  
  Besides the lengthy Grand Prix mode, there is a mission mode to test your skills to a further degree. 
 Missions will help you practice your skills such as powersliding and such to get better. The last 
 chapter of each mission will feature a Boss that come from the Mario 64. Overall, Mission mode 
 is an enjoyable experience. 
  
  Vs and Battle mode are also available for Single player. Vs. is mostly Grand Prix but shorter, 
 while Battle features some experience against the computer. It can be either FFA or Team battle. 
 And has a couple of old and new maps for you to play on. Time Attack is also available for those 
 are always trying to get the best time. 
  
  Besides the SP, MP is also available. If you have friends with DSs, you can play wirelessly with 
 only one cartridge. The real fun is in the online. You can race with three others around the world. 
 The sad part is that not all the tracks are available from the SP, and battle mode also didn't 
 make it to Wi-Fi. It will take you a few minutes to get into a game, but once you get one. It can 
 be both challenging and a blast. 
  
  The Graphics in Mario Kart DS are pretty good for the DS. Each of the characters look colorful 
 and have a pretty good poly count. The environments, while not as good, still serve as good and 
 fun looking tracks. The framerate is pretty smooth and I still haven't seen it falter. 
  
  The Sound has mix of old and new. Many songs from the old games have been put on their respective 
 tracks and they are pretty good. The effects still sound like the ones from the 64/Cube versions, 
 but they sure don't stop the fun. 
  
  Mario Kart DS is definately one of the handheld's finest so far. WIth the large number of things 
 to do offline. A lot of MP to do wirelessly and on Wi-fi. The series still maintains its charm 
 and glorious fun, and the technical aspects are impressive for the DS. If you are a DS owner and 
 don't own this game. First ask yourself..."Why don't I have this yet?" and go buy it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergioalb64
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  QUICK REVIEW: Mario Kart DS is the best in the series; period. A greatly expanded single-player 
 mode, multiplayer modes, and of course, the big plus; the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, allowing players 
 around the world to race for free at home or at a hot-spot. I tell you, no other game is as addictive 
 and malleable as this one; you will never race a race that resembles one you have raced before; 
 if that makes sense to you, good. My point is, Mario Kart DS has a great replay-value; I would 
 say it's infinite, but maybe I'm wrong, but maybe I'm right. The best DS game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParkCarsHere
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this is one of the best, if not THE best, Nintendo DS game to date.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to all other Mario Kart games. The one major difference is the 
 aspect of drifting, and gaining boosts by doing so long enough. This adds a great level of difficulty 
 to totally master the game, while the game is very easy to pick up and play right out of the box 
 without reading the manual or going through a tutorial (which there isn't one anyways =P) . 
  
  MK: DS is filled with many unlockables, including carts, racers, and some of the Grand Prix 
 modes must be unlocked as well, by winning the previous ones. I have unlocked all but one Grand 
 Prix, but have only unlocked 1 racer, and that's after playing for about 15 hours. However, I haven't 
 been trying to unlock items - I've been taking my time and enjoying ALL the options MK: DS has, 
 which there are many of.
  
  There are battle modes, VS modes, time trial, grand prix, and last but not least, WiFi multiplayer. 
 While I have not played on WiFi yet, I heard it adds to the gameplay even more. However, I feel 
 this game is perfect even without the online play, which I will try as soon as I get the WiFi USB 
 cable.
  
  This game is very easy to pick up and play for either a few minutes or many hours. With the wide 
 varieties of game modes, you wont get bored with this game for a long time. The value of this game 
 is amazing, and it is a DEFINATE must own for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty_123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Over the past years mario kart was not a big thing, but this one turned the tables! you get 8 basic 
 players in the gameyou can unlock more as you play grand prix". the wepons are off he chart 
 i rellay love the the blue shell in the game. but i'f you throw a wepon it will look like the N64 
 verson. you can unlock more cars as you play. so the thing about the game is unlocking things. 
 the multplayer is still great. but i'f you are player 1 you can only pick the level and speed type. 
 I'f you love mario kart you need to GET THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stali
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  What can people say about it? Its what every Nintendo fan would love. Combining the fun of Ds Racing 
 and Nintendo to create a game. With new Wi-fi the fun of Mario Kart is endless. And now you can 
 create your own emblem. Also you can play against the world how much more fun could a game get? 
 There not much else to say except if your looking for a great game to play you just found it. Way 
 to go Nintendo. :)
  
  Because the review is 100 words long and I can't think of anything else I'll just be posting the 
 game name. (don't ask)
  
  Mario Kart DsMario Kart DsMario Kart DsMario Kart DsMario Kart DsMario Kart Ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, Mario Kart DS is the main reason I bought a DS. I have been hooked on the Mario 
 Kart Series since I played it on the N64. It is nice to have the tracks from the Mario Kart games. 
 The controls and use of the dual screen are incredible as well. I have had a blast with this game 
 playing against my girlfriend as well as other people online through Nintendo's WiFi service. If 
 you like racing...... and even if you don't like racing this game is just plain fun. I admit I beat 
 the 3 classes and unlocked everything, but this is just one of those games you don't get tired 
 of playing. If you have a DS get this game now, if you don't own a DS, go and get the Mario Kart 
 Package deal. The hot rod red DS rocks, don't be fooled by how it looks on the box art, the system 
 looks great. See you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazasul
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  There have been many a mario kart ever since the first one back on the SNES and I think its fair 
 to say that Mario Kart DS is easily the best.
  
  It brings together what is good from every other mario kart and puts it into one teeny cartridge.
 
  
  Single player is great, Your standard grand priz mode will now last twice as long as before as 
 there are 32 tracks in all! And even after you have completed every cup, Going back to become star 
 ranked is enjoyable too.
  
  Racing AI controlled krts is one thing, But Wi fi connection is sure to keep you entertained for 
 many months to come. For those of you poor souls that dont have a wireless internet connection 
 or an internet connection at all, Well regular multi-player is still available for you as long 
 as you have a friend to play with.
  
  
  + 32 tracks both new and classic
  + Wifi connection, Good fun.
  + Will keep you entertained 
 for a long long time
  
  
  - Methods of unlocking new cars and characters is too standard
  - Many decent tracks absent from 
 Wifi play
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uber1337ness
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  this game owns u must buy it mariokart was always a 1337 series what will make u buy this one ONLINE 
 PLAY dumbass how would u feel pwning a person in china FROM YOUR COUCH thats right from your couch 
 
  nuff said, nuff said as u can see i gave this game a perfect score y 
  cuz it is . it goes to show it to u great games are better than great graphics 
  thats right 
 xbox360 i highly recommend this to anyone who has a ds 
  and if not BUY ONE i have not one bad thing to say bout this game but i would consider this game 
 a killer app y u ask cus-z this review is entirely my opinion u like mario or fun racing games 
 get it if u think mario has been milked (personally i do) more than ol' besse dont get it or do 
 i dont care i got it already 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZabuzaR
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I preorderd this game a while back and decided to finally wright a reveiw of this game. All I have 
 to say is Wow! This is one of those games you can play for hours. Now with it being online its 
 the best! The gameplay is the best! Many things to unlock, great multiplayer, couple of new modes 
 added as well. Graphics the game is simply beutifull for a DS game. You will get a lot of hours
 
  in this game to unlock things and playing online. If you are a Mario fan and have a DS then pick 
 this one ASAP! You will not be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benihana7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  [I'm not including the Wifi content in my review, for I haven't tried it yet, so sorry for the 
 inconvience, although I probably will mention it from time to time in my review. Thanks for understanding. 
 -Benihana7]
  
  -- PREFACE --
  Mario Kart DS is the latest installment in the long running Mario Kart franchise that began back 
 in 1992 with the release of Mario Kart on the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) . What really 
 sets Mario Kart DS out from it's previous entries is the addition of online play with the help 
 of Nintendo's Wifi service. But even without the online content, Mario Kart is still one of the 
 DS's best games yet and is a great multiplayer and single player venture. 
  
  -- GAMEPLAY --
  Mario Kart DS plays more like it's N64 counterpart rather than the Gameboy Advance 
 or even the Gamecube version, and while this is good in many ways, it also brings up a few bad 
 points that are worth mentioning. MKDS features 5 modes this time around, and surprisingly, none 
 of them feel needlessly tacked on. Four of this modes will be familar to Karting veterans (Grand 
 Prix, Time Trials, Versus, and Battle) , but the fifth mode is entirely new to the series. Mission 
 mode, as it is called, features six levels with 9 smaller missions included in each one. You progress 
 through 8 of these sub missions, which run the gambit from collecting coins in a certain amount 
 of time or running through a certain amount of gates in order. Once these tasks are completed, 
 you move on to the boss stage, an even newer feature to Mario Kart. This stage you must beat a 
 boss, be it a Big Bully or even a pair of stone hands, each in a different way. In advancing past 
 that, you then progress to the next level and repeat the process, but with different sub-missions 
 each time. The mission mode overall is a great feature to hone your skills for the online mode 
 or just to waste some time between each Grand Prix. 
  Grand Prix's themselves are pretty much the same from all the past Kart games, and by same, I mean 
 exactly the same as they've always been and probably always will be... but that not totally a bad 
 thing. You still have the three different brackets to pick from as usual: 50cc, 100cc, and the 
 daunting 150cc. 50cc is of course, the easiest of these three "difficulties", with 150cc being 
 the hardest. Then you play through a certain bracket of race tracks on a circuit of cups. There 
 are 8 cups in total, 4 being in each Grand Prix and 4 tracks to each cup. Thus making a grand total 
 of 32 tracks in Mario Kart DS. But the catch is that only 16 of these tracks are actually new to 
 the series, the other half, aptly located in the "Retro" Grand Prix, are all throw-back courses 
 from every previous Mario Kart game in it's long running franchise. This is a really awesome feature, 
 for if you missed racing in the infamous Banshee Boardwalk from Mario Kart 64 or even the ultimate 
 classic track, Mario Circuit 1 from the original Mario Kart on the DS, you can finally play them 
 again in some great revamped racing action! 
  Including the 32 courses in Mario Kart DS, there is also a bevy of characters to choose from, all 
 of which should be recognizable for all Nintendo fans, for of course this is Mario Kart. At the 
 outset, there are eight characters in total, but of course there are always unlockables, but I'll 
 leave that to you on how to unlock them! Also a new feature in Mario Kart DS is the ability to 
 ride in different karts. You begin with a Standard kart for every character, which looks like all 
 of the previous karts in the past games. Then there is a second kart exclusive to each driver. 
 But as an added bonus there are even more unlockable karts, but again I'll leave it to you on how 
 to aquire them and how many there actually are available to unlock! The gameplay overall in Mario 
 Kart DS is topnotch, each character drives differently depending on their chosen kart and their 
 "dimensions" (for example Toad is very quick, while Bowser is quite slow at accelerating) , but 
 each of their respectable attributes (which consist of Speed, Acceleration, Weight, Handling, Drift, 
 and Items) can be altered with bonus karts. The controls... well control very tightly, with each 
 button acting specifically with it's chosen task. 
  The action never slows down either with all of the new weapons and items that were added to the 
 frenzy. Some old favorites have been kept (Spiked Blue Shell anyone?) while some newer additions 
 include a Bullet Bill and even Boo! Each new item works quite well with the gameplay, and the constant 
 threat of first place being dethroned with the ever popular Blue Shell keeps the action fast and 
 intense. Overall the gameplay is a drastic step up from the previous Mario Kart games, making it's 
 playability smooth like butter. You do have the ability to use the stylus to race, but it's not 
 recommended nor is it very smart. The touch screen capabilities themselves fall quite flat in this 
 case and aren't worth mentioning. 
  
  -- GRAPHICS --
  The graphics in Mario Kart DS rival that of the Nintendo 64's best, and while that doesn't seem 
 like quite a mean feat in this era of PS3s and Xbox360s, this is a handheld system were talking 
 about folks... and if it can pull of 64 bit graphics while playing as smooth as it does while on 
 the go, well that's pretty impressive in my eyes. As stated above before, KartDS most closely resembles 
 it's N64 cousin, with the graphics being strikingly similar to that particular version. But this 
 is a great look for the game, because with all action and craziness going on during a race, nothing 
 looks truely ugly. Of course you have some blurry and smudged backdrops and landscapes, but all 
 of the kart and character models are top-tier material here. Each of one them has their own little 
 animation when taking out a foe or winning the race, and even when taking damage from incoming 
 projectiles. 
  The items themselves each have their own distinct look, and each travels well with it's intended 
 course, for there is little to no collision problems in the game, which is great news. All of the 
 tracks are very well done as well, each with a devious planned course and some great effects and 
 visuals included, whether it's the giant snowman on the Frappe Snowland course or the hordes of 
 bats and ghosts on Banshee Boardwalk, everything holds an execellent fps and looks amazing. With 
 it's smooth caracter models and great track designs, the graphics in Mario Kart DS are really some 
 of the Nintendo DS's best yet.
  
  -- SOUND -- 
  As far as the sound in KartDS goes, it's fantastic. Each respective course in the game features 
 it's own soundtrack, be it a somber and spooky tone ala Banshee Boardwalk or even the surprisingly 
 upbeat tempo of the classic Rainbow Road... all of the tracks sound great and each on fits it's 
 intended course quite well. The individual sound department in KartDS is amazing as well. All of 
 the characters have the standard one liners to them. They will also feature a victory cheer, sorrowful 
 sighs, menacing laughs, devious and lighthearted chuckles, I mean it's all here in Mario Kart. 
 And while it's not a prominent feature, it's a worthwhile addition to the alread blazing sounds 
 of the game. Each item itself has a particular sound to it. The whizzing buzz of the infamous Blue 
 Shell is brought to attention here, for on hearing that deadly hum, you know you are in trouble 
 if you hold the coveted first place spot. Even when the kart shifts from a concrete track to offroad 
 dirt, the sound changes with each texture, making it a very believable and immersive race. And 
 as is with every Mario Kart game, there is no prominent voice acting, just the one liners and noises 
 stated above, but this is easily forgotten as you speed down the track, caught deep in Mario Kart's 
 addictive gameplay. 
  
  -- VALUE --
  There is a lot to into in Mario Kart DS, and you might find yourself spending hours and hours trying 
 just one last time to beat your time on the Trials or striving to beat Level 6 in the mission mode. 
 You can find many things to do in this game to lengthen it's replayability by a fair margin. All 
 of the unlockable characters and karts will take a considerable amount of time to complete, and 
 with the daunting difficulty of the 150cc Grand Prix, you may find even more playability. 
  Also the tracks and cups are reversable, you can even play any track you wish starting at the opposite 
 end. This mode will offer unlockable content, but the mirrored tracks themselves have to be unlocked, 
 so there is quite a bit of time to spend in this game finding just about everything. The multiplayer 
 also tacks on a load of gametime, and if you are one of the lucky ones to play online, then you've 
 just endlessly streched the replayability. 
  
  -- END THOUGHTS --
  Mario Kart DS is quite simply the best in the long running series, and on top of that, it's also 
 hands down one of the DS's best, online or not. This is an easy recommendation for racing fans, 
 for Mario fans, and for just plain gaming fans... you'd have to be brainless to let such a game 
 like this pass you up. 
  I would personally call this the DS's killer app, although it'd be a year overdue. Well that's 
 my opinion; but Mario Kart DS's amazing gameplay, graphics and sound are not. Seriously, this is 
 top-barrel stuff, please, DS owners, don't be ignorant and miss out one of 2005's best games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyBobby85
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I am a HUGE fan of Mariokart, and can recall many pleasant memories of racing with my brothers 
 and duking it out in Battle mode for hours on end. Super Mario Kart for the SNES and likewise MarioKart 
 64 lay claim to many hours of my adolescent life. It's such a shame that this title can't do the 
 same magic.
  
  Admittedly, I had quite a bit of fun when I first got this game. It was fun to finally feel what 
 it was like to play online with the DS. I spent the first week of this game designing emblems, 
 conquering mission mode, winning gold cups, and unlocking characters, and I had a lot of fun doing 
 so. However, shortly thereafter, I began to realize that this game grows stagnant very fast. The 
 possibilities are limited to how attached you are to playing kart racing games on the go. This 
 normally wouldn't be a problem, but the pacing and special items can disrupt an otherwise fun gaming 
 session.
  
  What this game does bring new to the table (as far as portable Mario Karts go) , is the ability 
 to choose what kart you want to race in. You have the option of choosing different karts, but your 
 initial choice is limited to a mere handful of rides, since you'll need to unlock the rest in the 
 single player campaign. It's nice to have this selection, but some kart designs are too bland and 
 others are downright ridiculous. Of course, you have the option to utilize the touch screen to 
 create your racer's emblem design. It's kinda cool to see your vehicle spruced up a bit with your 
 own personal touch to match your liking, no matter how absurd, offensive or artistic the piece 
 may be. Sadly, when it comes to the karts themselves, you have no say in the customization of the 
 vehicle statistics, leaving you having to choose whether or not you want performance or style. 
 Therefore, you may have a sexy ride you want to hit the road with, but it might not necessarily 
 reflect your playing abilities. Thus, I would've preferred to see at least some way of adjustable 
 vehicle stats to fit the player's skill, or even a create-a-kart feature. Oh well. I guess this 
 is something people can live without. 
  
  There are twelve total characters (eight from the start and four you can unlock) , but the choice 
 of unlockable folk are certainly questionable and do not quite fit what you would expect from the 
 Mario crowd. Waluigi joins the crew, as does the Princess Peach doppleganger "Daisy", but Nintendo 
 also decided to throw some stranger additions into the foray, those being R. O. B. the robot (?) 
 and Dry bones. Why in the World Nintendo decided to use those last two over a plethora of more 
 interesting Mario characters, is beyond me. Seeing how R. O. B. Isn't even in the Mario universe, 
 I think it's safe to say that Nintendo's creative well ran dry when it came to making a flexible 
 roster for this game. It would've been nice to see some Koopa Troopas or other famous Marioites 
 playable in the game, but apparently the developers didn't think so. Sad really, because the enormous 
 cast size is one of the few things I really liked about Mario Kart Double Dash.
  
  Speaking of which, I must say that this game carries many trends that (I believe) limited the fun 
 factor of Double Dash as a whole. To me, Mario Kart 64 was the last great MarioKart game, simply 
 because victory depended upon skill, not the overuse of items and cheap tricks to spring to first 
 place. MarioKart DS bombards the player with destructive items more than necessary, if only to 
 help an underdog player keep up with the pack. Though this may be a Godsend to those who haven't 
 played MarioKart before, veterans like myself may find such a item system unstable and randomized, 
 leaving seasoned players out in the dust with no hope to hold on to other than the infamous "snaking" 
 technique (which works way better with an analog stick I might add.) Due to the frequency in which 
 you have to perform this move, over time you'll find it can get pretty painful to work your thumbs 
 so hard, just to maintain your lead. Even if you mastered the technique, that doesn't save you 
 from the game's God-awful Karma system. Back in the day, a Blue Shell would only grace your screen 
 once in a blue moon. In MK: DS, you'll probly see it at least once every track, and even moreso 
 when you're the one in the lead. What's worse, is that most opponents (even the CPU) seem to magically 
 unleash these cheap gimmicks at the most inopportune of moments, usually when your mid-air over 
 a cliff or upon just acquiring a useful item of your own. These cursed calamities aren't limited 
 to Blue shells, but things like Squids and Lightning bolts as well. I wouldn't call myself a "n00b" 
 at MarioKart, but I can't help but get frustrated at the frequent dispersion of such annoying halters 
 to victory. This is a Racing Game Nintendo. Not the lottery.
  
  As for the visuals, I must say they are definitely the best thing this game has to offer. Environments 
 are crisp and beautiful, and everything runs fluidly at 60 frames per second. Characters and their 
 Karts are 100% polygonal, lending even more virtual personality to the game, though players may 
 be able to identify some 2D sprites used in the backgrounds here and there. The tracks themselves 
 are cleverly designed and even classic stages fit nice with the colorful handheld makeover. This 
 is hands down, one of the best looking 3D Nintendo DS titles to date. 
  
  Sound quality ain't bad either, but it's not up to par with the great catchy tunes of the previous 
 Mariokart games. Each Character has their own distinct cries when dealing or receiving damage, 
 but you will be hearing them more than you'd like, no thanks to the heavily utilized item system. 
 Classic stages have their music largely intact, but hardcore fans will recognize the slight alterations 
 to the score. Engine sounds are nice, and you'll notice many small touches like when you ride over 
 a wooden bridge or through mud, but such is expected anymore when it comes to convincing audio 
 performance. Personally, I think it would've been helped a little to hear echoes and other ambient 
 effects depending on where your Kart was (like under a bridge for instance) but I guess most of 
 what is giving to you is passable. Overall, the audio ain't bad, but it ain't perfect either.
 
  
  Online Play is the real drawback to this game. Though MarioKart DS is one of the flagship titles 
 promoting Nintendo's new Wi-Fi service, what you'll find here isn't anything special, or even remotely 
 entertaining. For one, Maintaining a friends list is a chore, due to long-winded numerical codes 
 needed to establish a connection with someone you know, and it isn't likely you'll ever come across 
 any "friends" online at any given time, unless you are near a computer where you can contact these 
 users, or if you have a full friends list and don't mind taking a gamble on battery life waiting 
 around to see if they are on. Therefore, your only other logical options are to choose Regional, 
 Rival, or Worldwide opponents, and even then it takes a good couple of minutes to connect between 
 users. To make things worse, a lot of times after selecting "Rivals" (a category of opponents equal 
 in skill level) , you may find yourself pitted against someone with a record of several hundred 
 wins and losses barely into the double digits. Needless to say, I don't believe my skill level 
 is anywhere near that, but Somehow, Nintendo wi-fi does, and the end result is me getting "Pwnt" 
 by some guy with nothing better to do than play MarioKart all day.
  
  If that wasn't bad enough, It's no fun to be kicking someone's ass and then to have them wimp out 
 on you and quit because they can't take a beating or damage their precious record. The only times 
 I have been able to complete an entire four-round race is when I'm getting stomped by some huge 
 blistering master after the other two opponents have already left. To make matters worse, point 
 values are altered depending on who quits and when, meaning your points can be calculated unfairly 
 because the average Player to player ratio is changed. This can be SO AGGRAVATING! Including a 
 battle Mode would've been a nice way to vent this frustration, but Nintendo decided it would somehow 
 be better to limit online to ONLY racing, and to a mere 16 tracks at that. Combine this with no 
 way of communicating with your rivals (touch screen or verbally) , and you've basically got yourself 
 playing against extremely skilled and/or terrible bots. You'd be better of not investing into this 
 wi-fi MarioKart Drama at all if you ask me. Save your batteries for something more worthwhile.
 
  
  Sadly, once the initial "new game" effect wears off, you'll feel no real incentive to want to play 
 this game much after you've completed it. In the end, depending on your ability to stomach all 
 the havok you'll encounter from frequent snakers and cheap item wins, you may find this game more 
 fun than I did. Since Online offers practically nothing, this game can only satisfy on a single-player 
 level, even though MarioKart games have always been a stickler for great multiplayer action. It 
 was a bit of fun to go one-on-one with my little brother in Battle mode with the game share function, 
 but it still isn't up to par with Mario Kart 64. Long-time fans of the series may enjoy this game, 
 but I certainly don't agree with the score Gamespot has given it. Frankly, the first two Mario 
 Kart games were the only really good ones. But then again, that's just MY opinion.
  
  Hah, leave it to Gamespot to transpose scores of the best and worst MarioKart games out there. 
 Get this game if you really want to, but don't say I didn't warn you...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I still remember when Mario Kart came out for the SNES... Looking back on the retro tracks, I'm 
 almost ashamed how much I loved that game. The series has come very far, indeed. Wait, has it come 
 that far? No, not really... Course design has, sure... And the addition of online is pretty sweet... But 
 this is the same Mario Kart formula you've grown to love (or hate) .
  
  Honestly, there are few surprises here if you've ever played a version of MK. One addition that 
 surprised me is the mission mode. Basically, you're given a task, like drive through the gates 
 in order within a time limit. And then at the end of a 'level' you fight a boss. Very very cool 
 addition, I can only hope gets expanded on for the next inevitable console version.
  
  The rest is pretty much the same. There are plenty of tracks, plenty of multiplayer modes and plenty 
 of unlockables. This version does have some pretty unique new courses, but I love the retro races. 
 They handpicked some of my favorite and some of my despised tracks... but it's a good mix. Again, 
 I hope this is a tradition that gets expanded on later in the series.
  
  Online play is surprisingly not that great, in my opinion... But I think I may be spoiled by Xbox 
 Live. Getting a match going takes kinda long and you only play with 3 other players... without voice 
 chat. In it's defense, though, it is surprisingly fun. It's pretty much a crap shoot who wins, 
 since positions are being traded througout the entire race. It's a fun time to be had, for sure, 
 but it's not as great as it COULD be.
  
  Graphics are top notch for the DS. It's a mix of MK64 and the GBA MK. The tracks that were originally 
 in Double Dash look surprisingly intact, and with the sheer amount of stuff in the game, it's a 
 wonder it all fits into the little cart. 
  
  Sound is on par with everything else on the DS/every other MK game. Nothing special, but it's not 
 annoying at least.
  
  Overall, I wholeheartedly give this game my seal of approval and if you don't own a DS, this may 
 just be reason enough to pick one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waytogo24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is a extremely fun game with very good addictiveness and many characters. There are new 
 missions that aren't very hard but are still fun. There are unlockable character. There is even 
 a robot never seen before, and there is a mirror cup where the courses are flipped the other way. 
 If you have a DS you need to buy this highly addictive and fun game! I don't no why we need 100 
 words though! so I'll just say fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timoti123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I persoaly wonder how people zip around the track on wifi they win with out you getting 2 laps 
 done. some fetures could have been explained more than they were like the power slide and how to 
 fill extra ballons in baloon battle. local connection and wifi connection are alot of fun and the 
 ai actully know how to play for once and don't blow the race on running into a rock or somthing 
 dumb. 8 people able to play on single pack is ahuge plus and can make trips less boring and wifi 
 with 4 kinda takes a while but once you find a match its fun the missiions are easy and worth playing. 
 overall very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved the mario kart games but as of late i have been put off by the series. I still 
 enjoyed playing them but not as much as back in the 16 bit era. and now with this version i remember 
 what made me love mario kart so much again. i cant get enough.
  i love how they have taken all the best elements from all the games and made one almost perfect 
 game.
  if the wifi play was just a bit better this game would be perfect. but that is in no way a reason 
 why you should not pick up this game. it is currenlty my office's favorite way to kill the last 
 hour of work. we break out our ds and have a mario kart off.
  if you have liked any mario kart game. you will love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradistheman711
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Ds is a very good game!!! If you liked the Game cube version you'll kie this one!!! 
 It never gets boring (if you use the wi-fi connection) !!!
  It can be hard at some points and easy at the rest!!! It takes a long time be get most of the game!!! 
 Note: YOU CAN NOT BEAT THE GAME IF YOU USE THE WI-FI CONNECTION!!! Because you can not bet every 
 body you see you have to lose sometime!!! I for one thing will NEVER GET BORED of this game it 
 is just to much fun!!!
  
  I want you to tell me if you agree or disagree with me in any way!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyWilliams24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  First mario emerged into our world looking as if he had crawled out of the lego bin, but now in 
 2005 it has emerged as an award winning titleMario Kart DS". Mario kart fetures Mario (ovcourse) 
 Luigi , Toad , Yoshi , Wario , Donkey Kong and much much more. Plus a few unlockable charecters, 
 but we wont givaway the suprise, you will have to find out your self.
  
  Mario consists of 2 stages single player and multi-player, i will explain and talk about single 
 -player first and talk about multi-player later (plus WFC) .
  
  Single player has 5 stages Grand Prix , Time Trials , VS , Battle and last but not least missions. 
 In Grand Prix stage you have to win tournaments with selected tracks an the winner gets a nice 
 big trophie which says your grade. Win surtain tournaments to win characters and more kart for 
 your characters. The Grand Prix is set into 3 difficulty settings, 50cc , 10cc and 150cc. But special 
 difficulty level can be unlocked!!
  
  Time Trials is a special mode were you race around curtain tracks and get the best score you can 
 muster yourself to achive. And then if you think your times are good enough you can trade them 
 with your friends wirelessly and you can get a time of your friends and try an beat them, but good 
 luck. When sending or recieving times from your friends you get a ghost so you can keep track of 
 what tricks and shortcuts they do and dont do. But dont be discouraged your friends can somtimes 
 be better than you, but luckily i always beat mine. Bur remember there is always sombody better 
 than you on this planet we call home!!
  
  VS is where you go to have a random race aginst CPU's and practice your skills and tempt the tracks 
 while getting the feel of your karts. And search your favourite tracks searching for shortcuts 
 that could help you win your friends or Grand Prix. But dont worry you can also set the settings 
 before you go into races so you can choose the difficulty of the CPU's or set the courses to random 
 so you never know what you will be facing. Or just simply set the rules to the match, such rules 
 as 100 races or 50 wins , but you pick the number of races or wins there are. There is also a team 
 setting which alows you to have a team match with 4 karts to a team, and configure your team with 
 all your favourite characters!!
  
  Battle is where you set racing aside and get down to some matches that determain skill and luck. 
 The races include Balloon Battle where the rules are. There are 8 karts and each have a curtain 
 amount of balloons attached 
  and everytime you get hit a balloon pops, and once all your balloons have popped you are eliminated. 
 And the last kart remaining is declared the winner!
  
  Another Battle game is Shine Runners, is where you have to collect shiny stars that drop from the 
 sky every so often and the more stars you have the better because after every minute the person 
 with the least stars gets eliminated, and the last person lefs (the kart with the most stars) is 
 the winner. You can also steal other karts stars by hitting them with items, but then there star 
 goes hurdeling across the screen. So you better be fast before some other kart gets it!!
  
  The missions are a curtain way of completing Mario Kart DS. You have 6 levels with 8 missions in 
 each once you have attempted every mission and get a grade you will be able to fight the levels 
 boss. Then the grades will be averaged and then you will get a final grade for that level. Once 
 you have completed a level an new level will be unlocked. E. G lvl1 - lvl2 . Its that simple, but 
 be worned some levels are very tricky and involve some luck, but mostly skill. And collecting a 
 star for every level will earn you a very special prize, but i wont tell you that !!!
  
  Multi-player is quite a big thing in Mario Kart DS. In multiplayer you can face your friends wirelessly 
 in a race, or face them in battle mode for extra fun and excitment. But a added feature is the 
 multi-player Time Trials you can exchange ghosts with your friends so they can challege your top 
 scores or recieve your friends ghosts and challege there best times!!
  
  And also Mario Kart is WFC equipped. So you's who dont know what that means, it means that if you 
 either have a wireless router in your home. Or have purchased a Wi-Fi connector you can play people 
 around the world and see just how good you are when the odds are stacked in your favour. And remember 
 like i say'd before there are always people out there better than you on this planet we call home. 
 And that applies here!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumpy500
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing, it's the reason that I bought a DS. It's good old Mario Kart action, 
 but in a small package. I thought the game would have some kind of touchscreen gimmick, but it 
 doesn't, only a map on the lower screen. I was kind of disappointed at first, but that map is actually 
 very helpful since it displays everything on the course for you (shells, players, banana peels, 
 etc.) , so if you pay enough attention to it, It helps greatly in a race. The graphics are nice, 
 certainly among the best of the DS's. I would've liked to hear more of the characters though, they're 
 responses get a little tiring after a while. Wi-fi is a welcome addition, although a flawed system. 
 It takes a while to connect o anyone, and the whole friend code system is overly complicated. I 
 think they should just have a battle. net style lobby where you can create a game and people can 
 join, rather than on-the-fly automatic creation. It would eliminate the need for friend codes too, 
 which are too much of a hassle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_128gc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, it has many more modes than the "standard" Mario Kart. The wi-fi option is 
 a nice add but I haven't tried yet, so I won't talk about it.
  
  Graphics: They are awesome, the best graphics offered by the DS, with a good frame rate that doesn't 
 drop (some times it drops during multiplayer matches but its not that noticeable) . The models are 
 well constructed and the variety is nice, the textures hurt a bit to the score.
  
  Sound: The good old sound we all recognize plus nice music made for this game. The sound effects 
 are just right
  
  Gameplay: The game shines on this one too, the strategy completely changes from past games just 
 because of the second screen, it is really helpful and gives you an idea of what is happening in 
 teh environment.
  
  Replay value: This is the strongest point of the game, it has a really good single player mode 
 and the multiplayer is GREAT, local wi fi and internet, it has endless replay value IMO, specially 
 for MK fans. 
  
  Thus game is a must for every DS owner, but if you dislike the series I suggest you rent it and 
 give it a try, I'm pretty sure you will change your opinion
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farmerboy_NFAN
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 50/50 WoW (not World of Warcraft but wow) this game's amazing you play it out in a rush (time 
 you can't put your DS away) and keep playing till you completed the game and after that you just 
 take you're DS to school put it in your locker and search some friends for 8 player fun, because 
 the game is designed for an easy learning and those (mostly half of group not owning the game) 
 will be racing for victory 2nd race already.
  
  Graphics: 18/20 the graphics are beautiful.
  (except for standing still but I think you don't 
 see the neccisarity of that)
  
  Sound: 9/10 the soundtrack is quite repeadiatily every +- half an hour but hey, who cares? its 
 good.
  
  Replay: 10/10: this game won't get boring if you play with different people all the time, in my 
 stats is : Wins: 112 Losses: 45 so thats a lot of playing.
  
  Value: 10/10 this game has being worth buying a DS system.
  
  Final results: 97/100 What can 
 I say anymore? run to the shops and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiccanPoet
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has done it again, and with one of their most loved series ever. Mario Kart defines the 
 party game, the orignal was played in college dorms for years and now the party has gone next generation 
 and online. Mario Kart DS is the best game in the series, the mechanics are absolutly amazing, 
 the level design affords great strategy and the karts are extremly varied. Not to mention this 
 game is packed with unlockables, I have managed to finally get everything, and now its time for 
 the replay value. Every track has a staff ghost to try and best, and then you can try to achieve 
 a triple star on all of the grandpre's, doing so will give you the distinction of a three star 
 bagde when playing over WiFi, the absolute best part. This game will never die, and the replay 
 value is astronmical. Best all around game on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall303
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  If you don't know about the Mario Kart series, you're definitely stucki in a time warp. Blessing 
 gamers since the SNES console with a fun substitute to real driving titles, Mario Kart never has 
 ceased to please. And this time around is definitely no different. Combining levels and game features 
 of almost every Mario kart title ever made, plus with new innovations to set it apart, Mario Kart 
 deals a knockout performance. 
  
  Gameplay is closest that a racing game could come to perfect fun! Putting the DS's WiFi Connection, 
 gamers can go head to head with a friend and enjoy this excellent title! With 9 main characters 
 and 4 secret (one only available in Multiplayer Mode) , unlocking them is nothing short of fun and 
 so worth it! With 30 plus karts to choose from and ones distinct to each character, Mario Kart 
 will entertain for hours! With new mission modes, you'll have more fun beyond the magical 'shroom 
 cup! 
  
  Graphics are the best that Mario Kart has ever seen, combining all previous graphics and features 
 from previous titles, Mario will light up your DS screen and be sure to please!
  
  Sound holds that Nintendo Mario-esque feel and if you have no problem with that, then sound is 
 just fine.
  
  To get to the point, Mario Kart DS is just plain fun and worthy of any gamers collection. So pick 
 it up today! Till next time.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Cyn-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what to talk about first. The graphics are good. The sound is good. The way they balanced 
 out the weapons is great, that really helped the game a lot. The physics are amazing. I love being 
 able to make an emblem. I love every single level, they all have a certain 'thing' in them that 
 can take you from last to in the top three spots in a race. The online mode adds even more to this 
 amazing game. Though they could've improved the lobbys just a tad bit, i'ts all good. I honestly 
 can't see how Nintendo will be able to improve on the series any more than they have now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS rocks period. The game has a ton of new and old stuff in it, such as new karts, and 
 new levels. Plus theres the wifi, which unfortunatly i dont have. Accually i did have it but it 
 didnt work so i dont have it now. But this game will keep you occupied for hours like it did to 
 me. The 50cc isnt the best, and its really easy, the 100cc still isnt the best, but fun. Now when 
 you play the 150cc, just like all the other games its still the best cc to play on. Even though 
 its really hard, its still really fun to play. So my advice, if you dont have this game, buy it, 
 its a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kunglaofan2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  i love this game i got afew days ago i love it becuase its just like the old versions i espicaly 
 like the fact that it had 16 cources from the old game. what makes this game GREAT is the online 
 play. this and the tetris game aree the most addictive. my friend code is 399496 064022. if you 
 really like this game i would also buy need for speed underground 2 for the DS. in order to like 
 this game you have to have played alot of mario kart. i wonder if its been a hundred words yet 
 well just to be sure  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmariofan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Like always it will have the usual Grand Prix where you race other CPU's for the gold. This time 
 they added a new GP with older courses called Retro Grand Prix. During this GP you get to choose 
 between 16 courses, several are from SNES, N64, GBA and GC. Some of them include Mario Circuit 
 1 (SNES) , Moo Moo Farm (N64) , Sky Garden (GBA) and Mushroom Bridge (GC) . Along with those come newer 
 courses which im not going to get in to right now.
  
  The good thing about single player mode is now you get the option between more than just GP and 
 Time Trials. They added in VS mode where you vs CPU's on any course you choose. Battle mode a fun 
 game where you can beat up your opponents in Ballon Battle or shine in a game called Shine Runners. 
 The newest thing they added is...... Mission Mode where you can shoot through tires, blow up those 
 damn Pokeys and defeat the bosses that wait for you when your done a mission level. Great am I 
 right!?
  
  Theres another mode called multiplayer mode where you and your friends can verse eachother in some 
 of the courses. The good thing is all you need is one gamecard. If one person doesnt have this 
 game and you do tell them to press download play and instantly you both will be racing. Unfortunately 
 the person without the game will have to play as a shyguy since he/she does not have the game. 
 Thats a fun thing that they put in and you can even play with 8 players on that mode. If you dont 
 have 8 friends just stick to how many friends you got that have a DS and than 3,2,1 your off.
 
  
  One of my favorite things to do on Mario Kart DS is verse other people around the world. You can 
 play between 4 different types of options, 1 for instance is Friends mode. Here you can type the 
 Friend Code of who you would like to verse. If you have both added eachother than press Friends 
 and you can start racing eachother. They could be in Japan and you could be in U. S. and your connection 
 is still great. Other types are World Wide when you press that, the game will instantly start looking 
 for people to verse but most of the time it can not locate all 4 people. If you know people that 
 have Mario Kart DS and is in your region than theres a button you can press for that also. Regional 
 is where the game will start to search for people in your region and believe it or not but i get 
 more people to verse me here than in World Wide. O_o The last thing is called Rivals which will 
 search for people that have almost the same record as you but a lot of the time it doesnt. Theres 
 is a differance in all 4 of these so if you have a computer with a router than your capible of 
 versing people.
  
  I pretty much just got all the main details down, hope you understood what i typed! :) thank you 
 for reading this
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusfreak01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great, no, Amazing game for the Nintendo DS. It has so much that, I personally 
 can say, I wanted and expected from my DS when I got it. Yes, some people knock on DS graphicsbut 
 they can get over it. Stop drooling over PSP graphics and look at this game! These Graphics in 
 this game are very similar to those of Super Mario 64 DS, which I thought were great too. On top 
 of its great graphics the game runs very smoothly, Ive had and played the game for a month now 
 and not yet had any glitching or frame-rate problems at all. The sound on the other handis just 
 as good! The player talk and taunt during races is great and the engine sounds are amazing as they 
 vary between karts. Those things combined make for a great game experience. Also this game has 
 a wide variety of courses, characters, unlockables, and things to do. Overall the courses look 
 beautiful, and there are plenty to choose from. There are a ton of fresh new courses that spice 
 up the game, and separate it from old Mario Kart courses. And there are even some cool new items 
 too! But wait! Dont panic if youre a traditionalist, this game also offers just as many old Mario 
 Kart courses! YAY! There are some from every Mario Kart game made, all toned up with the peak DS 
 graphics and capabilities. This gives the game a total of 32 action packed and beautiful courses. 
 This game also has many characters and karts to choose from too. Thats a good thing, now you wont 
 find your self looking at Bowsers big butt all of the time! Seriously though, this does allow 
 for a wide variety of selection and keeps you from using the same stuff all the time. Plus you 
 dont have to look at Bowsers butt every race. And if the whole racing thing gets old or just 
 doesnt quite do it for you, theyve added several other things you can do. Mission mode for example, 
 is kind of like Mario kart mini games. Its fun, it keeps you into the game, and also helps to 
 tone your skills. And of course theres the battle mode. You can play Collect the shine sprites 
 or balloon battle. Both of these also offer old and new battle courses to play on. And you can 
 play it online with friends or by yourself with computer players, either way is real fun. All of 
 this keeps the game from getting old and ads a lot of long-term interest and replay value.
  
  The controls are great as well. They are very comfortable and easy to get used to. Its no 
 hassle controlling your kart for maximum performance. Plus the touch screen map is great as well. 
 If you tap the screen it goes from its original format to a wide overlook of the course, tap it 
 again and it goes back to normal. Not only is it very useful for checking positions, seeing on-coming 
 items and karts, or even driving, its done very well and its cool to look at. Its something 
 that youll be glad they didnt just throw on there to occupy the bottom screen instead of taking 
 time to perfect it with the rest of the games features. Overall the game uses every unique aspect 
 that the system has to offer, even the microphone for blowing up extra balloons in balloon battle! 
 The online play is great too, there's really no limitations on which course, or driver, or kart 
 to choose from, and that really makes for a full and fun multiplayer experience. Overall Mario 
 Kart DS is great, one of the best they system has yet! If you own a Nintendo DS you should look 
 into buying this one. And if you dont have a Nintendo DS, this is a game you can buy one for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGsRock21314
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I got Super Mario Kart for SNES in 1997 when I was four. I had a blast, and when I found out about 
 Mario Kart 64, I figured I had to play it! It was good, too. 
  
  Now, skip ahead a few years (quite the few years to be exact) . In 2002, I got an Xbox, so long 
 Nintendo days! So I didnt get to play Mario Kart Double Dash! for Gamecube, and even now I have 
 a Gamecube, and I've never played it yet (god, I really need to try it out, lol) . But at least 
 two years later in 2004 I got a Gameboy Advance SP and tried out Mario Kart Super Circut (or whatever 
 it's called, I think that's what it's called) . I had a blast. Now it's 2006, I got a lot of money 
 for my birthday (I turned 13 on January. 21, 2006) , so I bought a Nintendo DS which came with Mario 
 Kart DS, and I also bought seperatly the Nintendo Wi-Fi USB Connector so I could play it online, 
 and other games I get in the future. So, I played it, I was amazed! It is so much fun! I seriously 
 think that this is the best game I've played in the seiries (remember, I havent played Mario Kart 
 Double Dash!) . The online is so great, the graphics are good, and the gameplay is awesome!
  Overall: If you have a DS, this game will be sure to give you a good time! You really can't go 
 wrong with the Mario Kart series, especially if it has online gameplay ^_^! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the newest Mario Kart game and brings new life to the somewhat stale series.
 
  
  The Mario Kart games are simple, select your character and race karts around tracks created out 
 of the SMB world. You get power-ups like shells and bannana peels to use against your opponents 
 or other items like mushroms and stars to give you a boost of speed or invincibility. There are 
 also three new weapons introducted in this game as well as all the old power-ups. You start off 
 the game with familar SMB characters, Mario, Luigi, Peach, Toad, DK, Luigi, Bowser, and Wario. 
 You can unlock other characters by completing the single player racing champions. There are two 
 different chapmionships, the Nitro Grand Prix and the Retro Grand Prix. The Nitro Grand Prix has 
 16 new tracks and the Retro has 16 classic tracks. All the new tracks are great and the classic 
 ones have been recreated very well, even the ones from Double Dash on GC. This game doesn't use 
 the touch screen but the other screen acts as a map and it works very well. It also shows what 
 power-ups your opponents have which is nice.
  
  The graphics are very good, I was surpirsed how well the tracks looked on this game. The characters 
 also look very good and move nice and smooth.
  
  The sound is good, it's most of the same sound effects from other Mario Kart games and there is 
 a nice soundtrack.
  
  Overall this is a great game. The new tracks and power-ups really help to make the game seem fresh, 
 and the wi-fi multiplayer is a very nice feature and will add to the replay of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds is the best game for the ds yet! Maybe even the best of the series.
  Why???? U might say. Well first of all the game is mario kart, it is FUN. There is a lot of people 
 including every u kno and a not so fimilair face ROB the robot.
  For every character ther is 3 cars but once u beat the game u can drive all 36 cars for soem funny 
 possiblites. Like bowser in the mushmellow ( A tiny little mushroom that toad drives.) The graphics 
 put the DS to its full potential. The best part is the wifi. IT RULES. I PLAYED AGAINST A CHINES 
 KID ONCE. VERY KOOOOOOOOOOOL. Overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnnoob
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  There is 32 levels total, 16 new and 16 games from older Mario Kart games-Super Mario Kart, Mario 
 Kart 64, Mario Kart: Super Circuit, and Mario Kart Double Dash. . But besides this you can play 
 in Battle, which has the original ballon battle and Shine Sprite one from Double Dash. There is 
 also a new Challenge Mode where you have to complete levels by doing a certain thing and then face 
 a boss and move on to the next place. You also have the WiFi connection where you play other people, 
 cool right? And there is also a few unlockable characters and there is a few hidden too. its very 
 fun and i think gamespot had a few tordaments its kinda like double dash but u can play online 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  Well here it is - Nintendo's zany racing series is on the DS. It's not like it's a surprise or 
 anything; it was inevitable. Of course it was going to be on the DS. And even though the only major 
 addition to the series is the Wi-Fi play, it's still got that golden formula that made Mario Kart 
 so addictive and charming in the first place. 
  
  So, there's no real innovation in this game, but Mario Kart works surprisingly well on the DS. 
 The dual screens make things a bit less cluttered. With just the one screen, a map of the track 
 and the race positions would all have to be crammed onto one screen, but now the less important 
 stuff sits comfortably on the bottom screen. The track map on the bottom screen is essentially 
 a top-down perspective of the actual race, but if a shell is coming right towards you it's easy 
 to avoid them because they show up on the bottom screen. Other new features are the stylus emblem-drawing, 
 which is a great addition that lets you scribble a logo onto the front of your kart, and the mission 
 mode [I'm not sure if this has been featured in previous games] which is a series of bite-sized 
 challenges that prove to be very addictive and add some serious longevity to the game. 
  
  The actual racing is the same as other games - the same mix of combat and driving with colourful 
 Mario Kart characters and charming courses. The three difficulty modes are present again, so if 
 you're a Mario Kart nutcase you can comfortably opt for the 100cc or 150cc, whereas if you're a 
 n00b you can get up to speed in 50cc. Later tournaments and championships are difficult and challenging, 
 and there's where the AI gets harsh and unforgiving, and can often cause frustration. I've been 
 in first place many times only to be hit square with a shell and drifting to third, before being 
 knocked off the track by another one. And just when I think I'm going to redeem myself with a well-placed 
 shell, a Boo comes along and nicks it before a Blooper comes and spurts black liquid all over the 
 top screen. When these moments don't occur, it's still a great single-player that can happily make 
 train journeys fly. 
  
  There's also time trials, battles, and missions - all of which make a welcome appearance, especially 
 the battle mode in my opinion. The battle mode is hilariously good, mostly the balloon battle, 
 where you have to survive the longest while stealing other people's balloons, and generally causing 
 mayhem. The missions are quite challenging and is an oddly relaxing departure from the racing, 
 and the time trials are self-explanatory. You can share your ghosts with the Wi-Fi as well. 
  
  Now I've covered the gameplay and explained its good and bad points, I'll move onto the graphics. 
 I didn't know that it would look this good. It's reminiscent of N64 visuals, and has the same striking 
 look as I've come to expect from Mario Kart, with a great use of stark colours. It's colourful 
 and bright, with a smooth frame rate and a lot of variety. One minute you're racing on a twisty 
 desert track, the next in a haunted mansion, the next on a beach, then moving onto a lava-filled 
 castle - all-around, Mario Kart DS has some sharp graphics. 
  
  The sound is good as well - with a wide range of music and some slightly barmy SFX. All characters 
 have their own little snippets in-game when they hit somebody or make them skid on a banana skin, 
 and it gives them a real sense of personality and will make you grin sometimes, especially if you 
 play online.
  
  I've been whittling on for way too long now, and I'm probably sapping your will to live, but I 
 am bored and felt like exercising my index fingers by typing this insanely long review for no apparent 
 reason, but I must say that Mario Kart is a great game with sharp visuals, good sound, and addictive 
 gameplay. My classification pretty much sums up the game : Instant Classic. You just can't go wrong 
 with this game at all, except for the harsh difficulty in places. Put simply, if you own a DS, 
 you better go buy this game. You'll regret it if you don't, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coylenintendo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Its your basic Mario Kart racing game, but its still great. The series got much, much better when 
 Double Dash came out. But this is for a handheld system, so its not like its a step backward like 
 Gamespot said. Its a step forward for the Portable Mario Kart. It has the Grand Prix where you 
 do four levels, there are 8 cups, and try to win. There is 32 levels total, 16 new and 16 games 
 from older Mario Kart games-Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, Mario Kart: Super Circuit, and Mario 
 Kart Double Dash. The levels are great. But besides this you can play in Battle, which has the 
 original ballon battle and Shine Sprite one from Double Dash. There is also a new Challenge Mode 
 where you have to complete levels by doing a certain thing and then face a boss and move on to 
 the next place. You also have the WiFi connection where you play other people, cool right? And 
 there is also a few unlockable characters and there is a few cars for every character. Unlike the 
 other Kart games these cars have quite a few different stats. You have the original item like the 
 shells, bannans, and stars, but you also have new ones like Blooper that puts ink on every ones 
 screen in front of you making it hard for them to see for a short time, the Bullet Bill which carries 
 you far ahead and hits the opponents in the way. This game is awesome and is worth owning especailly 
 if you can use WiFi or if you love Mario Kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TYLERPOWERS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  this game brings me back memories of playing the old mario kart games .... this game has many courses 
 and is such an addicting game. there are plenty of characters to choose from and also plenty of 
 karts also. the graphics of this game are amazing considering it came from a DS. to tell you the 
 truth.... i like this game more than i like most of my PSP games lol. the online gameplay is sooo 
 fun. you can race people from around the world or just friends from around your nieghborhood. you 
 can make awesome emblems in this game if you know how to make them. the controls of this game are 
 fantastic and so is the music. i think that if you want a GOOD GAME for your DS then this is the 
 game to get. no matter who you are what you are.... you should like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4ft3rD34th
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. You'll pick it up one evening and that'll be the end of your social life. 
 No party on Saturday night. No family gathering on the day after. Heck, even that date with your 
 girlfriend can wait. In the meantime, you'll be playing against Harry Jamestone from Israel and 
 thwacking other karts with blue shells and Bullet Bills.
  
  Now, I'm going to be honest; I loathe racing games. Absolutely loathe them. I can't understand 
 why anybody would play them. But as soon as I heard Mario Kart DS was out, I ran to my local game 
 shop and bought it with what was left of my money. This is not a move I now regret.
  
  The gameplay is what makes Mario Kart DS so special. It's not like any other game you've ever played 
 before. It's in its own class and not surprisingly it tops it. The game can be fast-paced or slow 
 depending on each player's ability, but what makes it out of the ordinary is the items. These turn 
 the game on its head. Think you're winning by miles and can't be caught? Heh, how naive of you, 
 because nobody's guaranteed any position in Mario Kart. If you're first, you can be dragged back 
 by blue shells hammering away at you, and if you're last, you get the items that Formula 1 racers 
 dream of. It's quite special, and you really have to play it to understand.
  
  The graphics and sound have never been a really big part of the Mario Kart series, so why start 
 now? They're pretty nice. Nothing special, but nice, and suitable for the game's genre.
  
  This game is excellent value for money. Eventually you'll get the feeling that you've been there 
 and done that, but you'll have done plenty before it starts to sink in. In total, there are an 
 incredible 54 different single-player "missions" (challenges which help you learn and add more 
 skills to your game, whilst improving you as a player) , alongside unlimited fun in Nintendo Wi-Fi, 
 in which you can connect and play anybody in the world (it's extremely easy to set up) , an awesome 
 24 Grand Prixs (4 races in a Grand Prix, set on 32 different tracks from old Mario Kart games and 
 new ones) and the ability to go back and set more records. You'll keep wanting to beat that time 
 you had on that course, thinking you could do better. The replayability is excellent and as you 
 go along the game, you pick up more characters and more vehicles.
  
  Even if you hate racing games, pick up Mario Kart DS whenever you can, because I can guarantee 
 that you'll be playing for a long time, and Nintendo's internet play will keep you going long after 
 you've finished the single-player aspect of the game. A brilliant snatch of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamecek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is by far the best game I have played on the DS so far. It has everything one could 
 expect from a Mario Kart game; the tracks, the characters, and the power-ups. The reinstating of 
 the blessed triple shell shield from MK64 is quite satifsying, and gets rid of the "personal item" 
 system found in Double Dash. The game also feels like the older versions with its fluent controls 
 and more realistic looking graphics. Mario Kart doesn't really bring anything new to the series, 
 but perfects everything from the past Mario Kart games
  
  Unlike the previous games, Mario Kart has eight cups instead of four. There are sixteen brand new 
 tracks, and sixteen "retro" tracks, four from each game (i. e. Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, Mario 
 Kart: DD, and Mario Kart Advance Circuit) . The game also has a variety of characters, and enables 
 you to eventually drive 32 differents karts, each varying in style. The music is partially new 
 and partially ported from the previous installments, all good of course. There really aren't any 
 problems, nothing new is added in this game, so I suppose if you're sick of Mario Kart, don't buy 
 this one.
  
  What really separates this game is the addition of online play. Wi-fi battles are fast and addicting, 
 and you will be racking up your online record before you know it. If you are unable to connect 
 to the network in your home, don't worry.. just head to a local McDonalds and connect for free, 
 unless you're embarrased about playing mario games in public.. then you're out of luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kipi19
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  i've enjoyed this very much, but the let downs in my eyes are that some of the tracks from double 
 dash should have been different. and R. O. B should not have been one of the characters, maybe shyguy 
 should have been maybe. but the game in it self is just one of the great racing games that nintendo 
 have produced and would like to see maybe a sequel or another type of mario kart because this one 
 was absoultly great i just hope nintendo can keep to this standard and try to exceed it. this game 
 is just superb, but not perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pac-master
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  this is the first portable one to have multiple karts per character. its got everything you could 
 want: luigi, multiple karts per character, luigi, courses from the older games, and luigi luigi 
 and mario got the coolest looking karts of them all. (until you get all 37 karts per character) . 
 plus they make the game better by making red DSs that come with it! (mine's blue though) plus the 
 red DS comes with decals, and a mario kart ds wrist strap ( i sound like i'm advertising the fricken 
 thing) . well actually all i'm trying to say here is: if you got a DS and you need a good (racing) 
 game, go get mario kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElvishSpirit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  A great add on to the Mario Kart games, no, the BEST add on to the Mario Kart games, AWESOME graphics, 
 gameplay is superb (I LOVE the VS) and best of all, Wi-Fi. Start out with 8 karters (Mario, Luigi, 
 Peach, Toad, DK, Bowser, Yoshi and Wario) and get 4 other hidden karters (sorry! no spoilers!) . 
 16 brand new courses and 4 each from past Mario Kart games (Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, Super 
 Mario Circuit, Mario Kart Double Dash!!) New Mission Mode with worlds (1,2,3,4) a total of 6 and 
 1 special one. Just plain overall, the BEST Mario Kart ever!!!!!
  
  Elvish Spirit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nighthawk89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS was probably the most anticipated of the 3 Wifi DS games that came out last winter. 
 The Kart series has always done well for Nintendo, and this new addition to the series is a great 
 game indeed.
  
  There are over 30 tracks to choose from, and half are available to you in each area of the game 
 when you start. The first menu contains the options of Single Player, Mulitplayer, Nintendo WFC 
 (Wifi Connection) , Records, and Options. Single Player mode holds the Grand Prix, where you race 
 in a racing "cup" over the course of the 4 tracks of that cup. Time Trials allow you to race against 
 your own ghost, or if you become good enough, an unlocked staff member ghost, to compete for the 
 best time. VS allows you to compete on tracks of your choosing against 7 AI players to win a Vs 
 round, you also chose how many tracks you race on to determine the winner. In Battle Mode, you 
 choose to either compete in a Balloon Battle, where you use items to pop your opponent's balloons, 
 or Shine Runners, where you compete for shine stars, a throwback to Super Mario Sunshine. Finally, 
 you can do Mission mode and complete selected missions, like collecting coins or driving backwards. 
 
  
  New tracks can be unlocked in Vs, Time Trials, and Grand Prix, and there are 3 difficulty levels 
 for all of them. The tracks are separated into fours, each group of four makes a "cup", and 4 cups 
 make a prix. There are two prixes, the retro prix (tracks from past Mario Karts) and the nitro 
 grand prix, which are new and original to this game. My favorite track has been Sky Garden since 
 I played it on the GBA version, and I was delighted to find it in here, revamped beautifully. If 
 you beat all 4 cups on one difficulty level in 1 prix, in the Grand Prix, you can unlock new characters, 
 and on the 150cc Prixes, you can unlock the 150cc Mirror class, which is a mirror course of all 
 of the courses. You can also unlock new karts for each character, there are a total of 7 for each 
 character. To unlock these however, you must practice your skills, and you HAVE to know how to 
 turbo boost, or you will never become a great player. Lastly, items are the difference between 
 1st and 4th many times, so learn to use them effectively!
  
  If you're like many people though, you bought this game for the Wifi. Nintendo's wifi connection 
 was easy for me to set up. I already have a router, a linksys, and in seconds I was connected and 
 playing against people all over the world. A downside to this game is that some tracks are unavailable 
 in the WiFi version. It would have been nice to have all tracks available, but there was some issue 
 with how the tracks would work when streamed over the wifi.
  
  Graphics: Amazing. Absolutely beautiful for the DS. This is some of the best use of the DS's graphical 
 capabilities that i've ever seen. I've never had shoddy graphic moments, and the colors stay crisp 
 and don't blend.
  
  Gameplay: Easy to learn the basics, but you need to practice to get good. Sometimes it feels like 
 your pad is reacting too much when you try to turbo boost, which screws me up while taking close 
 corners. Other than that, it's executed wonderfully. I personally love all of the items, though 
 the blue shell seems to appear way too often. The computer is at too much of an advantage when 
 you've been kicking butt in 150cc mode, and at the last second somebody half a track away blue 
 shells you and beats you to the finish. It makes it more nervewracking, but it's just a tad too 
 annoying sometimes.
  
  Sound: Nothing to complain about much, except sometimes there's just a tad too much of sound going 
 on.
  
  Overall: This game is definitely worth picking up. even if you have no access to wifi or friends 
 to play with, it's still worth it's weight in gold. This is the best Kart I've played, though I've 
 only played 2, so I don't have much to compare to, but still, get the game, you won't regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mja2k3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is really enjoyable. Definetly the best DS game out right now. You should definetly buy 
 it.
  
  First off, the graphics are amazing. Much better than the N64 graphics, which I still find so hard 
 to believe with that little game card. This game is very easy to learn, but it's not so easy that 
 you get bored with it. All that is fun but the best part is the online play. Although it takes 
 a while to find people it's really fun once you start racing. The only thing i didn't like about 
 it was that there were no battles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat064
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  What I liked
  I really liked the battle mode. It's awesome. The first thing I did when I played this was battle 
 mode. I continued to play battle mode for a while. Then I started to race in 50 cc. It was easy. 
 I like easy games. The races were fun. I played the mission mode too, but did'nt like them as much. 
 I liked them though. I also enjoyed the multiplayer mode. It was cool when I had four real people 
 on my team against stupid computers. And the wi-fi thing was okay, but when I played it was a little 
 messed up compared to ds to ds. It was fun though. I also like the ghost thing. There are'nt too 
 many loading screens too .=) I like the emblem thing too.
  
  What I did'nt like
  The 150 mirror mode was so hard that it drove me crazy. I would'nt win for quite a while. The second 
 thing is that the wi-fi does'nt have the battle mode, one of my favorite parts. The other thing 
 is that the wi-fi is a little messed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is really fun, but it's a big change from the others. Maybe it's because you use 
 a control pad instead of a stcik, but that dosn't stop this game from being fun. There are a lot 
 of different cups to play, and it's fun unlocking new ones. It is also really cool that you can 
 play other real players using a wirless internet connection, this makes for some new gameplay. 
 I do really like this game and I'm sure you will to, and if you have a Nintendo DS you should buy 
 it. I'm confident that any gamer can find this game fun, and will stand up for it if you don't 
 like it. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orochi_RockMan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game is good. I mean, really good. I mean really, really, really good. This is everything 
 that Double Dash should have been. Outside of one or two courses in the Special Cup Double Dash's 
 course selection left something... well rather... everything to be desired. Small redundent variations 
 of the circle. That's what they were. But that is not what you will find here.
  
  I take it Nintendo took the persons responsible for the course design for Double Dash out into 
 the street and had them shot in the back of the head. Why not tortured? Because they did good with 
 Wario Colliseum that's why. Anyway they're talentless efforts are nowhere to be found in this gleaming 
 gem of a game. Want an example of the goodies? Well there's a certain course in this Mario Kart 
 where the track loops and then corkscrews later on. How's that for fun?
  
  The courses in Mario Kart DS are unbelievably good. They are a blast to race. And FINALLY we have 
 a Mario Kart game that gives us a course through one of Bowsers Airships. Like any good Mario Kart 
 game [Double Dash excluded] this game has the Mushroom, Flower, Star and Special Cups. Each with 
 four original courses. However, what Mario Kart DS has that the others doesn't is four more Retro 
 Cups. That's right. Eight Cups. 32 tracks. I know. Clean yourself up and then continue reading........ you 
 done? Alright let's proceed.
  
  These Retro Cups have four tracks each. 1 from each of the other Mario Karts. SNES, N64, GBA, and 
 GC. They all make use of the DS so the SNES and GBA tracks aren't as "Flat" as they would be on 
 their respective systems. The N64 tracks are nearly identical to their originals and the GC tracks 
 look really, really good. And incase you're hoping against hope let me go ahead and dash those 
 wet dreams. There is no all Rainbow Road Cup. Why? Who knows. Sounds like a great idea to me.
 
  
  The usual Kart ensemble is assembled for this game with three secret characters. Aside from the 
 usual Mario Kart givings we have Mission mode. Which consists of break this, collect these, drive 
 through this stuff in order kinds of missions. But for each level of missions there's a boss battle, 
 and those are great.
  
  Ah, but I save the best for last. Mario Kart Online. Yes... Wi Fi matches kick the veritable ass. 
 And they're really easy to set up. You just sit yourself down within range of a wireless router, 
 click on Nintendo WiFi and then search for opponents either locally or internationally. You can 
 even get and give out a Friend Code that way you can set up matches with specific people you want 
 to. Be wary about stepping into the online arena too soon, because every win and EVERY loss will 
 be recorded and shown next to your screen name. Along with the screen name you can custom create 
 an emblem to go on the front of your kart.
  
  So in short. Buy a DS, and then buy this game. That's it. It's THAT good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenFire41
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is an incredible game. If you've never played a Mario Kart game before you should 
 start with this one, although if you already played other Mario Kart games you'll appreciate it 
 more. It's very easy to learn how to play this game and once you know how, start learning some 
 techniques and strategies. Getting all gold cups is fairly easy but when you try to get star ratings 
 or higher to get a star next to your name it gets very challenging. I just did it yesterday. Also, 
 the multi-player is great. Get a bunch of friends and race the crap out of each other. Mario Kart 
 DS is worth every cent you pay for it. By my standards it's the best game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IVANdaGUY
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  I love this game. even though it is a hand held game it feels a lot like the N64 version. unlike 
 the one that came out for the advance. very very good in my opinion. and highly recommended. i 
 played it non-stop for about the first month you could say. and playing with other people that 
 have it is a blast. i played with my uncle in West Virginia, and me and my brother in North Carolina. 
 takes a bit to get going but once you do its a ball. i would deffinately get it and get some friends 
 to get it so you can play against eachother without them even coming to your house. blows the one 
 for the advance out of the water no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordcarbo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  I have personally been a Mario Kart player since I was, well, I honestly forget. I can remember 
 opening a Christmas gift to find Super Mario Kart kindly given to me by Santa Claus when I was 
 in Kindergarten (Heck, it might have been preschool!) . Ever since, Mario Kart has been my favorite 
 and only racing game series I liked.
  
  Mario Kart is a racing game which takes characters from the Mario universe, along with wacky and 
 zany tracks and items to destroy the competition with, all in one game. Added are two new items 
 (unfortunately one being pretty useless) and an item that was featured in every Mario game except 
 Mario Kart: Double Dash, making its return. Dry Bones and R. O. B. join the cast of playable characters. 
 Most importantly, this game has WiFi compatabilities.
  
  Most people will first say this game is too short. Although it doesn't have 40 tracks like Mario 
 Kart: Super Circuit or the ever-so-annoying all cup tour featured on Mario Kart: Double Dash, but 
 it has eight cups and a mission mode.
  
  Four of the eight cups are blasts from the past, featuring tracks from older Mario Kart games. 
 For the tracks they chose, many I personally wouldn't of included. I won't get into what tracks 
 I would of rather seen from each version, but I was only really excited when I saw about five out 
 of the sixteen tracks, and two of them I absolutely hate. The rest aren't bad choices, though, 
 but there could of been better (especially from MK64, I mean, that game had some golden tracks 
 and some of the worst were picked from them) . Although, that's really only a matter of taste.
 
  
  The mission mode is a pretty good addition. I've replayed some of the missions from time to time 
 for pure enjoyment, although mostly the only reason I replayed most of them was to get a better 
 score. There's even a secret 7th level for the missions if you get a passing score on every mission, 
 and those are the only ones that are truely a challenge to do, for me at least. Don't expect the 
 mission mode to consume loads of time. It'll probably last you 1-2 hours at the most.
  
  But if there is any major, and I mean major dissapointment, it is definately in the track designs. 
 Most of the newer tracks are somewhat similar to tracks in Mario Kart: Double Dash. Airship Fortress 
 is almost like playing Bowser's Castle backwards. Waluigi Pinball is pretty much Donkey Heck, they 
 even had the nerve to put Mushroom Bridge, a track from MK: DD, on this game along with a new track, 
 Shroom Ridge. As if you couldn't just add four letters to the front of the words in the name to 
 get Mushroom Bridge, they're a lot alike. This all would of decreased the score I gave for tilt 
 and gameplay moreso if it weren't for the fact that this game has twice as many tracks as MK64 
 and MK: DD.
  
  There's another flaw, too, and that's in the cart selection. There are three new stats: drift, 
 handling, and items. Handling is the boost you get from doing a powerslide, and drift is a whole 
 bunch of things -- the speed and curve in which you turn while drifting, and the amount of time it 
 takes to catch a draft while driving behind players (like in real racing, where people drive behind 
 others for less turbulance) . Handling is the most useful stat for anyone who's good, and drift 
 is only even slightly useful in certain tracks on time trial. Play against actual opponents, even 
 the computer, and drift isn't all that great.
  
  Now about items, there is the second annoying thing. Each character has 3 carts, and the only difference 
 between each is their weight class. The lighter you go, the more you get to speed, acceleration, 
 handling, and drift. The heavier you go, the more you get to items and weight. The decrease for 
 those four stats isn't much, but it's enough. If you're wondering what this "item" stat is all 
 about, I didn't tell you until now for a reason: all it is is your luck to get a better item if 
 you're behind (and the new blooper is considered a good item, which it isn't) . It's useful if you 
 aren't very good or if you play one on one with a person, but mostly, it's horrid. Even when I 
 play one on one, I only get a medium weight class tops. Heavy is usually just too much of a sacrafice.
 
  
  The sound in this game is good for a DS game, I'll admit. One thing that does get annoying is the 
 background music while waiting for opponents over WiFi. Heck, I know it so well I could open up 
 Jeskola Buzz and put down the notes for it almost flawlessly just from memory. The graphics are 
 decent and would be almost flawless if it weren't for the overuse of sprites in many places. Don't 
 worry, though, the graphics and sound are good enough to play and not get annoyed with during the 
 time.
  
  WiFi impressed me a lot. You can have a little icon by your name, and your record is saved on your 
 cartridge. Games aren't usually OUTRAGEOUSLY imbalanced if you search for rivals, and it doesn't 
 take too long to search for opponents. Unfortunately, there isn't much keeping players from putting 
 vulgar words or things in their icon, or their name, for that matter, but suprisingly I've only 
 seen two vulgar things out of the 100-150 different people I've ever been arranged to play with, 
 and with the profanity and racism plaguing online gaming, that's good. Even the lack of the best 
 courses featured in Mario Kart DS (Probably taken out for synching/technical problems, but I'm 
 sure they could of solved the problem. Tsk tsk, Nintendo!) is overshadowed merely by the replay 
 value the game accomplishes with the addition of WiFi.
  
  Overall, whether you're a veteran or new to the series, get this game. You won't be very dissapointed 
 unless the slightest things ever manage to ruin your gaming experience. It isn't perfect, but it's 
 pretty damn fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan606
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game has so many things to do and for me to describe. 
  
  It has the usual Mario GP but now includes two seperate Grand Prix-Retro and NItro. The Retro GP 
 includes 16 tracks from all previous Mario Kart games (as where its name comes from) like Mario 
 Circuit 1, Choco Mountain, and Yoshi Circut. The Nitro GP includes Mario Kart DS exclusive tracks 
 like Delfino Square, Waluigi Pinball, Bowers Castle, and Rainbow Road. This game also brings back 
 Mario Kart Super CIrcuit's rating system. Ratings can go from E (worst) to *** (best) dpending on 
 how well you did each cup. This can challenge some players to trying to get all cups to a *** rating. 
 What it could have had though was a Retro Rainbow Cup, which the game did not have.
  
  This game also improves VS mode. Now if you don't have anyone to race against, you can race against 
 computer controlled characters (yay since not many people I know own MKDS or a DS for that matter) . 
 You can choose from 50cc to 150cc Mirror (if unlocked) , the difficulty level of the CPU, and how 
 courses will be chosen (your choice, in order, or random)
  Rules can be set to free, win based on amount of wins, or amount of points after racing in a number 
 of courses from one to thirty two. VS also includes a team option in which you and three other 
 CPU are but into two different teams (blue or red) and race to get more points than the other team (if 
 rules are set to anything other than free) . Plus you can choose from any course you like.
  
  This game's battle mode is like the VS mode since you can also battle against CPU controlled 
 characters given you have no one else to battle. Battle mode has to games - Ballooon Battle and 
 Shine Runners. Basicly Balloon Battle is as it has always been, try to pop others' balloons but 
 protect yours, but now there is something new added to it in this game. You start off with one 
 balloon and have to inflate the others either by holding select or blowing into the microphone. 
 Shine Runners is where you win by collecting the most shines in a certain time period. Thoose with 
 no shines will get booted out first and then the ones with the least will get booted out as well. 
 If you happen to fall into one of those categories, you loose.
  
  Something else I have also liked added new to this game is the new Mission mode. You can first 
 only do Level 1 missions 1-1 through 1-8. After all are finished oyu are able to fight the boss 
 of that level. After the boss is defeated, you unlock Level 2 and are faced with slightly harder 
 missions and boss. The rank you get can vary from E to *** rating, depending on how well you did. 
 This can give players quite a challenge for a while.
  
  The characters are the usual Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, DK, Wario, and Bowser, plus four 
 unlockable characters. Each character starts off with only three karts. As you progress through 
 the GP though you can unlock new characters and new karts for your current characters. This is 
 something I really like about this game because now I can use Bowser in a lightweight kart and 
 not have to worry about loosing much speed off road. The Karts now not only have speed, acceleration, 
 and weight ratings, but they now have handling, drift, and items, making the choice of karts a 
 little more crucial depending on what kind of racer you are. 
  
  And my favorite feature to this game is its ability for you to be able to race worldwide with NIntendo's 
 Wi-Fi Connection. Now if you ever get bored and are in need of a challenge, you can just search 
 from four different categories-friends, rivals, regional, and worldwide. Friends lets you search 
 for any one you have registered in your friends list as long as you are registered in theirs. Rivals 
 is still something I'm not sure how it works. Regional allows you to search in your country and 
 worldwide lets you race against anyone in the world with a MKDS game and access to Nintendo Wi-Fi. 
 By going to the options settings you can make your own emblem and nickname for viewing online. 
 The emblem will be shown on your kart as well as next to your nickname online. When racing you 
 can see your opponents' names and emblems and a star rating from * to *** ( if they have at least 
 a * to *** rating on all cups in GP) . 
  
  So overall this is a game in happy to be able to own, it has great graphics, a simple yet great 
 gameplay, and the music in the courses are great (waluigi pinball and wario stadium thmes being 
 my favorites) . This game is one any MKDS lover should own.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongy3000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the DS Bundle Pak that comes with the console and Mario Kart DS, that I got for 
 Christmas, It was awesome, and I almost lost the stylus the instant I took it out. XD Well bottom 
 line is that this game is amazing! New Characters in Old courses, just like adding new things in 
 timeless classics, this game is so cool that I beat it in like 5 to 6 days! And this might one 
 of the best Mario Kart games you ever played so far! And I hope you have fun playing this game! 
 And I'll see you at Nintendo Wi-Fi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mech_Master
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  As I already stated, Mario Kart DS is by far the most value packed game in the series and has more 
 longevity of any of its predecessors. There's an unbelievable amount of content that has been crammed 
 into Mario Kart DS. And although I don't think it's the best Mario Kart game yet, it's still one 
 of the best and also one of the best Nintendo DS games yet.
  
  Just like all of the past Mario Kart games you have your standard Grand Prix modes all with varying 
 difficulties. But one thing that makes this Mario Kart stand out among the rest are the amount 
 of tracks in the game. There are of course a slew of brand new tracks created specifically for 
 Mario Kart DS, but then there are also just as many tracks from past Mario Kart games brought back 
 for Mario Kart DS. These tracks are taken from all of the Mario Karts in the past dating all the 
 way back to Super Mario Kart on the SNES. So that means you get tracks from Super Mario Kart, Mario 
 Kart Advance, Mario Kart 64, and Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. And the 2D tracks brought back from 
 Super Mario Kart and Mario Kart Advance have been treated to a 3D makeover.
  
  I found that I enjoyed playing the retro tracks much more than the new ones created for Mario Kart 
 DS. Maybe Nintendo is losing their touch or maybe I'm a sucker for nostolgia. But either way, all 
 of the games numerous tracks are a joy to race on and there's no shortage when it comes to variety.
 
  
  Like as stated earlier, Grand Prix mode returns as does the standard Time Trials, Vs, and Battle 
 modes. These modes are as fun as ever and the Battle Mode actually got a bit of an upgrade. It 
 now supports bots, which I don't recall the previous games doing, so if you don't have someone 
 to play with just play with bots instead. But the new mode that has been added this time around 
 is the Mission mode. These missions consist of 8 challenges and one boss fight. Yes, I know it 
 may sound odd, but there are boss fights in Mario Kart. They're pretty straightfoward and simple 
 but the boss fights and the rest of the missions are fun nonetheless.
  
  Mario and all of the rest of Mario's posse made it into the game along with a couple new characters 
 and items to use as well. Each character is very fun to use and unlike the past Mario Kart games 
 I think each character controls and feels significantly different than the rest. One thing I was 
 disappointed in was the lack of special items that were unique to each character like in Double 
 Dash!! But to make up for it Nintendo has added quite a few new ones, like my favorite, the bullet 
 bill. Usually only acquired by players in the lower ranking posistions, upon using the Bullet Bill, 
 it will speed you through the course knocking out anyone that gets in your path. There are a few 
 other new ones, but that one was probably my favorite.
  
  Graphically speaking, Mario Kart DS holds up fairly well. I was slightly disappointed that the 
 graphics were not even as good as that of Mario Kart 64's, but they are still quite good for Nintendo 
 DS standards. Environments are all rendered very nicely with fairly nice looking textures and rich 
 colors all throughout. Even the tracks from Mario Kart 64 look very similar to that of their N64 
 counterparts. But one thing I do wish got a bit more attention were the character models. Some 
 just look like colored 3D blocks which is suprising to see when the character models in Mario Kart 
 DS look so good. But the game's great art style, buttery smooth framerate, and nice looking tracks 
 can make up for that.
  
  And all of the wacky sounds and music you expect to hear in a Mario Kart game are in Mario Kart 
 DS as well. The music is great, as always with Mario Kart, or any firty party Nintendo game for 
 that matter. The best part is that to me it sounds like they remade the music for the retro tracks 
 in the game and didn't just reuse the ancient, yet still good, music from Super Mario Kart. And 
 playing this game with headphones on will really help you appreciate the sound capabilities on 
 the Nintendo DS. It's just a great sounding game overall.
  
  Mario Kart DS actually takes advantage of the second screen quite well, more than you would think. 
 It's a map, but don't be quick to write it off as a gimmick just as an excuse to say the game supports 
 the second screen. The map is actually very helpful and not only displays characters on the screen, 
 but their items, items being used, and item boxes as well. It pretty much shows every last thing 
 happening on the track. So if you acquire a crappy item such as a bananna peel, you may want to 
 save it if you see that the person behind you has maybe a red turtle shell and use it to deflect 
 that turtle shell later. And there is also a new item where one of the octopus from Super Mario 
 Sunshine squirts ink all over your screen and your vision is screwed up temporarily. Solution? 
 Just use your touch screen to navigate.
  
  But the big news with Mario Kart DS is the online play. It's one of the first titles to use Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi and not only is multiplayer fun, but Nintendo Wi-Fi is extremely easy to set up as well. 
 Multiplayer is great as always with a Mario Kart game whether your playing over the internet with 
 people all over the world, with a buddy, or against CPU controlled players. The only thing I can 
 complain about though are the small amount of tracks in the game. The game could have used maybe 
 three or four more, but I really shouldn't complain because the game is so fun that it wouldn't 
 really matter if there were only two tracks to play on.
  
  Mario Kart DS is one of the biggest highlights for the DS this past year. It's the flagship title 
 for Nintendo Wi-Fi, it's a new entry into one of Nintendo's most cherished franchises, and is just 
 a great game in its own right. Although not my personal favorite Nintendo DS game this past year, 
 it's certainly one of them. It doesn't really matter how old you are, what kind of games you're 
 interested in, anyone can enjoy Mario Kart DS. It'd probably be a crying shame if you didn't own 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owner211
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS has bad graphics, but who cares? mario 64 ds did and it was great. This new mario 
 kart game has lots of stuff from all the other mario kart games from courses to new characters, 
 online play, and a new option of missions.
  
  The courses through the whole game are either brand new, or Retro courses, wich have the name of 
 the system the first appered in, (GBA, GCB, SNES, NES, N64. Courses even from double can be foud 
 with not so good graphics but its no big deal
  If you've played mario party 7, you can play as dry bones, and same thing here he's an unlockable. (but 
 im not talkin!!) other than new characters and old ones, they have a variety of karts. When you 
 first star, each person will have a uniqe kart, and a normal kart. later in the game more karts 
 will become availible.
  Grand prix and battles are still here, also with something called missions. in missions mode, you 
 travel through worlds, like the normal mario games. in a mission you will be givin a task to complete 
 and when you get ranking. and the last mission in a world is a boss. for instance, a boss w/ king 
 boo, you have to collect all the coins while you avoid him. after you win he explodes wich doesn't 
 make much sence.
  so for all the mario fanboys and stuff, go buy this so i can kill you online. (just as soon as i 
 get a wireless adapter thing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mofomaster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Who would ever think of all these features in Mario Kart DS it's astonishing a long time ago I 
 said I'd be PSP but then I just played Mario Kart DS for a couple of seconds and I got addicted 
 to it. Really this game is insane with 5 modes Drand Prix, Time Trial, Battle, VS, and lastly the 
 misions .A real advantage for this game is u can play online with 1 cartidge and is the first DS 
 game to go on WI-FI it's a shame that when u play online with 1 copy of the game the persom that 
 doesn't have the game can only pick shy guy and u can only play 8 out of 32 stadiums 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxofMario
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  This game is the best out of the seires. I loved when I first started. I got up that morning and 
 beat all of the 50 cc races. You can also do battle with comps. Thank lord you can do battles with 
 computars. You can also get new items like blooper and bullet bill. For my ratings I will have 
 gave everything a ten except for sound and review tilt. Those get nines. I might even form a union 
 for this game. There is only one problem. Luigi always gets in last place for no reason giving. 
 Always worse then forth place. These are the ratings for some of the other Kart games
  
  Double Dash 9.1
  Mario Kart 64 8.9
  
  I hope you all liked my review and my Avatar and its 
 time for me to say good bye for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trick_man01
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  When I saw this game I Wal-Mart one fateful day I knew it was a must have. Not because of Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi but because it was a Mario Kart game and to this day there is not a Mario Kart game I havn't 
 played. It definitely lives up to the Mario Kart name, and even adds a few features to the mix. 
 The most obvious of which is Nintendo Wi-Fi connectivity. If you find a good match you can really 
 have fun much like multi-player on previous Mario Kart games. Additionally missions have been added 
 to the game, most mission focus on making you a better overall player like learning to turbo-boost 
 properly or simply learning courses and how they work. Another significant addition are the retro 
 circuits consisting of courses from previous Mario Karts. Each retro circuit contains 1 course 
 from Mario Kart, 1 course from Mario Kart 64, 1 course from Mario Kart: Super Circuit (GBA) , and 
 one course from Mario Kart: Double Dash (GCN) . This game is definitely worth the price tag and 
 faithfully carries on the name of Mario Kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packymaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This is possible the best game ever for the Nintendo DS. The wireless option makes 
 this game what is really is. There is a huge selection of characters, and a load of levels to choose 
 from. There are also secret characters, and one of the secret characters is R. O. B. R. O. B is one 
 of my favorite Nintendo accessories ever made. I always liked the idea of him, and bringing him 
 back in Mario Kart was an excellent idea that Nintendo should never regret. My favorite character 
 is Dry Bones, because I feel he has what it takes to match my racing style. I am surprised that 
 a minor character such as Dry Bones was added to the game, but I like it. This game changed the 
 way video games are played. I find it funny that link cables existed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plumer_man
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS.
  
  I was stunned when I brought home Mario kart DS and played it for the first time. I was amazed 
 by the graphics of this game. They are close to GCN graphics or about the same. I was also amazed 
 that the DS can have that good of graphics. I think this game is the best Mario kart game and so 
 far and the best DS game. There are about 15 tracks from earlier Mario kart games as well as 15 
 new tracks. There are GCN, tracks N64 tracks, SNES tracks, and of course DS tracks in this game. 
 The sound of this game is just the standard Mario kart music. The replay of this game is very high. 
 I got the game right when it came out and I still havent unlocked everything. I think all together, 
 Mario kart DS is a great game and a must have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kboy23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The sweat and smooth graphics and fun characters makes this a have to buy game. I got this at x-mas 
 and im still glued to it. This game is enough reason to buy the DS . The map on the touch screen 
 is changeable and u could actually play on it .The missions are fun and i find they get better 
 and more challenging each level. I think there's at least one cart for everyone (Well with 35 carts 
 you can't go wrong) . The balloon battle and shine runners are fun if you feel like taking your anger 
 out with shells and bananas . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meganintendoguy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Just recomend my review. lol. 
  
  Graphics: Beautiful
  Sound: Beautiful
  Gameplay: Beautiful
  Value: won't last that long without wifi but still ... beautiful
  Tilt: 
 ummm... beautiful
  
  The allnew mission mode is enough to get this game. Not to mention the actual enticing grand prix. 
 It will bring you memories of the n64 version or even the snes version. It's just a cool game. 
 I suck at reviews so that's all I am going to write. :D 
  
  Nevermind...... apparently you have to write 120 words which makes me kind of angry because I am 
 dead in the head right now. I havn't played it with wifi yet but once I do I will edit this review 
 and tell all you folks how great the wifi mario kart is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Smasher
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the MarioKart series since 64 drew me in, and I've played all of the games in 
 the series thus far, enjoying their strengths and putting up with their flaws. The truth of the 
 matter is that after playing this game, I can't go back to playing the old Mario Karts, as much 
 as I may love them. I just can't. This game just perfects everything Kart.
  
  Gameplay:
  Mix perfect Mario Kart controls unrivaled to its predecessors with some new racing elements, an 
 extra screen to observe enemy items/positions, over 30 tracks, and over 30 different karts, you've 
 got a winner here.
  The detailed stats of every kart/character combination is staggering. You can turn lightweights 
 in heavy-esque racers, and vice versa. Each different character alters the stat of each different 
 kart, so half the fun is using different combinations to find one that works for you.
  
  Graphics:
  Though there are plenty of 2D objects in the game, it doesn't hinder the graphics 
 too much, as you don't notice half the time. Character models are good for the DS, as well as the 
 whol package. This is about as good as 3D DS graphics get.
  
  Sound:
  Not anything flashy as far as sound is concerned. There's engine noises, voices, and silly sounds 
 for slipping or crashing. The music is done pretty well, though, mixing in faithfully recreated 
 old tunes with new ones, and the stereo system is used in full effect. Nothing bad, but nothing 
 spectacular.
  
  Value:
  Compared to its predecessors, MK: DS leaves everything in the dust. It's got your Grand Prix and 
 Time Trials from before, along with two battle modes, but it ups the ante with so much more. Mission 
 Mode is a welcome addition that hones your skills, and there is also a wealth of tracks to play.
 
  Of course, the biggest feature is the online mode. That is the key, and that is what keeps you 
 coming back time after time. With every other Mario Kart, once I beat all the GP's, I was done. 
 I have easily invested as much time into this game as I have every other Mario Kart combined.
 
  
  Tilt:
  I've been a MK fan since 64 hooked me, but this is simply the best there is, and try as I may to 
 play the older games, I simply can't now. It's just THAT good. So good that you can't see yourself 
 going back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwigGY12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is quite simply, the "it" game for the Nintendo DS. I am going to divide this
  review into two parts: Online and Offline. Lets start with the Offline, shall we?.. Well, I 
  
 don't care what you think, I'm going to start there anyways.
  
  Offline: 
  When you first start Mario Kart DS, you have a number of things you can do. The first is 
  Grand 
 Prix, which has been pumped full of steroids. You will start out, like most Mario 
  Kart games, with three speeds: 50cc, 100cc, or 150cc. You will then have 4 courses already
  unlocked, 
 2 in the Nitro Grand Prix, which is the new tracks, and 2 in the Retro Grand Prix,
  which is a compilation of tracks from the SNES, GBA, N64, and NGC series. The Retro tracks 
  
 are an extremly nice addition, seeing as most people have been waiting for this for a long 
  time. All together there are 8 courses, and 32 tracks, which is double the amount of any
  other 
 Mario Kart game. What makes Grand Prix so very interesting, however, is the ranking
  system. On a course, you can get a rank from E to 3 Stars, E being the lowest and 3 stars 
  the 
 highest. This adds alot of replay value to the game, as you'll want to keep trying to 
  get a perfect 3 stars on every course, and on every speed. 
  
  Next is time trails, in which 
 not much has changed. In time trails, you simply race 
  to see how fast you can beat the track. One new, great feature, is that once 
  you do a time 
 trail, and save your ghost, you can then send your Ghost to a friend, so 
  that he can race it. Other then that, the only thing that is different is that, 
  depending on 
 your kart, depends on the number of mushrooms you get to start with.
  You can also unlock staff ghosts, which the staff from Mario Kart DS has put in the game.
  
 
  Vs. and Battle mode have been upgraded with great results. You can now race against the 
  computer, meaning that you no longer need any friends! You can choose the CPU's difficulty, 
 
  you can now have teams of 2 (Red and Blue teams,) and you can even have rules, so if you 
  can put "first to 5 wins," or you can pick a fixed number of races. In Vs., you can choose 
  
 all the tracks you have unlocked to race. There are a couple of new things in Battle. 
  You can either play the classic Balloon Battle, in which you burst your opponents ballons to 
 
  win. You start with 1 balloon, and 4 in reserve, and you can blow up to 3 balloons at once. 
 
  To blow up your balloon, you simply blow into the microphone, or hold the select button. 
  The new mode is Shine Runners, where you collect more shines than anyone else, and those with
 
  less shines gets booted from the game over time. 
  
  The newly added Mission mode adds a lot of replay value to the game as well. There is six levels
 
  of missions, each one getting harder then the last, with 9 missions in each level. You do a 
 
  number of things in this mode, included things like collecting a number of coins before time
 
  is up, racing a cpu oppenent, or drive through numbered gates in order. Each level also has a 
 
  boss. These are rated almost like the Grand Prix mode, except it is C to 3 stars, and not 
  E 
 to 3 stars. 
  
  When you start out, you have 8 characters to choose from to race, but there is four unlockable
 
  characters, and a ton of karts to choose from. It doesn't matter what driver you pick anymore, 
 
  but rather the kart you choose, which will have individual attributes. There is also a number of
 
  new items in this game, including the VERY annoying Blooper. Use this, and black ink will appear
 
  on your oppenents screen, making it almost impossible to see for about 8 seconds or so. Another
 
  is the Bullet Bill item, where your kart turns into a big Bullet Bill, and destroyes anything
 
  that gets in its path. Also, if you hold the "L" button, which is the item button, you can hold
 
  items behind you, just like N64 version, which is great for protecting yourself.
  
  Online: 
  When I finally got to play Mario Kart Ds online a couple of weeks ago, I was very excited. 
 
  After all, its every gammers dream, right? Well, sadly, it was alittle disapointing. 
  
  First of all, there is no chat whatsoever, so forget about it. You can have a friends list, 
 where 
  you add your friend's friend code, and you have them on your list. Which is all fine and dandy, 
 but for
  some unGodly reason, Nintendo WiFi will search for your friends on random, so there is no way 
 
  you can CHOOSE who you want to race. But, its not so bad if you only have a few friends, its 
 
  just disapointing that you can't choose. 
  
  Theres 4 ways you can search: Friends, Rivals, 
  Regional, or Worldwide. When you search for 
 Rivals, it searches for people who have a similar 
  record that you have, which is pretty cool. Regional is, obviously, your region (North America,
 
  Europe, wherever you live.) Worldwide is great, because you can play against people anywhere in
 
  the world, including Japan. Some things have been taken out of the game as well, like there being
 
  only 20 tracks. Now, this may seem fine, but it seems that they chose the worst tracks for online.
 
  Also, you can't hold items behind your kart if you hold the "L" button, which is also a bit of 
 a 
  downer. 
  
  So, thats it for my review. I highly recomend this game! With the ranking system, missions,
  
 multiplayer and Wi-Fi, it with keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nibbleyDUDE
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is amazing its thenomal and the greatest must buy game on DS. No DS is complete without 
 this game. The single player mode is excellent and there are 4 unlockable player (I still want 
 more unlockable karters though) . The grand prix is how it should be starting off easy and proggressly 
 harder. The battle mode is really good too and you don't need your mates and there DS either so 
 you can play against 7 AI's in the comfort of your room. The mission mode is easy to pick but hard 
 to master and the last boss battle is really hard but i did. (Audience) "wait one sec! did i hear 
 you say BOSS BATTLES?????!!!!!!!! on Mario Kart". Yes you did and there not the rubbishy sort 
 but like the rest of the game AMAZING!!!
  
  Now we get on to the good part WI-FI. This is revolutionary racing 3 Japense gamers with yourself 
 or Swedish or even Ozzies (not osburne but Austrailians) ! Why should i give so much away to you 
 go on BUY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaTeFaTChIcKs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  when i first popped this one game into my NDS i was expecting great things with it getting a 5 
 outta 5 on X-Play and then 9.2 on gamespot i expected this game to be pretty darn good two words: it 
 is. this game starts out not too hard but presents enough challenge that u can't beat everything 
 really fast. From what i've got so far there has been over 30 karts and over 24 circits to play 
 on and win stuff on. The only problem is that u have to get a gold trophy to get more unlock another 
 circut race but at the same time this presents a nice challenge. The online is quick and fun although 
 there should be a way to rank players so adavanced players with like 300 wins and like 50 losses 
 don't race against ppl like 25 losses and 7 wins. although that is advanced it would nice all and 
 all this game is fun and engaging with great long single player fun enganging online play with 
 very little restrictions on it. This game is a must must play for any ds owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicKaitou
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  por fin, mario kart vuelve , y en grande !!!!!!!!!!!!!! todavia no he podido probarlo, pero ya 
 lo he visto y es la raja!!!!!! estoy puro esperando a que me llegue, asi que ahi les voy a dar 
 una opinion totalmente experta acerca de este espectacular  
 que puedo decir es que la grafica es fenomenal , y las pistas son muchas y bastante largas , aunque 
 hicieron algunas variaciones con los premios que no deberia haber pasado a causa de que todos saben 
 como jugar y quitar algunos prmios tan esenciales como el hongo dorado nos dejo a todos marcando 
 ocupado........ pero eso es infimo comprado con la capacidad wi-fi y las graficas increibles que 
 tiene , si olvidarse de la jugabilidad excelente que tiene 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is great! But there is only one really big problem with it ........ its much to short 
 ! it took me 5 days for me to complete the grand prix . But the missions are great fun! gets hard 
 towards level 5 and 6 which is good because the game is pretty much easy . But dont get me wrong 
 this game ROCKS! Oh and i almost forgot to tell you about the best part of the game, Wifi. With 
 the choice to play people your level, your friends, anywone in the world or just in your continent 
 is great.
  
  The graphics well......................... ARE AMAZING !!! Definatly the best on the ds yet , and 
 for a long time to come , i dont know how nintendo did it but they really pulled it off with the 
 graphics . I could compare them to the ps2's !!! The sound is good , almost every track has its 
 own sound track and there all fun and enjoyable. My favaroute one has to be the one in dougnut 
 plains I gave the game a 10/10 rating for the value coz this game is a must buy for any ds owner 
 as its definately one of the best ds games out there. I reccomend this game to anyone , if you 
 like these types of games or not because this game is revolutionary ! A definate purchace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDaggerz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  
  Gameplay/Controls: This is yet another wonderful Mario Kart game in the legendary Nintendo series. 
 The past installments seemed to move very slow (play Double Dash again) but this Mario Kart finally 
 gives some sense of true speed. The games turning and control is tight and responsive (use the 
 L shoulder button for items, it's easier) which is great for tricky levels. Yes, the hop is back 
 and allows you to pull off tight turns with drifting. This can also provide you a mini-turbo boost 
 for quick sprints of speed. This game still feels like a Kart game without a joystick, and it doesn't 
 really need one. 
  
  Graphics/Sound: The sound on the game is nothing special. The same sound effects and catchy tunes 
 are intact but it's not really the focous of the game. The graphics are great and exceed the N64's. 
 The levels and racers look nice for a portable but this also reveals low-quality textures.
  
  Characters/Levels: There are a nice vareity of racers with some suprises (ROB) , four of which 
 are unlockable, and 32 carts to choose from. The game consists of 8 cups with 4 tracks in each 
 cup. 4 cups are Retro Cups, with levels from N64, GBA, GCube, and SNES, and 4 are New Cups, filled 
 with brand new leves. Some of these new levles are absolutley awesome (see Airship Fortress, Walluigi 
 Pinball, and TickTock Clock plus a few others) This comes to a toal of 32 tracks old and new. Great 
 selection and vareity but some old tracks feel stale and outdated.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_brick
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  DoubleDash was... strange, but it worked, even if it wasn't quite as good as MK64. Supercircuit 
 was crap, so i'll pretend it never existed. So not counting the Snes version which i've never played, 
 MKDS had two very tough acts to follow. Guess what? it gets an encore.
  Shame on you, DD. All the time pretending you were the Beez Neez, just cos you had twice as many 
 tracks, characters and crap. But DS is twice as good as YOU. and it has twice as many tracks.
 
  Y'see, not only does DS have 16 all-new tracks, it has 16 'classic' tracks. including moomoo farm. 
 and each character has three of there own cars to choose from, as well as (eventually) everyone 
 elses. And up to eight players. Eight wireless players. EIGHT. Speaking of multiplayer, you can 
 play online. And one player mode has a lot more value, too. You've now got missions, and one player 
 vs and battle mode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fireball2500
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I've ever played, expect for maybe Zelda: Ocarina of Time. In fact, maybe even 
 BETTER than OOT. Really.
  
  Gameplay: Very, very, VERY good. The controls are very good. And all the single-player stuff is awsome. And 
 Wi-Fi is better than what the game critics give it credit for.
  
  Graphics: Wow. I was impressed. The graphics are so good, that if Nintendo said these graphics are 
 slightly better than the N64's graphics, I would say,"No, their slightly better than the GAMECUBE'S 
 graphics!"The reason I gave this a 9 is because if you're not moving, they look a little bad.
  
  Sound: Very good again. If the sound here could be a soundtrack, I would buy it.
  
  Value: This 
 should be given a 100. So much stuff to do.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: The game is great in everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtimandan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I have played Mario Karts since they were initially unleashed on the world however until this incarnation, 
 I don't recall there being so much frenetic button-mashing and control-pad throttling. It builds 
 to a frenzy at times, especially when playing via Wi-Fi. 
  
  The competition is fierce, even when pitted against the CPU's drivers, and you will yell, grunt, 
 LOL and even jump and twist in your seat from time to time, all in an effort to get ahead or in 
 desperate hopes of staying there.
  
  Initially, I wondered why Nintendo didn't allow for an easy option to add online members to your 
 Friends List, but now I know why - you will *never* make any friends playing this game. I would 
 even venture to say that Nintendo's sales of the DS console are climbing as you read this, not 
 just from gamers wanting to get their hands on this excellent game but also from the in-game casualties 
 that some DS units will likely suffer from the unit being thrown against the wall, laid on a flat 
 surface and stomped upon or even being thrown out the window of a moving car. This game is so fiercely 
 competitive that you will see a great deal of fellow trackmates suddenly *disappear* when they 
 get frustrated and shut their machine off. Or throw it against the wall - whatever the case may 
 be. It's quite often that a 4-player online match will soon dissolve into a 2-player head-to-head 
 match as some folks aren't in it for the experience, instead it seems they have pink slips up for 
 grabs and bail out if they're not immediately in the lead.
  
  Latency is an issue with players in countries other than your own, and you will see this as their 
 car hops & bops all over the screen, convulsing from one side to the other or even disappearing 
 altogether only to resurface somewhere else ahead of you. It doesn't seem that these folks get 
 dropped from the game at least, and of the few hundred times I've played I've only experienced 
 a single issue of the network having a problem and disconnecting me so reliability of the "WFC" 
 seems to be top-notch.
  
  Control is incredibly tight, although the mini-turbo can be tricky at first [more on that below] . 
 Nintendo nicely resurrected, replicated and spit-polished some tracks from previous incarnations 
 of Mario Kart; the old SNES tracks represented here are still flat as a board, but it's good nostalgia 
 in that fact.
  
  The weapons are ever present in the Item Boxes that litter the raceways and a few new tricks are 
 up your competitors sleeves, namely a Blue Spikey Shell [its incoming WHOOSH! followed by an incredible 
 explosion will be your bane of ever being in the lead position] , and the fun Bullet Bill weapon 
 will quickly auto-steer you down the course in rapid time, fast eclipsing your competitors, and 
 if you're able to steer close enough to them you will upset their karts along the way.
  
  Some folks prefer to cheat [a lot] in this game with a fairly easy technique called "snaking". 
 This is the practice of using the mini-turbo boost while they're going down a long straight stretch, 
 something that's supposed to be reserved only for exiting a corner quickly . When I see this total 
 disregard for the fun and competition this game is supposed to offer, I instead turn the machine 
 off as you cannot ever catch these characters and it's simply no fun since there's no element of 
 competition.
  
  If you don't have a wi-fi connection in your home, you can apparently go to any McDonald's and 
 utilize their free wi-fi hotspot or any other hotspot will work just fine as well. There's even 
 a small USB radio device you can purchase from Nintendo that, if you have a broadband connection 
 but no wireless router, will allow your DS to then connect to the WFC wirelessly via this gizmo. 
 Configuring the DS to work with a hotspot is a snap, taking mere moments to perform.
  
  This game is a must-have for any DS owner. It's great fun and is filled with frenetic challenges 
 and frenzied competition whether you're playing solo, with a DS friend nearby or via wi-fi. The 
 sounds are N64-good [try it with headphones! The difference is incredible!] , the graphics are quite 
 good [better than N64 but not quite Gamecube caliber] and of course there are no slow-downs, pop-ups 
 or anything of that ilk, but we have come to expect this when we're getting our hands on a 1st-party 
 Nintendo title that every conceivable gremlin will have been exorcised from it by the time it reaches 
 your hands. 
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K03NTJ3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Yep.. that's it! finally there is the mario kart we waited for! and is it worth it? DEFENETLY! 
 if you have a nintendo ds, make sure you have Mario Kart DS!
  
  Why?
  Let me tell you.
  Mario Kart DS has got mayor graphics. the old-school gameplay, sounds that make you happy and lasts 
 for hours.. if you want to play a little game before you go to bed, dont blaim me if you are playing 
 till midnight.. its very addicting.
  well, lets get to the ratings!
  
  Gameplay:
  the trusted old-skool gameplay reminds you of your old NES, somewhere in your closet. if you play 
 this game, you will get it out of the closet and clean it, becouse you think NES is the one that 
 started this.
  Very very cool gameplay. with the touchpad you switch between 2 maps, en quickly choose your driver 
 and car. also you can create your own logos.
  the gameplay makes the game, thats why the gameplay is worth 10
  
  Graphics:
  Very nice for 
 a Handheld. maybe the best graphics on a ds for now. grait textures and even more, the scenery 
 makes you crying, so good is it! the only little problem is the distance.. you cant see the finish 
 line in the same line if its further than 6 secs.. but you wont reconice it when ur into the game.. 
 all by all: these are the graphics nintendo has to keep for its DS games! grait graps so give it 
 a grait mark... its worth 9!
  
  Sound:
  The mario sounds and music always gave me the childish feelings, i like that. the themes are very 
 nice, and you'll love it. the voices of all the drivers are cool, and also the sound ur kart make 
 are nice. the only little prob is that bowser has got a fake voice, and donkey kong is ill, his 
 voice is very scooby-doo kinda.... well, its worth a 9! defenetly.
  
  Value:
  you can play it for ages and ages. there is the old grand prix mode, the battle mode, the mission 
 mode, and you can break your own records by best lap and best total.. endless possibilitys for 
 this game. even online is a grait challenge, if you think you're too good for the rest of the world... 
 play it befor going to sleep, before you go to school, and challenge your friends or dudes in your 
 schoolclass. play it over and over again.
  worth 10!
  
  Tilt?
  Well, im thrilled!
  10 again!
  
  Conclusion.
  this is maybe the most current kickass game for your ds. even if 
 your not a really race-game freak, like me, you'll like it becouse of the endless possibilities 
 and multiplayer mode. just get this one and play your socks off!
  
  Have fun! =)
  Koen (a. k. a Kroeks) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shikaka
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I thought it would be a nice addition to the DS isle of games. 
 I was less than correct. Mario Kart DS was much better than expected. The smooth sound and 3D graphics 
 compliment the gameplay.
  
  Many elements from the Gamecube game, Mario Kart double dash, are carried over to the DS hit. These 
 include the famous drifting and boosting technique.
  Another interesting factor is that many stages from throughout Mario Kart's history. These range 
 from the SNES, GBA, GC, N64, and many new stages exclusive to the DS. Also like Double Dash, there 
 are many Karts and stages to unlock.
  The online play is great. Find a hotspot and connect trhough many different modes such as regional, 
 worldwide, rival, and friends modes. The speed keeps up with the racing action and there is always 
 an opponent you could meet out there.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart is a solid hit to the DS. It should bring the DS out of its low period and 
 into a higher time. Mario Kart DS is unforgettable, as it has never failed us so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RemmyX25
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty, Mario Kart cannot get any better for a hand-held system. Mario Kart DS defies that 
 and goes farther than ever. With 8 different cups, and even tracks from previous games of the series 
 and puts it all together. Plus with 3 unlockable characters and several karts to choose from, theres 
 a lot of replay value to find the right kart and driver. And with Mario Kart DS being one of the 
 first games to go Wi-Fi, players can find it an even greater challenge to be the best racer world 
 wide. I can't give a review on the Wi-Fi since i do not have the connection, but i can guarentee 
 that it will be a blast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightShade_T4b
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a return to classic old Mario Kart after the craziness of Mario Kart: Double Dash 
 on the GCN. You go in, pick your character, pick a kart (there are 2 to begin with but this soon 
 expands to seven) pick a track or Grand Prix and you're racing with all the powerups, jumps, boosts 
 and slides that are common to the games. There are 16 new tracks as well as 16 'retro' tracks from 
 various other tracks that have been included in the games of the N64, SNES, NES, GBA and GCN . 
 The game types include Grand Prix, Time Trial, Vs, Battle (Which has the awesome Balloon Battle 
 game type from the old games in it) and Missions. There are also some unlockable characters too! 
 I recommend it to anyone who wants a lightweight, fun racer, but don't expect it to be Gran Turismo 
 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Accoplyse
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  One of the first times you'll ever be playing online with a Ds game of all time let me tell you 
 why the game is so dang great!
  
  10.00 Gameplay-the game play is great because you have full controls over it turns, brakes etc.
 
  
  10.00Graphics-do i have to explian this the graphics are the best i have seen what has made a great 
 improvement since the nintendo64!
  
  10.00Sound-The sound is very enjoyable when you are racing with your friends or if your in a compition
 
  
  10.00Value-Its great to any mario fan there is so far anybody would love a game this great as this 
 so far everyone loves it!
  
  10.00Review's Tilt-well on G4 they siad it it was a great game and so far the best DS game around 
 so if you have a DS you better get the greatest game of all time that has lived!!!
  
  so far you heard why this is a great game the rating says this game is good in every single way 
 and perfect you cant miss this game if you do you'll be so sorry that you didnt get it so when 
 its your birthday say momie can i have 50 bucks for christmas or your birthday you better go to 
 that store and say to the store sir/mam do you have mario cart DS if they say yes dont think of 
 second thoughts just get the game say good bye get your DS and play your new mario cart DS and 
 you'll find out what i mean by the greatest DS game  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoned_out14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I have got to say this is one of nintendo's greatest Mario Kart I have ever played, The Wi-fi makes 
 it even fun. There is a lot of unlockables in this game like over 50 karts a 2 brand new characters 
 on here.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: The game play was just great on here. It is so great so many karts and a brand 
 new mission mode that is so fun. They have insane missions like hit The King Bomb off of the edge.
 
  
  Graphics 8/10: The graphics were so-so in this game. It didn't look like they took time on this 
 game for it's graphics. I can't really say any thing else about these graphics.
  
  Sound 9/10: I loved the voices on here they sounded great. Me and my friend found what bowser says 
 when you hit him he says Timmy!
  
  Value 10/10: They priced this game just right. It was 50 bucks it was worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_gamer000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  i say this old-school video game has made a great comeback! it has all new features like all new 
 levels, karts, and characters. i also love the new items you can use during races. the graphics 
 are better than the original mario kart 64, witch is no surprise since mario kart 64 came out 10 
 years ago. controls for the game are simple, and you don't even need the touch screen. the price 
 for the game is good, but then again all DS games are cheaper than the Xbox's or the Gamecube's 
 or the Playstation's. mario kart DS is one of the best old-school playing games of it's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soppderock
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kard DS is definitely not a fun game, at least at my point of view. Racing and shooting shells 
 at your enemies feels loosy and shockingly lazy. From what I know, there's been no real good improvements 
 since Mario Dash for the GC, however considering it's a DS game, a handheld one, it's pretty impressive 
 with all the talk about Wifi and stuff.
  
  The game is graphically very good, if we take in consideration it's a DS hardware. 
  
  The 
 game,.... well, it's a racer and there's no story to follow. However, the game has a MISSON MODE, 
 which let's you try out some small nify tracks to outrun your talents in handling and timing, whatsoever, 
 they feel short and not extreme enough. Worst about this floor sweeping game, is the game-pace, 
 the kart-races fell like they're moving 20km/h! While we talk about the racing-tracks, there's 
 very few of them, and none of them are really exciting, except from well handeled change of the 
 atmopshere. Mario Kart DS has added popular old tracks from earlier versions, which makes it more 
 of a pain, since all the tracks feel very dreary once you have driven them thrice. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER is probably Mario Kart DS's strongest core, which elevated the Gameplay score to a 
 4 out of 10! The Wifi connection works perfectly, lagless and flawless. The only thing dragging 
 down the overall experience is when you're looking for opponents online; - it can take a while 
 to find some, AND you can only race against them,... too bad that they did not add the VERSUS mode. 
 Playing with friends is as easily as ever, and fun as well, if you have many friends with a DS 
 hardware, unfortunate to those who does not have some.
  With those options you, and your friends can compete in VERSUS mode where you can choose between 
 Balloon Battle and Coin gathering, which can be quite amusing, in spite of that, it get fast old 
 and dull.
  
  SOUNDS in Mario Kart DS does not change much, and they all (I suppose there were like 5 different 
 tracks?) are bad and don't stirr up the atmosphere at all.
  
  NEW to Mario Kart DS is definitely the Wifi Stuff, and some new Items and new cart designs and 
 new racing tracks. Still, they all have been made in such a bad way that you, as a player, won't 
 really enjoy them. However, that might just be because I don't really like Racing games at allas 
 they seem pointless to me. The only excitement worth the while is multiplayer....
  
  Neverthless, there's not much to say about a game that has no meat, and in all aspects; pretty 
 tiresome. You might enjoy the game for some hours while you explore the few tracks and battle friends 
 or try competing Wireless.
  I would recomend this game for those with many DS friends, and for those who love slow-paced racing 
 games (where you don't have to count much on your reflexes) , with few Character and etc... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcartman3722
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  At first I was a little bit curious about the game. I got the game not very long ago, but I have 
 to say, I was impressed with the overall gameplay. The one player game system was pretty impressive. 
 I loved all the new tracks, although I think they could have borught back some other ones. Most 
 of the characters in the game are pretty nice, I was a bit confused about R. O. B. because I was 
 not familiar with him from any of the Nintendo games. I really liked the two new items that were 
 brought to the game, although i'm sure they could have tried to add a few more new ones. The one 
 thing I loved about the game was obviously the Wi-FI connection. I think it's good that Nintendo 
 is making games online, considering the fact they only had one game series online for the Gamecube. 
 Overall, I think it's the best game for the DS that has been released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karzon89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Lots of new stuff in the series here! That's what makes it, in my opinion, the best in the series. 
 Great for replay value, very addicting, and for those with an Internet connection, Online play 
 is so fun! It's worth buying it just for that! Great selection of karts to choose, cool new items, 
 a LOT of maps, a new section of the game for missions. Gotta have this. Puts a lot of features 
 from the last games in this one including the Battle Mode, for those who are veterans. Difficulty 
 level can go from very easy, to very tough, so there are many people who can play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Squishie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  This game is mostly made up of past mario kart games. And that is a good, good thing. It also includes 
 online play, a first for the series and the first for DS. There is also a fun mission mode which 
 refines your driving skills in fun and unusual ways. 
  
  I can't really say anything that isn't in other reviews, but I can say, from a gamers's perspective, 
 this game rocks. This game is amazing, there is no reason why anybody wouldn't like this game- 
 unless somebody hates mario, but few do.
  
  This review is painfully short, and I assure you, This is the only review I have written that is 
 this short. But this game is so good I'm almost lost for words. So don't read anything else, I 
 implore you, go buy this game NOW!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afly727
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  im so sick and tired of every one saying how perfect this game is well ITS NOT THIS ISTHE WORST 
 GAME I EVER PLAYED. why do u ask ill tell you why first of all the ai is like attached to you by 
 a ruberband making it extremly hard or extremly easy. the online play is soooooo bad it uses no 
 featers it could of had. like an online loby and able to use the mic and send messages to your 
 friends. did i say how crappy the ai is im sorry i am a huge nintendo fan and mario fan but this 
 game is no fun at all i am soo mad. this is the worst game i have ever played and i played a lot 
 of video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urmean15
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm still playing unlocking things since I got this game cristmas day! The single player is great, 
 with Grand Prix, Battle, Missisons, and unlockable for Wifi. Speaking of Wifi, IT IS AWSOME! The 
 only downside is you cannot talk to other people. Dissapointing yes, but the racing is hardcore. 
 You can play for hours finding rivals and friends all over. It's a really good game with awsome 
 value. Buy this for people who love arcade racing or those who love mario. You can even buy this 
 for someone who dislikes mario. They will like this game. I'm still playing, and playing as I write 
 this review right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NyJeo723
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Another must have for DS owners. 
  
  It is fun enough to play with yourself and even funner playing with friends or even wi-fi.
  
 
  The controls are nice and smooth and they even have new cars for each character. they have classic 
 courses from all the system that mario kart came out in and some new ones also.
  
  They have a mission mode in it which is not really part of the game but i guess for a bit of entertainment 
 and time trial ,grand prix battle mode .
  
  Overall is a great and fun game worth paying $35 or even buying the bundle pack for just $150. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehead000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is like the angel to my gaming this game rocks. i have to fight my brother evry day just 
 to play it. he dont even play games . this game is so addicting that i argue with my mom because 
 she wants to play it i havent seen sunlight in days and havent left my room to go any where because 
 i dont want anyone to ask me to play beacuse its my game!!! all mine but then i beated it unlocked 
 every thing beat all staff ghost and now im free i can finally breath fresh air agian i can finally 
 go see my girlfriend that is until i get animal crossing wild world then its back to my room 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detailedghost
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I have to first compliment Nintendo for the outstanding Wi-Fi multiplayer. IT IS OUTSTANDING! Very 
 easy to use and get into. But the rest... Well it has the Mario cart feel that came from previous 
 systems such as the N-64 one, but they've added new characters such as R. O. B. (U didn't hear that 
 from me) and new power ups like the squid to cover other carts vision with ink. It has brand spanking 
 new courses with revamped old courses from the NES, N-64 and the handheld series. The sound department 
 did a good job (remember the characters don't talk much in the Mario series, so I'm giving them 
 a break) . Very addicting, very fun, and very new. I recommend this game to any game who loves the 
 Mario franchise and carts... lots and lots of carts... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamanomega
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  this game was an amazing step for portable gaming a racing game that is not shabby on the different 
 modes of play theres something to do on this game no matter what mood your in, the VS. mode is 
 fun for when you feel like racing but not for an extended period of time, grand prix mode for when 
 you feel like killing some time, battle modes for when you feel like beating ppl down and last 
 but not least mission mode this is a new mode to mario kart it will help you hone you skills with 
 things like driving through hoops or hitting targets and it has boss battles were you do things 
 like try to knock the enemy of the stage or hit one part a serton amount of times. I definitely 
 suggest this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCloud419
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Alrite, for those who haven't played a Mario Kart game (which i don't see why) , its about... well 
 a kart racing game! This isn't your typical racing games that just focus on cars, you got some 
 of your favorite Nintendo characters going for the gold (or silver) . Hmm.... there has to be more 
 than just nintendo characters running laps.. OH YEAH, nintendo characters running laps using items 
 to pummel your opponents! Pretty cool. The game features no story mode but aside from that it does 
 feature hours (i mean hours!) of limitless fun. Now Nintendo has introduced the wifi connection 
 which enables you to race opponents from around your neighborhood, to around the world! It's an 
 amazing aspect how a handheld gaming has evolved and this is history in the making in my opinion. 
 A very nice little feature of wifi matches is that you create your custom emblems! An emblem is 
 like a certain icon people can recognize you with. Whats that? Your friends all have DS'S but don't 
 have the game? No Problem! With the DS download play option all can enjoy! Look, get this game. 
 I got it and i'm very pleased with it! Who knows, maybe we'll meet on the race track! XCloud419....... out. 
 Peace everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best racing games that will ever be on the DS! this installment in the mario 
 kart series brings back old school levels from the snes and gba and puts them in a 3d enviornment! 
 there are even missions and bosses to fight which are fun and challenging and will make you play 
 intill the the charger runs out! the wireless gameplay is as fun as ever and will make you play 
 with friends for hours! the charcters that are in this mario kart game make you say "OH THEY WENT 
 OLD-SCHOOL!" and you will be surprised! the only objection i have with the game is the turning 
 has changed from mario kart: double dash so you would have to get used to that but other then that 
 you should really pick this one up for your DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta_Commander
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Wow. All I can say about this game is that you must get it. It's the best DS game currently out 
 there, and hitting a Japaneese from behind with a green shell online is one of the most satisfying 
 things you'll ever do. If you don't even want this game go home and keep playing your "cool" copy 
 of EA Mediocre 2006. This has to be the best Mario Kart game yet, and will set the standards for 
 all multiplayer online games and kart racers that follow. Y O U M U S T G E T T H I S GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernova96
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always had its own charm. Since its days on the SNES each episode had its own arcade 
 style feel. While the grandprix's didnt last to long, If you had some friends, the vs and battle 
 modes could give you hours of fun.
  
  The new Mario Kart on the DS keeps that style, yet improves the game in so many ways. First of 
 all, There are more than double the grandprix's, since there are the new mario kart levels, and 
 some classic maps from the SNES, N64, GBA, and Gamecube versions. Not only have they added our 
 favorite maps from other games, but they have also invented some of the best maps of the series. 
 I was just awestruck when racing through battleship fortress, which really sparked some old Supermario 
 3 memories. And what can be better than being a pinball and running through Waluigi pinball.
  
  As if that wasn't enough, there are new mission modes to occupy your time. They range from 
 going through gates, collecting coins, battling goons, or achieving so many powerslides. Powerslides 
 are not something new, but is a skill that is highly stressed in mario kart ds. There are many 
 maps which require this move to really win the race.
  
  The best additiion to the game is the online mode. Although there are a few issues, it still is 
 very fun. After your wifi connection is on, you can race four opponents, and a selection of about 
 15 maps. The races add a new sort of challenge, since you are racing human players. Another cool 
 feature is the rivals mode, which matches you up against players with similar ranking. If you do 
 play online, do expect to see snaking. Snaking is a technique which incorporates constant power 
 sliding from one end of the road to the other. This way the player can get extra speeds. Whether 
 you are a casual player or a snaker yourself there a some flaws. Snakers will usually always beat 
 a very good normal racer. And even if you are a snaker, half the time the othe rplayers disconnect 
 , which will nullify a win. But most of the time you are matched up with a preferable match, which 
 makes the online so much fun.
  
  All these added feature left me thirsty for more. Perhaps the revolution mario kart will feature 
 online battle mode. There might be a story feature, which you can earn coins and upgrade your karts 
 with engine and tires etc. 
  
  If you own a ds and have wireless internet, this is a MUST buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeezuh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always had its own charm. Since its days on the SNES each episode had its own arcade 
 style feel. While the grandprix's didnt last to long, If you had some friends, the vs and battle 
 modes could give you hours of fun.
  
  The new Mario Kart on the DS keeps that style, yet improves the game in so many ways. First of 
 all, There are more than double the grandprix's, since there are the new mario kart levels, and 
 some classic maps from the SNES, N64, GBA, and Gamecube versions. Not only have they added our 
 favorite maps from other games, but they have also invented some of the best maps of the series. 
 I was just awestruck when racing through battleship fortress, which really sparked some old Supermario 
 3 memories. And what can be better than being a pinball and running through Waluigi pinball.
  
  As if that wasn't enough, there are new mission modes to occupy your time. They range from 
 going through gates, collecting coins, battling goons, or achieving so many powerslides. Powerslides 
 are not something new, but is a skill that is highly stressed in mario kart ds. There are many 
 maps which require this move to really win the race.
  
  The best additiion to the game is the online mode. Although there are a few issues, it still is 
 very fun. After your wifi connection is on, you can race four opponents, and a selection of about 
 15 maps. The races add a new sort of challenge, since you are racing human players. Another cool 
 feature is the rivals mode, which matches you up against players with similar ranking. If you do 
 play online, do expect to see snaking. Snaking is a technique which incorporates constant power 
 sliding from one end of the road to the other. This way the player can get extra speeds. Whether 
 you are a casual player or a snaker yourself there a some flaws. Snakers will usually always beat 
 a very good normal racer. And even if you are a snaker, half the time the othe rplayers disconnect 
 , which will nullify a win. But most of the time you are matched up with a preferable match, which 
 makes the online so much fun.
  
  All these added feature left me thirsty for more. Perhaps the revolution mario kart will feature 
 online battle mode. There might be a story feature, which you can earn coins and upgrade your karts 
 with engine and tires etc. 
  
  If you own a ds and have wireless internet, this is a MUST buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roblino
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  mariokart has always been an amazing series, but this year nintendo have out done themselves.
 
  since the nintendo ds' launch last year there have been alot of dissapointing racing games such 
 as ridge racer ds and need for speed, but theres now way you can get a more fun, frantic and f##king 
 brilliant racing game any where!!!
  with amazing multi player ,single and multi kart (pun intended) , wifi and a hell of a lot to do 
 a single player mariokart ds is one of the greatest racing games of all time, so go on try saying 
 a badpoint........ you cant so ha!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafreak621
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say, that EVERYTHING from the menus to the graphics, to the gameplay, just is so awesome 
 that your eyes will probably peel out of their sockets!
  
  Nah but really, This game is deffinitely recognizable as one of the best racing games of all time. 
 Portability makes it Second to None.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  Just really effing fun. Whether you snake or just straight gun it, this is the game for you. I 
 have yet to try out online though. Im too lazy to recconect the USB connector I guess....
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  
  The DS really is shaping up to its "portable N64" name. It's power is 
 really being manipulated to create beatiful graphics (for a handheld) and run at 50-60 frame rate. 
 Like seriously?
  
  Sound- 8/10
  
  The yells from the racers really could use some dumbing down. Especially in how much it happens. 
 The music is repeptitive too, to the point where I want to surgically remove my speakers and make 
 them just shut the EFF up!
  
  Value-9/10
  
  This game is really something you can just pick up and start playing. You seriously can just see 
 it on a store shelf, pick it up, put it in your DS and start playing. Its just that much fun. But 
 then theres the Dreaded Blue Shells and lightning, you really begin to get P. O'ed at the game and 
 not play it for weeks.
  
  Reviewers Tilt-9/10
  
  Yeah not really that much to say about this. Now unless you have a crooked neck or crooked eyes, 
 your tilt should be just fine. LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishmobsta4eva
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I am surprised.
  
  There's no way this works on paper. 3-D Mario Kart, but with no control stick, fewer characters, 
 and online. First of all, i thought Mario Kart Super Circuit for GBA or whatever it was called 
 was totally unplayable; I hated not having a control stick. Good thing I borrowed it from someone. 
 But, the control pad is extremely responsive in this game, weird as it sounds. Second, the one 
 thing that kept me playing in Double Dash!! was its vast platoon of characters. Dude, that thing 
 was loaded with characters. Petey Pirhanna? Talk about a minor character! But this game does have 
 a good 12 characters, and that's just enough. And the online just blows you away. You have to try 
 it to believe it. It's a fully-fledged online game, with complaints about "snakers" and omgwtfbbq. 
 But the thing that really puts this game over the edge is that it has twice as many courses as 
 any Mario Kart before. It has 16 new courses, Waluigi Pinball owning them all, but throw in four 
 courses from each of the four previous games to total 32 courses. Now it takes you twice as long 
 to beat it! ^_^ So if you have a DS, it's a shame you don't have this yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephoroth_43
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  When you pick it up and you just start doing the grand prix you think its just an other mario kart 
 game. But its not cuz you didnt check out its other features.
  Like 1 player battle mode is fun a and missions mode. Mission mode is the first thing i checked 
 out . What other racing games have bosses like huge bomb guys and sand creatures ect. ect. And 
 the tracks who could have thought if a clock as a racing track. And the the battle mode just hours 
 and hours of fun, you'll never got board of it. but the shine one on that one wasnt that good.
 
  And the battle fields were aswome like the block fort was a evlolution from the block city. the 
 game is just amazing the i could recomend to any one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  MKDS is finally here. If you like Mario Kart and you don't have a DS. You can get the MKDS bundle. 
 You get a RED DS some decals and MKDS. 
  The game has all the regular MK characters. Plus you can unlock R. O. B. whose karts aren't terrific. 
 There are about 20 new tracks. And old school tracks from Mario Kart (SNES) , Mario Kart 64 (N64) , Mario 
 Kart Super Circiut (GBA) , and Mario Kart Double Dash (GCN) . All the chracters have 2 new karts. 
 Along with their normal kart. Once you unlock the Magnicfiect 7. All karters have 7 karts. 4 of 
 which are other karter's karts.
  Overall only one bad thing. You can't be Link. Please Nintendo put Link on the next Mario Kart.
 
  The Multiplayer is great. Wi-Fi and LAN. 
  
  Great game
  Must pay for the DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  ok i admit, i aint one of those people who plays a game 24/7 until its complete 100% though if 
 i did play it non stop it wouldnt even take me 24 hours. The missions are so easy its criminal, 
 50cc is a joke and the only course that ive ever lost is 150cc mirror.
  
  There is a good variety of tracks there but the one thing i was INCREDIBLY disapointed about was 
 the classics tracks. Out of all of the classics they picked the most basic and boring, BABY FREEKIN 
 PARK come on thats just lazy. for that bit alone it doesnt get a 10/10 by me. Though they did through 
 is a corkscrew which is a first for a mario kart game, i think.
  
  The gameplay is very fun but its just far to easy. The levels can be sometimes very boring and 
 it even feels like they ran out of ideas so they just went down to there local park to look up 
 ideas - merry go round at bowser caslte?
  
  Again what happened to this 128bit that all of us DS fans are still waiting to see, you lied to 
 us Nintendo.
  
  its a good game but unless your either terrible at mario kart you wont be enjoying it for long. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerbbadd1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is very similar to every other Mario Kart game. You play through a few Grand Prixs, 
 then you replay them over and over, either just for fun or to try and get better and better at 
 the game. There is also a great multiplayer in this game, which allows you to play Mario Kart online 
 for the first time in history. Using Wi-Fi hot spots, you can play Mario Kart with people all over 
 the world. Also, if you have a group of friends with you, there can be eight people playing on 
 one game cartridge at one time, which is very entertaining, for no matter how long you play. Speaking 
 of which, there is no limit to how long you play, so you can play hundreds of races continuously, 
 assuming your battery holds out that long. 
  The controls in Mario Kart are amazing, again like any other Mario Kart. They are entirely simple, 
 yet it still takes a little while to master them, although if you put in enough time, or if you 
 are a Mario Kart veteran, it doesn't take long anyway. 
  There are also some cool new things to do in both single player and multiplayer. In single player, 
 there are now some missions that take a little while to complete, making for a nice added-on touch. 
 And you can really tell the difference in your skill level after you complete the missions. Even 
 if you think you're already a pro, you can take your game to the next level with the missions. 
 
  For all you fans of the balloon battles, don't worry, they're back, and available in multiplayer 
 mode. But accompanying them to the DS is the new Shiner battle mode (Shiners are similar to the 
 Sun-Sprites you're trying to get in Super Mario Sunshine) . There are a set number of Shiners in 
 a level, and you try to get as many as possible. People are being eliminated at certain intervals, 
 so eventually it narrows down to the select few. Once more, Nintendo has added on a nice touch 
 to the game. 
  Grand Prix has also undergone some changes. For one thing, there are two sets of Grand Prixs: the 
 new ones made for the game, and some Retro courses, one from each previous game in each Grand Prix. 
 There's eight Grand Prixs in all, coming to a total of 32 courses, and they're all worth checking 
 out a few times, some that you will find you like more then others. 
  Quite simply, Mario Kart DS has done what only a certain few games ever have done before or any 
 other games will ever do. It has transcended to the level of games that we remember forever as 
 one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkshadow96
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Fun once you buy it but later on when you have beated the game like me it wont be that 
 good anymore. I like the fact that they added so much options to the game like mission mode [but 
 too damn short] battle mode that includes balloon battle and shine runner. I give the online mode 
 a so-so but later when you star seeing hackers i'll give it a no-no but the multiplayer is okay 
 but thats what anyone will expect from a mario kart. And the controls will take awile cause the 
 feal of control pads instead of a analog stick. And the coolest part of this game is that this game 
 could sear for access points anytinme and play online like if you are going to field trip or anything 
 that is boring [like what i always do] just for that and there you go.
  Best graphics for a ds game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DCFilms
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This was a game that I was waiting for a LONG time to come out and I wasn't let down at all with 
 the game play. The initial thing for you to do when you pick up the game is to start playing the 
 cup races, but once you get into the multi-player action, you can't put it down.
  
  The Cup races can be challenging, and have great replay value by you wanting you to beat your score 
 and unlock new and more challenging cups. Sometimes it gets so frustrating that you just want to 
 throw your DS, but you keep coming back for more which make it even more addictive.
  
  If you arn't fortunate enough to have a wireless router of your own, you can go to any Mcdonald's 
 (or just take a walk around you're neighborhood until you find an access point!) to play for free. 
 Only four players can get a bit boring and sometimes difficult to get four players at once. They 
 also left out some of the best tracks from the cups, but there is enough to keep you entertained. 
 The lag isn't too noticeable but once and a while you will come across an opponent who wont stop 
 wobbling.
  
  The last mode is a "mission" mode. It allows you to increase your skills and is fairly entertaining 
 at first but once you beat it with the highest score you can get, you probably wont want to play 
 it again. 
  
  Over all, this game is another great DS game and is a must-have for any fan of the Mario Kart series. 
 The way Nintendo has taken classic tracks from the previous Mario Karts including Block Fort for 
 the battle mode make it even more classic. The Wi-Fi multi-player doesn't disappoint and is fun 
 for hours on end.
  
  DCFilms 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sealover8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Ever since the DS came out, I was itching to buy one. I then saw an opportunity, the Mario Kart 
 DS pack for $150. Id get a cool colored DS and Id save $10 on the game. The game is spectacular 
 with amazing graphics for a handheld. Probably the games biggest add on is the wireless ability 
 to race someone anywhere in the world. Sadly, I cant get this feature to work. At the time, my 
 funds arent sufficient to purchase a USB thing. The game has 32 courses, all of them are colorful 
 and vibrant &16 of them are new. All of them are greatly varied from the comically grim Luigis 
 Mansion to the large and bright Tick-Tock-Clock. And of course, it just wouldnt be Mario Kart 
 if it didnt have Rainbow Road (which it does) . The other 16 courses are old courses from the SNES, 
 N64, Gamecube & GBA. The courses include some old throw backs, such as Frappe Snowland from the 
 N64 and Baby Park from the Gamecube. One of the features in the game that they dont have, that 
 I thought would be kind of cool, was when youre doing multiplayer, kind of like Double Dash, one 
 person does the steering and stuff while the other one throws the items. I also really like how 
 you can make your own emblem which will be displayed on your kart. There are also a few new items 
 added to the game such as, Bullet Bill which turns you into none other than Bullet Bill. Probably 
 my favorite item is Inky the Squid. He sprays all the karts in front of you with ink so that 
 they cant see where theyre going. When you get sprayed, the ink goes all over your screen, and 
 then drips down in realistic fashion. There are also 2 new characters added on to the game, Dry 
 Bones (my personal favorite) & Rob (I think hes the robot that helps you throughout the Star Fox 
 64 game) . Another major feature to the game is, Missions. To beat a mission, you must first complete 
 8 minigames that vary from making 5 power slides in 1 lap to collecting coins around a selected 
 course. After you beat these 8 minigames, you then get to fight a boss -- yes, they actually have 
 a boss in Mario Kart. The bosses are all different. Like King Bob-omb where you have to throw bob-ombs 
 at him, while avoiding his. Another one is called, Eyerok (which kind of reminds me of that old 
 OOT boss where you have to shoot his hands) . But in Mario Karts case, you have to shoot green shells 
 at these hands while trying to avoid getting hit. The sound is superb and crisp and the sound track 
 is exactly what youve come to expect of Mario Kart. Peppy, happy tunes that tend to get stuck 
 in ones head. All in all, Mario Kart is a great game and should not be missed. Highly recommended 
 to anyone who has a DS and even a mild interest in racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenTa_613
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Mario Kart, the one kart game that started it all. Now it's back on Nintendo DS with something 
 so new. ONLINE PLAY. Alot of stuff is back. First of all you have the Grand Prix. 32 tracks new 
 and old. 12 different characters 3 of which you have to unlock. 3 karts for each character making 
 a total of 36. Also new and old items come back to this game. Bullet Bill, a new item that speeds 
 you along the track hitting other racers. Get's pretty difficult after 150 cc but if you try you 
 should be able to manage. The online play is great, you are matched up based on your win-lose record. 
 Trade friend codes so you can play with people you enjoyed racing with. Balloon Battle and Sprite 
 Runner is back also. Who can forget balloon battle that was on SNES? Shine runner, an awesome racing 
 version of tag by collecting shine sprites. This game has so many things to offer. Not to mention 
 the offline multiplayer with friends owns so much.
  9
  
  Graphics:
  Some of the best graphics on the DS. The old stages from SNES and GBA are revived in 3D and the 
 GC tracks look amazing. The characters and karts look really great as well. Although I do feel 
 they could have done a little better. Well at least they don't look like clay as they did in Mario 
 Kart 64
  9
  
  Sound:
  All of the music from all the tracks is back. The sound effects are awesome as well. It sounds 
 like you are actually racing in real life especially if you are wearing headphones. You can hear 
 in which ear which side the kart behind you is in and the same for the red shells that home in 
 on you. Sound was just something you can tell Nintendo worked really hard on doing.
  9
  
  This game should definitely be picked up by any DS owner and with wireless internet. If you don't 
 have a wireless adaptor at home don't fret! You can by a Wi-Fi USB connector for your PC. It's 
 about $35 dollars at Nintendo's online store. So rev up your engines and I'll see you guys online.
 
  --KenTa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demiree
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj 
 mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk 
 jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj 
 mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk 
 jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj 
 mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk 
 jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj 
 mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m HJHKJG gk jg j lj mm mm m mm m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The easy to pick up controls that we've seen since the original are back - left and right 
 to steer, a button to accelerate, one to brake, one to use your item and one to hop. This lets 
 beginners who aren't used to video games jump in pretty quickly, yet it still maintains enough 
 to keep the veterans coming back for more. The selection of karts each have their own rankings 
 in various categories - some are faster, some accelerate faster, some handle better, and some even 
 have a better chance of getting a good item to attack your enemies with. All the familiar shells, 
 mushrooms, banana peels and so forth are back, with three new items - a bullet bill that makes 
 you travel at high speeds for a short time and bowl over anything in your path, a bob-omb which 
 is essentially a banana on a timer that causes a big explosion, and a squid that shoots ink on 
 your screen (but you can usually drive looking entirely at the map screen and not lose much efficiency) . 
 You also have the return of the balloon battles, shine battles, and missions with various short 
 specialized goals to achieve that even include boss battles. This game also helped launch the Wifi 
 service which lets you race against others from around the world. There's also 32 tracks to race 
 on - 16 from the previous games in the series (4 from each game) , and 16 all new ones, all grouped 
 in 4-race cups. The only drawback, in the eyes of some, is the snaking mechanic - there's a mechanic 
 that lets you get a speed boost when you're finishing taking turns if you execute it right, but 
 some just zigzag on a course to make those utilizing this mechanic difficult to compete against 
 unless you do so yourself. This is usually only an issue in the online races though.
  
  GRAPHICS: This game does a pretty good job of showing off what the DS is capable of, it's basically 
 a little better than N64-quality. The design of some of the new tracks are great, ranging from 
 the shipyards of the SMB3-like airships, a pinball track, an oversized clock, and so forth. The 
 game runs very smoothly as well.
  
  SOUND: The music is what you'd expect from a Mario Kart game, with themed music that matches up 
 pretty well with the tracks, none of which really get annoying as the races are only a few minutes 
 long tops. Each character has a limited amount of voice acting, often a cheer or a sound of disappointment.
 
  
  VALUE: The 32 tracks with 4 different skill levels, the balloon battles and shine battles, the 
 missions, the online play, all of this adds up for a lot of replayability. The only drawback in 
 my mind is the inability to do balloon battles online. Regardless, there's still a lot of hours 
 that you can pump into this game and still be entertained.
  
  TILT: This is easily the best in the series since the original, probably surpassing even that groundbreaking 
 game. From its simple controls to its very interactive battles that can change rapidly back and 
 forth through the use of the attack items you get to the long-due introduction to online play and 
 even new features like the missions and boss values, this game breathes a lot of new life into 
 the series and is that kind of game that will result in a lot of sales of new DS units. It's games 
 like this that is making the DS pull away from the games that the PSP have to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirm_17
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Sorry i just put that there to get ur a attention but this is one hell of a game. i mean who thought 
 it would be possible to put missions in a mario kart game.... CRAZY right? and the wifi compatibility 
 makes it even funner u can play against people in hong kong even pretty rad eh? think ur the best 
 then take the challenge to wifi. (its orgasmic) also all the other modes are pretty sweet including 
 multiplayer, tournement, battle and mant more... actually just 2 more. the fact that there is a 
 way to get access to all 27 karts is pretty sweet. the only defect in the game is that they should 
 have added more charaters. now only if they made a double dash for ds.????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBMFighter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a great series and has visited the handheld befoe and has done good but not this 
 good. The gameplay is great and has many tracks plus more racers. The tracks look just just like 
 they would on the systems that the tracks were orginally on. The extra tracks look great as well. 
 The graphics are amazing and I don't believe I have seen to many games on the DS that are like 
 this. Just amazing. The sound is traditional to the mario Kart series which is great becuase of 
 a beat to keep people playing. This game is a game that any DS owner should have in their collection. 
 If you don't you don't have a complete collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enforcer-x
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and it is very addictive. It is one of the best games since it has online 
 capabilities. This allows you and others to battle or race people from around the world. If you 
 you cant get in to the Nintendo wifi center at your home you can enter through any McDonald's or 
 any other hot spot to enter. Also there is a mission mode, the classic balloon battles, and many 
 tracks you can race on. Well finally, i just got to say that the gameplay is just fantastic, the 
 graphics are great, and if you didn't like mario kart before well this one may change your mind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil4688
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Do you have a wireless router or live near a Wi-Fi Hot Spot? If so then this game is for you. I 
 have a wireless router in my house and this game is a blast to play online. Its also very fun to 
 play with other friends that have a DS because they do not need this game in order to play you. 
 This game is also fun just for yourself if you have to play that way, but I recommend the Wi-Fi 
 multiplayer or to play with up to 8 friends even though they don't have the game. This is a great 
 buy and a definite reason to buy the DS if you don't have one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bbird
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game does not get boring. Plenty of replayability. It it an enjoyable experience for anyone. 
 If you have a friend wiht DS, teach him/her how to play and get rolling. Alot of pick-up-and-playability 
 meaning that you can easily kill hours with this game. You wont want the long car or train ride 
 to end when playing this! Plenty of unlockables to keep you going, it's very good. Mission mode 
 will give you an enjoyable single player experience. I haven't gotten to try the wifi, but it heard 
 it was cool. If you're a fan of racing in general, don't be scared by it's childish appearance. 
 This game has more substance than most modern racing games up to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  
  Mario Kart DS is awesome. Do I really need to say any more. Most of you have probably already played 
 a Mario Kart game before this game, but this one shines simply because of it's online play. At 
 long last gamers can play Mario Kart online! :)
  
  Although the game itself is simply excellent as expected. The visuals are perhaps some of the best 
 on DS. The levels are well detailed and make effective use of the cartoon style Mario has gained 
 over the years. You'll be amazed the first time you play the game simply by how much effort has 
 gone into all the tracks, cars and characters.
  
  Also the game runs at an incredibly smooth and fast frame rate There is little to no slowdown at 
 all throughout the game, so there are no issues there either. Even online, the speed remains constant 
 and playable. Sound also is, as expected at DS quality, but good to say the least. Voices and music 
 are both present for each track and character. Nintendo have even gone as far as restoring the 
 old retro tracks music, so nostalgic Nintendo fans will smile while playing also.
  
  However despite the excellence of both graphics and sound, you will of probably guessed by now 
 that the selling point of Mario Kart DS is the gameplay itself. And guess what? You're right. There 
 are new weapons, like the king mushroom which provides unlimited speed boasts for a certain amount 
 of time, Squids that squirt ink in the other players view which blinds them and a few others also. 
 
  
  Of course, all the other weapons return, including the flying blue shell, made notorious for making 
 the winner become the loser. Other returning weapons include the banana peel, red shell, green 
 shell and the other standard weapons that have made appearances throughout the Mario Kart games. 
 And of course, this is all possible with several players online! And it works well for the most 
 part, with little lag and much fun to be had. In fact, thanks to the online play and variety of 
 tracks, Mario Kart DS is a long addictive game which is always good for the player.
  
  Mario Kart DS has got it's fair share of problems however. Problems involving weapon balancing, 
 which is becoming a serious problem now. On some races, the leader can be blue shelled up to 3 
 times! Also, despite being incredibly fun, Wi-Fi isn't the easiest thing to set up on DS, with 
 issues coming from both the Wi-Fi and the DS themselves. These issues involve connectivity issues, 
 loading matches online take forever!
  
  Although even with these issues, most of you will agree with me that Mario Kart DS has done well 
 to live up the reputation the series has gained throughout the years. Almost everything has been 
 done perfectly with Mario Kart DS: It's visuals, sound and most importantly gameplay. And thanks 
 to online play, you won't be done with this game very soon at all. It's easily the best in it's 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFG
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is an awesome addition to the series of kart racers. It draws the best of the whole 
 series and mixes it with some new stuff. 
  Probably the best part is the wide veriety of tracks to race on. They include both new courses 
 and old tracks from all the Mario Kart games. Some tracks have been a simplefied though, you'll 
 notice that the DS has sacraficed some things like background graphics and obsticles, but it's 
 hardly noticable on such a small screen anyways. 
  The biggest change of the series is the use of Nindendo's Wi-Fi connection to play against players 
 everywhere in the world. You'll get much better competition then the computer that always puts 
 the same racer in any one series as your main advisary. Real players are more fun and offer more 
 veriety to the game and will definetly keep you on your toes. Some players are novice and some 
 are extreme experts that powerslide most of the race to gain boost, a method coined 'snaking' because 
 of the zig-zag motion the racer makes.
  But the biggest drawback to online gaming is the long wait periods it takes for Nintendo to match 
 you with opponents. Whether you select regional or worldwide you'll often wait a few minutes while 
 online players are matched up. After opponents are selected each player selects their driver and 
 kart, which are unlockable in the normal game. After drivers and karts are selected you may then 
 choose a course to race on. The computer will randomly pick one of the tracks that everybody has 
 voted for unless there are two or more votes for the same track. After all this you still end up 
 with players disconnecting during races or doing other unsportsman like gaming, such as staying 
 in last place with the 'bullet bill' item on purpose and then using it to zoom into first at the 
 endo of the race.
  However, a fun game and deffinetly one that will be enjoyed among friends whether battling to keep 
 balloons or in races.
  Perhaps another drawback of online play, no battles, only racing.
  Over all a great, I just chose to pick out my biggest dislikes of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a great series. This game includes all of the excitement of the console versions 
 with an online twist. Double Dash got close with the LAN party setup that is possible, but this 
 lets you meet up with friends and play on Local Networks or take advantge of the Wi-Fi.
  
  The great thing about the Mario Kart series is the combination of racing with battle elements. 
 Smacking people with koopa shells and banana peels or grabbing a star to run into opponents is 
 a great way to take the lead. Forget this whole good driving thing that most racing games try to 
 advertise. Battle while driving to knock people out of a race.
  
  The Wi-Fi may be a little slow in getting up to speed, but as the connects improve, the game's 
 potential will also improve.
  
  Since the DS is a small system, it is nice to see that the game had a lot of attention put into 
 all of the elements of the game and not just the features that take advantage of the dual screen. 
 This is a must own for DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tucabond
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The grafics are good, is very funny & you can play every  
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g sa dgwa f af af sd fs df sdf sd fs df sdf sd 
 f sd fs df sdf s f dsf sdf ds fsd f sdf sd f sdf d f sdf d qk dkbdn oaf biv i b9uvb 9u9si efob 
 ndf ndf09i f0 doi odod opdi idpf opd no nbnoin og nvoij pj poj po jpo jpj po jdpjbfmmpfgn vb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youstupidideot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  a aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa avva aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa avv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hagismunch95
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The moment i stole Mario Kart from i brothers hands and put it into my ds i knew this was the best 
 racing game ever. Its controls are perfectly balanced to the player you are using. Such as Wario: 
 his grubby hands make it hard to grip the steering wheel making his handling hard. The tracks are 
 awesome they feature all the classic tracks that made MK what it is today. The Wi-Fi however has 
 to be the best feature the ability to have freinds and rivals adds to the excitement as you play 
 anyone from the nintendo staff to a panasonic supervisor to just a guy from a random city in ohio. 
 Players have their own styles of racing the most renowned style being snaking. This is defintely 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesar999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I liked the mario kart double dash game on the nintendo gamecube but I just sisn't feel the magic 
 on this game. don't get me wrong, it's a great game for people who haven't or want more from the 
 game. but I had all I wanted and I wanted a new experience. Sure there is online, but I want to play 
 against the people I know so I could rub it in there faces. The game is back with all the characters 
 and some new levels and the best graphics the DS has to offer so far. so the game didn't excite 
 me as much as the other game. but hands down, one of the best games for the DS and other people besides 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sczurk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is just addicting! They still have the Grand Prix 50cc 100cc and 150cc plus mirror 
 mode. They have awesome karts for example once you unlock Walugi in 100cc he has a crane car. They 
 still have the battles but a little less with only shine runners and balloon battle. They have 
 the VS mode where you can race cars against other computer characters in the game. One more change 
 is that you don't have two people working your kart only one this time. The big addition is Nintendo 
 WiFi which allows you to go to a designated place and battle friends or strangers from across the 
 world. That is one of the most fun features in this game. You can still race a friend in Multiplayer 
 but your friend has to be 30 feet away. Grand Prix is my favorite part of this game other then 
 WiFi and it is the only way you can unlock people and karts. The bottom line this game is addictive 
 and has endless fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak55
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I personally love this game, but it has its own drawbacks...
  
  GRAPHICS- They are pretty good for a DS but not the best the DS can offer, it still has a few bad 
 pixels that breaks up the road far away.
  
  SOUND- Pretty good but it is still quite low because of the DS standard.
  
  GAMEPLAY- Standard 
 Mario Kart racing with powerups- includes new powerup Bullet Bill, only available for racers with 
 Good Item rating and either 7th or 8th place. Ballon Battle uses MICROPHONE for a new DS experience, 
 but apart from this is Wi-Fi which has its own problem with collision detection for your opponents 
 and NO BALLON BATTLE WI-FI?
  
  VALUE- Repetitive courses start to bore you quite fast since you have to play each 50cc,100cc,150cc 
 and unlockable Mirror150cc, and of course, Mission Mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanker12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  mario kart on ds plays so smoothly, even the gamecube tracks are handled by the little machine 
 without so much as a hiccup. wireless online play is excellent too, though it can take a while 
 to connect sometimes but on the whole this is a minor gripe.
  it's a frustrating game sometimes, but that's mario kart, i hate it when i take the lead and am 
 about to win the race and someone picks up the blue shell and i'm overtaken by two or three cars 
 right at the end, this seems to happen an awful lot to me but it's probably 'cos i'm not very good, 
 i can't even seem to finish the 150cc class, i like the game so much though that i know i'll improve 
 as i continue to play it and hopefully i'll be able to be more competitive online.
  this is without a doubt the best version of mario kart yet made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I've played this for a just a little bit, i just want to say that this is one of the best DS games 
 out right now. Although the graphic is not superb, it instantly bring me back to the nintendo era, 
 where gaems were simple and simply fun. The old school gamers will enjoy it and the new school 
 gamers will know why old shool gamers like these games. This is the best party/racing game for 
 the DS. The shear fun of it make me come back for more and more. Also it has networking so i can 
 play with other pople and say things to them like "Eat my dust and shells". But I haven't play 
 the networking feature because of the short time I had playing it. Nintendo has made a great game 
 that should be and probably will be remembered for a long time. It will also go down as one of 
 the great hand held games ever.
  
  Cover Artwork ~B+~ Simpel yet perfect for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalmaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't like the Mario Kart series? How about all four games in one, including the new tracks, 
 new characters, and the all new Wi-Fi Connection?! A Mario Kart fan's life-long dream. 
  Yes, it's true. All games rolled into one. Add that with the Wi-Fi Connection, and you'll be playing 
 with up to four players online, or how about wireless connection, where you can play with up to 
 eight players with only one cartridge? The Nitro Cup is where you can play in the newest races, 
 while the Retro Cup, and the name implies, is where you can go through the the classic races, with 
 some shortcuts left out. Don't forget the Challenge Series, where you play and defeat challenges, 
 and after you defeat one set (eight challenges) you'll play against a boss, all of them are which 
 classic bosses!
  Gaming taken to the max! This is what I like about the game! The gameplay may take a while to get 
 used to, but other than that, just fine!
  Although the gameplay may be good, but the graphics are sometimes hard to read when playing, sometimes 
 when reading the signs on the track. The graphics are good, but not great.
  The sound is fantastic! The sound relates with the track, and the same way around. I do like the 
 sound; it's energetic.
  Let's see, you get the following: over forty challenges, new races, new karts, new characters, 
 classic races, Wi-Fi Connection with up to four players, and wireless connection with up to eight 
 players with one cartridge all in one cartridge. One great game, many possibilities.
  The tilt is fine. Just fine. Not much to say about this part.
  Overall, the game is a fantastic 
 one. You get to have many possibilities with one cartridge. You should buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Zelda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Whether you love Mario, or hate him, you will definitely love this game. I believe I speak for 
 everybody when I say this, Mario Kart is THE best Mario Kart game since Mario Kart for the SNES. 
 I don't think I should say that this game is the best game on the Nintendo DS, because it's just 
 as good as Castlevania: DoS, Advance Wars: DS and some others.
  
  Personally, when this game came out, i had some doubts on whether if I should buy it or not, since 
 i'm not a fan of racing games, but when i bought this game and i started playing it, i found it 
 really good and very addictive. 
  
  This game is not just a racing game, you also have other things to do in the game. For example, 
 now there is a mission mode, which, as you play through it, it will make you better and better, 
 in other words, the more you play it, the better you become. And guess what? Balloon Battles are 
 back! One of the best features on Mario Kart for the SNES, which was not in either Mario Kart: 
 DD or Mario Kart 64. As I was saying, Balloon Battles are back, and better than ever. It's really 
 fun if you play it against the AI, but it's amazingly awesome if you play it with some friends. 
 You also have the Shining Sun mode, a mode which you might be familiar with if you have played 
 Mario Kart: DD, in this mode you just have to get all of the sunshines and try not to loose any 
 of them, the player who has the biggest number of suns, wins. In this game you have tons of things 
 to do which will keep you hook for months. But my favorite feature is the Online multiplayer. If 
 you have a wireless router and a Hi-speed connection to the internet (Broadband for example) , you 
 are ready to go, if you don't, relax, because you can always buy the Nintendo USB Wi-Fi adapter 
 which will let you play online if you don't have a wireless router.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is just fantastic, a lot better than previews Mario Kart Games. However 
 you might think is just like other racing games, but it's not, so you won't be disappointed.
  
  Graphics: While the graphics are good, in fact, they are the best ones on a DS game, i believe 
 they could have been better, nevertheless, they are still awesome, and everything looks nice and 
 lively.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, the voices of each character is different, and you might find Waluigi's 
 voice very similar to Luigi's voice, in other words, annoying. But overall, the sound is brilliant, 
 Kart's acceleration is very good, sound of the box items is just like the GC version of Mario Kart, 
 and the voices of the characters are good as well.
  
  Value: For value i gave it 10 / 10, because this game is so good that it makes you want to back 
 to it almost everyday. Plus of all the features, Balloon Fights, Shining Sun, Grand Prix, and of 
 course, online, make this game one of the most addictive games on the Nintendo DS.
  
  Overall, i think Mario Kart is an amazing achievement in many ways. This is one of the best DS 
 games yet, it will keep you entertained, and all DS owners should definitely check it out, and 
 even if you don't have a DS, this might be the reason why you should get one, because yeah, it's 
 really that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murraylemmon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Man the online system is fun and everything. One of the best games. I never had soo much fun with 
 ds besides couple other games I been playing. I can't wait til they make another mario kart with 
 new development and etc. This game is just right to get and if noone has this game its a must want. Also 
 I love the WiFi usb connector instead using a wireless cable. Don't have to go to mcdonalds or 
 any other place for just playing mario kart DSThis game is just right to get and if noone has this 
 game its a mustwant. Also I love the WiFi usb connector instead using a wireless cable. Don't have 
 to go to mcdonalds or any other place for just playing mario kart DSThis game is just right to 
 get and if noone has this game its a must want. Also I love the WiFi usb connector instead using 
 a wireless cable. Don't ave to go to mcdonalds or any other place for just playing mario kart DS 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterKevosavi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  The first game I got for the N64 was Mario Kart 64. When I heard that the Mario Kart series was 
 coming to the DS, I was very excitied.
  
  And everything they said that it would be was true. Gameplay, graphics, sound, and the online are 
 all amazing. You can pick what character you want to be (like all Mario Kart games) , AND you can 
 pick which cart you want to drive. As you progress through the Grand Prix mode, you unlock more 
 characters and more carts.
  
  The Mission mode adds a lot to the game's life. There are 64 missions in the game to win, and some 
 are pretty hard. The idea is to beat the mission as well as you can, to get the highest rating 
 possible.
  
  Online mode is super easy. I have a D-Link compatible router, so setting up the DS was a snap. 
 I just entered in my WEP key, and eveything was ready to go. When playing online, the options are 
 more limited then offline or LAN, but still enough to make online play VERY FUN. It can sometimes 
 take up to a minute to find all the opponents, but hey, IT'S ONLINE MARIO KART!
  
  This game is a must buy for anyone with a DS. Do it now if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jt11989
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is back. If you've played any of the other Mario Karts you now what do. Pick a character 
 from a selection that ranges from Mario to bowser. Then you pick your kart that has different stats 
 such as, speed acceleration, handling and a the other things. There are 12 new circuits which make 
 28 in all and 3 different classes, 50cc, 100cc and 150cc. The controls and the flow of the game 
 make the handling the best it has ever been. This time around you can do missions and then fight 
 some bosses. You ca also play online with other friends using the WI-FI connection, which some 
 people and and others hate. Altogether this is the best Mario Kart game out so i will give it a 
 9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ea_master
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  Plus: Stunning Graphics, Captivating Gameplay, Awe-Inspiring Presentation, Lots of Characters, 
 Variety of Courses, Online Play.
  
  Minus: Online Play slightly laggy, Staff Ghosts too easy.
  
  The Nintendo DS, launched in 2004, 
 has been dying for a killer app for as long as it has been in stores. At the launch, arguably the 
 only game worth buying was Mario 64, and that was still less of a classic than the original. Now, 
 it seems Nintendo have got a super game on their hands, combining everything we love about Mario 
 Kart with some tasty new features out of the box, including Nintendo's coveted first venture into 
 Online Gaming.
  
  Graphics are on par with Nintendo 64's effort, Mario Kart 64. Indeed, playing Mario Kart DS gives 
 a strong feeling of nostalgia, especially since 16 of the 32 tracks in the game are old Mario Kart 
 versions, even some from Double Dash!!, the Gamecube effort. Tracks like Baby Park hold up well, 
 as do the SNES tracks, and the GBA and N64 tracks are done well too. The new tracks steal the show, 
 with Figure 8 Circuit, Airship Fortress and a brand new Rainbow Road showing us just what the system 
 can do.
  
  Ninendo's trademark cheeesy music for Mario Kart returns. Tunes range from pleasant to brain-bustingly 
 annoying, as is par for the course for the series. The Sound FX are something to behold. Engine 
 noises are neatly done, explosions handled well, and audio in general done well.
  
  No series bar Mario Kart could get away with the minimal updates through the years. Each versions 
 comes with a couple of new tracks, a new mode or two and one or so new characters. The new Mission 
 Mode in Mario Kart DS sets players off to collecting coins or driving through gates in a certain 
 order. Once the eight missions in a level are completed, a boss battle arises and you have do things 
 from knocking the boss of a platform to getting him with shells. There are eight Levels and nine 
 Boss Battles in all.
  
  Seemingly he biggest draw-card for Mario Kart DS is the Online Play. Players can link up wirelessly 
 to the internet and play across the world against people from other countries. The mode lags a 
 bit, and the frame rate is erratic, but the mode is generally well executed. 
  
  All in all, Mario Kart DS gives all DS owners a fun and expansive Multiplayer Party, and is far 
 superior to the last handheld effort, Super Circuit. It handles well and Mario Kart is on a roll. 
 Bound to be a best seller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Yesssss... This is one of my favorite racing games. That is not because of the music, or the realisum, 
 (ahem... Burnout Revenge... I'm talking about you) but about the Mario Caracters battleing it out 
 for first place... in cars!!!
  Plus, the Nintendo Wi-fi Conection (for more information about Nintendo Wi-fi connection, go to 
 www. nintendowifi. com ) makes the game even funner! (is that a word?) I love the online play, and 
 everything else! All you need is a McDonald's and your DS and you can experiance Gamespy working 
 to let you race against anyone in the world!
  
  P. S. My Nickname is Jigsaw and I have a Blue N in my name (for being a Nsider) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been the top kart racer to beat, mainly due to its amazingly fun and simple 
 gameplay. Everyone can have fun with this game. Now that its out on DS it couldn't be better. Its 
 more a Mario kart collection, featuring a boatload of old skool mario tracks. Even some seen in 
 Double Dash. Powersliding is back but harder to do than in Double Dash. The overall handling is 
 perfect along with all the driving. The graphics aren't mind-blowing but still extremely well done. 
 Music is just as old skool as ever and perfect for each track. What this game really does best 
 is multiplayer though. Battle or VS. are back supporting up to 8 people. Or you can go online (thats 
 right) and play against someone in freakin Japan!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OniPrime
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is that Mario Kart DS is a fantastic game. If you own a DS, you have to grab this 
 one. First of all, the graphics look great on the DS. Compared to the other games, Mario Kart practically 
 blows them away. Although some may complain about a few jaggies, there is nothing significantly 
 wrong with the look of it, in my opinion. In addition, the style used supplements the wacky whimsical 
 world of the game series. Next, the music in Mario Kart DS is awesome. Just listen to the music 
 of Rainbow Road blasted up while wearing headphones. Some of the most fitting and original game 
 music out there. Also, one of the main selling points of Mario Kart DS is the multiplayer. While 
 I haven't played the Wi-Fi yet, I have played with a few of my friends DS to DS and let me just 
 tell you that you will not want to stop. All in all, Mario Kart DS is not one to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhenomenalOne
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  What a game. I thought the first four were great, but this one blew me away. I loved the new courses. 
 Figure Of 8 is so basic, yet so fun (only in a Mario game) , Waluigi Pinball was a great addition, 
 really enjoyable and I thought the retro tracks were good as well, although I have to question 
 some of the N64 and GBA tracks (specifically Frappe Snowland and Peach Circuit) but the Double 
 Dash and Super Mario Kart tracks were well chosen. Multiplayer is as great as it always has been, 
 but even better thanks to wireless play and single cart play. I haven't been able to get online 
 just yet, but I've heard that it's also great as well. Missions are fun but pretty basic, although 
 they do show some great shortcuts on certain tracks!
  
  All in all, this is the best DS game around at the moment, maybe with the exception of Nintendogs 
 and Advance Wars. If you haven't got this, you may as well throw your DS away because you're disrespecting 
 it. It's screaming for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowprince92
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is beyond words. With some old tracks, some new ones, new characters, new karts, 
 and most of all- NINTENDO WI-FI COMPATIBLE! Yes, now you can play Mario Kart with your friend in 
 another state or country for that matter. PLaying will never get boring as you zoom through the 
 tracks with people from around the world. 
  
  Graphics- above average compared to most other DS games.
  
  Sound-Nice music and sound effects 
 if you really care for those in a Mario Kart game.....
  
  Gameplay- Tons of unlockable characters and karts to race in and on. Wi-fi adds hours and hours 
 to your game time.
  
  Replay Value- playing with computers can get boring after awhile, but playing with your friend 
 30 feet away or playing with a stranger in another country just never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soadrock2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Full Name: Mario Kart DS
  Formats: DS
  Playing Time: N/A
  Players: Loads
  
  Well its basically Mario Kart double dash crushed down to a DS version but without two peeps to 
 a kart, i saw the Gamecube Version as crap because it could have been much more but when it got 
 scaled down i was much more impressed, it plays well, looks good and with the ability to play people 
 across the world you'll have hours of fun, I first played this game on the 1st of January, my 17 
 year old cousin brought it for herself and when i went to my grans she was there with it i had 
 a go and instasntly loved it. 
  The gameplay is great, when you are driving the kart it doesn't feel like you are trying to move 
 a brick, it feels much nicer. It has no problems here.
  The Graphics are good for a DS game, when the DS first came out i thought that the grafix had gone 
 backwards instead of forwards but the grafixs are better than the GBA.
  The sounds crap, like all mario games, but the chirpy tunes make you happy like you're high. But 
 the music is better than other Mario games.
  Value: It is Big but not massive, it is obviously longer than other games out there though. You 
 can also do the all new missons, i have no idea what these are but they sound like fun. 
  There is not much wrong with Mario Kart if you think about it. The levels are big and keeping the 
 random boxes make much better than what i could have been.
  
  Graphics: For the DS they are great, anything else, they are crap. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: So easy 
 yet so hard (to master that is) 10/10
  
  Sound: Average for a game 7/10
  
  Value: Its got lots of stuff to do. 9/10
  
  Its a solid game and a must have for DS, i give 
 it 9.2 but it truthfully gets 8.8 thats still a good scroe for a reatively new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingskullz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Mario kart is a vey popular karting game from Nintendo which started out on the SNES. I beleived 
 that the excellent super mario kart had not only created the genre but also perfected it. I was 
 wrong. 2005 sees the ultimate handheld racing game ever made and combined with online play making 
 it probably the most fast and furious racing game ever made.
  
  Gamplay: Karting perfection and a addictive Online play that tops the single player and blows the 
 excellent A. I away. Grand Prix sees you try to complete the cups in an engine class to unlock new 
 characters and karts. The first time you powerslide round a corner earning a speed boost will bring 
 a tear to your eye. This is the best DS game ever made. The handling is perfect and each kart and 
 character carries his or her own varying attributes, which makes each Kart and character handle 
 differently. The weapons are well balanced and there is no lag online. Gameplay is a nine because 
 in Grand Prix gameplay can get a bit boring on some tracks and people online seem to quit when 
 they are losing. Time trial, multiplayer and Battle mode returns in addition to the new mode Shine 
 runners.
  
  Graphics: Almost as good as the Gamecube version and Snes tracks are remade beautifly in full 3-D. 
 Probably the best graphics on the DS so far.
  Waluigi Pinball circuit looks amazing!
  
  Sound: all he original music for each track mean that this game is impressive in the sound department.
 
  
  Value: even if the single campain wont last you for too long Online is there to pick up where you 
 left off. In addition to new DS tracks classic N64 and SNES and GBA circuits remain to mean more 
 than 30+ tracks. and 12+ characterss including Waluigi and Daisy.
  
  Tilt: the best DS game out and a kick in the goolies to PSP owners everwhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewtwo99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  For those unfamiliar with my reviewing style, take a look at my Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time 
 review, where I explain it in detail. As always, the categories are...
  
  Story - 2 pts possible
  Characters - 2 pts possible
  Sound - 2 pts possible
  Gameplay - 2 
 pts possible
  Value - 1 pt possible
  Graphics - 1 pt possible
  
  Story - 2 points
  
  A kart game doesn't need a story, and Mario Kart DS is no exception. This is why absolutely 
 no story is included with the game. How can I justify awarding 2 points for this category then? 
 Well if you'd calm down for a second, I'll explain. There are times when gaming companies feel 
 it is necessary to work in some convoluted mess of a plot for party games, racing games, sports 
 games, or other games that have no need for such an element. Mario Kart DS makes no attempt to 
 do this, and benefits greatly because of it. Had some silly reason been made up as to why all of 
 these Nintendo characters are racing around in go-karts, it would have trivialized the game as 
 a whole, and dumbed it down to a level I dare not speak of. This is why Mario Kart DS earns 2 points 
 for having no story whatsoever.
  
  Characters - 2 points
  
  Every character in a racing game should be distinctly different from every other playable character, 
 and for all reasonable purposes in this game, they are. Mixing and matching carts to the characters 
 results in different overall stats, which really helps enhance the gameplay, and allows for ultimate 
 customization. Each character has their own personality as well, due to little voice snippets that 
 are played when a player gets hit with an item, hits an enemy with an item, passes another player, 
 etc. Even though Daisy is as annoying as ever with her "woo-hooing", Mario Kart DS still earns 
 full credit in the characters category.
  
  Sound - 2 points
  
  You know you're playing a high quality game when each race track has a unique audio track. And 
 you know that it's a high quality game because each individual song from the game augments its 
 otherwise already stunning quality. This is exactly what Mario Kart DS achieves, and is why it 
 definitely deserves full credit in the sound category.
  
  Gameplay - 2 points
  
  This iteration of Mario Kart not only exceeds previous versions in the categories mentioned above, 
 but continues to do so in the gameplay category. With 8 cups, each including 4 unique tracks, there 
 is a variety that is unparalleled in kart racing games in the past. This wouldn't even be so impressive 
 if it weren't for the fact that each track is actually fun to play on one level or another. Throw 
 several battle stages which tend to be fairly entertaining, multiplayer with your friends who have 
 the game themselves (or limited gameplay if they don't) , free online racing with people around 
 the world if you have access to wireless internet, and a plethora of single player missions that 
 at times can be quite challenging if you're going for the 3 stars, and you've got yourself a game 
 that *definitely* deserves full credit in the gameplay category.
  
  Value - 0.8
  
  This is a DS title, and is thus less expensive than standard games for other systems, which is 
 an automatic boost to the value. The game has multiple modes for play, an endless internet mode 
 if you have access, and a myriad of tracks to choose from. It's easily one of the best purchases 
 you can make for your DS, and it's hard to imagine how they could have improved the value of this 
 game anymore in other than one aspect. The items in the game are the only part that keep me from 
 giving this category full points. Sure, they included some new items, but I don't see them as particularly 
 great in changing the franchise in any significant way, and many of the items are recycled from 
 previous games. That being said, this game still holds a tremendous amount of value, which is why 
 I am awarding it 0.8 points.
  
  Graphics - 1
  
  Due to the nature of the game, it had to be rendered in 3-d. 3-d racers always look better than 
 2-d racers that try to emulate a 3-d environment. That being said, the Nintendo DS is hardly capable 
 of producing dazzling 3-d environments, and yet, Mario Kart DS doesn't suffer from the glitchy 
 graphics that many early 3-d games that appeared otherwise similar did. The graphics in this game 
 aren't the best, but they definitely don't detract from the overall appeal of the game. There aren't 
 any moments where you cringe and think to yourself, "Woah, am I living in the mid-90's again?" 
 This is why I award full points to Mario Kart DS in the category of graphics.
  
  The Bottom Line: Mario Kart DS is a superb example of how kart racing should be. From the wonderful 
 customization options, to the plethora of racing environments, there is little to be left desired 
 in this game. If you have a DS and you don't have Mario Kart for it yet, do yourself a favor and 
 pick this game up. It will keep you occupied for a very long time. It is because of these reasons 
 that I have given Mario Kart DS an overall score of 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -tridgen-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  ok this game is really good...
  
  the good parts: good gameplay cool tracks and lots of unlockable things
  also has the wifi compatible 
 so you can be able to play "online" with persons from all of the world also you have one friends 
 list that you can use for... you know add friends but not always you'll be able to play with your 
 friends cause the "racers" are choosed randomly
  
  ok lets pass to the bad things...: you're always doing the same courses which can make you get bored 
 quick there isnt too much characters to choose from and... well this game almost dont have bad things. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis23345
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Review- Mario Kart DS
  
  Mario Kart DS was one of the most anticipated games in development for the DS and with good reason 
 too. First of all, it would be the latest in a series of excellent racing games, that being the 
 Mario Kart series. Secondly it is the first DS game to feature online gameplay. Has it lived up 
 to the Hype? Youre about to find out.
  
  Graphics- B+
  The graphics are the best the DS has had to offer in its short life span, but still they dont 
 even come remotely close to anything seen on the PSP. Still this game looks a lot better than Mario 
 Kart 64 does.
  
  Most of the Characters and the carts are well designed and look great although they are a little 
 blocky. A lot of details to the characters faces etc have been added and they werent present at 
 all in the N64 version, which featured fuzzy 3D characters.
  
  The Tracks look great too. Theres a giant pinball machine, an airship, a castle surrounded by 
 lava and even a rainbow. Also the tracks which are borrowed from other games in the series look 
 better than their counterparts did for the most part. The only exceptions are the Gamecube tracks 
 but that is expected, as the Gamecube is the more powerful console.
  
  Sound/Music- B
  Nothing out of the ordinary here, just the regular Mario series groans, one-liners and music. The 
 music for the new tracks is very catchy and nearly all of them suit the theme of the track well. 
 The quality is also good, better than a lot of the music on the N64 (and by that, I mean almost 
 every game) .
  All the retro tracks have also got the original music and it sounds better than ever.
  
  Now 
 the voices of the characters, theres a sight problem as some of them do sound quite muffled, and 
 their nothing out of the ordinary, like Mario yells out  yippee and momma-mia and bowser roars 
 his trademark growls. But thats OK because we dont want Mario barking like a dog now do we?
 
  
  Gameplay- A-
  This is where MKDS really excels. This game is a pleasure to play, it handles like a dream, and 
 a hell of a lot better than the dodgy analog sticks of the N64.
  
  When you first boot up the game, there are many different modes that you can try out, none of them 
 bad at all. First you have the traditional Grand Prix. This is where you race a series of four 
 races, gaining points towards those valued gold trophies. And unlike previous Mario Karts where 
 getting golds on Grand Prix only unlocked maybe a new cup or two or a new kart, you will really 
 want to complete everything this time around. No more will the Mario Kart veterans be able to Skip 
 straight to 150cc, because you have to complete 50 and 100cc to unlock new karts and characters 
 this time around, so you cant really miss out anything. Time trial is the same as usual, pick one 
 of 8 characters (more as you unlock em) and race 3 laps solo around the track and record as good 
 of a time as you can. But continuing the tradition of this game, it has added something, which 
 will keep you playing for a long time. For each track there is a staff ghost, which while you dont 
 get anything for beating them, they will keep you occupied for a long time as they are rather difficult 
 to beat. But a new character for beating them all would be nice as well. Oh well
  Now for the newest addition to the Mario kart series, the Missions. 63 missions, progressively 
 getting harder is sure to keep you occupied for a long time and it will. They arrange from collecting 
 coins to racing some oh so familiar Mario enemies. you only have a limited amount of time to complete 
 them too, so you have to be on your toes. It wont take you that long to complete all of them but 
 it might take a while to get triple star rankings on all them, which only adds to this mountain 
 of replay value developing.
  
  There are eight characters initially and most of them are very well designed in terms of look and 
 performance. Theres a character to suit everyone from Toad, who has high acceleration and off 
 road handling to bowser who has high top speed but low acceleration and off road handling. To complicate 
 things, each character has their own carts, to add a little more individualization to each character. 
 Not only that, but also they vary in speed acceleration and even item luck, so choose wisely.
 
  
  Now to the tracks. Like most racing games, some tracks are a lot better than others are. My favourites 
 are Waluigis Pinball, a race inside a retro pinball machine, Airship Fortress, the level from 
 Super Mario Brothers 3 and Luigis Mansion- a track set in the Gamecube game of the same name. 
 The old Favourites return as well including Wario Stadium, Mario Circuit, Bowser castle and the 
 Mario Kart Signature Track, Rainbow Road.
  
  Mario Kart Veterans Can Rejoice because there are 16 retro tracks thrown in the mix as well. I 
 think that the choices of track were fairly good too, with the exception of a few like Luigi Circuit 
 (GBA) , Choco Island and Baby Park, but then again, it is inevitable that not everyone will be pleased 
 with the choices made with the old tracks. Wheres Ribbon Road and DKS Jungle Parkway? Oh well, 
 but the rest of the choices are very good with Moo Moo Farm, Luigi Circuit (GCN) , Mushroom Bridge 
 and Sky Garden just the few making a more than welcome return to glory. To add to the nostalgia, 
 each of the tracks has their original tune too. Sweet!
  
  MultiPlayer- A+
  Multiplayer has always been the stronghold of the Mario kart series, and DS is no exception. Up 
 to eight players can play local wireless. You can also play up to eight players if only one character 
 has a MKDS card but the options are limited. If everyone has a copy however, this is sheer multiplayer 
 bliss. Finally you can play championships (a. k. a GPs ) with more than two players. Also if you 
 dont have eight players, you can chuck in some AI as well. The AIS difficulty can be set as well, 
 so it is great if you need a few more racers.
  
  The other component of MKDS multiplayer was one of the reasons why this game was so anticipated, 
 and its the wi-fi online play. Mario Kart veterans have been salivating over this since it was 
 first announced. And Ill tell you now, it isnt as good as it should be.
  
  It is unfortunately very limited. First of all, you can only choose 20 tracks. And unfortunately 
 it is some of the best tracks like Waluigi Pinball and Bowser Castle left out, which is a shame. 
 Secondly, you can only race with four players. Thirdly and the most damming of all, is that there 
 is no battle mode. Despite the occasional lag and limitations, This is a good shot at online play 
 from Nintendo, who are very new to the whole online thing. It is best though if you have no friends 
 with DSS but still want to play Multiplayer. But if possible, play local wireless, since everything 
 is accessible.
  
  Replay Value 98%
  
  Yes, it is reasonably easy to beat the game, unlocking all the characters and karts. It is easy 
 to get through all the grand prix and missions with a C ranking. However it is not easy to get 
 *** ranks, and it is something which will keep you playing for a long time. The staff ghosts are 
 no push over either, meaning you need to perfect your game in order to truly clear the single player 
 mode. But then theres multiplayer mode. The possibilities are endless. You will be versing your 
 friends locally or online, weeks, months or even years to come, trying to own everyone and everything 
 that crosses your path. Your head begins to say, I better do some work, but there is something 
 else somewhere thats saying one more one more.
  
  Even if the multiplayer was nonexistent, this category would still score a nine. But as it is, 
 and as I said before, this game will keep you occupied in those otherwise boring school lessons 
 or even on the bus by yourself on the way to work.
  
  Overall
  Graphics-B+
  Audio- B
  Gameplay B+
  Replay Value- A+
  
  Overall- B+ Pros
  -In-depth single player, a first for 
 the series
  -Unlockable characters
  -Tracks are very well designed
  -3 Player + GP, Yay
  -Endless multiplayer replay value
  
  Cons
  -Poor sound effects
 
  -Limited online Play
  -AI: Too easy.
  
  This is the best Mario kart yet and a must get for any DS owner, even if you dont have friends, 
 there is serious fun to be had in both multiplayer and single player mode. Not having MKDS with 
 your DS would be total sacrilege as there is no better Title for the DS around at the moment. Sheer 
 Gaming Glory 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Since Donky Kong, Mario has graced many games. Everything from Tennis to being a paper character, 
 Mario has been there. It is hardly any surprise that Mario had to grace us with his presence in 
 the racing genre, and surprisingly, he's had a great history in it. This reigns true to this day 
 with yet another Mario Kart game. If you have ever played any Mario Kart game, you will feel right 
 at home with this version.
  
  Getting right into the game there are a lot of things that you will notice that are the same such 
 as classic characters and some familiar levels. You are given a few different game modes such as, 
 Grand Prix, vs, and even battle. The Grand Prix, if you have ever played a previous Mario Kart 
 will feel familiar... You will be given a class to race in such as 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc. In Grand 
 Prix you will have the normal Prix, or you will have the chance to play in the Retro Prix in which 
 you will have the chance to play classic levels from the SNES, N64 and GBA versions of Mario Kart. 
 Playing in the 150cc is an absolute challenge and will give you a definite run for your money. 
 One new mode added to this game is a new Mission Mode where you will be given a bunch of "missions" 
 like having to pick up coins on a track, or break all of the boxes on a track. You will even get 
 to fight bosses once you have completed a certain amount of mission. Battle is a tried but true 
 battle between 8 carts. Your objective is to pop as many balloons on each kart as possible while 
 protecting yourself. As with all of the other Mario Kart games, you will be given a handful of 
 weapons to use such as slippery banana peels, green shells, red shells, and even new items such 
 as a box to drop that looks like item boxes on the map, or a bullet bill which sends you rocketing 
 past your opponents. There isn't much use with the touch screen, besides selecting tracks, and 
 that is the same with the mic. The mic is only used in battle mode, you will start out with one 
 balloon and need to blow up 2 more, you can do this by blowing into the microphone. It's neat, 
 and is much better than having to reach up to the select button while trying to dodge incoming 
 weapons. Playing Mario Kart Single player is fun, but the one shining aspect of this game is the 
 ability to play this game multiplayer with people around you, or the opportunity to play it wifi 
 against other people in the country or even in the world. If other people around you have a DS, 
 then you will only need one cartridge to play this game, but unfortunately, it's a barebones version. 
 The other players won't get to choose their characters, but will be able to play as Shyguy. Also 
 when playing with one cartridge, you will be limited to what levels you will be able to play in. 
 Having separate cartridges will unlock the full potential of Multiplayer and hours of fun are to 
 be had. Wifi, is where you will spend much more time on. As with any other compelling game, playing 
 this online is an absolute blast. You will have the chance to choose a regional game, or worldwide 
 and the game will pick out some players for you, or you can put in someone Else's friend code and 
 play against them. A nice little feature is when you join up in a game, you will get to see that 
 person's stats, how many times they have won and lost. Also if you have linked your game to nintendowifi. com, 
 you will be able to track your usage and other stats. The only real bummer about wifi, is finding 
 a hot spot. You could always go and get a wifi usb adapter, or you could go to your local McDonalds 
 and play there. While it's nice that McDonalds provides a hot spot, it's hard to sit there for 
 a long period of time, especially if kids are around and try to crowd around you to see what you 
 are playing.
  
  The sound in the game is exactly what you would expect it to be. In the retro levels, you will 
 hear all of the classic music from the previous titles, and any other levels, the music is taken 
 from games such as Mario 64. The sound effects don't go very far either. You will hear the familiar 
 "slots" sound when you run over an item box, hear the star mambo, and hear shells whistle when 
 shot. Nothing really new has been added for voice, you will hear Mario yell "okie dokie," when 
 chosen, or Luigi yell "ah Luigi," when chosen. None of these characters have been big talkers anyways, 
 so it works.
  As far as graphics go, this game exceeds the standards for any Mario Kart game. This has simply 
 got to be the best looking MK game out there. The game layout is great, the race takes place on 
 the top screen and a map is on the bottom screen, also displaying your enemies, what place they 
 are in, and what weapon they have, if they have any. Everything from the characters on their karts, 
 to the level and the distance you can see is absolutely crisp and razor sharp.
  
  A little over a year the DS has been on the market and has had a lot of hit or miss games come 
 out. Arguably, Mario Kart DS is simply the best game on the DS. If you have ever played a previous 
 Mario Kart game and loved it, this game is worth buying. If you have never played a Mario Kart 
 game, this is the perfect place to start. Even if you don't enjoy the single player, wifi alone 
 is reason enough to pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is definatly the best game for the ds. The graphics are great and the controls are 
 great as well. If you liked any of the other mario karts you will like this even more. It has a 
 total of 8 cups inculding 4 all new ones and 4 retro cups that have the best race tracks from all 
 the other mario kart games ever released. A great single player but even more fun for a multiplayer 
 with some friends. In my mind this is a must have game for a ds and will be for a long time to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neopizzachi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  i borrowed thi game from a friend and i could barely put it down to write this review . if you 
 dont have it get it now. and if you dont have the money borrow it from a friend . and if you dont 
 do that the your missing out on one of the greatest games in history. an take this from a guy who 
 spends day and night playing video games. so but the stinking game ... loser ... or your social 
 life will have a big hole it it unleessjnadn]
  ggrff
  gfgf
  gfgfg
  gfgfg
  fgfgfg
  fg
  fg
  fgfg
  
  fgfg
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx_InuYasha_xX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS brings back all the classic characters, items, and gameplay modes people have grown 
 to love for years to come, and adds more subtle, yet unique, elements to make this Mario Kart port 
 a possible memory etched into gamers minds  young and old, novice and experienced.
  
  The Grand Prix mode of MKDS includes all the flavors of engines: 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc. A Mirror 
 mode is also available after completing the aforementioned series. There are two grand prix: the 
 Nitro Grand Prix, and the Retro Grand Prix.
  
  The Nitro Grand Prix has four cups: the Mushroom Cup, Flower Cup, Star Cup, and the Special Cup. 
 Altogether, there are 16 races  4 in each cup (of course) . These races are new, but they utilize 
 some styling cues from a few recent Mario games.
  
  The Retro Grand Prix follows the same format as the Nitro GP  4 cups (Shell, Banana, Leaf, and 
 Lightning, in that exact order) , 4 races in each cup, and 16 races altogether. Many fans of the 
 Mario Kart series will love this grand prix, as it brings back 4 races from the SNES, N64, GBA, 
 and the GC flavors of Mario Kart.
  
  You remember how you needed at least an extra player to play the Battle and Versus modes? Not any 
 more. You can play Battle and Versus mode with 7 CPU-controlled characters. You can determine the 
 engine size, the CPU difficulty, the way how the courses are selected, the rules to define the 
 winner, and whether you want to split everyone into two teams  Red and Blue.
  
  MKDS also has a new mode: the Mission mode. These missions challenge the skills of all levels of 
 players. Some missions request that you drive through an ordered number of gates, collect a certain 
 number of coins, destroy a certain number of items, et cetera. There are 6 mission levels, each 
 with 8 sub-missions and a boss battle.
  
  MKDS is also part of a growing list of DS titles that can allow players to play wirelessly with 
 people not only in the same room, but also around the world.
  
  In conclusion, Mario Kart DS revolutionizes the gaming world by providing new ways to play with 
 old-school flavor.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stronger157
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  So it turns out Nintendo just came out with its new racing game, to follow up in the series, Mario 
 Kart DS. Although when thinking about it and the thought that 'its just the same old Mario Kart 
 and I don't need it" comes to mind, your wrong. To kick it off, Mario Kart gives players and amazing 
 feel of gameplay with the 3-D graphics, and quite superb sound. It uses the bottom screen as a 
 map, well two types of maps, first off, your regular long range map of the whole race course, and 
 everyone on it. Then with a quick tap on the touch screen, it switches to a zoomed up view of you, 
 and the course around you. The advantage here is the way you can see your opponents coming up behind 
 you, so you can fire your banana and watch the skid. Or better yet, you can see items coming right 
 up behind you, making you prepared to fire a shell backwards and hit it before it hits you. Of 
 course, like all Mario Karts, it has it's classic Grand Prix mode, where you choose the CC, and 
 pick a set of races and get started. The races include 16 New courses, and 16 taken from the previous 
 games, making this one bigger than ever. This widens opportunitys for special characters, and other 
 special features (but I wont give anything away) . You then get Time Trials, pick a charcter, pick 
 a course, then just race, no cpu's, no items, just you on a course. Or, you can save a ghost, then 
 race him. Next is the classic Versus mode, where you pick the speed, course, cpu's, teams, whatever 
 you want you get it, have a random race, where you dont know what's coming next, or maybe a Chosen 
 race, where what you say goes. Then you get battle, Classic balloon battle, or shine runners. In 
 balloon battle, start off with a series of balloons and try to get rid of your opponents balloons, 
 but make sure you dont loose the balloons you have, or you will loose. In shine runners, collect 
 the stars, and the person with the most stars in the end wins. Finally we get to mission mode, 
 the unique aspect of Mario Kart, you are given a set of mission (go through tires, collect the 
 coins, etc.) and when you finish those, you get to fight a special boss. Then theres multiplayer, 
 online, or just plain regular, there's allways someone to play against, or if your friend doesnt 
 have Mario Kart DS, he or she can just DS download play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheezyFrog
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know where to start this game is absolutely magnificent! I guess firstly I should 
 point out this MarioKart unlike any of its predecessors is ONLINE COMPATIBLE. You can EASILY use 
 a wireless router or go to any HotSpot such as Mc Donalds and hook-up almost instantly and enjoy 
 racing people from all around the world. This game has 4 different skill levels 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, 
 and the unlockable 150cc Mirror Mode. You start off with a typical set of 8 racers Mario, Luigi, 
 Princess Peach, Yoshi, Bowser, Toad, Donkey Kong, and Wario but as you progress through the game 
 you can unlock FOUR other secret racers, -
  
  ( ( ( (::::BIG SPOILER:::) ) ) ) 
  
  -Daisy, Waluigi, Dry Bones, and R. O. B. the ROBOT!!! 
  
  Each racer starts off with 2 different 
 karts and once again as you progress through the game and achieve certain goals this will change 
 as well first to three, then to seven, then to thirty-six. 
  
  Each CC has two different Grand Prix the Nitro Grand Prix and the Retro Grand Prix each Grand Prix 
 has four cups. The Nitro Grand Prix has the Mushroom Cup, the Flower Cup, the Star Cup, and the 
 Special Cup, and the Retro Grand Prix has the Shell Cup, the Banana Cup, the Leaf Cup, and the 
 Lighting Cup. In the Nitro Grand Prix and in the Retro Grand Prix each Cup consists of four tracks 
 but in the Nitro Grand Prix each Cup has four BRAND NEW TRACKS made especially for this game, but 
 in the Retro Grand Prix each cup has a SNES track, a N64 track, a GBA track, and a GCN track which 
 makes the game even more interesting to play. 
  
  Your racing performance is graded anywhere from 3 Stars ( (the best) ) to an E ( (the lamest) ) . I 
 dont want to overshadow the other aspects of this great DS game though Grand Prix is fun it isnt 
 the only thing there is to do on Mario Kart DS straight from the start you have five other great 
 gaming options to choose from: VS. Mode, Time Trials Mode, Battle Mode, and Missions Mode. 
  
  Overall MarioKart for the DS is the greatest in the history of MarioKart the only way to make 
 this game any better would be to give it to us for free BUT at a $35 dollar price tag its definitely 
 a reasonable price for a game as remarkably fun and life consuming as this game is. Unfortunately 
 this MarioKart in particular has raised a debate between Karters, to Snake or not to Snake? 
 Unfortunately there isnt enough time in the world to equally explain both sides of this heated 
 debate so I suggest you go onto the GameSpots DS forum and ask a few M. K. ers about it, you might 
 even run into me. 
  
  All in all I cant think of any other game Id rather be playing on my DS the numerous Awards from 
 every game site from GameSpot to IGN that MarioKart DS has acquired should give you a little taste 
 of its overwhelming greatness. In the end I give MarioKart for the DS a 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiniGuns
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Cart first came out in 1992 then Mario Cart 64 came out now Mario Cart DS. Mario Cart 
 DS improves on the last Mario cart game greatly. The game is a must have for DS owners because 
 it combines racing with your favorite nintendo characters. Mario cart DS has some of the best graphics 
 on the DS. What makes the game fun is its has very easy controls and has alot of replay. Mario 
 cart DS does better than the other Mario cart games is it has online play. The online play makes 
 this game so fun to play.
  
  Mario cart DS has more characters, karts, courses than the Mario cart games. The game has a decent 
 soundtrack but the soundtrack gets alittle annoying after awhile. Mario cart has a couple of downsides 
 to it like the courses in the game after playing awhile but the game has many upsides to the game. 
 
  
  So if you are looking for a good DS game or if you are a Mario fan then pick this game up. This 
 game is one of the few superb for the DS. This is a game that any gamer should have in their collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirtualBoyZ
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Amazing... that is the first word that comes to mind when I hear Mario Kart DS mentioned. This 
 game is outstanding. Mario Kart DS puts you in charge of Mario and the gang as you all go all out 
 to win the assorted cups, as you race in new and classic courses. This game is great for all types 
 of gamers. Its easy enough to learn to play, yet takes some finesse to master completely. It is, 
 in my opinion, the best DS game on the market, and will be for some time. The graphics are very 
 crisp and are very well done. The control, though it varies by which racer you use, is very responsive 
 and handles quite well. Using your favorite classic weapons, and some new ones too, you will find 
 that hitting an opponent with a shell is very rewarding. The sounds are the typical Mario-esque 
 tunes and sound effects. Some of the songs can become slightly irritating, but you'll be so immersed 
 in the race, you probably won't even notice. The touch screen use is minimal. An 'OK' here and 
 a 'Select Course' there, but the pureness of the gameplay will more than make up for it. As you 
 progress, you unlock new courses and, of course, characters as well. (My personal favorite is Waluigi.) 
 And know to touch on the most addicting part of the game: Wi-Fi. Nintendo and McDonald's partnered 
 to provide free Wi-Fi play for the DS and compatible games. Thank God that Mario Kart DS has Wi-Fi 
 compatibility, and that McD's has free Wi-Fi for the DS. The Wi-Fi is superb. You can race against 
 people all over the world, or just your friends across the street. All your wins and losses are 
 recorded- so you can brag about how good you are, or keep your stats to yourself... There is nothing 
 bad about Wi-Fi play, except that you can only have a maximum of four per race. Oh, I don't like 
 snakers either : ( . But be warned, no matter how good you think you are, there's always someone 
 who can burn you around that track. But as long as you're having fun, thats all that matters. Mario 
 Kart DS is a great game and is very addictive. Its the only thing that has kept me away from a 
 cheeseburger while sitting in McDonald's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  No handheld racing game that is wifi online can come close to being as addictive and fun as Mario 
 Kart DS. Now for all those who think a series like this has been rehashed too much, well they are 
 wrong because Mario Kart DS is not a complete rehash of anything. The recreation of old school 
 tracks from the SNES days, as well as Mario Kart 64, Super Circuit and Double Dash, makes this 
 game a lot of fun for those who are familiar with the whole series of Mario Kart as a lot of the 
 old tracks have been updated with new graphics and play a little differently from the originals. 
 Only the best will be the cups on 150CC mode and even then you still have Mirror mode to go through. 
 The wifi compatibility gives this game infinite replayability. The only problem are all the cowards 
 who snake online, if you havent played it yet you will find out very soon who they are. The mission 
 mode gives players the ability to put themselves to the test using various characters in challenges, 
 and after each section is complete you will face a familiar boss from Super Mario 64 like King 
 Bobomb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-bone123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  This may just be the best game of all mario karts! As a remake of the mario kart on the N64, characters 
 and all, this is the game you want for the Nintendo DS! Its genera is sports/racing game. With 
 the races them selfs, it has the classic courses and all new courses. If you ever get tired of 
 just racing around, you can try the missions out in 1p. This game can also go online! You can costimize 
 your own nickname and draw your own emblem with the touch screen. The possibilities are endless 
 with this timeless classics it is a definite must for all ds gamers and even if you dont have a 
 ds you should buy it just for this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I do enjoying playing this game but it can be short for those who mastered all mario kart games 
 but new ones take timing, on new skilled vehicles of characters so for me i mastered all of mario 
 kart games and it took me short time for a week to finish the whole thing, including missions, 
 and more multiplayer mayhem.
  
  Gameplay: Real awesome modes of Grand prixs and Missions, and Vs and battle is here yay, cause 
 if it wasn't there i could've been bored.
  
  Graphics: Real neat and cool track designs, well it can have good weapon graphics as an avatar 
 but the karts and character have a bit poor quality.
  
  Sound: The sound of music is instant classic and other voices were a bit different so i didn't 
 mind but it's still amazing.
  
  Value: Timing on those Japaneese people bring staff ghosts and more weapons but 1 weapon was new 
 and it was bullet bill, so i like challenging Japaneese peoples ghost time limits.
  
  Tilt: Um just to say it can be obvious that this game will be the best DS game but i also wished 
 for it to be the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanewolfninja
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  hey look whos back its mario dang another rare apperence bye that red overall wearing plumber. 
 yes its another great game frome nintendo as much as I would like to see a real mario game this 
 one is still really good. as we have had some crappy racing games for the ds this year cough cough 
 burnout cough, its great to have that oh so nice refreshment of relive from crappines, and this 
 does its job. well like all other mario kart games you get to pick from all the classic mario stars 
 you want to play as me I pick bowser duh cause he is the coolest video game chracter ever. you 
 drive through a buch of new and old courses to win trophies and unlock cool stuff that is actually 
 very usefull, such as new racers I aint going to spoil nothing. whats cool about this racer an 
 what seperates it from all the other racers out there is that you can pick up weapons bye hitting 
 one of those blocks you see out on the road while your driving, yea it looks weird but this isint 
 supposed to be a realistic racer and I thank it for doing such a good job of that. theres also 
 missions that you can do to complete and when you complete a certian amout you have to do a boss 
 battle yep I SAID BOSS BATTLE and they really do a good job of fitting in with the game. the grapics 
 are just freeking awesome for a ds the awesome 3d and 2d combination is just wicked it shows also 
 that the ds has more power then what people expected. the sound is awesome punk rock heavey metal 
 nintendo tunes, sigh yes why cant we a normal music nintendo must it always be what you WANT. I 
 guess the world may never know. the big upside though is the online play this is whats making the 
 ds so far the number one in hand helds. its awesome feeling hitting some kid in russia with a koopa 
 shell. the downside of this game is that some of the courses even though they say are the same 
 looking and they have the same name they are wrong they totally went and screwed wario stadium 
 and the rainbow race way and peaches castle dang dang. bottom line this game is freeking awesome 
 and it should be in your collection not burn out for the ds my god that is crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Messenger
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin to write my review, let me say that I've been a big fan of Nintendo since the beginning. 
 More specifically, I've been a fan of the Mario Kart series ever since it first started on the 
 SNES. With that being said, I can assure you that this is definitely one of the best, if not the 
 best, MK game to date.
  
  Mario Kart DS features a wide variety of racing options, such as Grand Prix (in 50, 100, and 150cc 
 flavors) , Battle Mode, and Versus Mode. In Grand Prix mode, you can choose from either the Nitro 
 Grand Prix (which are the new courses) or the Retro Grand Prix (which is a compilation of tracks 
 from previous MK games) . Each prix is further divided into cups, with each cup consisting of four 
 races. At first, you can only choose from two cups in each prix, but as you earn gold trophies 
 in each cup, more cups become available for you to race in. Then, once you're done collecting all 
 the gold trophies in, say, 50cc, then you move on to 100cc, where the computer karts are smarter, 
 faster, and more aggressive than before. You're also graded on how you race, and your ranking is 
 shown at the end of each cup. It ranges from E (the lowest rank) to 3 stars (the highest rank) , 
 and although it doesn't really do anything useful, it does serve as an indicator as to how well 
 you race. 
  
  Battle Mode is the same as in the previous games, except with a little twist. At the beginning 
 of each battle, you'll start with only one balloon and several reserve balloons. You must manually 
 inflate your balloons by either blowing into the DS microphone, or holding the select button until 
 its fully inflated. It's a very creative idea, although it gets a little annoying when you're blowing 
 up a balloon and you get smacked with a shell. Still, it provides a fun experience, and a little 
 challenge.
  
  Mario Kart DS also includes a Mission Mode, which will have you doing various things, from driving 
 through numbered gates, to breaking item boxes, to driving through entire courses backwards. Most 
 of them don't really help improve your kart-racing skills (see the whole driving backwards thing) , 
 but nevertheless, it's a fun challenge. 
  
  But perhaps the best thing about MKDS is it's Wi-Fi connectability. That's right... you can race 
 people from around the world. It does have it's drawbacks, however. Usually, if you have a broadband 
 internet connection and a wireless router, you should be good to go. But there are some routers 
 that need manual configuration (some wont even work at all) , and there are some people out there 
 (like myself) who can't properly configure a wireless router, not to mention the people who don't 
 have a broadband internet connection. However, you can also go to McDonalds and link up with the 
 Wi-Fi there. Once you're on, though, it's a fantastic experience. 
  
  The only major gripe that I have with this game is the way it's designed. What I mean is, anyone 
 can win, depending on the items that they get. I've been in many races when I was in first place 
 on the last lap, getting ready for victory, only to get smacked by a blue shell and come in fifth. 
 This can be a good thing or a bad thing, depending on what place you're in. However, that's been 
 present since the first one came out, so, fans of the series will know what to expect.
  
  This is certainly one of the best DS titles to date, and definitely worth picking up if you're 
 a MK fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: light_apprentic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is just plan fun. this game is one of the coolest and funniest games ever. this is just 
 a great game, during the game you get two vehicles for ever character. There are 30 tracks on the 
 game and a aray of weapons. This game will have you spending hours getting all the tracks betting 
 mission mode and playing online. just like the one for N64 this will be a instant classic. If you 
 have a hankering for a good racing game then by this one it is worth the 35 dollars t his is a 
 great game buy it.. Trust me it is great kuwa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigigreen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a big time step up from the last Mario Kart. Not only does it boast new gameplay 
 mechanics but adds an assortment of different gameplay types, which leads to it being one of the 
 best games of the year. A whole new gameplay mode has been added. Missions are objectives you mus 
 complete and after your done you get a ranking. This is good if you want to take a break from the 
 old Grand Prix. But even the Grand Prix mode has been changed. This time, there are 8 cups, 4 of 
 them comprising of past tracks, updated and fitted onto the DS. Not only is your objective to get 
 a gold in each of these cups, but you must complete it within a certain time to get a ranking. 
 These rankings can range from an E to three stars. This strives you to try and get the best ranking 
 possible. Just like the Double Dash version, there are many unlockable cars, each with speed, acceleration, 
 weight, handling, and 2 new categories, drift and items. Finding the car that suits your driving 
 styles is another extremely fun part of this game.
  
  One of the best features in this latest addition, is the new online and multiplayer modes. Now, 
 you can create an emblem for all your friends to see, which goes above you head. This can bring 
 out your creative side in you, and you may spend up to 30 minutes trying to create that perfect 
 symbol. As I was talking about earlier, you obtain different rankings in the Grand Prix. If you 
 get at least one star in every grand prix, from 50cc to 150cc, you will see a star above your name 
 and show that you have played for that long. But, this is no easy feet to accomplish. 
  
  One of the best things about this game is the fact that is has taken advantage of the the wi-fi 
 connection. Now you can race with your friends, through your personal friends list, or with people 
 from around the world, in the comforts of your own home. Your record is also taken down and displayed 
 for anyone who wants to see them.
  
  Mario Kart DS has come a long way since the arrival of the first one on the Super Nintendo. it 
 really shows what the DS is capable of putting out. If you are a fan of Mario Kart, Mario, or even 
 racing games, get this game. This is a game that future Mario Kart games should build upon, and 
 is in my opinion the best game handheld game of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. It looks like they took the best things from the last few games and 
 made this into it. They really tried hard to make everything right. I just have to say they did 
 a good thing with this game.
  
  Graphics: Mario Kart's graphics are phenominal on the DS. All the courses are clear, colorful, 
 and good looking. The frame rate is great, and never slows down. The models are also very good, 
 but the game is lacking in animations. The game is in full 3D, and is an impressive job for a handheld 
 system.
  
  Sound: The music is pretty good in this game. There's different music for every course, and it's 
 all enjoyable and good to listen to. Some of the courses will stay in your head, and there's audio 
 for every character if they're hit, pass someone, win, or lose. Everything in the game sounds clear 
 and the game actually uses a stereo system, but it's not noticable due to the speakers being so 
 close.
  
  Value: You get a lot of gameplay for a 30 dollar game. There are a lot of different things to do 
 and play. There's plenty to unlock and the gameplay is addicting.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I love this game, I love Nintendo, I love my DS, and I love the things this game 
 has done for me. I have nothing else to do but give this a ten.
  
  Gameplay: Mario Kart has several great features. They're Single Player, Multiplayer, and Wi-Fi. 
 In single player you can choose a grand prix mode like every other Mario Kart with different and 
 more difficult classes to choose from. You can unlock content and get better here. There's a time 
 trial mode to compete with your friends or to master a certain course and get the fastest time. 
 This also has staff ghosts, the best of the best (in non-snaking) . They can provide a good challenge, 
 and will even show you the best ways through courses. Then there's VS mode, which has everything 
 you've unlocked, and is a race if you just feel like playing the game a little. You set your own 
 rules, like if you want team play, how many rounds to win, and the class. There's a battle mode, 
 which will pit you against 8 cpus, but it's not very fun with them. They just go around in circles 
 and shoot if you're in front of them. There's a battle mode and shine catcher mode. Battle mode 
 is just smacking each other with items and the sole survivor wins. You have a storage of 4 balloons, 
 and can blow them up with either the mic or holding select. Blowing into the mic is faster though. 
 Then the shine catcher mode is getting the most shine sprites for the longest time. You can hit 
 other players and take their shine sprites. The one with the most shines after a period of time 
 is the winner. This will last you while, but it's not long until you race again. Finally there's 
 a mission mode. This mode allows you to get better at the game by doing specific things. Things 
 like killing a set amount of enemies before time runs out, or going through 8 loops as fast as 
 possible. There are bosses here, and you're ranked from C to *** (triple stars) . This is fun at 
 first, but becomes something on the side as you play the game.
  
  Multiplayer is single card and multi-card play. In single-card play you go against your friends 
 who don't own the game but have DS's. They play as shy guys, who is middle with every stat. You 
 have limited options here, but it's still fun. Almost like if they had the game. The multi-card 
 play allows you to choose from everything. I'm not sure if you can have bots (none of my friend's 
 have this game) , but they're probably there, as well as everything in the normal VS mode. You can 
 probably choose from every course as well. Your friends can choose their own characters and karts, 
 and is probably a little more lasting then single card play will be.
  
  Finally, Mario Kart has Wi-FI. Wi-Fi is, in general, online play. This allows you to connect and 
 play against random people to show your skill. You can also play against your friends via friend 
 codes if you both have wi-fi and set up a match without being in the same place. In Wi-Fi you can 
 customize your Kart to have a symbol of whatever you want to draw. You can draw it with the stylus, 
 and make yourself original with this emblem. There's a win and loss count for Wi-Fi too. Normally 
 it tells you just how good someone is, and it gained at the end of matches. If you're in first 
 place and there are 3 other people, you'll get three wins and no losses. If you're in last place, 
 you'll get 3 losses and no wins. This game is set up just like grand prix. There are limited courses 
 though with a different selection screen, but they're all in course order from the first new tracks 
 to the last retro tracks. The one with the most points wins first, and the least in last. Respectively 
 with second and third. There are some major issues with Wi-Fi though, and it can either be annoying 
 to some or greatful to some. This is snaking. It's a technique, one that I even use, that allows 
 you to mini-turbo constantly. In the end, this is a lot more competitive and fun then using and 
 getting the right items to keep your lead. It takes decent skill, but it shows who has more skill 
 in the end of a match.
  
  The basic gameplay for this game has you racing in a Kart with certain statistics. Every character 
 has there own karts. At the beggining it's two, but you can unlock three for every character. These 
 Kart's all are different, with their own advantages and disadvantages. Some kart's aren't worth 
 looking at, because there are some other karts that are just plain better then some others. Examples 
 are Wario's Brute to the Waluigi Kart, or Mario's shooting star compared to waluigi's construction 
 machine (don't know name) . Waluigi's kart is better then Mario's final kart. The karts vary mostly 
 from items. The best item karts are usually the worst performing veichles while the ones with least 
 items stat performs better, but gets worse items. The gameplay is fast paced and fun, and can be 
 a competitive and brutal race to be the one in first. There's not much of the stylus and other 
 DS features, other then selecting things on the screen and battle mode. Majority of the game will 
 see no bonus features, but it doesn't take away from the game at all.
  
  If you have a DS, then there's no reason to miss out on this game. It's addicting gameplay and 
 top of the line graphics are really a treat on the DS, and is worth checking out. It can be the 
 only game on your DS, and you'll still have fun with it. Mario Kart is back, and it dominates this 
 system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleKaide
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This Mario Kart is the best in the series. From all the characters to the high speed action and 
 the online gameplay, this game will keep you busy for a long while. Being able to play in all the 
 retro levels from the first game is a nice touch. The only thing holding this game back is the 
 blocky graphics, but it's not something you notice that much. The online gameplay is what gives 
 this game so much value because even after you beat the main game you can still race people all 
 around the world. You can even race your friends DS to DS or using a friend code online. Overall 
 this game is a great addition to an already fantastic series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegeta_ss3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  when i saw mario kart i was amazed by the graphics pumped out by the ds, it reminded me of the good 
 old mario kart 64 a timeless classic racer.
  
  with new courses, charcters and classic courses the game couldnt get better but it does not only 
 does it feature simple mode multiplayer (8 players one game cart) it also boasts the new ds wifi 
 for up to 4 players worldwide
  or you can play with you friends.
  
  although u might complete all the grad prix quickly if u have a wirless router this game will go 
 on forever
  
  basically
  If you have a ds buy this game if u dont have a ds but love the other mario kart titles then buy 
 ds mario kart bundle. if u have never played mario kart then get a life (only joking) but this is 
 a great starting point 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimosher13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  Wow, a great game, I'm hooked. Mario Kart DS is an amazing game, and very addictive.
  First of all, the graphics, the courses are well designed, as are the character models, great colourful 
 backgrounds and cars make the game a delight to look at-maybe the best graphics on the DS at the 
 moment.
  The sound is also brilliant, the courses all have catchy tunes which you will find yourself humming 
 later on. The sound effects are basic, cartoony, basically just bangs and bumps, but sometimes 
 simplicity is great, and in Mariokart DS it seems that these sound effects are enough.
  There's plenty to unlock, new racers, new karts or you can just try to beat the staff's lap times, 
 but whatever you like doing there's sure to be plenty of things that will keep you coming back 
 for more-or even crawling back :-) . As well as things to unlock, there are also many gameplay modes 
 like VS., battle, and missions that you have to complete. But all things said the game play is 
 just plain fun and addictive, certainly worth a play for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riviera4
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  I liked this game alot as it has many improvements that weren't available in the N64 version. One 
 of them is the missions that pop up frequently throughout the game. The other is the bosses that 
 await at the end of the stroy mode levels.
  You can't compare the gamecube one to this because the GC is better graphics and older. If you 
 have a gamecube, then get Mario double dash. If you want a racing game on the DS, then buy this.
 
  There are also the same old items from the old N64 version with an addition of about four.
  The additions to the story mode are the same as the N64 one: time trials, grand prix 50cc, 100cc, 
 and 150cc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeebusm
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  
  Nintendo's beloved "kart" franchise comes to the DS and it comes with Wi-Fi connectivity. First 
 of all the game comes packed with tracks from previous versions of the game as well as most of 
 the characters. The formula remains the same, but the cool things is the addition of some new items. 
 The big one worth mentioning is the ability to turn into a Bullet Bill which will give you a speed 
 boost and giving you the ability to thrash anyone in your way. There is also squid item that when 
 used against you will cause you to have limited visibility on your screen. 
  The big draw to this game is the Wi-Fi connectivity. If you have Wi-Fi connection in your house 
 or having a meal at a participating McDonald's you can race against other people online. After 
 navigating through a series of menus and waiting a couple of minutes waiting for opponents you 
 will be able to start racing. The online races are very enjoyable with literally no lag and everything 
 runs smooth. In the end, Mario Kart DS is a must have for anybody who has a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanana
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart... now where to start... too repetitive, it is the same thing over and over and over 
 again. Personally one of the biggest problems is that I SUCK AT THIS GAME. I can't unlock anything, 
 i cant win a large amount of the time on above 50cc and the WiFi connection isn't idiot proof either.
 
  
  I think that they could have made much better use of the ds touch screen, and not made the game 
 so repetitive. I think that this is a very good game most likely but i may just lack the talent 
 and the knowledge.
  
  I would consider this game to be fair, because it is still pretty fun. If you are good at it, I 
 am sure it will be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitelight1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is great I recommend you buy it or at least rent it. The game brings a lot of the good 
 things from the old Mario Karts and puts them together with the exception of the GC's two riders 
 this game is amazing the tracks are fun and challenging at the same time. The online is worth playing, 
 there's nothing like racing against a person. The AI is very good on 150-cc there is a challenge 
 to complete. This game also offers a bunch of unlockable carts and a few extra characters, and 
 depending on the combination of the two the driving experience changes greatly. The only thing 
 I believe would improve the game is more tracks there are only 16 new tracks and some retro one, 
 but it would have been better with unlockable maps from all the old games. Aside from this its 
 the BEST game on the DS currently and i highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paronga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent online service, no lag; Multiplayer evan with one of your mates (goes up to 
 eight) is exhiliaratingly fun, and can be supported with only one card, tho you get much more courses 
 with multiple cards; Picking your character and car has never been easier with the new feature 
 which tells you your cars stats eg. weight speed accel etc.; The new maps reflect the previous 
 Mario game environments extraordinarily well its almost unbelievable; four starting cups for you 
 to win including another four unlockable plus mission mode and vs mode for optimum single player 
 enjoyment; lots of unlockables including characters, more missons, staff ghost data and extra grand 
 prix competitions.
  
  The Bad: To play online you need to be near a wireless router/ USB WFC adapter or own one yourself, 
 or be near a hotspot; May be too difficult for some players especially of younger age groups.
 
  
  Mario games have come a long way since the NES original Mario games and have been milestones in, 
 i would say all gamers hearts since. There have been lots of crazy creatures, characters and plots 
 variating from Bob-Ombs to Bowser, Mario to Waluigi, Donut plains to Isle Delfino and evan some 
 interesting mario twists on old games like tetris which created a revolutionary puzzle game Dr. 
 Mario. The original Super Mario Kart came out on the Snes and along with 3 sequels they have all 
 been to date terrific games. 
  
  Mario Kart DS is outstandingly good and will not only please all the Mario and Nintendo fans out 
 there but all DS owners be they male, female, young, or old. When you turn on the game there will 
 be 3 options....
  (*) Single Player
  (*) Multiplayer
  (*) Nintendo WFC
  (*) Records (*) Options
  In single player you will then find more options
  (*) Grand Prix
  
 (*) Time Trial
  (*) Vs
  (*) Battle
  (*) Missions
  (*) Back
  In Grand Prix there is then 50cc 100cc and 150cc which are the difficulty settings (50cc being 
 the easiest 150cc being the hardest) . Then there will be your character selection screen where 
 you will not only pick your favourite Mario character but your kart as well. Each player has 3 
 karts which have unique properties to them, which are displayed on the touch screen on a stats 
 table. When picking you'll want to be careful because you want a good balance of acceleration and 
 handling as well as speed and item bonus. Once your done you than pick between four grand prix 
 challenges (with four more to the side with '?' covering them) . Each of them have four races each 
 to compete in which will clearly stand out to any fan of the game, or evan just fans of the Mario 
 games. The grand prix races have fun, tricky, and awesomely designed tracks with beautiful environments. 
 Your top screen displays your regular mario kart view (third person view of your driver and kart) 
 and your touch screen displays your map which you can change between the two types by tapping the 
 screen. As you go on you unlock the rest of the grand prix competitions you'll think 'that was 
 easy' and intuitively you will play on 100cc and 150cc and youll see a difference in the terrificly 
 clever AI racers, and will push you to the best of your abilities by drifting around every corner 
 power slide boosting, placing traps in diabolical places and carefully picking the best character 
 and kart. Playing on 150cc will be like playing with 7 people of equal skill to yourself. At the 
 end of each grand prix you will be given a rating like you would get from school. You will be given 
 a letter co-responding with your performance (E being the lowest A being the highest) and if you 
 do really well you'll get a star or two..... or three. =D =D
  
  In the races there are obstacles such as paths you take with mushrooms, multiple paths to take 
 where some lead to absolute danger, and boost panels on the ground which are particularly tricky 
 to hit. And also those of you new to the series many pick up-able items are on the course to help 
 you race such as banana peels you plant as traps, fake item boxes, green shells which you aim and 
 shoot at your foes, red shells which hit the person 1 rank higher than you, the blue shell which 
 creates an explosion directly on top of the person in first place, mushrooms which boost you foreword 
 significantly, and others. Along side this there are a few new items which have not appeared in 
 previous Mario Kart games before such as the item which transforms you into Bullet Bill from Super 
 Mario World which will zoom you foreward dramatically, smashing all your foes out of the way, the 
 Bob-Omb which you can either drop backwards or launch foreward causing an explosion, and lastly 
 a creature from Super Mario Bros. 3 called 'Blooper' (the little flying squid thing) which in Mario 
 Kart DS will be released and will sqiurt your opponents with oil causing the computers to drive 
 in zig zags, but while online their screen will be mostly covered in black visually impairing them 
 for a matter of 20 odd seconds which will force you to rely on the map which is so well presented 
 you could play looking at the map all day.
  
  The mission mode gets a little repetitive after a fair bit but its quite short so you'll be able 
 to beat it by the time your bored of it but are an excellent touch to the Mario Kart series. There 
 are 54 missions (6 worlds with 9 levels each) which are challenging and extremely fun and require 
 some real fancy driving. The missions involve such objectives as driving backwards on a course, 
 collecting coins, driving through gates 1-10 or less in chronological order which can be fun cause 
 sometimes the gates are all over the place :) , and lastly boss battles. All objectives have a time 
 limit, have set characters and karts for each so you dont chose your favourite Mario character: ( 
 tho that probably makes it more of a challenge, and naturally just like the Grand Prix's you will 
 get rated, and if you get atleast 1 star on every mission up to world 6-boss then you will get 
 world 7 which is fun too. The boss objectives are interesting and totally unexpected but very well 
 done. They involve such things as defeating Eyerok from the pyramid in Super Mario 64 with shells 
 as he tries to grab you and knock you off the edge, racing the giant Goomba, Goomboss from Super 
 Mario 64 DS around GCN Baby Park, and collecting 50 coins whilst evading King Boo from Super Mario 
 World.
  
  The Vs mode includes two modes. Balloon battle and Shine runners. Balloon battle mode is where 
 you have a balloon floating on your kart and you go around getting items trying to eliminate your 
 opponent by taking out their balloon with a shell, or by stealing and accumulating more balloons 
 by boosting into them with a mushroom. Personally i think against computers is unfair because you 
 have 1 balloon and they have 3 each but that just means you keep trying and get better. Playing 
 against your mates is much better, especially with 3 or 4 of them. Shine runners is a mode where 
 you go around collecting shines and stealing them off your opponents by hitting them with an item 
 and attain it. In Shine runners there is a 60 second timer...... when that 30 second timer is up 
 the contestant, or constestants (if there are 2 or more with the same amount ) with the least shines 
 are eliminated. The 60 second countdown timer is then reset and when it runs out the next contestant/s 
 with the least shines are eliminated and it keeps going until there is one left. If everyone has 
 the same amount of shines then the timer is reset without eliminations.
  
  Last but not least there is the Time Trial mode....... this is a nice way to burn a few minutes 
 every now and then.... firstly you can beat your own time again and again and again and not only 
 that you can strive to unlock the staffs ghost data, and then strive to beat that.
  
  Overall Mario Kart is by far the best DS game, one of the best games of 2005, one of the best racing 
 games out there, and one of the funnest online games out there. evan tho it uses the D-pad It handles 
 better than any racing game, feels exhiliarating with its good sense of speed with the slide power 
 boosts, mushroom and boos plates. Awesomely challenging online play with competition from all over 
 the world. astoundingly well presentation in game and map which is bloody brilliant giving quite 
 a few home console games a run for their money which is kinda sad cause the DS doesn't have anywhere 
 near as much power as home consoles, in conjunction with its brilliantly composed sound track it 
 consolidates for optimum presentation. Ingeniously designed maps, traps, tricks, and tracks to 
 keep you entertained for a long time to come. Will never lose replay value with the new Wi-Fi connection 
 which lets you play selected friends only, people across your own country, and people across the 
 globe.
  
  Things i would improve upon this game is i would've included some original Mario tunes or some 
 remixes of them atleast, i wouldve included more character exclusive karts, 2, 3 or 4 more grand 
 prix competitions wouldve been nice, 1 more world in the missions wouldve been cool keeping the 
 eight world mario tradition, and last some sort of online chat function where you can send PM's 
 (private messages) , something like picto chat:) so you can organise your match, have a friendly 
 chat with people, challenge people, chat between matches, and chat with people if you get eliminated 
 during battle :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youdie15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart games have always been quality racers. But one thing is for sure mario kart ds is the 
 best one ever. Everything is just better on this mario kart game. From the karts which are cooler 
 looking and have the most ammount of them ever. The tracks 16 new ones and classic mario kart courses 
 with the game. A new mission mode which can be a nice alternative to the usuall grand prix. And 
 my favorite part amazing wi-fi. Mario kart ds has wi-fi that runs silky smoothe and is great fun. 
 I mean overall this game is just the best in the series. This is a must buy for the ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_winner
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  it is the best mario kart game ever . it has 4 courses from each other mario
  kart game . it includes some favorite characters and new ones like R. O. B.
  and Dry bones. for 
 me the best course is the new tick tock clock, rainrow road, and the classic bowers castle 2 from 
 the mario super curcuit game for gameboy. you should get this game if you liked the other mario 
 kart games
  Hint: after you unlocked mirror and get all the gold cups you will be able to 
  choose from any cart you want. to get R. O. B. finish 150cc mirrior 's rainbow road and get the 
 gold cup 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart takes quite a risk here. The go-kart racing genre has been used many times, and it has 
 only 3 games that are good here. Mario Kart 64, Crash Team Racing (the only one who can harm up 
 with Mario) , and now Mario Kart DS. Mario Kart DS is most based on Mario Kart 64, providing the 
 same gamplay, and graphics. But its not a remake. There are a lot of new tracks, from a cliff 
 road, to a garden, and even a Nintendo DS (serious) . You start off with the useal characters: Mario, 
 Luigi, Yoshi, Wario, Peach, Toad, Browser, but later you unlock more. There are 3 diffcultys 50cc 
 (easy) , 100cc (normal) , and 150cc (hard) . Each one has 8 tourments. They are devided in 2 catgories 
 with 4 in each. Theres a normal cup which as all the new levels, and then theres the retro cup, 
 which includes levels from SNES, Nintendo 64, GBA, and Gamcecube. It feels nice to drive through 
 those old levels as they bring back good memories. The gameplay is like Crash Team Racing, so you 
 many know about it. Its your simple 3 lap track, with plenty of opponents to smash, using one 
 of the many weapons. The AI does a pretty good job of giving you a challange, and they work great. 
 On 50cc they drive into traps that are easy to avoid, and dont know what to do with the weapons. 
 On 100cc they use the weapons more, and drive less times into traps. On 150cc, they always know 
 what to do with weapons, and drive rarely into traps. The touch screen is only used for map, which 
 there are 2 types of. The default one shows where you are driving, and your opponents postion, 
 and the traps you or others have placed. The other type shows the whole level, and you and your 
 opponents, but it dosent show traps. Besides single player, there are time trial, battle mode, 
 and a mission mode, where you do tasks such as, collecting coins, perform powerslides, drive through 
 rings etc. Mario Kart DS is also the first DS game which can go online. That works very well, but 
 you have to be around local hotspots in order to be able to do that, unless you have a wireless 
 station at home, so it means you can only play at places such as airports, Mac Donalds, and such. 
 Overall Mario Kart DS is a great game that shouldent be missed. If you intend to buy a Nintendo 
 DS, the Mario Kart DS should be your first choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isawthelight
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart was the game that started the genre of kart racing. There hasn't been really any other 
 mascot series that could come close to it. Mario Kart games always seemed to get better everytime 
 and every single one is still fun to play. So how does Mario Kart DS stack up?
  
  Graphics: This game looks clean and nice. It will slightly remind you of the Gamecube iteration 
 of this series. All the tracks are full of detail (especially Waluigi Pinball) and are well designed 
 with lots of colors. All the older cups are reproduced and look really nice as well. The characters 
 and the karts themselves are modeled very nicely. The game also moves at a constant framerate and 
 never slows down. Since you are moving at all times the game looks absolutley gorgous. Sure there 
 are little things like 2D courses and Goombas and Pirahna Plants that are actually sprites, but 
 these doesn't really hurt the game. Overall the game is one hella of a nice looking DS game.
  
  Audio: The audio in this game is your basic Mario Kart. You have all the engine sounds and 
 the effects that go on when you get hit by shells or bananas. The music itself is happy and matches 
 the tone of the series. Its upbeat and fun to listen too. The characters are well voiced and puts 
 lots of personality to them. They'll laugh and celebrate when they hit their target, but cry in 
 dismay when they are on the recieving end. The music of retro tracks are all the same from the 
 games in the past. So the audio in this game is well done.
  
  Gameplay: This game is fun. This game proves that Mario Kart can still be fun no matter how many 
 of them there are. You have your basic kart races, but throw in some items to chuck at others and 
 you have chaos. Just what the Mario Kart games are well known for. This one also features the most 
 tracks than any other Mario Kart to date. You have 16 new tracks from the Nitro Cup and 16 old 
 tracks from the Retro Cup that split into 4 for each console from the past. SNES, N64, GBA and 
 GCN. New to the series is the new mission mode where you complete challenges like racing through 
 gates and doing a certain amount powerslides to make yourself a better racer. This game also features 
 a blast to play battle mode. You have balloon battle with a new spin where you actually blow up 
 your balloon. Theres also shine theif where the person with the least amount of shines gets kicked 
 out. Its also good to mention that this game has bots for battle mode so loners rejoice! Actually 
 nobody will be a loner with this game because this has single cartridge download play. So you can 
 play with others with one game card. The flip side is that you have access to all your karts and 
 characters while anyone without a copy of the game in their DS will be stuck with a Shy Guy and 
 a Standard Kart. The biggest thing about this game is that it features Nintendo's WiFi online connection. 
 Basically if you have either a wireless router or the USB conncector then you can go race online. 
 However, you can't do battle mode online and not all tracks are available. You can have a friends 
 list if you want to race with only your friends or race with people only in your area. If you really 
 go out and challenge the world then you can do Worldwide. The loading takes a while to find opponents, 
 but its well worth the fun even though it can be tedious. Also when racing online with worldwide 
 and regional and such you can't pick your opponents. Overall Mario Kart DS proves that the saying 
 "If it ain't broke don't fix it" can sometimes work out as long as you stick to the formula and 
 add on.
  
  Overall: Overall Mario Kart DS is easily one of the best DS games. It can bought with a great deal 
 with that red DS thing and its just a blast to play alone or with friends. Online is great and 
 the game is well polished. Everything you expect from a Mario Kart game is here in full force with 
 some little something somethings attached to it. Mario Kart DS is defianatley the best Mario Kart 
 game to date and anyone who enjoys video games will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theheavydrinker
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is an outstanding game. From the minute it's turned on, you are almost guaranteed 
 to have fun with whatever you do. Here's my Review:
  
  Gameplay: 9 - The gameplay is solid. There are a bunch of classic tracks to choose from as well 
 as a whole cast of new ones. New items such as blooper and bullet bill have been added to the mix 
 as well. It's a shame that characters no longer have their "ultimates" introduced in Double Dash. 
 Another thing that bumped this down to a 9 was the fact that the remakes of some of the maps (namely 
 koopa beach 2) are not loyal to the originals (deep water acts like you fall off a cliff) . Also, 
 I was expecting old weapons to make a return like the feather.
  
  Graphics: 7 - While there is a lot to like about the graphics, there is also a lot to dislike. 
 Textures are very pixelated and some character models (especially DK) don't look as round as they 
 should. Backgrounds in some tracks (namely the GBA ones) should have been redone because they don't 
 fit in. 
  
  Sound: 8- I had a hard time choosing between 7 and 8 but I decided to go with 8 because the soundtrack 
 to this game is amazing. They remixed all the classic stages themes (with the exception of the 
 GCN ones) and the main themes are pretty good. The sound clips (character speech) is very shakey 
 though. While Mario's "Take it Easy" line sounds good, Wario's lines sound very... staticy.
  
  Replay Value: 9 - This is where the game shines. With battle modes, Wi-Fi online connection 
 and up to 8-player short range, this game makes a better party game than even double dash. It's 
 a shame that only 4 people can play online and that the microphone isn't used online as these two 
 features would have bumped this score to perfect.
  
  Tilt: 9 - I really enjoyed this game, but Nintendo Wi-Fi doesn't help me get introduced to new 
 players and sometimes feels the same as playing against bots due to the fact that there is no pre 
 or post game chatting. 4 Players on Wi-Fi is also very limiting. Despite these flaws (if you can 
 even call them that) , this game is a great game that should be bought even if you can't take advantage 
 of Wi-Fi. The game is chock full of fun and useless features like Emblem creation and Mission mode. 
 Because the game goes outside the race in these areas, it boost the replay value even more. One 
 of my favorite things to do is blow into the microphone to blow up balloons in battle mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakumei-san
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best Mario Kart Games ever. It is the best game out so far for DS. 
 Although the gameplay isnt as original as Double Dash, it is still a very good game. You can choose 
 from old courses from previous mario kart games, or you can choose from new courses. All the original 
 characters are playable, and the special character is R. O. B. (who is a robot from an old NES game, 
 where you plug him into a controller port and he does stuff) The graphics are the best out for 
 DS, and the gameplay is action packed mario kart old school fun, with some great new items to use 
 while racing. Another added feature is the missions. They are good if you get tired of racing. 
 Each set of missions have a bunch of levels, each containing an objective, (for example, collecting 
 coins, going under arches, racing backwords, etc) and end with a boss battle. The Wi-fi and Wireless 
 multiplayer are just as great as any mario kart game. Overall, I love this game, and you should 
 definately buy it for the low price of about 34 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is simply put the best in the series. Though it may feel like a step down from Double 
 Dash its anything but. This time around u got your new 16 race tracks, each of which are fairly 
 fun to play. Then u got your special cups which are made up from the past 2 Mario Kart tracks. 
 Which were pretty well picked too. 4 come from each game. 
  
  You got new items like the Bullet Bill and annoying squid thing that craps ink on your screen lol. 
 Though u can use the bottom screen to keep moving if the top gets too messy from he ink. Also you 
 have 4 new charcters Waluigi, Daisy, Dry Bones (my favorite) and Shy guy. Though hes only pickable 
 in Vs mode for some reason, bummer. Tons of stuff to keep u going on your own. Though the missions 
 are a bit tidious and not so changgling, they are still a bit of fun and a good time killer.
  
  Online mode does this game alot of good. The only problem with it is that u can only race on 
 about half the tracks, for some stupid reason u cant race on the others. Which blows seeing how 
 I would of loved to played on Bower Castle, an espically Air Fortress. You can play with 3 others 
 online which dosnt take very long to get your guys either. 
  
  Overall Mario Kart DS is a great game and can and will be enjoyed even longer then before if u 
 got a hot spot orwireless router. You might even be able to mooch off your neighboors wireless 
 router too like my friend haha. I recommend this game whole heatly, espically if u like the others. 
 Much better buy then Need for Speed Most Wanted in my opinion too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booo95
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  First off the graphics. Like all ds games mario kart ds has gamecube quality graphics. It's like 
 you're playing a gamecube. There's a lot of gameplay. You have to unlock things in grand prix mode, 
 you can practice in vs. mode, you can play in battle mode, there's a new mission mode with 7 levels 
 of missions with 9 missions a level including the boss level (the 9th mission is the boss mission) , 
 there's the usual multiplayer and this game has wifi. You need a supportable wireless router or 
 a usb connector for wifi though. The sound is good. It's the usual sound but it's still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invader_gir01
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  It a Great game buy it.. ummm welll it had new tracks and the old classic track. its very fun for 
 wi-fi. so just buy it... I thinks its a pefect game for 7 year olds and up. Perfect.. My friend 
 little brother played and he is 7 he loved it he wanted mario kart too. ALso its just a fun game 
 even my 22 brother loves the game because when he was little they had mario kart and he raced one 
 of the track from super nintendo and he played it almost the whol day!!!! And i love it too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmmwantsyou
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well... its almost pointless to write a review of gameplay in a Mario Kart game considering 
 its always fun. This game is still true to classic mario kart with 16 classic stages... with the 
 addition of 16 all-new stages? Bravo! Except where did all the characters go? 9.4/10
  
  Graphics: See I only wish that the ds wasnt a leap back in graphics... but under the circumstances 
 the game really does deliver a nice visual representation... the characters are kinda poly looking 
 9/10
  
  Sound: First time I played I tapped on the screen and asked what Wario had under that hood... becuase 
 the sound engine is incredible... music is great... fantastic sound all around 10/10
  
  Value: No words describe... 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esn2500
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must buy. The graphics, the gameplay, the sound, the karts, the backgrounds, the 
 framerate, the courses, the grass. Seriously everthing in this game is crazy.
  
  The graphics are awesome (for the DS) . Why am i talking about the graphics. The main reason is the 
 gameplay. Its just an instant classic with the regular characters such as mario, peach, bowser, 
 ect, ect. The controls of left and right are great, Not too jerky not too light. THe 4 cup championships 
 keep you playing for a while and the 3 speed limits 50,100,150 change the game a lot. So you'll 
 be playing for a while. The sounds are cool with the signature phrases of all the characters.
 
  
  Multiplayer is the best part of the game. You can race anyone with the DS with nintendo wifi. Its 
 awesome. You can also create your own nickname and elblem. And there are friend codes so you can 
 play eachother on the internet. 
  
  Just get this game if you dont have it. Its a great game, a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zibbyzib2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  To put it all together, this game is perfect for anybody, even those who assume that the PSP is 
 better. The Wi-Fi connectivity is perfect for online game play, and if you don't have Wi-Fi, this 
 game is still very interesting. It has a lot of game modes to play including the BRAND NEW Mission 
 mode. This is simply a MUST HAVE game for EVERYONE and ANYONE. This game is very fun and will have 
 you playing for hours. There are TONS of unlockables in this game like cars for every character. 
 If you are planning to buy this game you would never ever regret it. It is fun for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This game improves everything in Mario Kart: More characters, more courses, and even more modes 
 to choose from. How could you say "NO" to this racing game? This is awesome!
  
  Normally you would have to hook up with a friend to do battle mode, but now you can do it with 
 the computers. I've always loved the balloon battles and cramming a shell down Mario's throat is 
 priceless. They also have missions to fullfill certain tasks. Tedious gradewise, but it is fun. 
 There are also more karts to choose from. (Thats a first) You can actually race in style instead 
 of those rinky dink karts of the past. Awesome features equal an awesome game. Comprende?
  
  Where ever there is good, there is bad. The use of blue spiny shells are too redundant; they 
 hit me over 3 times in a single race. I remembered when that item was impossible rare, but now 
 it is as common as a house fly. They could've had better retro courses. I was thinking that the 
 staff members did a raffle and picked courses out of a box. It would've been cool to do DK Mountain 
 from Double Dash. 
  Overall, with more everything and wi-fi how could you go wrong? I got to admit that console racing 
 games are better, but this game stands within their calibur. Perfect multiplayer and this game 
 is a steal if you manage to get it. Want the best Mario Kart? Get this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikejones420
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Best Mario kart ever i love it Love to play with friends on wi-fi i like the extra characters you 
 get on the game in the extra cars, and tracks first mario kart to be online is awsome i love it 
 thas' why like DS better then PSP cause psp can't compete with nintendo video games like metroid 
 prime, animal crossing, resident evil 4, overrall Mario Kart is one awsome game thas' why I Recomended 
 Buy It Nintendo Forever.!!!!!!!!! is why nintendo Rev is going to be a very good system.......... 
 Psp Is Like A portable Play Station Who Wants That And The Price Is Outrages And They Dont Even 
 Have Good Games All The Games They Got they Already on the PS2 Nobody Wants That. People Wants 
 New Video Games Like Mario Kart, Who Wants To Play Gta Libery Stories same Video Game Just New 
 Missions and who wants to pay $50 A video game plus tax Nobody Okay I Made My Point Im Leving 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holada
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  GENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL 
 GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIALGENIAL GENIAL 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazlodude7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The controls are smooth and work well with the DS. Each kart is different in stats, so 
 it doesn't feel like you're driving the same kart with a different character. Online connection 
 with Nintendo Wi-Fi makes the game all the more sweeter. Multiplayer battles aren't bad either. 
 With 3 choices of how to play, you'll be playing for a long time.
  
  Graphics: The environments are luscious, and well detailed. The karts are no different. Even the 
 items are detailed. Nintendo put a lot of hard work into this game.
  
  Sound: The music is well done, and it's not blown away by all the SFX. Even the retro level music 
 is kept, and redone quite well I might add.
  
  Difficulty: This game starts you off easy, but then at 100cc, the comps are near merciless, so 
 it'll be hard to beat them.
  
  Overall, this is a must-buy for any DS owner. Plus, it's got Wi-Fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIS_AMERICA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart a fun multiplayer game? Kinda. But the single player experience is alot more fun. Mario 
 Kart has always been a fun multiplayer experience, but this time around, I think it loses a bit 
 of its touch. With Nintendo introducing the new Wi-Fi connection, you would think its going to 
 be a blow out fun time multiplayer experience. Well its not really. Racing against and pwning all 
 the strangers should be fun, it ain't. Truly it gets boring after a while. First of all, Online, 
 you can't set up your own match, pick who you want to race, or even chat with the stranger your 
 about to pwn. You must compete in the draggy 4 races that you must race in order to win. But Mario 
 Kart is definitely not all bad. Multiplayer Offline, is one hell of a time, fun fast paced, and 
 making fun of the person your pwning right in front of you. Next the single player is the best 
 thing about MK. In most racing games, you blow through the single player just to get a good car 
 to race online with. But with MK your gonna want to spend as much time as possible racing in the 
 single player mode that includes Grand Prix, Time Trial, and the best of all Missions. This is 
 the Big N's first online trial, but lets just hope the next MK DS (if there is one) will flesh 
 out its online component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  ive played all mario karts except for the snes one, and this is the BEST so far! the new flying 
 shell replaces the spiked shell, and the new explosions from bob-oms and the flying shell takes 
 the mario kart game to the next level. you will think to yourself: destruction derby mario kart. 
 it gets pretty crazy because you will find yourself fighing one on one with the guy next to you. 
 that makes it so much better. the download play is the most convienent part of mario kart ever! 
 and now that you can do battle with AI it makes my favorite part of the game easier than gathering 
 3 or 4 friends with DSs and mario kart. a new version of block fort is in there of course, and 
 a new "team" option makes the already fun battle play type, into an even more fun WAR!!!
  the online wifi section is pretty cool too, but you do hav to wait a while for it to find an opponent, 
 for an equally long race which the other person could easily quit after you beat them. but ive 
 only played a few times, so i cant say ive gotten the full force of the online play.
  if you hav a DS you must hav this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oginsnfox
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Well first of all lets talk graphics. The graphics aren't really anything spectacular compared 
 to other systems, but considering there on the ds they look awesome! Next gameplay, If youre lookin 
 for a game with good controls and a fun experience every time you play, mario kart is it.
  the game has no shortage of racing type events and the addition of mission mode make it more than 
 a bargain. so as u can tell the value is only held down by how quickly some people can beat it. As 
 for sound some of the songs arent as good as the origanals but still fun to listen to. The voices 
 are still clear and reconizable and the sound affects are spot on. Overall Mario Kart is a complete 
 package and certainly a must-buy for anyone with a ds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symerwizkid22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Easily the best VIDEO GAME I have ever played besides "The Legend of Zelda: The Orcarina of Time" 
 for the N64. It takes so many greatly developed courses, takes old ones, and puts in about a perfect 
 lasting apeal (lots of stuff to do) The 64 bits per second is outstanding. The graphics could be 
 said to be better than the N64 version. Also, the dual screens replicate the original SNES "Super 
 Mario Kart". Everything about this game is awesome... eve the price! I was expecting a 40 dollar 
 game and I bought it for 34.82 at Wally's (Wal-Mart) . 
  
  The only negative... waiting in McDonald's IF you don't have a wireless router compatible w/ NINTENDO 
 or a USB WiFi connector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArranTehN00b
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Mario Kartavia is a beautiful land, but has had many wars. The evil dictator, Super Mario Kart 
 on the SNES, has always run Mario Kartavia. The Mario Kart 64 rebellion came close to revolution, 
 but was crushed by Super Mario Kart's secret military police. Mario Kart: Double Dash!! on the 
 Gamecube didn't stand a chance anyway, and Mario Kart: Super Circuit didn't even go into battle. 
 However, a rebellion was formed on the new Nintendo DS. A powerful rebellion promising brand new 
 original courses, as well as some retro ones, a bunch of unlockables, and connection to Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi, allowing online play. Super Mario Kart's army was crushed, and it fled into exile, into 
 your attic next to its former palace, the SNES. Mario Kart DS now runs Mario Kartavia.
  (This isn't the story of the game, thankfully!)
  
  Thankfully, Mario Kart DS has dropped the 
 completely pointless idea of having two racers on each kart, like Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, and 
 has gone back to the good ol' original games. All eight original characters have returned (Mario, 
 Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, DK, Wario and Bowser) along with a few unlockable characters! Each character 
 has their own kart designs, some are cool, some are completely lame (e. g. Luigi's vacuum-kart) , 
 but you can select their original karts as well, and even unlock some new ones!
  
  The courses are all unique and original. Players can race through Luigi's Mansion, a giant pinball 
 machine, and even through one of the airships which appear on the last world of Super Mario Bros. 
 3! Rainbow Road also makes its return! But although there are these new courses, there are also 
 4 'Retro Cups', which feature retro courses from the SNES, N64, GBA and Gamecube! There are classics 
 such as Donut Plains, Frappe Snowland, Baby Park and Sky Gardens featured within these 4 cups.
 
  
  However, it doesn't take long for players to complete all 8 of the cups on all 4 difficulties (50cc, 
 100cc, 150cc and Mirror Mode) . But don't be disappointed! As well as a 'Mission Mode', in which 
 the player must complete insane missions such as driving through rings backwards and firing shells 
 at Monty Moles, the multiplayer allows 8 players with as little as one kart!
  
  But the real highlight of Mario Kart DS is Nintendo Wi-Fi! Finally! Mario Kart Online! Connect 
 to Nintendo Wi-Fi and you can choose to play 'Continental', which selects random opponents who 
 are connected from your country, 'Worldwide' in which up to four random opponents from anywhere 
 in the world are chosen, 'Rivals', in which you race people you have raced before, and 'Friends', 
 in which you enter someone's 'friend code' and everyone can get together for a big race. The only 
 downfall is, you can't talk to the people using any kind of Pictochat-esque chat program, probably 
 for the safety of children. You usually get the cheating sods who disconnect when they're losing 
 as well...
  
  Overall, a must-have racer for anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixDS
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  Wow. How can one begin to describe the sensations of enjoyment one gets from this title? I will 
 try my best, fellow readers.
  
  Mariokart DS is no doubt THE best Mariokart game to date. Every bit of the game is as deep as the 
 series has ever gone.
  
  Let's start with the basics. Mariokart DS has a large selection of characters to choose from, with 
 some truly surprising entries to the series, many will bring back memories from the good ol' days. 
 Each character begins the game with a choice of two karts, this range soon expands once more of 
 the game is completed. Each kart has different statistics ranging from speed, acceleration right 
 through to weight, items and even drift. This gives the game an incredible amount of depth.
  
  There is a HUGE array of tracks to choose from, with a nice balance of brand new tracks and 
 plenty of classics from all versions of the game across all the consoles... right back to the days 
 of the SNES!!! The game is set up with four cups with the new tracks, each with 4 courses (totalling 
 16 spanking new zany tracks to race on!!) and also four 'classic' cups, each one consisting of 
 one track from each of the last four games. Awesomeness. Some of the new track themes are ripped 
 right out of other Nintendo games, you can even race around Luigi's Mansion, and Delfino Square 
 from Sunshine:)
  
  Then we have the rather interesting new "Missions" addition to the single player experience. Six 
 sets each with 8 missions and a final 'Boss' mission. The tasks are widely varied and mostly challenging. 
 A nice feature of the game for those into the single player experience.
  
  Now for what makes this game a blast for hardcore Mariokart fans. The ranking system. Almost everything 
 in this game you do is ranked. In previous renditions of the series there has been ranking systems, 
 but no where near as deep as the one in Mariokart DS. After the usual A to E ranks there is the 
 Star rankings. One star rankings are manageble, two stars is for the experienced player, three 
 stars is for the PERFECT Mariokart player. Believe me, aquirring three stars on everything is a 
 MIGHTY task. Casual gamers will be content getting gold on every cup, but hardcores will go for 
 three stars on everything. This is a game well balanced to all styles of players.
  
  Multiplayer Mariokart. Are there any other words in the english language which can bring a nerd 
 to tantra-like orgasms in seconds? I think not. Mariokart DS has a GREAT multiplayer experience. 
 With six new and old battle arenas, balloon battles and the new 'shine runners' mode you and your 
 friends will never get bored. Mariokart also includes a FREE online multiplayer service, which 
 in its own right is quite amazing. Its not going to bring a stop to the world, as it is certainly 
 raw and has a few issues. I mean, once you discover what it mean to have someone disconnect on 
 you.... you will understand. Besides from this one downside online is still very fun and it will 
 surely fill your friday nights when you dont feel like going out.
  
  This game is just simply great. Singleplayer, multiplayer and online modes will keep your karting 
 needs well satisfied for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladeut2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS takes a step back in the franchise as it revisits the traditional one man kart experience, 
 as opposed to the double team action on the GCN. This though, isnt a bad thing, even though it 
 has indeed dropped one of the new innovations to the gameplay (double dash) , it moreso focases 
 on improving the traditional additions of the game by adding its own little touches to the franchise. 
 The most noticable addition to this game is the all new "mission" single player option. This provides 
 a little more than the traditional racing experience as it offers a specific objective for each 
 race. This addition is very much welcomed as it makes the whole gaming experience that little bit 
 better. Some other little additions also involve the inclusion of new weopons and racing characters, 
 which all fit in with the franchise well. On the multiplayer side of things, this game of the franchise 
 has a whole lot more to offer than previous titles. This is a result of the Nintendo DS's wifi 
 capabilities, both lan and online. Using the wireless lan connection you can have up to 8 DS's 
 all hooked up to the one game which is great fun with all your friends. The all new free online 
 system allows you to vs up to three others in a mini Gp, from all around the world.
  
  In conclusion, Mario Kart Ds is a game which takes all the old aspects of the renowned franchise, 
 adds its own little improvements and maximises multiplayer action. All this equals to one thing. 
 A calsic in the making!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mojokm
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Easily the greatest game in the Mario Kart series, this game offers it all.
  
  After purchasing this game, my eyes were glued to my DS screen for days straight. You have all 
 the Mario Kart action you know and love, with some extras thrown in. New to the mix are the Challenges 
 and online play. You don't know Mario Kart until you get beaten by some 7 year old in Italy. The 
 Challenges are fun, too, and offer gameplay you can jump into whenever you need a break from the 
 racing.
  
  The new modes aren't all that are offered. 2 new items (Blooper and Bullet Bill) and 2 new characters 
 (ROB and Dry Bones) bring some new flavor to the circuit. Included with your Mario Kart comes the 
 balloon battles that any Nintendo fan has grown to love, and they do not dissapoint. Nothing beats 
 playing 4 on 4 battles with your friends.
  
  In short, if you have this game, great! If you don't, buy it now! And if you don't own a Nintendo 
 DS, then this game alone makes it worth it. And you can expect to see a whole lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MakinBacon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Every Handheld or console (except the Game Boy) Nintendo has released their beloved Kart racing 
 game on it. Mario Kart was a game started back in 1992 on the Super Nintendo under the name Super 
 Mario Kart. 8 Racers to choose from and an arsenal of weapons to use against your opponent, and 
 a wide variety of tracks, every thing coming from the Mario universe. Well now the Mario Kart series 
 is on its 5th installment: Mario Kart DS. This new version is not only better than every previous 
 one, its probably the best kart racing game ever. Mario Kart DS offers many modes in this and also 
 a wide range of racing tracks, battle tracks and mission modes. Mario Kart DS also is the first 
 game for Nintendo's new Wi-Fi service which allows you to play other players around the globe.
 
  
  The gameplay in Mario Kart DS is the same as previous mario karts with snaking around turns and 
 gathering items and firing them at opponents. While the formula remains unchanged it shows that 
 it acually still stands up to todays standards. Compared to previous versions of Mario Kart, this 
 one seems a lot more balanced in terms of what weapons you get and the stats on each of the racers 
 and their Karts. With many unlockables to recieve its no wonder why the replay value is so high. 
 Theres many diffrent modes to choose from in Mario Kart DS. Theres the Standard Grand Prix mode 
 with 3 diffrent engine classes (difficulties) . The Time Trial mode where you can set your own records 
 for the tracks. Battle Mode, where you can finally for the first time in Mario Kart History, you 
 can fight bots in battle mode. The all new Mission Mode, where the game puts you up to small challenges 
 like, go through 8 tunnels or collect 7 coins wihout hitting a chain chomp. and finally perhaps 
 the best addition to the series is the brand new online Nintendo WFC matches. The game itself keeps 
 track of your record online. Along with using the Wi-Fi as multiplayer you can also do DS wireless 
 connect and use only 1 card for 7 more DS'. 
  
  The graphics for Mario Kart DS are as good as the gameplay. They are alot better than the Nintendo 
 64 iteration of the game but not as quite as refined as the gamecube version, which could be expected. 
 For the DS' standards though the game looks absolutly amazing. The frame rate never drops even 
 online. Everything is done smoothly, all the explosions and even the map graphics look good. The 
 Characters themselves look great as well. they are all well animated.
  
  perhaps the weakest part of the whole presentation of this game is the sound. The music is not 
 what it could be on the DS, some of the sounds are a little tinny in the way they sound, although 
 the sound effects are great, the music took a hit. The DS is very capiable of producing great sounds 
 that was prooved in Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow.
  
  This game is a really great investment , if you have a a wireless G router (802.11g) you can play 
 this online without the Wi-Fi USB adapter. Even after the single player is finished , the fun continues 
 online. for those just looking for a good single player game, you'll still find it in Mario Kart 
 DS, those looking for a good title to test out their new Wi-Fi ready DS, this is the way to be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spira12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  To start things things off, Mario Kart DS is simply the best DS game yet. Everything in this game 
 just fits together so perfectly that it produces a masterpiece.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good for the DS, I think. I mean sure there are some flat places, 
 but hey, it almost looks like Super Mario 64 DS with it's beautiful colors.
  
  Like GameSpot said in their review, most of the sound in the game consists of engine noises, really 
 GOOD engine noises. Everything sounds really good, there's not much else to say.
  
  There's really not quite as much to do as you might've though. I mean there's always the (when 
 you add them all up with all the different engine classes) 32 grand prixs to do, along with the 
 54 main missions. You can also unlock 27 more missions, but it is very hard to do. Don't get me 
 wrong that there isn't anything to do in this game, it's just that some people might not be encouraged 
 (like I was) to improve their ranks in the grand prixes and missions. Also, if you can take advantage 
 of the WFC, then you could easily add another 40 hours of gameplay to your total amount when you're 
 done with the game. To me this game was a bargain for $34.99.
  
  In my opinion, this was the best game of 2005, and I have not been disappointed with it's outstanding 
 gameplay, great drifting physics, and challenging missions yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefan2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This might be the greatest DS game that has came out. When Nintendogs came out, it was the best-selling 
 game for the DS. Now Mario Kart has taken over. When the game first released in 1992 on the SNES, 
 it was a classic. Now after Mario Kart 64 and Double Dash!!, this one knocks them all out cold. 
 Mostly the hype for this game is its online play. Playing up to 4 players at a time on Wi-Fi Connection 
 will be the most fun thing people will get a kick out of. The graphics, however, look incredible. 
 No graphical flaws or any glitches occur during the animation. The music, on another note, is really 
 great. You'll hear some classic tunes from the old Mario Kart games. Anyone who has a DS and needs 
 a good racing game, this might be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredinuyasha
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  well let me put this to basic form if u loved evry single mario kart game and would also love to 
 play new stuff than tis game is for u it has evrything from evry other mario kart game with new 
 stuff added the only bad thing is that theres no double dash mode but overall this is a great game 
 
  
  
  now im just gonna type cause i have to type at least 100 words for reviews so ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha hah ah aha 
 hah ah ha hah ah ah ah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Trini_King
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Nintendo really made good use of the touch screen. The game is the best in 
 the series and there is enough single player game-play to last you awhile. The online is good but 
 not as good as the PSP. Overall the multi-player is good and this game is defiantly worth the money. 
 I like that every character has unique strengths and weakness'. They should have added more characters 
 with more customization of vehicles. I am not a big fan of the DS but any DS owner should check 
 out this game. This is by far the best DS game to date. Yoshi rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princetonwuki
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  fun game. yup, it is fun. good game. very good. yup it is good. not only is it fun, but it is also 
 good. good game. did you know it is good? it is fun/good. goodness, it is good! IT IS GOOD!!! fun. nice 
 and fun. also good. not bad, but good. you know it is good? hey, it's good! get it, it is good. did 
 you know it is good? Well it is. This game is good. Good, good, good, good. This game is fun............ and 
 good. I like good games. this game is fun and good.
  
  Gameplay: good
  
  Graphics: good
  
  Sound: good
  
  Value: good
  
  Tilt: good
  
  I hoped you thought 
 this review was good. Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is finally back and, it's for the ds. This has got to be the best game in the mario 
 kart game in the series . With 3 unlockable characters. It is a great game to spend time with your 
 freinds. This game has courses from the other 4 games and it has all new courses. The new courses 
 are all backed with fun and difficulty. This has got to be the best ds game to date. If you buy 
 the ds look for this game right away. But, one bad thing about this game is that you can only use 
 shy guy in ds download play. Hope you buy this game and start having fun! It's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movin_target
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Ok this is one of the best DS games to date!
  Reason one it's mario kart a decent racing game...
  Reason two you got to admit all of the other 
 racing games are kinds suckish!
  Thrid of all WI-FI yes when your done 100% of the game or just board of the single player which 
 i doubt you can play wi-fi to have worthy oppents race you.. Or the newbies who just started wi-fi. 
 There is mission mode which you do various tasks and single player battle mode with a new mode 
 shine runners! Ballon battle is diffrent and cool on this one you blow into ur mic and a ballon 
 comes out... The graphics are ok good enough to play the music is i dont really like alot of them 
 but the sound effects are good go get it if your looking for a decent racing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swift_eklipz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  It packs fun, action, and clever things that will entertain u for atleast a couple of months. 
 
  Some flaws are that the game doesn't introduce any new styles of gameplay or anything.
  There have been very little changes from Mario Kart 64.
  However, the idea to compile all the 
 previous Mario Karts is simple stupendous.
  New gimmicks introduced by the DS certainly add an entertaining twist to the ever-famous arcade 
 racer.
  Blowing into the mike, and the online play are some of the great additions to the new game.
  
 
  To simply say all of it from a true Nintendo fan's perspective,
  MARIO KART DS RULES !!!
  MARIO KART DS RULES !!!
  MARIO KART DS RULES !!!
  MARIO KART DS 
 RULES !!!
  MARIO KART DS RULES !!!
  MARIO KART DS RULES !!!
  
  End.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fimbulvetr2
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  This game isn't the best of the seires but it is the best handheld of the seiries. This game is 
 not good as double dash. My favorite course in Mario kart Ds is Gamecube Luigi circut. It has 6 
 on graphics. It has 6 on gameplay. 6 on sound. It has 6 on its heavnly value. And reviewers tilt 
 is a duh 6. The Wi FI does not work on my comp so i do not like Wi Fi. I would rate this a 8 if 
 my Wi FI worked. I wish they make a double dash like thing for Ds that would be the best game of 
 a life time unless it has gamecube luigi circut. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys1elliott
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  This is mario kart at it's best! Some of you may complain that the SNES version is the king, but 
 nintendo added the best SNES, 'Cube and N64 levels in, so no complaining. ( it has Banshee Boardwalk! 
 yay!)
  
  There are also new levels some are going to remain classics like Waluigi Pinball where you get 
 thrown allong a pinball table, it is brilliant. The weapons are as crazy as ever, but with to new 
 weapons, the Bullet Bill and The Blooper, bulletbill gives you a much needed super boost ( you 
 turn into Bill) and blasts you forward at a massive speed and Blooper smudges other player's screens 
 with oil, it's really quite fun.
  
  The graphics are great, but the character models could have been better and some of the trees and 
 things are 2D, but it's so fun who cares?
  
  The multiplayer is awesome, it's online so there's always somone to play.
  But you can also race 
 with up tp 8 players using the ds' wireless functions with nearby ds'.
  
  The only slight cons are the character models and the Blue Shell, that's right they included it, 
 gr!
  
  This game is great so buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfenty
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Game researcher Steven Poole talked about the idea that the more a game tries to simulate reality, 
 the less like a game it is. In the realm of racing games, I agree with him. I prefer games like 
 Burnout 3 to GTA 3 or 4. Frankly, I'm perplexed at their sucess. This game, like Burnout is just 
 flat out fun to play. In a very different way of course. Mario Kart is as much strategy as it is 
 racer. Different play styles can flourish and there is an ideal cart for every play type. The tracks 
 are brillant, the sounds are perfect, the different stragies make for near infintie play possibilities. 
 This is just a fun, fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CelestialZone
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  I have played every Mario Kart game ever created and fell in love with them all. I just beat the 
 one for GCN and was hoping for another Kart game. 1 year passed and i was gettin restless. almost 
 2 years have passed and an announcement on TV that read: Mario Kart is being mad for the DS in 
 November. You have no idea how happy i was. i was gonna buy it but i got for christmas instead. 
 The game was so good that the clerk said the game sold out the same day it came on the shelf. The 
 racing is very intense and also very competitive: what i like in a racing game. Theres also a new 
 mission mode that is another blessing. and finally, what ive been waiting for, was when i heard 
 that it featured online play. Thats when i felt so good inside. Im telling u, if u pass this game 
 and u dont take one, then u are missing a game that almost won Game of the Year and it only came 
 out in November! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coofoo31
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game knowing it would be amazing, but when i actually played it my self i was blown 
 away, for i had no idea the DS could push out that much goodnes. Graphics are amazing, with rich 
 colourful worlds, with many things to see. No slow down, and the characters and karts are all amazingly 
 done. The sound is impossibly good, i didn't even know the DS speakers could be so clear and crisp 
 from a cartridge pack. The level design is really well done for they took all the best tracks and 
 mushed them into one game, and also a few new ones to sweeten the deal. And to make it all come 
 to gether even better... WiFi!!!! MARIO KART ONLINE!!!!!!!!! its b-e-a-utiful. Do your selfs alla 
 favor and go buy this game NOW, you wont regret it and you'll love your DS for being so damn good 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Mario Kart is one of the most popular Mario games on Nintendo, and for good reason. 
 Mario Kart DS keeps up with the tradition is most likely the best Mario Kart game to date!
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  The graphics on the game are about as good as you can get on the DS, however 
 they still look a little rough in places, wuite similiar to those on Mario Kart 64. Scenery is 
 beautifully done though and all very true to the Mario style. Characters look good and turn correctly 
 with the kart, but a few corners here and there seem a littl rough. Karts look great, and theres 
 some new interesting variaties!
  
  Gameplay 9/10:
  Mario Kart DS sticks with the original Mario Kart engine, but with some serious updates. If you 
 haven't played a Mario Kart before, it is simply a racing games, but with items to use against 
 your opponents and some out of this world circuits! It takes the great circuit ideas from Gamecubes 
 Mario Kart: Double Dash as well as from Mario Kart 64. On the bottom screen you have a map along 
 with placings, this is quite similiar to the map on Mario Kart on SNES, but obviously looks nicer 
 and has been tweaked for the DS, its flat too, the Karts don't stand up like in SNES map. Finally 
 it takes the ranking system from Mario Kart Advance, so thats the combinations of previous Mario 
 Kart Games.
  However, as I mentioned before, Mario Kart DS has plenty of its own unique qualities. Firstly, 
 there is not one, but two SETS of Grand Prixs! The first set of 4 is all new courses, the second 
 set of 4 is a combination of courses from previous Mario Kart games! Mario Kart DS also brings 
 a new mode into play: Missions. In missions you are required to complete certain tasks, such as 
 collect all the coins, destroy item boxes, blow of Monty Moles, race other characters and take 
 on some bosses! There is a huge amount of them to have fun with!
  Mario Kart DS also brings the online play to the DS, if you play at a hot spot of have your own 
 router, you can play against the world in Mario Kart! This brings that added fun and extra challenge 
 to the game!
  
  Sound 8/10:
  Clssic Mario styled background music and all your usual sound effects such as character taunts, 
 reving engines, crashing sounds etc. Basically everything you woukd expect, but nothing mind blowing. 
 
  
  Challenge 8/10:
  Mario Kart has some challenge, but its nothoing you should struggle with. Playing 50CC is extremely 
 easy, and its probably harder to lose than win. Playing 100CC, 150CC and Mirror are much harder, 
 but with enough practice it will still be quite easy. The missions are very easy as wel, but to 
 get a perfect ranking on them will take quite some time. This is more a game for pure fun that 
 any outstanding challenge.
  
  Replay Value 10/10:
  Its a racing game, you pick a Kart, and character and go and race as many times as you want! Playing 
 online against others will also extend the games lifespand, and playing through all the GrandPrixs 
 and winning them will take a fair while. Getting perfect rankings on everything will take even 
 longer...
  
  Overall 9/10:
  Mario Kart DS is a great game and if you have a DS, go buy it, its is by far one of the best games 
 on the DS at the moment, even if you have plauyed all the other Mario Kart games to death, this 
 one will really refresh you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowStriker76
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is Perfect. The best in the Mario Kart Series. It's Multiplayer is awsome and you can 
 kick your friends ass. This is a game you can never get boring from. There are tons of unlockables, 
 and there are maps 16 from different Mario Kart games for the SNES, N64, GBA, GC plus 16 new maps 
 made for this game. It is the perfect game to make your time pass. The dual Screen for the DS just 
 makes it better. You can actually play by only looking at the map. It also supports single-card 
 multiplay, so you can play with your friends and use download and play, even if they dont have 
 the same game. This game is... perfect, perfect, perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deatheagle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  It may not have the speed of Burnout, it may not be a "simulator" like Gran Turismo is but Mario 
 Kart DS is the most fun handheld racing game available (yes ... even besting Burnout Legends on 
 the PSP) .
  First off, if you haven't played Mario Kart, where are you living?
  What started as just another Spinoff on the SNES has become one of the biggest sellers for Nintendo.
 
  Mario Kart DS offers everything you would want in a game!
  Great gameplay (and now has multiplayer capabilities via WiFi) , great graphics and sound, etc.
 
  If you want to have fun be it in short burst or long ones, you can't go wrong with this game. 
 
  I wont go into details (just read the great review made here) but I can say that this will rock 
 your world for a few weeks if you let it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehuntershade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:17 am PT
Review:  Mario kart has been a major series in the past years since the nes version was released. Every 
 game has a mix of stunning new characters and modes for multiplayer. 
  Mario kart ds have every mode from its previous installments as well new characters and game play 
 modes. The mission mode is a very unique style of learning new tricks as well testing your capabilities. 
 The multiplayer section is up to 9 players via wireless and online up to 4 players can play. The 
 range of modes you can play is only a small selection but the number of tracks makes it good.
 
  Their is the retro mode with some of the tracks revamped from its previous games as well new ones 
 which are surprisingly done well as well the color in the environments. 
  The sound is impressive on the game especially some of the gcn levels on the retro mode that can 
 be compared to its home console.
  So is Mario kart ds worth it? Yes. If you have the money to get it is worth and if your mates have 
 it then you can go on the download section and play it and test it yourself.
  -Gareth Saunders
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonyreallysucks
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:08 am PT
Review:  If you have a Nintendo DS buy this game. If you haven' t a Nintendo DS buy it and than buy this 
 game. If you couldn' t buy this game then steal it. If you couldn' t buy a Nintendo DS then steal 
 it. This is the best Mario kart of ever. This is a masterpiece. This is the best game of ever for 
 a portable. This is the best game of ever for the online. Graphics are simply perfect, the sound 
 is really incredible. The gameplay is simple and funny. You must have this game... listen to me! 
 I have only one thing to say : Woooooooooow!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vee42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is simply not only the best karting experience for a game ever but it's also mario kart ( 
 gee go figure) . Well this is the first fully 3d handheld mario kart and it lives up to the franchise 
 name bringing you surprisingly hectic gameplay and superb graphics. The game has the most meat 
 on any mario kart game yet with a long list of characters with 2 karts to choose from each, with 
 the first mario to go online, AND it has boss battles and missions, and it has the longest list 
 of races on any mario kart game, with the greatest multiplayer yet it's a wonder not everyone has 
 a DS. The sound actually really surprised me also with a jumpy attitude and rid of the dark and 
 gloomy music in some levels. With this game being a first of the franchise onto the DS I was definately 
 knocked off my rocker. This game has levels from the other games even the original with I think 
 32 tracks NOT including mirrored levels it's amazing only 16 are exclusive or revamped though. 
 I'm not sure why they added two people in a kart for double dash but I didn't enjoy it that much 
 it was a stupid pointless concept and I'm glad to be rid of it, powerslides are also really fun 
 in this game, and as an added bonus there is even a air ride or whatever they're called when closing 
 in on an oppenent with their speed pulling you forward and if your behind long enough you'll get 
 a free boost. Oh and ONE MORE THING there is so many new weapons to attack with including the oil 
 on your screen thing, pure genius! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javourman
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun at the beginning. But it seems as you play you play the same thing over 
 and over again. But to complete the game, you must beat the same thing over and over again but 
 it just gets a little harder. But the prize isn't so great at the end. This game needs more characters 
 and more levels. Also a way to communicate. That would be good in any game. Also it needs to have 
 an option to use a double kart or not. Will I play online, someone always turns off there power. 
 I have never played a full game online. I suggest this game to people that like racing games or 
 previous mario kart games. 
  
  The graphics of this game though is awsome and are probibly just as good as mario kart 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joey12123456
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  (Good) If you've never played a mario kart game before, there is no better time to start than now. 
 This game is one of, if not the best racing games of all time. Mario Kart DS has all that is needed 
 to be a great racing game, a good selection of characters, a ton of items at your disposal, an 
 abundance of greatly detailed courses, great multiplayer modes and for the first time in the series 
 online play. What else could you possibly want out of a handheld racing game? Not to mention its 
 very easy to pick up and play. The difficulty is perfect for all that will play. Even if you dont 
 intend to take part in the online or multiplayer portions, there are alot of single player modes 
 that even after completed, are entertaining enough to make you go through and play again. After 
 all is said and done, your left with a solid, addicting, and over all superb racing game that will 
 never cease to keep your attention.
  
  (Bad) The only possible thing i can put in the review that might be considered bad has nothing 
 to do with the game itself, but with the online portion of the game. This may just be me, but it 
 seems to be hard to find matches, once found tho, the people continue to race with you for long 
 periods of time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFrog
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, the graphics are good and flow together; the sound is fairly traditional 
 to all other Mario Kart. Also, there are 12 different characters with their own stats and there 
 own karts. But do not fear being restricted in karts, because after some accomplishments you will 
 be able to play any kart with any character that you choose, allowing for a lot of choices. The 
 only complaint I would have is the ease of one-player mode. However, battles and races are tons 
 of fun, especially when played with others. I would suggest when playing this game to do the 1 
 player Grand Prix and to unlock all the unlockables, then play wireless with Battles and races. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Noraneko-05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a true evolution of kart racing which offers fun addicting gameplay and serious racing 
 action. From back to the SNES days to the new era of Mario Kart racing, it stills holds that title. 
 Mario Kart DS succeeds at delivering what fans want, fast arcade racing and a brand new online 
 mode with up to 4 players with the newly launched Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. 
  
  Everything about Mario Kart DS is suberb and slick. The controls are tight and responsive, especailly 
 when controlling with a D-pad on a 3D racer. Speaking of 3D, the graphics on this game are bright, 
 colorful, smooth and excellent. We all know that the DS isn't a power house when it comes to 3D 
 graphics but this game justifies that the DS can pull off some slick graphics, which runs at 60 
 fps and holds steady there. 
  
  The racing tracks on the DS are really suberb, offering 16 brand new tracks and 16 of your favorite 
 past tracks (SNES-GCN) , which includes Moo Moo Farm from the N64, Mario Circuit 1 from the SNES, 
 Yoshi Circuit from the GCN, and a lot more. The new tracks are fun and exciting, and as every Mario 
 Kart game, there is a new Rainbow Road track and it is probably the best Rainbow Road track out 
 of all the Mario Karts. You will really enjoy racing on all of these new and past favorite tracks.
 
  
  In the starting of the game, you start out with 8 characters of your favorite Mario characters, which 
 includes obviously Mario, Luigi, Peach, Donkey Kong, Bowser, Toad, Wario, and Yoshi. There is also 
 4 new unlockable characters in the game. So in the game there is a total of 12 usable racers to 
 choose from.
  
  The sound in this game is also great. The tracks are fun and fit in with the Mario mood of the 
 game. The quirky voice clips of the characters are also great. The music from the past tracks are 
 also good to listen to, it reminds you of the good times you had when playing Mario Kart on the 
 SNES. 
  
  The value in this game is really outstanding. There is so much modes to choose from in the game. 
 The single player mode has many modes that will keep you busy for a while even if you don't have 
 anybody else to play with. The first mode is, like in every other Mario Kart game, a Grand Prix. 
 The Grand Prix is in three difficulties, 50cc (easy) , 100cc (intermediate) , and 150cc (hard) , and 
 a special unlockable difficulty. Next there is time trials, a Vs. mode where you can race against 
 computers at any set difficulty, next there is everyone's favorite Battle Mode against computers. 
 Then there is the last single player mode which is a new Missions mode, where you complete missions 
 that ask you to do certain things, like driving backwards or going through numbered gates. In total 
 there is 6 different mission modes and in each mission modes there is 8 missions. At the end of 
 every mission mode there is a boss to battle, which is fun to do. The purpose of these missions 
 is to practice different driving techniques to help you become a better racer. In all, the single 
 player aspect of the game is deep and will keep you busy for a while.
  
  The multiplayer experience in this game is extremely fun, especially when you have 8 of your friends 
 racing. You can race up to 8 players on a single Mario Kart card, via download play. This is limited 
 but still very fun. There is also "Normal play" which means other people playing who also have 
 the Mario Kart game. Here you can choose any character you want, where in "Simple play" (download 
 play) the downloaders only get to play as Shyguy. He is only playable when you download the DS 
 game. You can also play battle mode, which is very fun when you have other players playing against 
 you, or in a team.
  
  Next, there is the new online mode which is a god-sent from Nintendo. Mario Karters can now race 
 against each other from the newly launched Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. The online mode is new, so 
 don't expect Xbox Live functions, but it is still very fun. The online mode is limited to racing 
 against 3 more other players from around the world or regional, depending on what mode you play 
 on (Regional or Worldwide) . There is also Rival mode where you are matched up with players who 
 have similar win-loss stats as you. Next is friend mode, where you race against people on your 
 friend list. Though, the only way to get a friend list is through a friend code where you have 
 to exchange codes with friends. You can't do this with random people over the net. You have to 
 have their code and they have to have your code in order to play online against each other. This 
 is to keep people safe from strangers. This can get in the way since you have to have each other's 
 code to play each other. It's very limited, but it's a newly launched online service, so none can 
 really complain about that.
  
  So, in conclusion Mario Kart DS is the best Mario Kart game ever, including all other karting games. 
 It succeeds in the single player aspect and in the multiplayer aspect. The new online mode may 
 be limited, but it is very fun to race against other players around the world. This game is a definite 
 pick-up for all Mario Kart fans and all DS owners. I highly recommend this game to everyone who 
 has a DS.
  
  -Dan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariobros123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in all sorts of ways.
  
  First off we have the grand prix. The grand prix is packed with 32 different courses and 4 different 
 classes (50cc, 100cc, 150cc, 150cc mirror) . Youcan unlock 4 charecters in grand prix making it 
 a prority to beat the grand prix. You race against 8 other carts of different charecters that are 
 unlocked. You race in a series of 4 different tracks to keep it short and to the point.
  
  There is a new feature in mariokart ds that has never been done before. This feature is mission 
 mode. Here you will play missions like colletcing 20 coins or driving bowser backwards through 
 a course. These missions are very short but very fun. They will keep you accupied for hours as 
 you try to score up to 3 stars (the highest rank in a mission) . If you are able to score at least 
 one star on all the missions you will unlock a new mission block. There are 7 missions blocks including 
 the unlockable one.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty entertaining. You can link up with your friends wirelessly up to a 60 
 foot range. You can play up to 8 people on one gamecard. Also you can play 8 people on 8 gamecards. 
 WOW! You can play in 3 different modes (baloon battle, shine runners, or vs) . This is fun playing 
 either one on one or 8 players all together. 
  
  Now the best part of all WIFI. Thats right now you can play over the internet with random peoplae 
 from around the world. You can also use friend codes (codes that you trade with friends so you 
 can play that special person. Sadly no balloon battling here just vs. There is more bad news you 
 can only play with four people. But you can have a record to show off to your friends with. Thats 
 right a win loss record. 
  
  This is a number one buy for any person out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandit_Jing
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart doesnt dissapoint. It has a ton of tracks and all the Characters from the previous games 
 and even a few new ones. The game play is Awesome, it puts the DS's graphics to good use sure its 
 no PSP graphics but u dont need those kinds of graphics on this game the fun factor is just AWESOME!!!
 
  
  theres nothing like hearing ur friend right next to you runing his mouth because you cost him the 
 race. lt doesnt dissapoint on WiFi either. It gets better. Sure a few ppl may lag and what not 
 but you get this good feeling once u beat someone from the somewhere else in the nation and the 
 World. That feeling is something that only Mario Kart DS can give you in its own unique way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecream123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game should be the first game anyone ever gets for the DS. Why?, well it is simple: Good 
 Graphics, fun and addictive single player, tons of items that you can use to reduce stress, and 
 just a game that anybody; young or old would like. The only part I don't like about this game is 
 that I have to give a WEP Key to play at home and I don't have the time to go to Mcdonalds! Also 
 you can't use the touch screen to race, just to change the map screen. oh well, anyway it is a good 
 game so you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterandbeer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game has all of the great things you loved about all of the other Mario Kart games. There 
 are many tracks that have been picked from all of the games and most of them are the best tracks 
 from all of the games. You get to pick from a few characters like of course Mario, Luigi, Bowser, 
 Peach, etc. But there is also new courses to play on. Also the graphics look pretty smooth and 
 not blocky like in some of the pictures. There is also the awesome WI-Fi connection which works 
 very well except that it takes a while to find other people to play against. There is also the 
 battle mode which is as fun as ever. But the bad part about the battle mode is that you are not 
 able to play it online which is a bummer. Overall this game is very fun and it is a definite for 
 all DS owners and if you have never played Mario Kart before than this is a great version to start 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  All I have to say is that this is by far the best DS game ever. It has outstanding graphics and 
 insane gameplay. The new Nitro and Retro game mode ar Friggen fun. If you get gold on evry thing 
 you unlock new carts or characters. It has fast carts and and insane weapons. I like the new cannon 
 and fake item box in the game. I think the squid is useless though because you can just look at 
 the touch screen to see. But beside that it was one of the best games I have ever played. If you 
 enjoyed the Mario Kart series, You'll love this game. There is no doubt in my mind that youll hate. 
 I think the best part about this game is that you can play online with the new Wi-Fi connection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsakuraHao2004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  After much anticipation mario kart ds is finally here, and let me tell you it is one amazing game.
 
  
  ===== Things you need to know =====
  
  There are 8 cups this time. the regular four have their own unique, new courses and the return of 
 some old ones such as bowsers castle and rainbow road.
  
  The four other cups are called retro cups as they have courses from the 4 previous games. You have 
 your basic character but after getting #1 on certain cups youll unlock new courses and new carts. Youll 
 even see the return of an old nes accesory as a character in the game.
  
  However before you choose your character youll have to look at that drivers abilities. The attributes 
 a driver will have to are their speed, drift, handling and weight attributes of each kart. You have 
 only two carts for each driver at the beginning, but as the game progresses you will obtain new 
 ones.
  
  The attribute you must look at is the items attribute. If this characteristic is high youll get 
 better items and usually get them more frequently.
  
  There are new items such as the bullet bill power up which gives u a HUGE speed boost and the blooper 
 (squid) which allows you to squirt ink at your opponents so their control of their cart is hampered 
 by the loss of vision (most of the screen remains in black ink) .
  
  The bottom screen of the ds shows a map of the race. However it is not the entire map, it just shows 
 what is ahead you but with this you could easily go through the entire course (if u wanted to) by 
 looking at the bottom screen.
  
  As usual there is the 50cc,100cc and 150cc kart classes. as you progress through your cart will 
 go faster in 100cc and 150, but so will your opponents. Your opponents will seem incredibly difficult 
 at 150cc.
  
  They have a new mission mode which gives u tasks of defeating enemies or even bosses. These missions 
 increase dramatically in difficulty and gives u good practice on your driving skills.
  
  ===== Multiplayer ======
  
  As for the VS. mode... you have the same games as the previous 
 ones. A new addition is that you can play by yourself with a team of cpu opponents. The cpus are 
 for some reason in this mode at times ridiculosuly hard at times. Its more fun if you play with 
 your friends though.
  
  The biggest aspect is the online gameplay. Youll have to have a high-speed connection and a router, or 
 the nintendo usb adapter and a high speed connection.
  
  Once you get online you have 3 ways to play regional (the same country you are in) , worldwide (the 
 whole world) ,or rivals (opponents of the same skill level) . However as any online game it is always 
 hampered by dcers.
  
  A wifi race can only support 4 people and you are only able to use some of the tracks (20 out of 
 32) . In a wifi race you can no longer drag items behind you (bananas for example) .
  
  In a wifi race people that are behind you will frequently get very good items to exterminate you 
 from first place so dont expect a wifi race to be an easy one youll win.
  
  There is one thing that pisses me off about the online in this game. The fact that so many people 
 turn off their DS , just when they figure out they are going to lose a race. This often makes the 
 whole aspect of this game so annoying. Not to mention there's always snakers about...
  
  When you are about to begin a race you will never see your oppoents friend code. You can only obtain 
 it personally from the person. And this was only the start of friend codes....
  
  All in all this is the essential mario kart game out there and to me is one truly great game for 
 the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRep
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:02 am PT
Review:  1992. What a year. The Crying Game was released in theatres and shocked everyone, and of course, 
 Bill Clinton was elected president of the United States. However, one event stands heads and shoulders 
 over everything else during that year. It was the year that Nintendo released Super Mario Kart 
 for the SNES, and it literally defined a new sub-genre of video games. Now over a decade later, 
 Nintendo has released the newest installment in the Mario Kart series, Mario Kart: DS. Many are 
 still looking for a kart game that brings back the past glories of '92. Here it is.
  
  Mario Kart DS is a game that- as always - pros will pick up quickly, and will be go through 50cc, 
 100cc and 150cc in no time. The joy is, rookies will pick it up almost as quickly, and will also 
 be getting those star rankings. The reason is that controlling your kart is easy to start with, 
 but hard to master. It plays alot like Super Circuit, the GBA's version of the karting classic. 
 Firing weapons is natural after a few minutes, and you get used to the way the DS feels in your 
 hands, after a few sessions. The ' hop ' is back, and this move evolves into a drift when the R 
 button is held down. Power sliding has been refined, as now you only need two colours-red and blue- 
 and you're ready to boost. The D-Pad does an excellent job, an anolouge stick isn't missed one 
 bit. The bottom screen is used as a map, and what a map it is. You could actually drive by it. 
 Some situations ask you to do this, such as when the new weapon, the Blooper, covers your screen 
 with ink and makes it hard for you to drive by the top. The Bullet Bill is another weapon that 
 has been added, but other than that weapons have remained mostly unchanged. The N64 weapon set 
 is back, and hanging shells have been hauled back into the game. ( After all that complaining) Karts 
 now come in both ' Standard ' ( after Nintendo fanboys screamed foul when Double Dash only had 
 'novelty' karts ) and what I like to call 'Novelty' karts. All in all there are 32 karts in the 
 game, and characters have specific ones tailored to suit them. There are 12 characters all in all, 
 too. So there's plenty or variety. Karts have there own sub-catagories, in which Speed, Acceleration, 
 Weight, Handling, Drift and Items, which all differentiate depending on the kart.
  
  Graphics are very nice, with the bouncy, vibrant visuals which have become a Nintendo trademark 
 over the years taking form in almost all of the tacks in the game. Animations are all there, with 
 your usual ' Waaa ' from Yoshi, who's waving his arms in dissapointment. Blue Shells and Bob-ombs 
 all make a nice little explosion. It all runs at a steady 60FPS, and is a joy to look at. Tracks 
 are divided into two catagories. The Ntro Grand Prix contains the standard 4 cups, with four tracks 
 in each. These are the new tracks, which use the best bits of the series' past incarnations, and 
 put them in a nice, fresh bundle of challenging, yet fun tracks. The Retro Cup is a collection 
 of the best tracks from the 4 other versions of Mario Kart ( in Nintendo's view ) , and have made 
 minor tweaks to suit the new game. All of the trips down memory lane are pleasant ones, with some 
 tracks being made better than you remember them ( cough Choco Mountain cough ) . GameCube tracks 
 lack the graphical polish of the originals, but are still represented amazingly well, again, often 
 being made better than you remember. It's 4 cups with 4 races in each again, so you won't be getting 
 bored.
  
  Audio is nice, again vibrant, with your classic Nintendo tunes all making a pleasant jingle in 
 the speakers. Plug in some earphones, and the clever surrond-sound impression the DS can give you 
 is very good. Each character makes his or her own ' victory ' and ' dissapointment ' noise, which 
 is a usually for most of the series' games.
  
  A new addition to keep you interested is Mission Mode, which has six levels that contain 8 challenges 
 in each. Some are quite useful for improving your driving skills, like the power sliding challenge, 
 and some are just completely redundant once you get a 3 star rating. Each 6 stages, after the 8 
 challenges are completed, have a Boss. These are nothing to worry about though, as they are beaten 
 a little too easily. Time Trials are the same as in other Mario Kart games, try and set your best 
 time. Ghosts are unlockable, these being the staff of Nintendo Of America, who have set a few- 
 as an American would say- dingers. Ghost times can be swapped using Wi-Fi. Muti-player differs 
 between Simple Mode, in which one game card can use Wi-Fi to play with up to 8 other players who 
 don't have the game. This play, of course, is limited. 4 tracks from the Nitro Cup and 4 from the 
 Retro Cup. Those without the game can only play as Shy Guy, who is not a playable character for 
 those with a card. Normal Mode is for those with Mario Kart DS game cards, and it accepts 2-8 players 
 also. Now 'bots' can be raced in both normal races and in Battle Mode. And another new mode, Shine 
 Runners, is put into the mix. It plays alot like Shine Theif of Double Dash, except in this you 
 collect as many Shines as possible within the time limit.
  
  Obviously the most hyped-up modes of Mario Kart DS is the new WFC races. Connecting to your wireless 
 modem or USB Wi-Fi connector will let you play around the world, which is great, it's just hard 
 to ignore just how limited the online presentation is. Four player races on 20 of the 32 racing 
 tracks will give the game tons more replay than the local multiplayer experience.
  But there are problems. Players can't create their own match-ups easily, nor can they interact 
 or chat with each other in or out of the races. No Battle Mode or Time Trial ghost data trading. 
 Many of the strategies in the local races still apply in the Online mode, but some have been tweaked 
 for technical reasons. Nintendo's first attempt at an online experience is certainly elegant for 
 what it is, but there are a tremendous amount of limitations that affect how gamers compete within 
 this environment. Playing online is a major component to the Mario Kart DS experience and a major 
 reason why people will be scoring a copy. It's a great addition to the Mario Kart gameplay, but 
 keep in mind that, due to time constraints, it's not all it could have been. Cool touches like 
 emblem creation and Nicknames add to the feel, but it's hard to overlook the problems.
  
  It's hard to see how Nintendo will improve the series beyond the few little tweaks needed in online 
 play , as all the faults of previous games have been fixed. It's hard not to be roped in and addicted 
 by the game modes, and that craving for all 3 stars. To finish up, I must say it : This is definately 
 the best Mario Kart game of all, and the DS' best game of 2005. Go and buy it.
  
  TheRep loves : * Shouting taunts at rivals in the same room as you.
  * The nostalgia that comes 
 with the Retro tracks.
  * That lovely boom of a blue shell
  
  TheRep hates: * Being told to watch your language after shouting 
  curses at a friend
  * Cheating 
 CPU scumbags
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colakid12
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series has always been top notch! This instalment of the popular series is much 
 better! The game continues to prove that driving go-karts and throwing stuff at people is indeed 
 a fun pastime! The reason I belive it is better is because you can now take the fun with you. Of 
 course Super Circuit did the same but the graphics are like above PS1 but below PS2. Now longer 
 may you have to dread going out-side your home and getting bord.
  
  The karts are still awesome and still the characters are making mayhem fun. The scenary of the 
 tracks is good looking! (Wow, someone tried to do a real background on a game!) The Mario Kart 
 series does'nt get anybettter than this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macky_7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:44 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for Nintendo to release a Mario Kart game when I got my DS in September. The second 
 I started playing, I new it would be a good game. The graphics of this game are very good (kicks 
 Mario Kart 64's butt) for the DS. I found that the engine classes in the grand prix mode went from 
 easy to hard, but not too hard. It didn't leave you frustrated like some games can make you. The 
 missions, I feel could have been left out .They were kind of dull. When I play my friend on multiplayer 
 we instantly get addicted and play for about an hour straight. I don't feel like this game is the 
 best in the series ( Go Double Dash!!! ) , but it is one of the more fun games I've played on the 
 DS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the latest in the long standing Mario Kart series. All the games have been must 
 own games on their respective systems, but even with how these games were always so strong, the 
 series had gone stale in the past years. Super Mario KArt was amazing, Mario Kart 64 brought the 
 series into the 3D realm, and then Double Dash just came across as gimmicky. Well with this game, 
 Nintendo hit the mark, took it off the wall, and ran it across the state line.
  
  Gameplay- Overall- 9
  Single player- 10- The single player action is SPOT ON. There is a LOT 
 of kart variation, and thanks to all the varying stats, there is easily a specific kart/driver 
 combo for you. There are plenty of cpu vs modes to be played so that even without any one to play 
 or being able to go wifi, you can have hours of fun.
  
  Multiplayer- 9- The multiplayer action is just as good. The only downside is that if you dont have 
 a card, you are stuck with just one racer... Shy Guy. Its too bad there isnt any variation past 
 this racer for dl players.
  
  Online- 8- You only have 20/32 tracks, no item dragging, and there is no way to choose a specific 
 person to play. But the play is solid & for most people, problem free. Pkus, droppers are a problem
 
  
  Graphics- 10- Looks beautiful for a DS game & puts the N64 game to shame.
  
  Sound- 10- Perfect
  
  Value- 10- There is so much to do & so much fun to have, it deserves 
 an 11
  
  Tilt- 10- Absolutely enjoy this game more than any other DS game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnman05
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  First of all Mario Kart DS is an awesome game for the Nintendo DS. The sound is great and the game 
 uses previous sountracks from the past mario karts. The gameplay is great like all Mario Kart games. 
 This one does not disappoint on that. Graphics r fine in races and on the characters. Now, lets 
 get to the best part of the game... online multiplayer! Finally, nintendo goes online 4 the first 
 time. U can compite against up to 4 players online plus u have a friends list in which u can have 
 friends and race against them too. The downside to the online is that u can not talk to the other 
 players, u cant even text them... Nintendo should improve this in the future. Also, u need to kno 
 ur friend's friend code in order 2 put them on ur friends list. But, besides that Mario Kart DS 
 is a great game for the DS. jus to play and have fun w/ ur friends or people around thew world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimsh0t
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Man the online system is fun and everything.
  One of the best games.
  I never had soo much fun with ds besides couple other games I been playing. I can't wait til they 
 make another mario kart with new development and etc.
  
  :D
  
  This game is just right to get and if noone has this game its a must want.
  Also I love the WiFi 
 usb connector instead using a wireless cable. Don't have to go to mcdonalds or any other place 
 for just playing mario kart DS
  
  This game is just right to get and if noone has this game its a must want.
  Also I love the WiFi 
 usb connector instead using a wireless cable. Don't have to go to mcdonalds or any other place 
 for just playing mario kart DS
  
  This game is just right to get and if noone has this game its a must want.
  Also I love the WiFi 
 usb connector instead using a wireless cable. Don't have to go to mcdonalds or any other place 
 for just playing mario kart DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisebob134
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Ds sets the standards for all Mario Kart games. The single player is full of new courses 
 and recycled courses. Even the old courses are fun to play. Not only is there a variety of characters 
 there is also two cars for each character giving more selection. The gameplay is the same Mario 
 kart style racing that doesn't get old. The second screen gives using bannas and other items more 
 strategy. Also the online is fun. Its nice to face other people other than computers or you friends 
 who you can totally destroy. I love this game it kinda hard to stop playing. It's the first mario 
 kart to be addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Yes you'll be saying the above title ALOT during this game as he over takes you, hits into you 
 making you fall off the course, or just being plain annoying with his stupid monkey yelps!
  
  ANYHOW, putting that aside, I have to say first of all i hate racing games. I'm just not a 
 fan of going round a course a few times
  
  However this game is different. I dont know if its the funny looking characters, the wacky race 
 courses or the cool pick ups you get to blow your opponents up with. Hell i think its all the above! 
 :)
  
  The game crams in the best and semi-best maps/courses from the NES/N64/GBA/GC versions of the game 
 into this game with added DS maps/courses. 
  
  I have to say that i thought that Mario Kart was pretty much dead but this game totally comes back 
 alive and kicking showing you that this simple yet repeated formulae for a driving game has still 
 stayed strong since its NES incarnation.
  
  The added Missions and Time Trials AND Wi-Fi connection make this game WELL worth getting.
  
 
  Very fun, and HIGHLY addictive game with stupid music and... man i hate that Donkey Kong!!!
  
  Quick Summary:
  
  Good Controls, still is fun, stupid music is also fun, Donkey Kong is 
 a $@%*$!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-gen
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  first of all i'd like to say that evryone how ownes a ds and has a little bit interest in mario 
 kart should buy it.
  Too be honest this is my first review on gamespot and i like to go it from part too part.
  
 
  Gameplay: I really like the oldskool gameplay the controls feel good and the items are good.
 
  some people may get frustating over the items they find it cheating but that's just mario kart 
 live with it.
  the gameplay is very solid i give it a 8
  
  Graphics: I'ts good verry good i know some psp fanboy's say that the ds sucks if you compare it 
 (graphicly) with the psp.
  (i look more at the gameplay)
  but if you compare the graphics wit what the ds can do its good looks like a better version of 
 the n64 version that's good enough for me.
  i give the graphics a 9 go on like this Nintendo!
  
  Sound: Just the normal Mario Kart stuff 
 nothing too special im stuck here between a 7 and 8 but I will keep it at 7.
  
  Value: You won't be dissapointed like I said above do you have a ds and a little bit interest in 
 Mario Kart you should buy it.
  9
  
  ( I'd like too apolgize for some English spelling errors people i'm sorry)
  
  X-gen
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnLiMiTeD801
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The new Mario Kart is the latest one in the series. The last one Double Dash bombed big time and 
 was an excuse to realase one. I garentee that will not see another double dash game. This game 
 is quite fun and has great graphics to boot. The races on 50 or 100cc are easy but the challenges 
 can be frustrating. They also added new items to use but when the squid splooges on your screen 
 you can just look off the bottom and never have to look at your charactor again. Another cool thing 
 is that you can see what item the other players have. Another plus is the multiplayer over the 
 internet which is great and can be a substitution for xbox live for younger kids less expensive 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EYEInferno
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm allways lazy and sometimes never complete my games, or half...
  Well I can tell you that MKDS is the first game in my life I liked so much that I completed it 
 as much as i could, and im still busy completing it...
  
  I bought it at 5 december, and its 29 december now, and im still playing it, online, offline, competing 
 with other players or trying to get that star next to my name :) .
  
  Online:
  Only thing i can tell about it, is that it is GREAT, I went to the garden, playing againt an american, 
 korean, frenchman, and myself, a dutchman :) .
  And lag? Well i didn't notice ANY lag, and then to mention that my access point (my USB Stick in 
 my computer) was in the second floor of my house.
  
  How does online work?
  Well, you click on Nintendo WFC, go to settings, click the big blue botton, then click on Search 
 for Access point, and your DS will look for ANY router, hotspot or something else that would be 
 able to bring you online.
  Once you found an Access Point, it will test connection (downside to some routers is, that its 
 probably not compatible, check the nintendo wifi site to see if your router is compatible) so when 
 you try to test your connection on a incompatible router it will not work... But thats not such 
 a big problem :)
  As long if you have Broadband connection and a USB stick you will be able to come online.
  
 
  So when you set up your connection, you are ready to go, you'll then click on Nintendo WFC Match, 
 it will connect (maybe download an update, which doesn't take long, and wont come so much) , and 
 then you will be able to choose between, Worldwide, Continental, Rival (people with the same score 
 as you have) and Friends, then when you chose one of the 4, and clicked ok, your ds will search 
 for people who are also searching on the same area of choise. When your DS found 4 people (or less 
 if it takes to long) the game will start, choosing a character and kart, and voting for a map.
 
  
  Now the Single player is extremely addictive, it has 8 cups (4 more then any mario kart game ever) , 
 it was a new mode called Missions (9x7 missions, will keep you busy for a while :) ) and ALOT of 
 unlockables, like new karts, new characters, new modes and (what im doing right now) , unlocking 
 stars to be next to your name at multiplayer. Check the tips section how to unlock these at the 
 gamespot review.
  
  The LAN is also very good, you can either do download play or multi card play, both support 8 players, 
 with download play; downloaders will only be able to choose 1 kart and 1 character (one you cant 
 choose, some kind of ghost) , with multi-card, it just plays exactly the same as with single mode, 
 you choose wich mode you want to play (VS (racing) , Balloon Battle (killing) or Shine Runners (capturing 
 stars) , you choose characters and karts and the host enables or disables bots, and chooses the 
 speed, or enables teams, and chooses the map :) .
  
  Now you'd think, does MKDS even use any DS features except for WiFi?
  YES, for example: at balloon 
 battle you start with 1 ballon and 4 reserve balloons, you can maximally have 3 balloons with you, 
 if you want to pump up more, blow in your microfoon ;) (or hold select... but that'll take longer) , 
 when you are not holding A.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  Do you have a DS? Buy this
  You dont have a DS? Buy a DS and buy this.
  It IS worth it, for every type of gamer.
  You'll 
 have months and months of fun with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert032
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  wow i put this in my DS i just threw Castlevania back in the case and mario kart hasnt come out 
 since, its a awsome racing game (first great racing game in my openion) , Online play, great 3D 
 graphics, alot of diffrint attacks. Its just awsome and even though the bottom screen doesnt get 
 much love its still the best DS game. If someone doesnt have a DS they need to go out and buy one 
 right now, if i can get my older sister addicted you can too.
  
  Gameplay-excellent, touch screen doesnt get much love but thats alright it still awsome
  
  
 Graphics- its mario kart its going to be for kids (although its not just kids who are playing mario 
 kart im 16 and i love it)
  
  Sound-well what can i say... it sounds like mario kart, nothing more its awsome
  
  Value-heck 
 im not getting rid of it, its that awsome
  
  go buy it right now you wont regreat it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnofry
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is 
 a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is 
 a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is 
 a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is 
 a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is 
 a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is 
 a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is 
 a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is 
 a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection
  mario kart ds is 
 a great ds game and a nice add to the mario kart collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MezZi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice (after starting up the game) in the menu is the option Nintendo 
 WFC which means you can finally play MK online, a feature many MK fans have been waiting on, like 
 forever!
  MK is the best game to start with online on the DS, because it's extremely easy to pick up and 
 it won't take you more than half an hour to learn the game. However, if you want to get really 
 good at it, you will have to play it a bit more then that to learn neat tricks like the power slide 
 or the turbo start.
  A good tutorial to learn these things is the mission mode. The mission mode is a new feature in 
 the MK series and it contains 6 worlds with 8 missions plus an extra level boss. The missions vary 
 from collecting coins to destroying boxes. The mission mode is a fun and helpful way to learn the 
 game.
  
  The gameplay of MK has been solid ever since the first Snes version and Nintendo continues that 
 (good) line with MK DS. Timing plays a key-role in winning a race. You'll have to time the turns 
 correctly and also know when to use an item. The items have always been a great feature in MK games. 
 This time there are two new items: The Blooper (a flying squid which squirts ink on your opponents 
 screen) and the Bullet Bill (which transforms your character into a rocket that rages over the road 
 for a few seconds) . An item that is very helpful when your falling behind. You'll find yourself 
 using the Bullet Bill alot if you're behind all the time because of the difficulty settings in 
 MK. In past MK games the opponents were driving faster all of the sudden when you were in the lead 
 this time when you're driving first you'll notice the opponents hitting you alot with (flying) shells 
 and getting much better items than you. This is much better, because it keeps the race fun 'till 
 the end.
  
  You can choose out of 8 characters who each have 2 karts, but after winning tournaments you can 
 unlock plenty of new characters and karts. You can race with your favourite character in 8 different 
 grand prix competitions. Each grand prix contains 4 races, that makes a total of 32 races of which 
 half excists of classic races coming out of past MK games. The new races are of MK quality which 
 means you'll see the weirdest things on your way to the finish line. You'll come across street 
 races and famous Bowser-races, but the favourite up 'till now has to be Waluigi Pinball (a race 
 where you drive through a pinball machine... Crazy!) , an instant 'classic'.
  
  Then there is the battle mode which contains only 2 different battles, one being the balloon battle 
 and the other the shine runner battle where you have to collect stars and steal your opponents 
 stars. The most fun is the balloon battle where you have to hit your opponents with shells or other 
 items and after that you'll have to blow in the mic. as hard as you can to inflate a balloon. The 
 race continues until only 1 character remains (with balloons of course) . Both battles can be incredible 
 fun with friends so you can hear the other person scream and curse right next to you.
  
  The graphics and sounds are amazing. Certainly the best looking graphics on the DS so far. The 
 race is shown on the top screen and on the bottom screen there's a map (which is so detailed you'll 
 probably be able to play through a race just by using this) . You'll also see a list of your opponents 
 and what items they have at the time, that comes in very handy and it ads a bit of strategy to 
 the game.
  
  This fun-racer will give you weeks or months of fun and if you've had enough of the single player 
 you'll still have the multiplayer to fool around with. With the solid gameplay, excellent graphics, 
 great sound and the online play, Mario Kart DS is the most complete Mario Kart game at the moment 
 and a must-have for every DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACaddict
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Come on 2! Blam! Darn! The engine has blown! I watch as the rst of the karts speed away, leaving 
 me at the the starting line. I press down on the accelelerator and drive onto a speed pad. PHEEEEEEEEEEOOOWWW! 
 I zoom up a magnificent shute and fly out the other end. The camera holds me for a second in a 
 cool pose... then I smash onto the ground and fly up a wall. A car behind me has thrown a red shell! 
 I drag in at a dangerous angle to the wall.. the shell come closer. Suddenly my wheels start burning, 
 giving me a signal to stop dragging... I release the pedal and fly off with a mini turbo leaving 
 the shell to crash into the wall. My kart drives down the hairpin bends, sharing the track with 
 other kart racers and pinball ball. I zoom through a pinball table and into a tunnel, seconds away 
 from the finish line, BUT WAIT! I'm coming second! I release a blue shell which blows the other 
 kart up, leaving me in first place.
  
  And that's why MKDS is the best racer ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo512
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  the game has tons of missions and circuits to keep entertained for hours and hours. and even if 
 it gets boring (highly unlikely) the online play will be the best mario kart experience of all. 
 as a proud owner of all the mario kart instalments i am very familiar with the tracks karts weapons 
 powerups and so forth. there are at least 30 new powerups in the game and all of my favorate tracks 
 are here too. the new thing here is online play. going online is.... well..... fun. connection to 
 wi-fi takes a few seconds and setup is easier then pam anderson (lol) . i even used the wifi setup 
 to look for wifi for my laptop. the opponent matching is very well thought through keeping the 
 opponents at or slightly higher then your level thus keeping the game play fast-paced and intense. 
 the human players obviously make up for mediocre a. i. which seems to be the only flaw with this 
 game
  
  
  i recommend it to anyone and everyone with a ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Yes, for the first time, you can play Mario Kart online. Have an old college buddy that you'd like 
 to share the taste of a red shell with? No problem. Well, it's only kind of a problem. Setting 
 up your DS to play online is easy, provided you have a router supported by the game. Actually playing 
 online is just as easy and incredibly smooth -- even on an iffy wireless connection.
  
  The problems come in the form of connecting with specific people you want to play with. The only 
 way to do so is to share your player ID -- a long string of numbers -- with your friends in the real 
 world. There's no ability to send friend requests to people you just played against, which means 
 that nine times out of 10 you'll be power sliding around the courses with people who are likely 
 to drop out the instant they feel they cannot win. Obviously, this was done to protect the children 
 out there from predators, yet we can't remember a single case where Xbox Live has precipitated 
 such shady activities. 
  
  It's just like Nintendo to take a half-step forward when it has the ability to take the full step. 
 Remember the worthless GameCube broadband adapter? How about the console's inability to play DVDs? 
 At any rate, aside from this issue, Mario Kart DS is gold on a game card. You'll have problems 
 finding a handheld game more loaded with features.
  
  Formula MK
  
  At first, you may resist. Things seem very much like previous Mario Kart games, and in actuality, 
 they are. It's just how flawlessly they've been implemented into a handheld that makes the game 
 so compelling. You have the ability to perform power slides, and you can even wiggle the directional 
 pad back and forth to get turbo boosts from your slides. At first it seems clunky using the D-pad, 
 but after a few races you'll completely forget how you pulverized the analog stick on your N64 
 controller pulling off the same maneuver.
  
  Powerups are always a big part of any Mario Kart, and in addition to the typical banana peels and 
 shells, Nintendo has decided to include a couple new ones. The bullet bill pickup turns you into 
 a speeding bullet that streaks down the course -- knocking aside any racers foolish enough to travel 
 down the center of the road. The new squid attack covers windshields in black ink, making it difficult 
 to see. Most importantly, none of the new weapons unbalance the game.
  
  Blown Away
  
  In addition to the typical grand prix mode (we'll get to that in a minute) , Mario Kart DS also 
 includes a new mission mode where you're asked to satisfy requirements like picking up a certain 
 number of items scattered around the track. There's also a time attack mode where you can race 
 some of Nintendo's developers. The battle mode, though not playable online, is back with a couple 
 tweaks. If you're hit by an opponent you must blow into the DS microphone to inflate one of your 
 balloons. It's a unique twist on an old formula, and it only adds to the insanity.
  
  The grand prix is where you'll spend most of your time offline because you must progress though 
 it to unlock anything new in the game. This won't seem like a big deal until you go online and 
 realize that everyone else is using superior karts and drivers to leave you in the dust. Just like 
 Mario Kart: Double Dash!! for the GameCube, both karts and drivers are rated in a variety of categories, 
 and finding the right combination of driver and machine is the key to victory -- offline or not.
 
  
  The grand prix option includes three different engine classes with eight, four-race events apiece 
 for a total of 32 different tracks. Half the tracks are brand new, with the other half being favorites 
 from prior Mario Kart releases. Just like prior games in the series, after you complete the entire 
 game you get mirrored versions of every last track. Needless to say, there's plenty of content 
 here to keep you busy. While it can take a good 15 minutes to complete a four-race grand prix, 
 you can always put your DS in sleep mode until you have time to come back and finish.
  
  All a Blur
  
  We've never kept it a secret that we wished the DS had better 3D capabilities, 
 and Mario Kart DS isn't going to change that opinion. The karts and characters are blocky and plain, 
 and the courses you race on are basically bereft of detail. At the same time, the game runs like 
 lightning, and leaves you little time to stop and take in the surroundings. It's certainly one 
 of the better-looking DS games, though is still falls short of just about any game on Sony's PSP.
 
  
  The One
  
  Handheld games are typically held to a lower standard than console games. The expectations are 
 less because the system is smaller and underpowered. Mario Kart DS shatters those expectations 
 by being the best kart racing game ever released -- handheld or otherwise. If you're the type who 
 buys one or two games for your systems, this is it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: salamisandwich
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is hands down one of the greatest games i have ever played. It even beats out 64 
 in my mind! 64 was my 4th favorite game of all time, after SM64, LOZ: OOT, and SF64 (i thought some 
 64 games rose above and beyond, so what?) .
  
  This game has not only the cups, which generally occupy a new player for 12 hours, but a retro 
 cup where you can play old maps. This gives you another 6 hours of gameplay. They also included 
 a mission mode, although short, teaches you vital online skills which helps you kick everyones 
 butt =P. This keeps you about 2-3 hours, if you don't try to rise above and beyond. So right now 
 its 21-20 hours of gameplay, but they also included staff ghosts, which take you a full 10 hours 
 to beat them all. And finally to break it up they added computers to battle mode, which is now 
 playable by 8 people. On average, this occupys you for a mere 2 hours. But altogether, the single 
 player occupys you, with large rewards, for roughly 30-35 hours. And thats just the main part. 
 If you go through and perfect everything it takes you double the time, about 70 hours.
  
  The DS to DS multiplayer is hindered by, well, the lack of people that have DS'es. Generally somebody 
 knows 0-2 people with a DS, and 2 is still rare. It functions simaler to console multiplayer, but 
 allows 8 people. It does bug you however that you can't see other people playing if your used to 
 console versions. This is a once in a while thing, and usually only takes up a few hours.
  
  The Nintendo Wifi does have its problems, but overall is a great service. This lasts longer 
 then anything, challenging your tactics, and your knowlodge of skills. Special skills are often 
 learned, such as snaking. Unfortunally this skill makes it near impossable to beat a person good 
 at it, and it does take at least a week to learn. Thankfully, snakers can be countered by group 
 choosing maps with lots of turns and not many straightaways. Back on the mormal thing, the Wi-fi 
 does take a bit longer then it should to connect, and doesn't have lobbys. While this may sound 
 drastically bad, the connection times, well, still suck, but the lobbys are replaced by random 
 choosing of opponents, probally due to people getting overwhelmed by complexity. But what if you 
 have a friend you want to play? or those butts that beat you as a noob but now you want to kick 
 theirs? Well thanks to nintendo wi-fi, you can choose to only play people you are "rivaled" with, 
 or friends.
  
  The main issue with nintendo wi-fi however, is the lack of contact. There is no way to talk to 
 anyone, the only form of expression is turning off your game, or walking out of Wi-fi range. No 
 pictochat, No microphone talking, the only real bits of personality is an emblem (easily seen) , 
 or your in game name. This is bad, but only really ticks you when someone is using the snaking 
 hack (Snaking is a skill that ticks off sore losers, not a hack) ", and want to scream at them. 
 Or when you know somebody, and want to talk to them. Also if you want to taunt them.
  
  The D-pad seems worse then analog for kart games, but truly it is heaven for powerslide. It also 
 lets the designers more naturally handicap turning on differant karts. And by simpily doing a tap 
 turn (if you oversteer, you let go, under, you hold back on, a lot easier then it sounds, and comes 
 natural) it almost completly componsates. And the ease of powerslides makes D-pad a much better 
 choice. For anyone that remembers trying to do mini-turbos on a console, they will be sooooo happy 
 to hear this. Its a lot less clumsy
  
  I am expecting to spend over 100 hours on this game, ive played about 60 and am still running strong!
 
  
  In conclusion
  
  Mario kart, like the other games is easy to pick up, and has very simple controls. But these simple 
 controls can be muniplated into a very complex pattern, requiring intense coordination. Or you 
 can use the blue shell as a noob and get in first occasionally =P. All great games have gameplay 
 like this, such as super mario 64, LOZ: OOT, and more. The graphics are the best 3d graphics fever 
 seen on a DS ad thus are 10/10. Each track has a fitting soundtrack, and sound effects are great. 
 But repeated tracks and lower quality ones bug you a bit lowering the sound to 8. This game has 
 the most content for a racing game, i have, EVER seen, and thus has 10/10 value, challenged only 
 by PC FPS games. My tilt is 10/10, and is my current favorite in the series. A final score of 9.8 
 for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothergoose8619
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I Strongly Adore this Game its the best game for Ds and everyone should but it because I love it 
 so much, Its wort it just for the single player and the online play is great and multiplayer is 
 brill just please buy this game coz i love it and you will too it also has the best Music on the 
 Ds and its the best mario kart and also Anyone Wants a game of this ill kick their sorry ass from 
 here to mars and back again! and finally to finish my review, I love the Evil Dead trilogy! and 
 mario kart ds rocks and I kno this review is full on turd but who cares this game rocks my socks 
 off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafan01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Theis game is incredably good. The 3d graphics make the game worth while, and the online play is 
 great. I like the 3d because the first game look ok, but the ones after did not. The online play 
 is good because you can play w/ people all over the world. The only down sides are if you have 
 to go to a hotspot to play, and the length of time it takes to go online and play. If you are fortunate 
 and have a laptop w/ wireless interrnet that you got before this game, then you dont have to go 
 to the hotspots antway though. Any way the game is great and the courses are really fun to drive 
 around in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drowningfish999
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  If you've played any of the past Mario Kart games, you know what to expect. Crazy and frantic racing. 
 Unfortunetly, Mario Kart DS doesn't expand on this very much. Apart from the new items, its still 
 the same game as the N64 version. The online Wi-Fi and mission modes add a bit to the enjoyment, 
 but they aren't enough to make the game its own. Its fun, but it feels too repetitive when compared 
 to the other games in the series.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are very good, especially being an earlier release. It takes advantage of the DS's 
 3D capabilities, and the graphics are even better than the N64 version, almost up to par with GCN. 
 The road looks a little rough before you start moving, but other than that, its looks very nice.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The sound is very good, and the music goes along with the game very well. Fast paced, hectic tunes, 
 as well as 3 different sound settings give it great sound performance.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Mario Kart DS is a great collectors item for the Mario Kart series, as it includes all the old 
 characters, as well as a number of tracks from all the previous games. Its also one of the first 
 DS games to have online capabilities, adding to the value.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is a great game for starters as well as huge fans. But the casual player, 
 who has experience the previous games, will not find much more to do in this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleublod
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me tell you that I really enjoyed Mario Kart DS. It has tons of things to do 
 aside from the Circuit races. Theres a Battle Mode, Time Trial, VS, and so much more and thats 
 just in the Single Player mode! Although it can be a little difficult to go online if you dont 
 have a home network , Mario Kart is absolutly amazing when playing multiplayer. 
  
  However, the downside of this is the repitive tracks in the World Circuit mode. Theres a 50cc, 
 100cc, and a 150cc class which are all basically the same. 
  
  All the unlockable karts and characters do keep the game interesting and I would recommend Mario 
 Kart DS to anyone who likes racing games and/or the Mario Kart Characters. This is just what the 
 DS needs to put up a fight against the PSP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbbucs1993
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is my all-time favorite mario game. It is just a blast to play, and especcially online. 
 It was a great idea for Nintendo to come up with the USB thing so people without a router can still 
 play online (I have a router, but that was a genieus idea) . Everything is so perfect in this game.
 
  I give Mario Kart DS a perfect ten out of ten. Its just so fun to play. Go pick this game up now, 
 its only 35 dollars! MARIO KART DS RULES!!! God damn, how many words do I have to put for it to 
 make one hundred geez. Ah, now this is enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the absolute best Mario Kart game out right now, surpassing even Double Dash. 
 Screenshots don't begin to do the graphics justice. The game runs very smoothly. Increases in difficulty 
 are definitely noticable as you go up in the Grand Prix mode, though it never really gets ridiculous. 
 The game gives you no reason to shout out "that's so not fair!" when an opponent does something. 
 I love how the developers' times stay in the game once you unlock them. My only problem with the 
 game was the music. Though I gradually became accustomed to it, I don't consider any of it to be 
 up to par with the music featured in the previous MK titles.
  
  All in all, if you loved any of the other Mario Kart games or you own a DS, GET THIS GAME. NOW. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart isn't a super hyper fantastic game, but it is well fantastic. I used to give this game 
 a whopping 9.8, but It's getting repetive. Ya see, if you want to complete the game, you have to 
 go four tracks, then again, then again, then again. Now the next Prix. again, again, again. Goto 
 another class. repeat. There is 150cc mirror. Repeat. It takes so much time to finish the game, 
 and some races lack abilty, but Mario Kart DS takes 13 characters and 37 karts to prove you are 
 fast.
  
  Mario Kart DS' skill of driving isn't relistic, as the engines sound as quiet bees. Rezzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz....... 
 Rezzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz... ZZZZZZZZZZ! Just like that. It doesn't annoying you though, as there is 
 drifts. ZZZZZ...!! Treeeshhhhh! Just like that. The game isn't fast, but you wouldn't care. The 
 graphics are stunning, but the tracks looks are harder than you thought. Like the classic, Mario 
 and his brother are the middleweighted, The baddies are the heavyweighters, and Mario's buddies 
 are the lightweights. This needs to change, so Mario can be as quick as Donkey Kong, and Wario 
 and Bowser are actually avarage, and the lightweights are normal. See? It does makes sense.
  
  The poor value makes Mario Kart a fantastic game, but plain gameplay is what it is aiming for. 
 If you are sick of the CPU (much, much too easy and impossible boosters) you can play online all 
 over the world. But it will be limited before Mario Kart Revolution comes out. Mario Kart DS is 
 a great game, but it is nice fun with a capital F. Try a rom of Mario Kart 1, and think if you 
 want to perchase Mario Kart DS. It isn't worth a 9 or over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LCM6281
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  This game was well worth the wait for Christmas. I received this game for Christmas from my parents 
 and am I pleased with it well I'm more than pleased because this game is just excellent, brill, 
 good and fab. I've only played it twice but I'm pleased with it. I've played with Mario and won 
 the grand prix in 50cc mode already. I'm going to now move onto 100cc mode with Mario and see how 
 I do on that mode.
  Ill be using other characters in the game but at the moment Im sticking with Mario as he is overall 
 really speedy and an excellent character.
  
  Overall an excellent addition to the DS range and an excellent game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Double_Zeta
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the latest entry in Nintendo's fabulous Mario Kart series. Does this one live 
 up to the name? Is this the best entry in the series?
  
  Hell yes.
  
  Mario Kart DS takes the fantastic gameplay of the series, using items like red shells, spiny shells, 
 the new Bullet Bill and Inky powerups, the colorful and creative levels, and crams them onto the 
 Nintendo DS.
  
  The best part? Online play with Nintendo's Wi-Fi connection.
  
  You can race with other people online for free, make your emblem and nickname, and exchange friend 
 codes with each other.
  
  What are you waiting for? If you love Mario Kart, or want a fun little kart racing game, buy this 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maddman1223
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This Mario Kart is classy, all the freshness of the prince of bel air and as classic as your nes. 
 Retro class brings back memories of my youth. Power slides and blowing into your mic to blow up 
 balloon for battle forces you to create strategy. The amount of Karts that are available is crazy. 
 Characters are hilarious in which ever way they decide to show the emotion, The tracks are genius. 
 The multi player although laggy at times during battle is hella fun. The best game I"ve played 
 for DS and could be one of the best party games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Boys4Life
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  First playing this game I was like "hope this isnt like any same Mario Kart" dont get me wrong 
 old Mario Kart is fun. Then I saw the Retro Tracks and I was happy because it takes me back to 
 the pass. The also bring back really good items and really new ones. Really the only thing I didnt 
 like was that the turbo sliding but that ok but I dont like blue shells too ^_^. One of the best 
 game for the DS out right now. My favorite track is the Air Ship Fortess. Yay for Super Mario 3! 
 ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artanis666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Ds is what it seems to be: Mario Kart... for the DS. They remade the game engine to make 
 it fun for everyone. The new Wi-Fi feature really makes the game shine. Playing with peaple who 
 are far away. The graphics are very good. The sounds are almost perfect, and the gameplay is fun 
 and challenging. The abilty to select your favourite character makes the game almost perfect. The 
 AI proves to be more challenging then regular AI, but still let's human opponents take their place. 
 This is one of the must-haves for the DS. I would recommend this game to anyone with a DS.
  9.1 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Mario Kart game yet. It has tracks from the SNES, N64, GBA, GCN, and all new ones. 
 You have several choices of modes to race. You can go all out in the Grand Prix or have a single 
 race in vs. There is also a Battle mode. It has the balloon game and collect the stars. A brand 
 new mode is mission mode. Its pretty cool. You have to complete certain missions. 
  
  Multiplayer is probably the best part of the game. You can have a single card wireless game. Which 
 is ok. But the BEST is the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection! You can vs. people all over the world in 
 a race. Its awesome.
  
  Buy this game!!! Even if you dont like racing, this will for sure change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_mess
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This... is... breathtaking!
  The game is so wonderfully perfect that words can't fully describe the sheer brilliance of this 
 game. You may be out there wanting a PSP, but is Nintendo going to give up their excellent Mario-based 
 titles up to Sony? Don't think so!
  
  This game is so amazing, astonishing! I played it 5 hrs each day and finished it after 3 weeks! 
 The modes are all great, each having their own special feature. 
  Mission mode --Challenging tasks against the clock
  Time trials --Ghastly staff ghosts can be 
 unlocked
  Grand prix --32 Races (twice as many as the Gamecube) in 4 different 
  engine modes
  Battle --Defeat your friends or CPU players in 2 different games
  Versus --Good 
 for practising for the Nintendo Wi-fi
  
  Overall this game is amazing! Any DS owner should buy it - it would appeal to everyone. When you 
 get bored of Grand Prix, you can head over to battle it out with a friend via Download Play or 
 a CPU. Not in the mood to battle? Try Missions!
  
  It's not surprising why this game's top of the charts! You'd be missing a great game, so I recommend 
 if you don't have it yet, head over to the shops and buy it - I think you'll agree, this game is 
 top-notch high-quality revolutionary gaming ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I personally have never been a huge fan of racing games. There is just something not satisfying 
 to me about going around and around a track to have the one goal of finishing the lap ahead of 
 everyone else. There is; however, something different about Mario Kart DS. I must admit, other 
 than playing the other Mario Kart games in either store demos or friends' systems, this is my first 
 owned copy of the series. I am not sure why I decided to pick this version of the series to own, 
 but I read a lot of positive reviews, and the aspect of being able to attack your fellow racers 
 appealed to me. I have to admit, right out of the box, I was pretty much hooked. It has a nice 
 balance between video game skill and cartoon silliness. You have to be able to control your little 
 go-cart racer driven by one of the characters from the 'Mario Universe.' 
  
  The game has basically three skill settings, easy, medium and hard, but they are classified by 
 the engine size of your go-cart. So, there is 50CC, 100CC and 150CC. I lack the skill, of for now, 
 to try the 150CC, but I am scooting around the 50CC and 100CC tracks. After completing several 
 sections of the tracks, I unlocked a couple of characters. I am guessing that I may be able to 
 unlock more tracks; at least that is what happens when I finish one cup or another. I have also 
 noticed that the tracks are the same between the 50CC and the 100CC, just higher skill of the other 
 racers.
  
  I have also tried the DS linking feature of this game. I have played using only one Mario Kart 
 game and with several. I have to admit that the multiple copies of the game is the better way to 
 go since the other racers have more options in he game between what cars can be used, and track 
 selection. The one copy is pretty good, but you have to wait for software download and there are 
 limited options for tracks and cars. I would really like to try the WiFi option to this game, but 
 I have only had a couple days with the game and there are only a couple locations with WiFi in 
 my area and I also do not have a wireless router to try it at home.
  
  Overall, I enjoy the game and I am sure that I will enjoy it further as my skills with the title 
 improve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic and in my opinion, one of the best for the DS. The single player is fun, 
 though it might only take you around four days to complete. The multiplayer is addictive and exciting, 
 even if it is only with one other person (which usually happens) . If you are lucky enough to get 
 four people to play against, the game gets really exciting. One extra that made me happy, was the 
 fact that you can draw your own logo on your kart for others to see during online play. 
  
  The graphics look great, and i was suprised to see how sharp it turned out. 
  
  WiFi name - 
 FullMetal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyGoomba
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty - Easy, if you want to get the first place in all Grand Pix modes. But if you want to 
 get 3 stars (the new classification in Mario Kart) , the game will be very hard (especially if you 
 don't know how to snake)
  Time Spent Playing: Gosh, you will play a lot of time to get *** in all missions (there are 63 
 missions) and *** in all cups (there are 32 cups, 8 cups in each mode) .
  Learning Curve - To learn how the basic is about 30 to 60 minutes, but if you want to be a master 
 in snaking and powersliding you will spend a lot of training time!
  Classification - Best then the SNES version (a difficult thing nowadays) , better then N64, GBA 
 and GCN. A lot of new modes to get a really fun time playing this amazing game
  Gameplay - 10! 10! 10! 10! Yeah! You will have a good time playing online and off-line trying to 
 get a really good time in the Time Trials (this time you can plat with Staff's Ghosts!) , *** ranking 
 in all modes (missions and grand pixs) !
  Graphics - 9.4... I was really thinking about something better. The enemys (like pokeys, cheep 
 cheeps, piranhas plant and etc.) are 2-D.
  Sound - 8.9... What about the classics???? And R. O. B. and Dry Bones quotes are really broken!
 
  Value - 10, why? Read all the review and you will know why!
  Reviewer's Tilt - 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamumu
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best games on DS right now. And the first game to use the Wi-Fi Connection. 
 The gameplay is good, with a total of 16 unique tracks and 16 tracks recycled from previous versions. 
 The Controls handle perfectly, the d-pad moves as I would have wanted.
  
  The dissapointing thing was online though. There is 4 options to choose from Regional, Worldwide, 
 Rivals, and Friends. There is no options after that though! It automatically pairs you up and starts 
 you off. You don't get to see the persons wins and losses until the game starts! You could turn 
 off your DS but then the race is counted as an automatic loss. Fun Internet play but severely lacking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaojie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  For starters you can chose from 32 different tracks, new and old, with 3d affects which really 
 sauce up the action. When I first got the game, way back on the launch date, I thought that it 
 would be really hard to control the karts but I was wrong, the handling was so simple that I could 
 almost jog while playing. You start the game with a few of the characters such as Mario and Luigi 
 and soon pick up other characters such as Bones and Peach. You also Start off with 16 tracks ( 
 8 from nitro and 8 from retro ) and unlock the others by getting gold in the races. If that isn't 
 enough for you then there are a few other modes such a time trials, mission mode, vs and battle 
 mode. All of which will keep you occupied for hours. If you have had enough of single player mode 
 then you could have a go on multiplayer where you only need 1 mario kart game so 8 other players 
 can play. On the record icon at the begining of the game, it will tell you how many games you have 
 won on multiplayer and how many you have lost. And of course the Online mode where you can play 
 with loades of people around the world. All you will need is a nintendo DS, Mario Kart and a wireless 
 internet connection and away you go. This truly is a fantastic game and people will be playing 
 for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: En-GaGe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  In this game of fast paced action, on-line capabilities you'll be able to play this game fpr a 
 long time. With its simple and effective controls Mario Kart DS easily demonstrates how a good 
 racing game on a hand held should be. The graphics are done very well and are a bit better than 
 the original N64 version. The sound and ambiance stay true to the title and go well when your driving.
 
  
  There are not many places that this game could use work. I guess they could've made a feature where 
 you could customize a car. But overall I'm not complaining im far from complaining because this 
 game rocks!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-The classic Mario Kart gameplay is better than ever. From chucking a red shell at an opponent 
 to drifting around turns, the controls are spot on. What makes this the greatest Mario Kart is the 
 fact that it has online multiplayer. While somewhat limiting, it is still the best part of the game 
 and will have you racing people from as far as Italy to Japan. Another great addition to the classic 
 gameplay is super drifting with extra presses from the directional pad which gives you a speed 
 boost. Little things like this make Mario Kart all the more exciting. Excellent gameplay.
  
  Graphics-Great for the system its on. Its very cool to see the retro tracks refined in 3-D and 
 the polygonal characters look great as well. Another thing that is great is the awesome powerup 
 effects. Very pleasing to see.
  
  Sound-All the classic Mario tunes will have you humming away in no time. The motor sounds are great 
 and the speech glibs from the characters are familiar and pleasing. The music is the best part.
 
  
  Value-If you have a DS, get this game, even if you dont like Mario (and why wouldnt you?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun and addicting and i also like you can pick 2 cars with every character 
 there are also new items to slow your oppenent down like the few new troopa shells and there are 
 speed boosts like the 30 second mushroom. Graphics are good for the nintendo ds. Gameplay is very 
 solid as it is on the gamecube console except in my opinion a little better. I would reccomend 
 to this game to almost anyone it is very family oriented and mario fans would love it. If your 
 thinking of getting a DS this should ery much convince you as well as Nintendogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LakeFPownsu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series has come a long way from its original SNES counterparts. However, it still 
 plays almost identical to the original Mario Kart. Mario Kart DS is arguably the best game the 
 DS has to offer, and something everyone should enjoy. The online play for this game, however, is 
 awful and unless you want to wait 10 minutes to actually race, is not quite the reason to get this 
 game.
  
  Gameplay: This game plays great, everything controls right. One cool feature is a power slide boost. 
 While power sliding, if you move the D-pad from left to right repeatedly, sparks around your wheels 
 will turn blue, then red. Once red, let go of everything and your player will boost. It's a great 
 mechanic worked into the game well. Another cool thing to pull off is the start boost. When counting 
 down to start a race, if you hold down the gas about a second after 2 comes up, you'll boost. These 
 features are a great way to seperate the good players from the bad. If you're good, you can use 
 more than luck to win now.
  
  Graphics: AWESOME! I think this game looks actually better than the GameCube version of the game, 
 which says a lot for a handheld. These graphics compete with the PSP's graphics, and make me wonder 
 why not more games look like this on the DS.
  
  Sound: Sounds like one of the best handheld games ever. The sound quality matches the GameCube 
 version of the game's quality, which also says a lot. While hearing this you'll be shocked you're 
 playing a console game.
  
  Value: Lots! Whether you want to do missions that get harder as they progress and include boss 
 battles, races, battles, and much more, this game's got it all. First off, the missions. There 
 are enough missions here to keep you occupied for a long time. They range from collecting coins, 
 destroying things, going through gates, and fighting bosses. Along with missions there's races, 
 which include 16 maps, some of them from the classic games. The battles have 2 modes: a balloon 
 battle and a unique coin-like experience. They're both fun and push this value rating up! Then 
 there's online, which falls flat on its own head. The online play lets you search for opponents, 
 whether they're regional, worldwide, friends, or rivals. The one problem; the game keeps searching! 
 If you've ever played Xbox Live, you know that you actually join games. With this game, you have 
 to be searching for opponents at the exact same time as someone else. You don't even have an account 
 name, it just goes by your racing name, which does allow you to be named whatever you want online, 
 but if you want to add someone to your friend's list, you have to enter a 10-digit code, which 
 keeps changing! Searching for opponents takes forever, and though you'll never experience lag, 
 this is the only bad part of the game. There's still lots of content in this game, but the online 
 play sucks.
  Tilt: Sadly, I had to tilt this rating down, because of the awful online play : (. Don't listen 
 to Nintendo people that have never experienced online play before and say "it's AWESOME!" because 
 if you've ever played Xbox Live, Playstation Online, or an online PC game, you will be disappointed. 
 
  Overall, GET THIS GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkHyruleLord
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was very well made. It had all of the classic courses from the SNES, N64 and from Mario 
 Kart Double Dash for GC plus many new courses that were very well made. The courses are fun and 
 challenging but can provide that certain difficulty to its "Just Right" preformance. This game 
 is worth buying and playing. Probably the best feature is the Nintendo Wi-Fi which lets the player 
 compete and race against a friend, or just anyone who's online and is looking for a match. This 
 game is an instant classic! Best of all the Mario Karts! Two Thumbs up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdude9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart ds comes from a long line of mario kart games. All of them have been excellent in gameplay 
 and fun for multiplayer. this newest addition is truly the best of all the 4 games in the franchise. 
 their are the same modes as usual, grand prix, time trial, battle and vs racing. the grand prix 
 races you can pick from new tracks exclusive to the ds version, and other tracks that are from 
 older iterations of the game. the new courses though somewhat familar in form, are fun and decent 
 in amoung given. the retro maps are really enjoyable to play. their is nothing like have memories 
 of when you played super mario kart for the first time on snes, and mario kart 64. mostly the same 
 characters are available. each character has 2 karts to choose from at the start of the game. the 
 online is where the game is really best. if you have the nintendo wi-fi connection then the game 
 is really the best of the franchise. its easy to get online and the races are more enjoyable when 
 you are facing someone who can actually think. if you cant play online, you can play with up to 
 8 people through download play. when just by yourself you can play against up to 8 comptuter of 
 various difficulty in you choice of all the maps you have unlocked. you can also do the battle 
 mode by yourself now. the battle mode is basicly the same as always but, you can play wit h 7 computers 
 when you are by yourself. the graphics in the game are great. They are better than the n64 version 
 and have no framerate problems at all. even online no lag is present. the sound is great, doesnt 
 really effect the game that much but its not bad at all.
  mario kart ds is perfect model for all kart racing games on ds and regular home consoles. if you 
 have a ds and want a good online game you have to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2madtom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The consept is the same, but with support of Nintendo WI FI, it alows you to do more than ever 
 before!!!
  
  Pick your driver and away you go. My personal faverite character is Yoshi, but you can pick practicaly 
 anyone from the mario franchize. There are 2 Karts to choose from the first of which being the 
 treditional kart which is fast but with a worser steering and weapons choice and the new-hi tech 
 one which is the complete opposite. Another cool thing is that you can design your own emblem so 
 that when you play multiplayer, the other racers can see your emblem.
  
  A to move, L to fire a weapon, R to jump or skid and B to reverse. Simple controls make the game 
 easy and accesible for beginers and to people who want to try it out in the shop before they say 
 'YES' to the question of weather this new instalment of a well loved franchize is worth paying 
 27.99 for.
  
  Because practicaly everything's the same something needed to be added to give it that edge, and 
 what better than to introduce the highly anticipated 'Nintendo Wi Fi'. This alows players to hook 
 up all over the world and let them play against each other without having to be within the 10 meter 
 conection span. 
  
  The games' good value, with its 40 or so race tracks both treditional and new, battle areaners 
 and mission mode should take you around 5-10 hours depending on weather you want top rating for 
 what ever it is your doing. After doing all that, you can do it again with a new character. And 
 another. And another. And another on, until you've gone through the 10 or so characters that make 
 up the list. Thats' when you can truely say that you've completed Mario Kart DS. By then you should 
 be a master at it so you can go on WI FI and KICK SOME ASS!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandymarsh
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I've not really tried any other Mario Kart Titles, except maybe for the GBA one, which I got a 
 taste of, but THIS. THIS is a Mario Masterpiece.
  This games Maxes out the Capabilities of the DS. Graphics, Sound and both Dual Screens.
  You 
 can feel every Turn and every Shell that Hits You. The Controls Configuration is Perfect, though 
 a mild getting-used-to may be needed for some players unfamiliar with the game.
  What impressed me was that one could create his/her own emblem for their karts, a Neat Feature 
 that Utilises the Touch Screen.
  Once I started, I really couldn't put it down. It's That Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It is very fun to play, especially against others. I have a great time playing 
 it, although it does get old after playing a while. But I still pick it up the next day to play.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is fun. The missions are not all they cracked up to be, though. There is basically 
 no story line to it whatsoever, which makes doing the missions a little pointless.
  
  GRAPHICS: Great. Period.
  
  SOUND: Good backround sounds, but the noises the characters make 
 when they get hit aren't the best of quality.
  
  VALUE: I would buy it again. It's fun. The only problem is that I've got another game on my mind 
 at the moment, so I haven't been playing it much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best DS games, nintendo sure knows how to make games addictive, it's wi-fi 
 feature makes it just perfect... besides it's very cheap, with no loading times, great racing tracks, 
 great characters, excellent graphics, funny features, very innovative and it can be played by kids 
 and adults...
  
  This game is sure one of the best of the series, besides... it's portable, you can take it anywhere.
 
  
  The only ''but'' this game has is the fact that it doesn't takes full advantage of all the DS features 
 like the touch screen and microphone.
  
  great in all ways.... it's obvious that it's online features aren't as good as the xbox live ones 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superduperyoshi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series has always been a multiplayer favorite. Mario Kart DS, may cement the series 
 as legend, if future sequels live up to it. The past games were good, but only last if you play 
 with other people. In MKDS, there is a hefty single player portion when compared to 64 and Double 
 Dash. First, there are Two Grand Prix's which offer a significant upgrade to the volume of tracks 
 in a mk game, 32 to be exact. Second there is a mission mode, which will take about 2 hours, so 
 that's cool. Third, battle mode with cpu's is cool to practice until your friends come over for 
 a lan match. Fourth, (some people may not consider it a single player component, but i do) , WFC 
 is a fun online feature that doesn't require to be in the same room as someone, so that will add 
 endless hours to your mkds fun.
  the graphics are excellent, and the screenshots don't do it justice, you have to play the game 
 on the ds to see the graphics well. sound is excellent, a lot of musivc, much of it specific to 
 a track. 
  i would recommend this game to everyone with a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kassdude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:32 am PT
Review:  I know you are the person who is wondering how the online playing is. I love it and i bet you will 
 to. The online play features packs a great punch into fun playing and u can even see your friends 
 that live out in wherever online playing. The thing that sucks is buying the wi-fi online connecter 
 thing. I have one but it was not cheap. So if u are still reading this make sure u get Mario Kart 
 DS before it gets old and noone wants to play it but i am sure that wont happen for a while. So 
 i hope u get the game or at least borrow it froma friend. Also i bet you are wondering about 1-player. Well 
 1-player mode or adventure mode or what ever you want to call it is as good as online. The graphics 
 are great the bosses some are hard and some are easy as pie. Well thats pretty much Mario Kart DS 
 but trust me its alot better than it sounds.
  
  for now bye, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acecombat154
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  
  awsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsome, awsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome 
 awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomeawsome awsome awsomewell done nintendo. it 
 has wi-fi in it and everything so i'll give my arm 2 em 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodgedude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  The game features all the best charcters in the Mario Kart series. Such as Mario, Luigi, Bowser, 
 Toad, and more. Graphics are great I give graphics 10 out of 10.
  Sound is wonderful. It features all the best tracks from all the previous Mario Karts. I dont know 
 about anyone else but, those music tracks from the mario kart games are awsome. Sound gets a 10 
 out of 10. 
  The price is so great. 34.99 is cheap for a game I think. Value gets a 10 out of 10.
  In conclusion 
 Mario Kart gets a 9.5 out of 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rageanmachine
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to add to the library of great Nintendo games. When DS first came out I didn't 
 think much about it and traded it in for a PSP. Since then the fall line up of DS has rocked! I 
 had to go out and buy a new ds to play Castlevania, Nanostray, Trauma, Animal Crossing, then the 
 Mario Kart DS bundle pack and I had to have it. I have always been a big fan of the Mario Kart 
 series. I was let down on the GBA one but this one made up for that and more. Nintendo_God_90 if 
 you are a true Nintendo fan come on this is a great game! No one should give this one less then 
 a 7 overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammmyboy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is Nintendo's most popular racing series, but sometimes, the games were far from perfect 
 (remember the N64 and GC disasters.) Mario Kart DS, however, is definitely the exception. It may 
 look a bit childish (all Mario games do) , but OMFG this is soooooooo addictive !!
  
  When you start the game for the first time, it will be exactly the same as when you start it for 
 the 100th time. Except, of course, the prizes you've won and the karts and maps you've unlocked. 
 You can choose between three different game types: Single Player, Multiplayer and Nintendo WFC. 
 For an explanation of the Wi-Fi Connection, please go to nintendowifi. com. But first read this 
 review. Thanks.
  
  The Single Player game type consists of Grand prix, Time Trials, VS, Battle and Missions. When 
 you enter Grand Prix, you can choose between the well-known 50cc, 100cc and 150cc races. Then, 
 you can pick your racer: Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, Donkey, Wario or Bowser. Each racer 
 has its advantages, but of course some disadvantages, which can be quite annoying in several situations. 
 Each racer starts out with a total of 2 karts, which you can choose from, but more karts are unlockable. 
 Then, you can choose between the Retro Grand Prix (which is a compilation of the best tracks of 
 previous Mario Kart versions) , and the Nitro Grand Prix (which are the new tracks, exclusively 
 designed for the Nintendo DS, or, Nitro.
  
  The Multiplayer is a little more complicated. First, you'll have to create a group, which consists 
 of max 8 players, and choose the Normal (compete with player who own Mario Kart DS) or Simple (download 
 players) game type.. Then, you can choose your kart, but if you're a downloader, you can only race 
 with Shyguy. Then, the host chooses the 50, 100 or 150cc, perhaps enables the CPU kart drivers 
 and so on.
  
  There are also some new items, like Bullet Bill, Bob-Ombs, and so on. Each item's effect differs 
 from another one's, and watch out, cause you might drive ino your own Bob-Omb's explosion.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Perfect. Each driver's handling differs from another one's, but that's nothing but 
 normal.
  
  GRAPHICS: The DS isn't a graphical power machine, but Mario Kart DS does a great job of bringing 
 the sometimes childish (like NGC Baby Park) but sometimes really beautiful (like Airship Fortress, 
 my fav) environments to the two tiny screens.
  
  SOUND: Hmmm. The sound isn't "bad" but sometimes it can be a little annoying. It creates a funny 
 ambience, though. Also, this is the first driving game with realistic engine sounds. Of course, 
 they sound a bit "buzzy", but that's normal, because karts have a smaller engine.
  
  VALUE: Omfg if this doesn't deserve a 10 for Value, then I'm a plumber with a mustache. It's sooooo 
 bloody addictive that it's really, really hard to put down.
  
  CONCLUSION: Mario Kart DS might seem a bit childish, but I've never seen a game more addictive. 
 And OMFG this is sooooo funny !!!!!! Really, I've been laughing my teeth out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 4:42 am PT
Review:  I loved this game when it first came out and I still love it now it has finally arrived on the 
 DS.
  
  For me though, the best bit is the online play. At last I can play against my friends, anywhere 
 in the world.
  
  The game itself seems to be not much different from previous versions. The gameplay is the same, 
 controls are still easy and responsive and it looks great.
  
  Connecting it to the Internet to play online is very easy. Just scan for your connection, click 
 connect and then search for games. That's it.
  
  I would have liked to have seen more options, maybe a chat function in the lobby and downloadable 
 cars and colours etc but maybe they will come later.
  
  All in all, a great game and one I highly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I received Mario Kart DS for Christmas. When I began playing I noticed how everything was perfect, 
 with an exception of certain characters faces looking weird. This game is definitely perfect for 
 fans of the previous Mario Kart games. Featuring levels and qualities of the previous games, this 
 is the funnest Mario Kart game I have played yet. Even if you have not played any Mario Kart games 
 in the past, I recommend this game to anyone. But the funnest thing about the game was the Wi-Fi 
 connecting and playing multi-player. I pressed the button to locate my Wireless Internet connection 
 and within seconds I ready to play. I played with my friend and everything was as smooth and as 
 perfect as single player. Overall, excellent game definitely worth buying or at least playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Mario Karts DS is the best Mario Karts i; ve been on all the others and this is the best.
  
  The Karts look 10X Better and the tracks are the best, my fave is the Mountain area, i hav'nt been 
 on em all yet, but thats the best so far.
  Its an easy game but tricky, must be carful of the squids, but you still can see, just use the 
 lower half of the screen :P
  
  The graphics are exelent for the DS, sharp, smooth and perfect!.
  
  I did'nt like the other 
 MK game, MK: Double Dash. The Karts moved to slow XO, but MK DS rules em all. im glad i bought 
 it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  So what if there are already 200 reviews for this game. There should be. It is absolutely one of 
 the most fun games for the DS out there. Sure it is practically the same as the Game Cube version, 
 but you can't play the GC version in the car or while waiting for an appointment.
  
  My kids loved this one instantly and I can't get them to take it out of the DS. But the real secret 
 to this game is the WiFi playability. Instantly you can take the game online for near seamless 
 gameplay against people from around the world. It's an unlimited challenge. The only thing is, 
 I'm not sure why Nintendo did not make all tracks available online. Maybe updated servers in the 
 future will have them. 
  
  This game is an instant classic and a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always ruled. From the great weapons to the catchy music, nearly everyone has played 
 this genre. This game is the best on the DS.
  
  The graphics in this game are the best on the DS. There are two sets of cups. One set has all new 
 courses and the other set of cups are classic courses from other Mario Kart's.
  
  This Mario Kart is different from all of the others for many reasons. But the most outstanding 
 feature is the addition of the Nintendo Wi-fi connection which you can play anybody else in the 
 world. This feature is brilliant and really adds to the Mario Kart experience.
  
  The downside is basically the blue shell, the most annoying item of all time. Also, the items are 
 also way too generous.
  
  This game is yet another fine addition to the Nintendo DS collection. A must have purchase for 
 all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkfanatic501
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  I have played every Mario kart game and this one is the best game out of all of them. It has new 
 tracks plus some tracks from previos mario kart games. The gameplay is solid. U will be playing 
 this game for months. I have experience the online play but i know it will be great. If u can't 
 pay online don't woory, this game has a lot of stuff to keep u busy for a while. U won't regret 
 buying this game. If u own a DS and u don't have this game then what the heck is youre problem. 
 Buy this game NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeguy220022
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is h4rdc0r3. BUY IT! Everyone will love it except old people. And old people hate all 
 video games. I remember playing this on the Nintendo 64. Now it is back anc better. It would have 
 been cool to use the touch screen more. Online mode is cool, but it takes forever to load. It cannot 
 play on a wireless router with WPA encryption. That's not cool. I will not change my security for 
 that. So ask your neighbors if you can go on their network. You know those neighbors. The neighbors 
 who have a wide open network and don't know how to spell WIRELESS SECURITY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascolik
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:46 am PT
Review:  Just WOW!!!
  When I heard nintendo was doing another Mario Kart, I just thought : not again... damn. But finaly 
 it turn out that mario kart ds is the best of the series and is really really fun to play. Perfect 
 in lots of aspect : Trust me, you're gonna love that game.
  
  Gameplay : WOW! hehe, the gameplay is really well made in MKDS.
  
  Graphics : Pretty nice graphic! 
 but could have been better.
  
  Sound : Well its perfect for the DS.
  
  Values : Damn it worth your money.
  
  Tilt : Can't finish the rewiew, got to go play MKDS!... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewiegriffin78
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 9:36 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best DS games out there. It takes the winning formula from the Mario 
 Kart series, and adds in a few tweaks of its own. The game is excellent, with only a few drawbacks. 
 
  
  I will first start with the gameplay. Mario Kart DS combines high-speed racing with vehicular combat. 
 Every race you are in (excluding time trial) , you have item boxes which you can pick up. In these 
 item boxes are, well, items. The items range from a star that gives you a temporary speed boost 
 to a bullet bill that transforms you into a bullet bill, allowing you to get a huge speed boost 
 that also knocks down any players in your way. There are many different items. There are also many 
 different modes of play. You have Mission Mode, which puts you on "missions" like "collect five 
 coins". You have Grand Prix, which allows you to race against computer AI. You have my personal 
 favorite, battle mode, which lets you battle against enemy AI or your friends. The three other 
 modes are versus, which allows to race with up to seven other players with one game card, WiFI, 
 which lets you race with people from around the world, and finally, there is time trial, which 
 has you race on a track, trying to beat your own times. In time trial, you can unlock the "staff 
 ghosts", which are insanely hard to beat. The gameplay is great, and it gets a nine out of ten.
 
  
  The next portion of my review is the graphics portion. The graphics in the game are great. It looks 
 pretty good, and definately shows off the DS's abilities. However, in the WiFi mode, I have noticed 
 a little lag sometimes, mainly opponents skipping magically across the screen. It looks weird. 
 However, over all, the graphics are good, and they get an eight out of ten.
  
  I now move on to the sound. The sound in this game is excellent. From the roar of an engine starting 
 up at the starting line to the satisfying sound of the bullet bill blasting off, the sound effects 
 are great. The soundtrack has some pretty catchy tunes as well. I give the sound a ten out of ten.
 
  
  The next to last category is the value. This game has tons of value. It never ends. You have four 
 unlockable characters, 16 unlockable tracks, tons of unlockable carts, and I am sure there is more. 
 I give the value of this game a ten out of ten.
  
  Finnaly, we have the reviewers tilt. I love this game. My love for it is probably unhealthy. This 
 game spends the most time in my DS, and not just because it is the first game I got for my DS. 
 This game is, without a doubt, one of the best games for the DS, if not the best. Do yourself a 
 favor, and go buy this game. Now. The reivewers tilt of this game is a nine out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleverLoginName
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the 5th entry in this beloved franchise, and it's better than ever. It's difficult 
 to describe exactly what makes this game so fun, except to say that it's Mario Kart in its purest 
 form.
  
  To those who have never played a Mario Kart game (shame on you) , that last statement may not mean 
 much, and this review really isn't for you. For those who have, you know what I'm talking about. 
 The Mario Kart series (and every other Mario game, really) is known for its consistent but quirky 
 visual style, simple, but deep, gameplay, and frantic, cutthroat multiplayer matches. Mario Kart 
 DS delivers all of these things in spades.
  
  The game uses some of the best tracks from every past entry in the series, plus many new ones. 
 Some are certainly better than others, and everyone who plays the game will probably have a different 
 favorite, but just about all of them are easy to enjoy.
  
  The gameplay in this title really steals the show, and sets the standard by which all future entries 
 in the series will be judged. The controls are extremely forgiving, allowing just about anyone 
 to pick it up and play, but it also rewards practice, skill, and strategy. There are a few new 
 features that are worth mentioning. First, you can gain a small speed boost by trailing close behind 
 an opponent, which makes for some incredibly intense showdowns as players will constantly use this 
 tactic on eachother. Second, powersliding has been slightly simplified (it involves just one button 
 press, regardless of the direction in which you want to slide) , making it a more attractive strategy 
 for players who didn't master it in past Mario Kart games.
  
  Finally, the visuals show off the power of the DS hardware. You won't find anybody comparing it 
 to the Mario Kart: Double Dash on the Gamecube, but the graphics are in full 3d, with an attractive, 
 rich color scheme, detailed animations, and impressive draw distance. They are most comparable 
 to the graphics of the Nintendo 64 version of the game, if not slightly superior.
  
  In short, if you can't tell already, this game is a must-own for fans of Mario Kart, racing games 
 in general, or people who like having fun. If you have a DS, do not hesitate to pick one up, and 
 if you don't have a DS, you may want to consider getting one just for this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikemyds
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting a lot, and what I got was what I expected, and a lot more besides, 
 this game completely exceeded my expectations (and they were VERY high to begin with) the graphics 
 were better than I could have imagined, the sheer variety of karts and tracks was huge, and the 
 online play was amazing (save for the times when people log off before a race has even started) 
 the tracks were memorable and the music to go with them was great, the karts and characters were 
 well balanced and there is something to suit everybody, the missions were fun, the battle mode 
 was great and the offline multiplayer play was better than any mario kart game before (even better 
 than double dash's co-op mode which is pretty hard to beat) so all in all this game is definitely 
 worth buying and any fan of the mario kart series would not want to miss out on a game as good 
 as this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australia-
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  This is the best game i have played on the nintendo DS, It has thousands of courses from old versions 
 and new versions of mario kart. The reason I like this game is because of all the multiplayer compatability. 
 This game has a WiFi connection which allows you to play with people worldwide. You can also play 
 against computer players in battle mode and make teams to fight against a friends team or with 
 a friends team. This game supports DS Download play with eight players playing on one game. There 
 is extra characters you can unlock as well. Much fun is to be had with mario kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonathanL
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been around for over a decade, but it has seen the majority of its releases over 
 the past few years, from the coin-collecting Mario Kart Super Circuit for GBA to the dual-driver 
 gimmick of Double Dash!! on GC. With Mario Kart DS, Nintendo has made not only the penultimate 
 evolution of the series' trademark gameplay, but has also coded a love letter to past entries of 
 the franchise with tracks and elements from past titles.
  
  After a somewhat disappointing track listing of only 16 courses in Double Dash!!, Nintendo has 
 responded with not only 16 "Nitro" original levels, but also 16 "Retro" tracks from older games 
 in the series, transporting four from each of the previous titles and bringing them to teh DS flawlessly. 
 The courses from the first three games are roughly the same as their original incarnations, but 
 the most impressive aspect of this addition is the Gamecube courses. While Nintendo did not take 
 the four best (all Retro courses are hit or miss in comparison to the excluded levels from each 
 game) , those that are included are graphically competent and virtually unchanged. There isn't a 
 rollercoaster tearing through Baby Park, and there's decidedly less traffic on Mushroom Bridge, 
 but the track design is identical.
  
  More important are the original tracks, and they do not disappoint. Boasting both high-quality 
 visuals and inventive design, they are easily some of the best in kart racing. Tick-Tock Clock's 
 gear-laden track and sharp turns are entertaining and totally original, and Peach Gardens is a 
 thoroughly enjoyable romp through the Mushroom Kingdom's most famous grounds. Even these tracks 
 pale, however, compared to the crown jewels of Mario Kart DS. Airship Fortress is a truly inspired 
 translation of the Super Mario Bros. 3 boss levels, complete with Bullet Bills and Rocky Wrenches. 
 Waluigi Pinball is a fantastic ride througha pinball machine, from riding up the sides to spiralling 
 down, dodging giant metal balls, all the way past bumpers and flippers, requiring path changes 
 on the fly as the large obstacles change places or rotate. The entire complement of courses is 
 excellent, providing a wide range of locales and difficulty curves, anda s a whole is an impressive 
 16-track set. That it is complimented with 16 courses from Mario Kart's past ices the cake.
  
  None of this would matter if the handling wasn't spot-on, and Mario Kart DS handles like a 
 dream. The D-Pad is not as responsive as a joystick, but after a few minutes it feels just as natural, 
 and not long after, the player won't even notice they aren't using an analog stick. Mario Kart 
 DS has also reduced the amount of work it takes for a powerslide boost to kick in, making the maneuver 
 easier to perform with the small directional pad. The hop slide is also back after a short hiatus 
 in Double Dash!!, so fans who sorely missed the element should be happy to see its return. In fact, 
 the only problem one might have with Kart's controls is the DS itself; at first, the game can cause 
 quite a bit of strain on the hands until the player finds the correct way to hold the DS while 
 being able to access the shoulder buttons liberally for slides and item usage.
  
  Each kart feels different from the others, not only in terms of handling and powersliding, but 
 also by weight and acceleration. Even karts that one would think would handle similarly, such as 
 Luigi's Streamliner and Daisy's Light Dancer, both middleweight vehicles by description and innate 
 character, are completely different driving experiences. As the player unlocks more options during 
 gameplay, the differences continue to widen until a player can pretty much tailor their perfect 
 kart through options given. The surfaces the player drives on are also surprisingly deep, and kart 
 weight factors into this as well, as heavier karts have better traction but move slower on rough 
 or wet surfaces, while lighter karts have much less traction but are able to maintain higher speeds.
 
  
  The cast of characters is large as well, with four unlockable characters in addition to the core 
 starting lineup. It isn't quite as expansive as the cast on the Gamecube effort, but all of the 
 important characters are present, and Nintendo has even included a couple characters taht are a 
 real treat to finally get to kart around as. The kart design is very impressive as well, as each 
 character has a standard kart and two very different ones, ranging from prop jets to tanks and 
 construction vehicles to shooting stars. While a few of the alternate deisngs are ho-hum, there 
 are sure to be a few that grab the player's own interest as particularly attractive racing options. 
 That they also include their own special handling approach, as mentioned before, is even more impressive.
 
  
  The weapon roster has been expanded for Mario Kart DS. In addition to the usual suspects such as 
 mushrooms and shells, Nintendo has made bob-ombs readily available to all characters, and added 
 the Bullet Bill, essentially an incredibly helpful variant on the Super Star, and the Blooper, 
 which throws ink blots onto the player's top screen for a short while. The item balance is generally 
 solid, but the mushrooms are actually quite a let-down. Even the Golden Mushroom and the Triple 
 Mushroom items don't often help a player catch up during the heat of a race, and the courses are 
 generally devoid of straightaways enough that they are often dangerous to use, and not really worth 
 the risk for the meager reward. It's a puzzling imbalance issue, but the only blemish on the otherwise 
 well-constructed item mechanic, which, as in past games, acts as the game's equalizer, giving characters 
 in lower places progressively better items. Item duration is also affected by the new "item" category, 
 another vairable to consider when choosing a kart.
  
  The use of the DS' famous dual screens is both simplistic and ingenious. The top screen, which 
 is the clearer of the two, is where all the racing takes place. On the bottom screen, there is 
 not only a listing of the current race placing, but also a screen that can show either a full-course 
 overheadview of the race's progress, or a closer view that will show any items that may be headed 
 towards your kart or lying in wait ahead. It's actually very helpful to have this screen, as not 
 only can players use it to gauge what moves to make strategically depending on what items opposing 
 players have, but it is also possible to race using only the overhead view from the bottom screen 
 (which comes in handy if a player is hit with the Blooper weapon during a particularly dicey stretch 
 of road) . The point of view can be changed with either a proper button press or a quick tap on 
 the screen, and its use is a perfect example of how to employ the DS' dual screen capabilities 
 without making it nothing more than a cheap gimmick.
  
  The aesthetics are quite impressive for a handheld often maligned for graphical inferiority. Not 
 only are the graphics beautiful to behold, but MKDS also firmly puts the flat courses of previous 
 handheld racing generations in the past (or the Retro courses from Super Mario Kart and Mario Kart 
 Super Circuit) . There is visible hedging of course design by Nintendo, and though the characters 
 occasionally reveal some simplistic construction (Donkey Kong in particular doesn't look all that 
 great) , the smooth framerate and beautiful environs challenge every naysayer of the DS' graphical 
 capabilities. The music not only includes original tracks, but also the appropriate music from 
 each of the old levels, giving the title a large variet of tunes to listen to. The character voices 
 are none too varied, but they're got a sound for dismay and happiness that sounds perfect for each 
 character, from Bowser's roars of excitement to the exclamations of Yoshi's own language.
  
  Mario Kart DS also boasts more single-player enjoyment than previous games in the series. Not 
 only are there eight four-track cups to pass over four difficulty levels (leading to 32 total cups 
 to work through) , but Nintendo has also included a Mission mode, which provides different challenges 
 to players across six different levels (though each challenge within a level is entirely independent 
 of other challenges and employ different courses) . These challenges vary from boss fights to rival 
 races to driving backwards, and it provides a nice diversion when palyers need a break from straight 
 racing.
  
  There are two battle modes as well. Shine Runners has players chucking items while trying to attain 
 and keep Shine Sprites, witha timer cutting off last-place opponents at regular intervials, and 
 Balloon Battle makes use of the DS' microphone by having players blow into it while at a standstill 
 (or near one) to inflate balloons. Once a player runs out of balloons, they're done, and since 
 a player can hold one to three at any given time, with the capability to steal balloons as well 
 when using mushrooms, there is a certain amount of strategy involved in how many balloons should 
 be up at once. Like other modes, these battle modes support computer foes, and though they aren't 
 very fun to play against in and of themselves, they do round out multiplayer matches nicely.
  
  The artificial intelligence in Mario Kart DS is pretty good overall, with lighter characters 
 avoiding other karts generally and heavier bruisers relishing in making kart racing a contact sport, 
 but the team A. I. is pretty poor, unfortunately. While most players won't spend a lot of time with 
 the team racing mechanic, whereby the racers are split into two teams, red and blue, the computer 
 A. I. does not take teammates into accounts, willingly sabotaging their own teammates in their pursuit 
 to achieve first place. Much like with items, it's only a small shortcoming that doesn't stand 
 in the face of overwhelming quality, but it is still something of an annoyance to lose races due 
 to bone-headed A. I. that takes the player out just before the finish line, only to see the opposing 
 team win as a result. Nintendo has done a great job, however, of making sure that other racers 
 are playing by the same rules as human players, so during even the most difficult and heated matches 
 later on in Grand Prix mode, players never feel like they are unfairly targeted or outraced by 
 the computer-controller foes. There is more than a bit of luck involved in winning a Mario Kart 
 race at higher levels of difficulty, but it is never unfair.
  
  Perhaps Mario Kart DS' greatest achievement, however, is its dedication to a quality online experience. 
 Supporting single-cartridge gameplay for up to eight players, as well as multi-cart gameplay, was 
 expected (and surprisingly robust, both for those who have copies for everyone and those who do 
 not) , but the wi-fi connection gameplay is excellent. After a quick set-up that hooks up to compatible 
 wi-fi connections in just a few moments, the player is ready to take the experience online for 
 the first time in the history of Mario Kart. Not all courses are available, and the "dragging" 
 item mechanic is missing, but the online play is smooth, finding a few opopnents (unfortunately, 
 no more than three opponents can be played against at once) is a breeze, and it's great fun to 
 take on strangers the world over. There are some issues, such as no way to tell if a friend is 
 online unless they are already looking for a friend online, the friend code system is ungainly 
 and needlessly complex, and players can drop with no penalty, but the gameplay is rock-solid, and 
 most players will stick around as long as they can still win. Playing against friends is even better, 
 and while there is no voice chat, there is still something intrinsically satisfying about dealing 
 pain to one's friends in Mario Kart.
  
  There is an overwhelming amount of content in Mario Kart DS, and the way in which the gameplay 
 has grown since the original while maintaining the core principles of the genre is incredible. 
 WIth a bevy of courses, lots of multiplayer madness, and a truckload of familiar and new karts 
 and characters, Mario Kart DS is not simply a great DS game; it's one of the most fun and engaging 
 racing games ever made. That players can take such an excellent game with them just about anywhere 
 only adds to its greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEWINDWAKER10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Racing has always been a controversial series. Either one loves it or hates it. This is generally 
 due to its complicated tweaks and confusing terms, most people are turned away. This cannot be 
 said of the Mario Kart series. Since 1992, Mario Kart has provided a racing series that has both 
 an offensive and defensive strategy. Now with the release of the DS, almost a year later, Nintendo 
 has release Mario Kart DS, the fourth in the series. 
  
  First off, MKDS is probably the best Mario Kart in the series. Not only is it the first to feature 
 online play, but it tunes up and refines some of the faults of the other series. It takes what 
 was great about the series and adds tons of replay value and makes it portable, giving it an extra 
 points purely for anytime, anywhere Mario Kart-age.
  
  The main aspect of MKDS is the Grand Prix mode. In Grand Prix, players race through eight cups, 
 four new, four retro trying to unlock the next cup, characters and karts. Each level is entirely 
 different, each with their own Nintendo theme. Although as in previous games, each cups courses 
 have roughly the same difficulty. There are 32 courses overall, and four ccs. Three of which players 
 start out with (50, 100 & 150cc) and one players will have to unlock (Mirror) .
  
  A large part of MKDS is unlocking stuff. The game starts out with eight playable characters: Mario, 
 Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, Donkey Kong, Wario and Bowser. After everything is unlocked, there are 
 a total of 12 characters. Each character focuss on a certain skill. For example, Bowser has a 
 high top speed, but horrible handing. Characters like Toad have great acceleration and handling, 
 but a low top speed. Theres also a mix of the two with characters like Mario and Luigi. Players 
 are sure to find a character to fir their style.
  
  A great part about the Mario Kart series is that it doesnt require a ton of skill. Players can 
 come in the first time and beat a seasoned veteran. Its one of those pick-up-and-play series. 
 The same can be said of MKDS. The controls are very simple and the items really make it more of 
 a frantic race for first rather than one of taking the tightest turns and selecting the best car. 
 So not only to players have to watch out for the course, but items as well.
  
  There are a total of 15 items in MKDS. The items arent distributed randomly, but rather more often 
 to certain positions. For example, the first place driver will generally get bananas and green 
 shells, while the last place driver will get items to move him to first such as stars, red shells 
 and Bullet Bills. There are a couple of new additions to the items this time around. Bullet Bills, 
 which turn the player into a Bullet Bill and fly them up the course and Bloopers which squirt ink 
 onto players in front of the player who used it. These new items dont feel tacked on at all, and 
 are incredibly useful. 
  
  Another of the new additions to the Mario Kart series is the Wi-Fi. Before, players had to all 
 be playing on the same game (or in Double Dash they could be playing via LAN) , but in MKDS, players 
 can play each other via DS to DS, or for the first time on a Nintendo System, Nintendo Wi-Fi Central. 
 First off, DS to DS; One of the amazing thing about MKDS is that with one game pack, up to eight 
 people can play. But those eight people can only be Shy Guy (only available for those players who 
 dont own MKDS) . The whole idea is still very giving in a sense, and yet amazing in others. This 
 really pushes Mario Karts multiplayer to the top, giving almost anyone with a DS a chance to play 
 Mario Kart.
  
  The big thing about MKDS is the online play via Nintendo WFC. Online play via MKDS is very simple 
 and much like any other race. Instead of finding a game and selecting it like most games, MKDS 
 gives players four choices; Friends, where players can swap friend codes with other players and 
 play just against friends. Rivals, players with relatively similar skill. Regional, players within 
 the same country and Worldwide which explains itself. Each match usually takes about two minutes 
 or less depending on whether or not there are other players looking for a race. After the race 
 has started the game plays much like it would offline. Although laggers seem to have somewhat of 
 an advantage, everything is very smooth for Nintendos first step into the online world.
  
  One of the improvements that MKDS has made to the Kart series is the handling. If one has played 
 Double Dash and then goes to play MKDS, theyll notice that the handling is significantly tighter. 
 This of course, leads to the only complaint that one could have about MKDS; pain. Eventually the 
 A button really starts to dig into the players right thumb. This is overcome over time, but at 
 initial purchase its very noticeable. But besides the pain, MKDSs turning is very tight. The 
 power slides are back and much easier to pull off. Although the DS lacks a joystick, everything 
 handles very well.
  
  Pretty much MKDS took the Kart series and made it better. The items are inherently smarter, as 
 red shells will sometimes go around an item being trailed by another player and strike them from 
 the front, and they can no longer be avoided (although that can be a bad thing at times) . The AI 
 is still its usual self, each race showing new leaders and having different strategies.
  
  This is the first Mario Kart to let players play against the computer in Battle mode. Players can 
 play against seven other CPU players. The biggest addition to Battle mode is the use of the microphone. 
 Although its not used in Shine Runners, in Balloon Battle players must blow into the microphone 
 to blow up their balloons. The catch is that players must not be holding down the A button, making 
 them sitting ducks until they blow their balloon up. Battle matches can get pretty hectic, especially 
 in a small enclosed arena like Pipe Plaza.
  
  The other mode available in Battle mode is Shine Runners. Players race to collect as many Shines 
 (from Super Mario Sunshine) as they can. Each round eliminates players, leaving only two at the 
 end who must either keep all of their Shines or knock the Shines out of the other player. While 
 Shine Runners isnt quite as fun as Balloon Battle, it can entertain players for hours and adds 
 replay value to the game.
  
  Probably the biggest addition to the gameplay is the Mission mode. Mission mode gives exactly what 
 it says; Missions. There are a total of six sets of missions (a seventh can be unlocked) and each 
 mission comes packed with nine missions. Each mission focuss on an aspect of the Mario Kart series. 
 For example, one mission may have players having to defeat 30 Goombas before the time runs out. 
 Another mission may have players racing to beat another character to the finish in a certain amount 
 of time for a rating. Each mission is accompanied by a rating; C, B, A, one Star, two Stars and 
 three Stars; three Stars being the highest and C being the lowest. These ratings show players how 
 well they did, and each rating is based upon how much time is left or how much time they completed 
 the mission in. The Mission mode as a whole is very entertaining and is a great way for players 
 to fine-tune their skills. Its no surprise that Mission mode works very well, as Mario has been 
 doing this type of stuff for years.
  
  Mission mode is just one of the things that MKDS offers during its single player mode. There are 
 tons of things to do in this game, so many that most players will still be entertained after a 
 long time. Between Grand Prix, Time Trials, Vs. Mode, Battle Mode and Mission Mode (played through 
 each once) will give players at least 15 hours of gameplay. Of course, each mode can be played 
 through numerous times and its hard not to. Theres truly an infinite amount of replay value in 
 this game even without another game pack or Wi-Fi.
  
  Of course with Multiplayer added, MKDS gets a ton more replay. The Wi-Fi itself can entertain players 
 forever and even if one doesnt have a wireless router, one can buy a USB connector for $35. Setting 
 up Wi-Fi is very easy, and even if one cant set up to the internet at all, all they need is a 
 friend with a DS. One of the best aspects of this game is that players will still be playing it 
 for years to come, and still not get bored with it.
  
  Another great part of MKDS is its retro courses. Some of the greatest courses from not all the 
 other Mario Karts. Such courses as Moo Moo Farm (N64) and Baby Park (GCN) are back for another 
 round. The courses are exactly the same and give off that nostalgic feeling. The new courses as 
 well are a ton of fun to play on, one course looking like a pinball machine while the other pits 
 players out in the middle of the desert.
  
  Since the DS has about the same graphical power as the N64, its not surprising that MKDS looks 
 a lot like Mario Kart 64. While some of the character models can look a tiny bit blocky, overall 
 they look very smooth. The courses also look very well done, each with their own level of detail 
 depending on the style of level. The menu layout is very well done and very easy to navigate. The 
 explosion effects are just round explosions and the rest of the particles are typical Nintendo 
 style goofy/cartoon effects.
  
  The sound is generally the same as the other Mario Kart games, making it one of the lower points 
 of the game. The music of the game is also signature Nintendo and each track is accompanied by 
 its own music. While the retro courses still use their old tracks, they sound the same and arent 
 tuned up that much. The sound effects consist of item sounds, track noises and quotes from the 
 characters. The sound really isnt anything amazing, yet its still good and adds to the atmosphere 
 of the game.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is the best in the series thus far. Theres enough in this game to keep 
 anyone occupied for weeks, and with Wi-Fi accounted for, this game has the most value of the series 
 hands down. Add the fact that this is a DS game and youve got one outstanding outcome. Nintendos 
 first attempt at Wi-Fi is pretty good, although it had some flaws (although very small) . With all 
 of this accounted for, this one of the DSs killer apps. If one owns a DS, they must pick up this 
 game. Even if they dont, just find a friend with a copy and they can race along side. This is 
 easily the best DS game of 2005 and will probably continue to be a must-own game until the console 
 dies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blevels
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS brings the best of the Mario Kart series to the table in the Mario Kart DS game.
 
  
  Complete all 32 tracks: Sixteen tracks orginating on the SNES, N64, GBA, and the GCN, 16 original 
 tracks. Tracks are divided up into 8 cups.
  
  Complete all Classes: Four class levels which include 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and Mirror 150cc
  
 
  Play time trials for all 32 tracks.
  
  Play Vs mode: Mario Kart DS alows team vs mode and vs mode.
  
  Play 2 Battle mode games: Play 
 Balloon Battle mode and select between 6 different stages. Under Balloon Battle mode take on other 
 opponents, taking care not to let your balloon pop. Play Shine Runners mode and also select between 
 6 different stages. Under Shine Runners mode collect the shine sprites that appear on the stage.
 
  
  Play Mission mode: Complete give sets of specific missions in order to move on to the next set 
 of missions.
  
  Mario Kart DS has record traking, multiplayer play via WiFi, and online WiFi play.
  
  Point, 
 the title has more to offer than any of the previous Kart titles. If you enjoyed playing any of 
 the past titles, you will enjoy this title. Pick up this
  title today!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMexican8004
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great racing game and a great DS game. This game has it all from fast karts 
 exploding weapons and wauluigi in a chopper like car. It has great tracks and the wireless multiplayer 
 gameplay is really great. 
  
  Another great feature for Mario Kart DS is the WI FI. Even tough you can't play wirelessly in your 
 home you can vist a nintendo hot spot and play over there for free
  
  This is a great game unless you are into the more realistic racing games such as Gran turismo or 
 PGR. All in all whoever loves Nintendo charters cutting their throats in races then this is a game 
 for you
  
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerz_04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS represents a significant step forward for Nintendo's much-loved racing series, and 
 not only because it's the first to feature online play.
  this game is great because it sticks close to the orignial mario kart all the mario kart games 
 a awesome and very addicted i still play mario kart 64 and double dash is so much fun by your self 
 and tons more fun when you play with 3 other players it's a great party game that any body any 
 age will enjoy and love for the rest of their lives. they need to put the mario kart series on 
 the xbox so that every one can enjoy it not just the nintendoers and i know i would buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwalker2020
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  The mario kart game is a nice game and is fun for me because i like karting. But each of the different 
 difficulties (50cc,100cc, and 150cc) need to have more tracks. You can only play the same 16 tracks 
 over and over again. 
  Besides from the tracks, I love the controls, the controls are very smooth and I love the sliding 
 ability. I also like the items. 
  This is also one of first games to use the ds's wifi fto it's full capabilities, and it is great. 
 The multiplayer online is really cool, you can play people all over the world!
  Overall, this is a very good game to get as a first game, it gives newbees a good idea of what 
 the ds is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercedes_5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:51 am PT
Review:  Graphics, game play and sound r gr8 but as 4 value it realy lacks. I meen the races r repetative 
 and r sometimes set. Let me explain this you enter a race on cup mode and come first the person 
 who came second will then automaticaly win from there so if u loose then you might as well quit 
 after that. howeva this only hapens about half of da time and there is quite alot to do after that 
 on wi fi . ps hello to alex james will tell u ! ! !
  Catchy music du du du du da dur dur du 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pillsburyhitman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Game Review 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  
  Introduction:
  Mario 
 Kart DS needs little introduction. Super Mario Kart, the first of its kind, has remained undefeated 
 for many years as the best kart racer in existance. Its sequels included the fun but lackluster 
 Mario Kart 64 and the somewhat ill-accepted Mario Kart Double Dash, as well as Mario Kart Super 
 Circuit on the Gameboy Advance. None of these, however, ever managed to compare with the original, 
 let alone surpass it.
  Mario Kart DS succeeds where all others have failed, and is now the new king of kart racers.
 
  
  GamePlay: 
  There are very few games which can be described as having perfect gameplay, and this is one of 
 them. MKDS's singleplayer and local multiplayer modes are flawless in both design and execution. 
 Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for its sketchy internet multiplayer mode, but more on that 
 later.
  Right away it should be noted that Mario Kart DS is perhaps the meatiest racing game of all time. 
 There's so much to do and so much to unlock that you will almost never become tired of this game. 
 With over 30 tracks (and several hidden ones) , a plethora of singleplayer modes, loads of unlockables 
 (including karts and tracks) , kart decal design via the touchscreen, and an admirably good AI, 
 there's enough content here to keep you fully entertained for at least 40 hours, and that's only 
 as a singleplayer game!
  Looking beyond the colorful, fun-filled surface and into the actual gameplay itself, we see a truly 
 deep racing game lying in wait for serious players. Several simple yet useful techniques exist 
 to give you an edge above the other players. The first and oldest of these techniques is the Rocket 
 Start. Right from the beginning your twitch skills and timing will be put the test in an attempt 
 to gain a quick boost above the other players. Be careful, mis-timing it could end you up well 
 behind the others. 
  The next technique you will need to master is Drifting, which allows you to Power Slide around 
 corners without losing speed. In fact, if you time it right you can even gain a bonus boost of 
 speed which can quickly change your fate in the race. I can't count how often a well-timed Power 
 Boost has jumped me from third to first place in the last leg of the final lap.
  Another technique is the "Slipstreaming" trick. Although it's been around since Mario Kart 64 days 
 and is virtually omnipresent in racing games, it's still not very well-known. Because of this, 
 it's a serious boost of advantage to players who know how to utilize it. Quite simply, you can 
 gain a boost of speed by trailing directly behind another kart. This is an almost vital tactic 
 against competent players, and can gain you an unexpected win (or loss, if you're the one being 
 slipstreamed) at the last minute.
  Of course, we could hardly go without mentioning the most important part of Mario Kart DS (and 
 all kart racers in existance, for that matter) : weapons. Like its predecessors, MKDS is choc-full 
 of them. From the lowly Banana Peel to the almighty Lightning Bolt, these weapons are the core 
 of the gameplay, like it or not. As always, you pick these up by running over special boxes and 
 randomly obtaining one. In the central Mario Kart system of balance, the farther you are behind 
 in the race, the better weapons you will receive. Although this can provide major frustrations 
 for players who have their victory plucked away at the last second by a Purple Koopa Shell, it's 
 really necessary for the whole experience to work, and it allows new players to be fairly competitive 
 right off the bat.
  As I have pointed out throughout the above, the entire Mario Kart formula remains intact - and 
 much improved! But let's not forget something even more important: the true focus of Mario Kart 
 has always been on its multiplayer, and Mario Kart DS delivers. Even with only one or two friends, 
 you will find yourself immersed in this incredible game for countless hours, and even if they don't 
 own the game themselves you can enjoy an excellent Download Play version! With such a huge selection 
 of maps and gameplay modes, you won't become bored any time soon. You can either go head to head 
 or compete in a Grand Prix together if you wish. Even better, you can participate in the highly 
 popular Battle Mode, which strips away the racing theory and leaves you with a lighthearted shooter 
 of sorts, in which your life consists of balloons tied to the back of your kart (balloons that 
 can, by the way, be blown up rapidly by puffing breath into your microphone) .
  Overall, the Mario Kart DS local multiplayer is essentially flawless, and the download play, while 
 not as full-featured, will not disappoint.
  The online multiplayer experience is a different matter, however. Simply put, it's just not as 
 good as it should (and could) be. There's no way for players to communicate with each other at 
 all, and even worse: there's no way to add people to your Friends list within the game! To add 
 a Friend, you will have to get their unique Friend code from them outside of the game. Needless 
 to say this is a major hassle and seems entirely unpolished. Another major problem is the lack 
 of penalty for disconnecters: anyone about to lose can simply disconnect from the match without 
 any kind of reprecussion, thus taking away your well-earned Win on your record. This can be so 
 frustrating at times that it's almost enough to make you stop playing online. For a little while, 
 at least. Ultimate you'll be drawn back to its sheer addictiveness. 
  Hopefully, future DS games will have a much more polished online system, as Mario Kart DS feels 
 like the internet options where added just as a bonus feature. In the end, despite its major problems, 
 the online play is good enough to get you hooked potentially forever. Hopefully, future DS games 
 will have a much more polished online system, as Mario Kart DS feels like the internet options 
 where rushed out of production before they were entirely finished.
  
  Control: 
  The controls are perfectly responsive and utterly flawless. All of it is done via the buttons and 
 D-pad, and the only stylus usage is for designing your kart decal. This is a major relief, as many 
 fans were worried that Nintendo would make the fatal error of forcing you to control your kart 
 via the touchscreen. Thankfully they opted for a more classic control scheme, and it gets the job 
 done mighty well. The A button accelerates the kart, the B button manages breaking and reversing, 
 X or L activates your item (L is far more comfortable) , and you hop via L. Never once does this 
 feel the least bit clunky, and you'll be amazed that a D-pad can deliver such smooth controls. 
 
  
  Graphics: 
  Graphically, Mario Kart DS is second only to Viewtiful Joe DT. The best way to do it honor is to 
 say that it holds its ground along side the graphical quality of Mario Kart: Double Dash on the 
 GCN! Not even the late N64 games managed to come close to this kind of beauty and fluidity in a 
 racing game.
  
  Sound & Music: 
  The music is the weakest point of Mario Kart DS (aside from the online play) . It's neither good 
 nor bad, but fortunately it's never annoying. 
  The sound is an entirely different matter, and couldn't possibly be any better. With headphones 
 plugged in, you'll hear every minute sound detail, every koopa shell rushing by your head, every 
 cute little cry of Yoshi in the distance behind you. In fact, the sound is good enough that it 
 actually gives you a tactical advantage if you pay attention to it. The DS stereo is certainly 
 put to good work here, possibly the best job I've seen it do yet.
  
  Dual Screen Use: (only for Nintendo DS games)
  Mario Kart DS opts for the oh-so-common DS scheme 
 of gameplay on the top and a map/menu on the bottom. This doesn't really take advantage of the 
 touchscreen at all, but it's actually a great help having such a detailed, highly controllable 
 map visible at all times. The touchscreen is also used for designing your kart decals, a remarkably 
 fun little bit of polish on an already amazing game, although you can bet your life that some people 
 will abuse it for their own personal perversions.
  
  Final Comments: 
  Not only the best kart racer ever made, but one of the greatest racing games of all time! Mario 
 Kart fans have been desperate for internet-play a long time, and Nintendo has finally delivered, 
 although it's quite rough in its current state. Fortunately, the singleplayer and local multiplayer 
 are just about as polished and perfect as they could possibly be, and give an experience unparalleled 
 on any console. Mario Kart DS is becoming widely accepted as the "killer-app" for the DS, should 
 you choose to use that term, and is perhaps the best reason to buy the system if you haven't already.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Game Rating 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Pros: Perfect gameplay. 
 Perfect controls. Amazing visuals. Tons of unlockable content. Vast amount of well-developed modes 
 extend the life of the game near infinitely. Excellent local multiplayer.
  
  Cons: The online play could have been better.
  
  Final Score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguru91
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the most-hyped Nintendo games released this year, and frankly, it is plain 
 to see that Mario Kart DS is the best of its series to date. The graphics, though not perfect, 
 are crisp and colorful. The textures are nice and racing animations are impressive. The sound is 
 less extraordinary but it does contain many classic Mario Kart noises and the soundtrack is more 
 than tolerable. The gameplay is classic, every mechanic you remember from previous games are here. 
 The comp. AI varies and overall the single player isn't that hard to beat, but the multiplayer 
 is really the one reason to play any Mario Kart game. There are many character and karts to play 
 against your friends with and there are a huge collection of 32 courses to play on, 16 new, 16 
 old. Battle is here too, with 6 different arenas, including the notorious Block Fort. The multiplayer 
 itself can be played in two different ways. One is with an LAN connection, which allows you to 
 play with nearby friends in an eight-player racing bonanza. The other is via wi-fi where you hook 
 your DS up to the internet with a router or at a hotspot to play with MK DS players across the 
 globe. Overall, MK DS is a wonderful game and anyone who owns a DS should buy it or if your stripped 
 for cash, at least go out and rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great game for the DS. With many new features, such as missions and boss fights, 
 the game succeeds in bringing Mario's fun series of kart racing to the handheld. The gameplay is 
 great, as it always has been, and the graphics are much better than I expected, yet still a little 
 "pointy" if you know what I mean (for example, DK's elbows have points as sharp as a sword) . The 
 music and sounds are also pretty awesome, but there is one downfall from this game getting a perfect 
 ten. Wi. Fi. With Wi. Fi. the game would get a better score, but if you don't have Wi. Fi. the game 
 will feel a little short, and you won't be playing it as much as you should. Despite the Wi. Fi., 
 this game has achieved great success on the DS, and if you don't have Wi. Fi., I still strongly 
 reccommend this game to those who have, and even haven't, enjoyed the Mario Kart series, because 
 odds are that you will enjoy this wild Mario Kart game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  In this new Mario Kart game it has all tracks from previous games. Not all of them actually but 
 some from the other games... Thing that makes this game good is because the new mission mode some 
 new characters... lots of karts! Over 30 tracks to play on and the new Wi-Fi mode! So awesome to 
 play now you can play with friends around the world!!! Just wait until they make a Mario Kart Double 
 Dash for DS!!! Enough about the future but moving on in Mario Kart DS. There is better gameplay 
 then in Super Mario Kart and improved graphics since Nintendo 64's Mario Kart but there is still 
 one thing we want!! More characters, longer missions, and some more modes! It would make the game 
 even better than it was! If the next Mario Kart would have graphics better than Double Dash than 
 everyone would buy it! Can't wait until that happens but still happy to play the new Mario Kart!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ9907
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  To begin with this game has all the elements of a Mario kart game , driving ,craziness , insane 
 weapons and (obviously) Mario and friends. This easily deserves to be the highest rated DS game 
 out. It may be a thing to try and put a soundtrack on it like burnout or midnight club but that 
 could ruin it ,it would be experimental. It is a pick up and play game and it is suitable for anyone. Online 
 play is available making it so there is always someone to play. Nintendogs eat you heart out .A 
 fine Mario kart outing matching the excellence of double dash .Also converting levels from double 
 dash was amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieed15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  
  Super Mario Kart was one of my favorite games on the SNES, and I even enjoyed the 64 version, then 
 Double Dash came out and had me hooked for a while, not to mention the not-so-shabby GBA game. 
 Still, I think it is easy to say that Mario Kart DS surpasses all of the previous games.
  
  Gameplay wise, almost everything is the same as previous games. The control for the vehicles is 
 great, and it makes me wonder if the PSP would have been better off just using the d-pad instead 
 of its awkward analog stick.
  
  There are several different modes to choose from, time trials, battle, VS, and of course the new 
 Mission and Online modes. Truthfully, I found the mission mode to be far more entertaining than 
 the online one, mostly because i hate playing video games at wal-mart. (Although, for you online 
 savy folks, if you have DSL you can easily play online with Nintendo's wireless wi-fi adapter check 
 it out on nintendo. com)
  
  The mission mode was my favorite aside from teh racing of course. While the missions really aren't 
 that varied, they're fun and rather challenging. You'll be doing things like racing backwards out 
 of Luigi's Mansion or searching and deystroying as many wooden crates as you can. After completeing 
 the set missions you duke it out with the 'Boss' which are familar faces from the Mario 64 universe.
 
  
  The graphics are fine, what one expects from the DS, not amazing but not bad to look at. Texture 
 and polishing wise, the DS version looks scads better than the 64 verision did, especially the 
 character/kart models.
  
  The sound is the usual Mario Kart stuff. The music suits every track nicely, and there is enough 
 variety to keep you from going insane.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS excells in every aspect and lives up to its name. If you want a fun kart 
 racing game, or any racing game period, then this is a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twisted1111
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Mario Kart for the Ds, well its hella awesome if u ask me. If your a big fan 
 of all Mario Kart games, u should deff. pick this up. There are so many new added features to the 
 game, that makes it one of the best Ds games out there right now. The original aspects to the game 
 come back, like of course every ones favorite plumber, Mario. Also the gang is back aswell, as 
 for some new ones aswell.. hmm...? One new feature is the online muiltiplayer, if u ever get bored 
 of playing the bots, hop on WIFI, and show ur skillz around the world. A great game, and should 
 deff. be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e10mgs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  There was no question whether this was going to be a good game it was a question if it sticked 
 to the mario formula and became a good game or did something new and became a classic. The good 
 news for ds owners is this is a clasic. 
  
  Gameplay- This sticks to the traditional formula but manages to increase enjoyment by adding genius 
 courses and new weapons. The controls are perfect as it doesn't use and anolog stick, so precision 
 taps of the directional pad feel more comfortable and precise. All the normal shells and bannan 
 skins are back but with two new additions to the game, the cannon and one i wont reveal. The game 
 has two sections retro course and ds courses. The retro courses are your favourites from the snes, 
 64 and gamecube games and nothing has been lost in the transition. The ds courses are new and the 
 normal madness from the mario world. 
  
  Graphics- The best on the DS, you'll be surprised how good the 64 and gamecube racks look. The 
 frame rate never slows down and the whole game is full of bright colours and beautifully rendered 
 tracks. 
  
  Sound- The revving of the engines and charactor quotes are here. 
  
  Multiplayer- Online play! free online mario kart play is what makes this game so special. Easy 
 to connect allows to to red shell anyone in the world. It also includes standard wi-fi 8 player 
 which is just as fun. 
  
  Value- New to the mario kart is the battle and mission mode. 
  the mission mode is small challenges like collecting coins, or driving through numbered gates, 
 finished of with a boss fight against familiar faces. 
  The battle mode consists of 2 versions shines and balloons. Shines is just collected as many stars 
 as possible. Balloons however relys on you shelling other players to destroy there balloons. The 
 great part of this is when you are running low on balloons you have to blow up more with the ds 
 mike. This creates a funny scenario for onlookers, 8 people blowing and shouting at each other 
 with various insults on there ds's. 
  The grand prix, multiplayer (online and offline) , battle mode (balloon and shine) , missions, vs 
 will keep you going forever! 
  Mario Kart on the ds is the best in the series and kicks of nintendo's online arena. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a series I have followed since the Super Nintendo installment. I have played virtually 
 every one that has come out, and enjoyed all of them immensely, yet it is Mario Kart on the DS 
 that truly stands out as the best in the series.
  
  Gameplay: As with all mario karts, the majority of the gameplay lies in racing. With 8 different 
 series cups, you have plenty of chances to try your hand against the other classic mario characters.
 
  
  The battle mode has returned in glory as well, and finally Nintendo has given AI control for battle 
 mode, which is, surprisingly, quite good. 
  
  Speaking of AI, the AI in Mario Kart does not let up. Finally, it seems, we have a game that remains 
 challenging throughout the game, whilst still remaining fun. 
  
  The second screen on the DS is what really sets this Mario Kart apart from the others. An easily 
 readable map lets you see exactly where you are in the lineup, and also shows approaching dangers. 
 In fact, it is entirely possible to run a full race just looking at the bottom screen's maps, I 
 have done it, and it is quite a different experience. Of course, this is not what you really want 
 to do, it is merely a wonderful reference tool that will have you wondering how you ever survived 
 without it.
  
  I did not have access to online multiplayer, and so that will not be discussed.
  
  Graphics: 
 Graphically Mario Kart DS is amazing. Often times I had trouble believing I was playing the game 
 on a DS, it just looks that good. A few problems with environments being low in quality at very 
 few points in the game, however, bring the score down into the 9 range.
  
  Sound: The sound is standard mario fare, complete with the same voices Mario + Friends have been 
 using forever. The music follows suit. It is really nothing terribly orginal, but certainly not 
 bad.
  
  Value: The massive array of modes and races presented in Mario Kart: DS is amazing. This game will 
 keep you entertained far beyond the time that other games will become boring. I highly recommend 
 it.
  
  Tilt: At last, the definitive game for the DS has arrived, if you own a DS, this is an absolute 
 must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkam_
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  First graphics are pretty clean, solo part is fun because it show you tips & trips on maps and 
 good/bad points of many karts and kart drivers. But the best part is online, I play with 7 other 
 friends and it was just *insane*, very adictive and fast! 
  
  The wi-fi connexion is amazingly simple to use, we find other opponents very easily. To bad some 
 disconnect before the end of the 4 matches. The "friends" system is pretty easy to use too, you 
 can make your own avatar and have many stats.
  
  Best online game every made on a portable, amazing multiplayer, good solo... it's time to buy a 
 DS if you don't already ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raidenseven
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  mario kart 64 was like halo for n64, my friends come over and we played it for hours on end. 
 
  
  i got DS just for advance wars but when i heard mario kart was coming to DS i was a bit skeptical. 
 i was use to using analogs with mario kart, so how good would the pad be??? will the graphics be 
 just as good? will they make the touch screen annoying part of the race? 
  
  well all i have to say is the really nailed it, i think this is just as good as mario kart 64. 
 
  
  Gameplay: perfect, just perfect, the d-pad was just great to use never annoying, i never look back 
 and say, well if i had analog i would of won, the d pad is just great for racing. the touch screen 
 was never really used, you can use it to select characters and maps but you never use it for racing. 
 which is ok cause its a map that is really useful, you can see shells coming for you and get a 
 heads up on competition behind you. the online is great, kinda dissapointed its only 4 people but 
 its still great. and eaith people link races is awsome, the only thing i find wrong in the gameplay 
 is only 4 people online, and even though the map is really useful on the bottom, could of been 
 used to launch weapons too. 
  
  Graphics: best on the DS, its better than n64 version, just great colorful, and a blast to look 
 at. 
  
  Sound: can you really go wrong with mario on the sound, the got all the characters lines, they 
 have good effects for the weapons and music, its great. 
  
  this game is amazing and if you have a DS GET MARIO KART, your missing out if you dont, even without 
 online, the single player is great and long. and never gets boring. nintendo is doing a great job 
 with these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekkenfreak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  For anyone unfamiliar with the Mario Kart franchise in general, it's a racing game featuring Mario, 
 Luigi, Princess, and many other Mario characters, pitted against each other in a kart race. As 
 mentioned above, however, it's not just about a straight race to the finish, as there are a number 
 of items which play a significant part into the gameplay. It's not just about being fast, but also 
 about finding the right spot to place a banana peel so that someone will slip over it, or hitting 
 the racer in front of you with a shell just as they're about to cross the finish line. It's not 
 just about holding down the gas button and bending through turns, each race is a detailed adventure 
 through a number of fun and interesting tracks.
  
  The main mode of gameplay is the Grand Prix more. Here, one selects from different cart speed values 
 (the higher speeds being more difficult) , and later from a selection of Cups, each cup consisting 
 of four courses. At the end of each course, points will be awarded based on the place one finished, 
 and once one has gone through all of the courses, the one with the most points is the winner. The 
 other thing one has to select when starting up a race is a driver and cart. Without giving away 
 too much detail or spoiling anything, you will have a number of characters from the Mario games 
 to choose from, with some more to discover later. Once you've selected a driver, you will then 
 select a cart. Each racer has their own unique carts (with their own particular designs) , and each 
 cart has ratings in a number of different categories. One might choose a cart with a higher top 
 speed but slower acceleration, or a cart with the better handling, or whichever set of statistics 
 best fits one's racing style.
  
  The courses in Mario Kart DS are a spectacular blend of the old and the new. The cups are broken 
 down into two sets, the "Nitro Grand Prix" (new courses) , and the "Retro Grand Prix" (courses from 
 previous games) . For the courses in the Nitro Grand Prix, Mario Kart DS has its own large set of 
 new and unique courses, designed just for this game. In the Retro Grand Prix, the cups are made 
 up of a selection of courses from the SNES, N64, GBA and GCN Mario Kart games. Racing through these 
 "old favorites" in this new game is definitely very enjoyable. For anyone wanting something new 
 and different, however, the courses in the Nitro Grand Prix are just as spectacular. Courses from 
 both sets consist of a variety of terrains and styles. One will be racing through beaches, towns, 
 airships, gardens, ice and snow, and many other different types of areas. The courses from the 
 previous games fit together great, and the new course selections go along perfectly with the feel 
 of all Mario Kart courses.
  
  The graphics in Mario Kart DS are absolutely spectacular. Not only are the courses well designed, 
 but, there are many little touches here and there which really add to the overall feel of the course. 
 Every part and piece of the course looks beautiful, and fits together great. Also, the background 
 designs of the courses are marvelous and, while one won't have much time to look at them as one 
 is racing, really provide some nice scenery for the race. As well, the music of the different courses 
 all fit them perfectly. The new courses have new songs created just for them, which fit the feel 
 and add to the action. The classic courses from the previous Mario Kart games feature the songs 
 from those versions, which all sound beautiful through the DS's speakers, and really help to bring 
 back the memories of the first time one raced through those courses. Even if one hadn't played 
 the games those courses were included in, however, the Mario Kart series in general has always 
 had some great music, so, the songs from the previous games are still welcome additions to this 
 one.
  
  When racing, the top screen is your main racing area. Here, you have your view of the course, the 
 lap number, your position, and the item you are holding. The bottom screen is used for the elapsed 
 time, a full list of the positions of the 8 racers, and a map of the course. There are two different 
 map displays that one can see, one which is fairly close to the action and the other which is panned 
 all the way back to see the whole course, and one can switch between these two displays simply 
 by touching the screen. Having these particular elements of the display down on the bottom screen 
 is really helpful, clearing off the main screen to get a good view of the action, while still having 
 the other information available at hand for when one needs to use it. The close-up course map is 
 very useful for both seeing what obstacles lay ahead, and for trying to line up banana peels or 
 shells to drop on the people behind you. As well, there are a couple of new items which have been 
 included in this game, one of which is a Blooper who will drop oil on the main screen of other 
 racer. When one has oil on their screen, one can still see around it, but, needless to say, racing 
 like this is rather difficult. The other method one can use when this problem arises, however, 
 is to look at the bottom course display to judge one's position. While it doesn't give you the 
 full view that the top screen does, it's certainly enough to race with. Little touches like this 
 definitely make one feel that both screens are an intricate part of the action.
  
  As well as the main Grand Prix mode, the single player of Mario Kart DS features a couple more 
 selections. There is a Time Trial mode, of course, to try racing in a particular course to try 
 to get a new best time, or just for practice. Then, there's a Vs. mode, where one can adjust a 
 number of settings for a race. One can set the difficulty of the computer karts, course selection, 
 rule set, and arrange the karts into teams. In a team race, the points earned by the finishes of 
 all members of the team are added to a total, with the winner being the team with the most points. 
 So, if one is in 2nd, and a team member is in 1st, one might not want to hit them with a red shell, 
 because doing so might cause them to fall back to 3rd, and the team will lose points. Just different 
 little twists like this to the racing action are very fun. A new mode that has been added is a 
 Mission mode. Here, one goes through a number of missions with different goals. The goal might 
 be something like "collect coins" or "perform a number of power slides in one lap" or "drive through 
 a course backwards" or different assorted things like that. While many of these goals are fairly 
 straightforward enough to complete, you're also given a grade on how quickly you accomplish it.
 
  
  Also making a return are the Battle modes. Here, one has the option between Balloon Battle and 
 Shine Runners. In Balloon Battle, your goal is to hit your opponent with items, causing their balloons 
 to pop. The last person remaining with balloons is the winner. In Shine Runners, the goal is to 
 collect Shines around on the course. One can also steal other players Shines. Players with fewer 
 Shines will be eliminated over time until a winner is left. One can play multiplayer locally with 
 either every player having their own copy of the game or with the Download Play option if some 
 people don't have their copy. Players without a copy of the game will be limited in their choice 
 selection, but it's still great to get more people in on the action. So, all you need to get a 
 nice battle going is a group of people with DS systems. If one doesn't have others around to play, 
 however, one can play the Battle mode against computer opponents as well. Not quite the same as 
 playing with friends, but, it's still fun. Plus, it gives one the chance to get some practice in 
 for when one does have others to play against.
  
  Then, there is the one feature which really makes this Mario Kart game stand apart from all the 
 others: Online play. The DS system has been capable of more than just a simple local wireless connection 
 from day one, but, there hadn't yet been any games which made use of this feature. Mario Kart DS 
 is the first of what looks to be a nice lineup of games which plan to take advantage of this. When 
 setting up the online play of Mario Kart DS, the system sends out a signal looking for any compatible 
 wireless devices in the area. This can be anything from the wireless router you already have in 
 your home for use with your computers, a wireless hotspot in a location such as a restaurant or 
 coffee shop, or, if neither of those are options, there is a wireless adapter which one can purchase 
 to plug into one's computer to set up a wireless signal to the DS. Regardless of which option one 
 chooses to make use of, setup is quick and easy, and once set up, works seamlessly without any 
 additional thought to be paid to it. Connecting for an online match is just as easy as connecting 
 to your friend sitting right next to you. One has a number of different ways that one can choose 
 to search for opponents. One can search for players from the entire world, one's country, players 
 of a similar skill level, or players from one's Friend List. Even playing people from across the 
 world, the play online is perfectly smooth.
  
  Even ignoring the online aspect of it, if one is a fan of racing games in general, and especially 
 if one is a fan of the previous Mario Kart games, this game is a spectacular selection. It has 
 all the charm and feel of the previous games, while adding its own special touch to the series. 
 The exciting racing, the fun items, all the different characters are all there as one would hope 
 they are. The selection of new courses is wonderfully designed and offers something fun and different. 
 The inclusion of courses from previous games is a spectacular idea, and it's great fun to go through 
 them, either experiencing memories from before, or just enjoying them as the addition of some more 
 exciting and interesting courses. Everything is here that one would hope to find in a Mario Kart 
 game, and it's all done to perfection. There are many things to see and do in the game, challenges 
 to complete and races to run, that it will keep one busy for quite some time, even if one has no 
 one else with whom to play. Beyond that, the online play part of it definitely makes it a must-purchase. 
 If one has the ability to go online, it's really an experience that simply can't be passed up. 
 The opportunity to play a game against friends that you've previously only talked about games with 
 is spectacular. Even as one completes all the different tasks and challenges this game has to offer, 
 the constant draw of the challenge of playing against a countless selection of real people online 
 is going to keep one continually coming back to this game. It's an experience that shouldn't be 
 missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloth_21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Earlier this year, Nintendo released Mario Kart DS. The game was followed by lots of hype since 
 it was going to be the first Nintendo game to utilize the Nintendo WIFI Connection, Nintendo's 
 new online gaming service. But did the game live up to what was expected?
  
  Gameplay wise, the game plays like the N64 version. They have emphasized the drafting element in 
 this game, and you can even get a boost that is greater than that of a mushroom. They have added 
 some new items also, the blooper (covers screen with ink) , and bullet bill (you blast through the 
 pack at a high speed!)
  
  Lets start with the single player of the game. You start with Grand Prix Mode. Here, you have 8 
 Cups, totaling 32 tracks, 16 new and 16 old. There are 4 difficulty levels, 50CC, 100CC, 150CC, 
 and Mirror 150CC. Each level up the AI gets tougher, so you'll have to learn how to use the powerslide 
 if you want to compete. A nice addition to keep you playing the Grand Prix mode is that you get 
 rankings, like A, B, C, D, and the best grades are stars, the highest is three stars. If you get 
 a certain star level on every Grand Prix level and cup, it'll show above your name during multiplayer 
 play, a type of primitive gamer card.
  
  Then there is time trial mode. For the first time ever, I think people will actually be enticed 
 to play time trial mode. Reason being is there are unlockable staff ghosts. These staff ghosts 
 are extremely tough to beat, and they are the ghost data of the development team. You can also 
 send your ghost data to friends.
  
  Then the new addition is Mission Mode. In this there are 7 worlds consisting of 8 challenges along 
 with 1 boss battle. The boss battles are reminiscent of those in Diddy Kong Racing released for 
 the Nintendo 64 in 1997. You are fighting things like giant goombas, king bob-ombs, etc. They are 
 fun. The challenges are like going through 9 half tires, or doing 6 powerslides in a lap, etc. 
 The mission mode is an interesting idea, and its pretty fun.
  
  Now to the meat and bones of this game as some would say, the multiplayer. You can play verse mode 
 in which you just do races, baloon battle, in which you have to be the last one remaining with 
 balloons, and also Shine Runners, where you go around collecting Shines, and they are divided into 
 like 3 rounds, and part of the playing field that has the fewest shines get eliminated. Think Super 
 Mario 64 DS multiplayer, only in Karts and with weapons! A new twist for balloon battle is that 
 you start off with one balloon and you have to blow up the rest. These are great.
  
  Nintendo WIFI Connection is a resounding failure. The system is broken in so many ways, and reveals 
 hardware flaws on Nintendo's price friendly approach coming back to stab them in the ass. To start 
 off, balloon battle and shine runners are not playable online. Two fun modes, some even just buy 
 Mario Kart for battle mode, aren't available in this mode, no excuses for this. Then you are only 
 availalbe to play versus, but this isn't even complete, only of the 20 of the 32 courses are availalbe 
 online, leaving out the best ones. Their excuse was lag, but if they put more RAM in the DS this 
 wouldn't be a problem. Matchmaking is awful, you can't select someone from your friends list and 
 invite them to play a game, its just random on seeing whether or not a friend is online. Plus too 
 many people disconnect when they are losing online subtracting from the friend.
  
  All in all, Mario Kart DS was a very good game but it fell so short, it wasn't what it could have 
 been. The online element is broken, but the single player is the best Mario Kart's seen. The game 
 was good, the unlockables were alright but could have been better. Mario Kart was an awful kickoff 
 of Nintendo WIFI Connection, and it highlighted how bad Nintendo made the WIFI service and were 
 being too overprotective. You can't even see if a friend is online and invite them for a match 
 for goodness sakes. With that said, Mario Kart for the Nintendo DS is a must have game for any 
 DS owner and fan of the Mario Kart series, its the best of the series ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  is you do not have a nintendo ds make sure you this one is worth buying the ds just for the game 
 now about the game it is just like all the other mario karts. you go around trying to out beat 
 all the other racers. of course there are many unlockable like racers and new racing events and 
 its all worth. there is a new addition as well as u can do missions there kindof boring but hey 
 its mario kart. the wi fi is great as long as u have a wireless router if you dont then well you 
 might want to go get one for this game as well becuase you will have many hours of fun playing 
 this game against other people across the world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet SSweetweetSweSweeSweett etSweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Swee Sweett Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Swee Sw Sweet eSwee
  t et Sweet Sweet SweetSwSweeteet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet
  Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet
  Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet SweetSweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet 
 Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet
  This game is really cool and is very funto paly and even better withyou8r friends and it is wire 
 less. Then you can also play online with other people and even chat with them. Which makeds the 
 game even more asaome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryhion
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This is THE game for DS so far, it is great.
  The game play is perfect, the kart responds very well and it is easy to control and maneuver, the 
 graphics are awesome very detailed (for a DS) , the sound is very good, from the engine and the 
 drifting to the item slot machine which reminds you the previous Mario Kart games, it is just great. 
 It can take you several hours to finish all the game (missions, Championships) you still have the 
 multiplayer mode that offers you very fun and it is very immersing.
  In conclusion. Nintendo made a great job with this title and it is worth every cent you payed for 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoChOn-DiNdE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart was always a good game to play. Especially when you could do so in multi-player. Mario 
 Kart DS is... the bets.
  
  Gameplay:
  Where to start? Let's go in "Grand Prix" and ect. The race tracks were not THAT good, but I though 
 a moment and I realised they were very good for the DS. They kept the "Launching" aspect from the 
 NGC. Like in Waluigi Pinball (Not a mini-game, OK?) . The "cc" difficulty is... is... incredibly 
 balanced. Ok, maybe 150cc was _A BIT_ exaggerated by giving the computers faster speed. A very 
 small flaw. Not enough to reduce gameplay... anyhow, the difficulty is hard but not impossible. 
 It takes skills & training to complete the game. Mostly in the "Retro" races. Om*g. Sorry I don't 
 like much swearing... so, Nintendo finally made it worth doing mini-boosts. It does have a small 
 effect and you must get flawless drift skills to complete 150cc/Mirror Mode. Characters? I expected 
 baby Mario & maybe Luigi but no... seriously, why put a stage to those when they're not even in 
 the game? Doesn't matter though, a small detail. Who would expect Dry Bones and... "R. O. B."? Don't 
 know him. Also, Karts had more details & force & weaknesses. The variety after completing the game 
 was nice, since the character you chose didn't matter _AT ALL_. So, Luigi could use Bowser's karts. 
 Good! And the new items are very, very, good additions. The Bullet Bill was like Baby Mario & Luigi's 
 special item but still if you don't compare them it looks new, along with the octopus (Don't remember 
 than thing's name, small detail) which throws ink in your top screen. Sure, you can look in the 
 bottom screen for it but it's harder. VS. Perfect. The Best. YOU CAN PLAY IT ON SINGLE PLAYER! 
 WOOOOOOOO! It's actually possible to play balloon/shine battles without needing another guy with 
 you! Although it eventually gets boring but still awesome. The teams were a great option. No, not 
 2 characters on 1 kart but 4 karts VS. 4! Heh. I remember I was always in the red team so I owned 
 blue people thinking of "Destroy all blue". The missions were nice, too. Finally, some different 
 goals! I liked the bosses because we never saw any of them.
  
  Wow. Long stuff. The rest is shorter.
  
  Graphics:
  The karts are 3D. Most of the items were 
 2D but let's not give it a bad rating, ok? Only the shells disgusted me a bit... still, graphics 
 do not matter THAT much. Mario Kart uses a fair amount of the DS' capabilities.
  
  Sound:
  The music, sounds & voices were... very good. The music was fun to hear and it wasn't 
 stressing at all.
  
  Value:
  Mario Kart DS is the best DS game I've ever played. Or, should I say, the best Mario Kart. It has 
 new races & way too many new stuffs. Without forgetting of the best classic other tracks. Mario 
 Kart DS is unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Feelgood
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  About a week ago, I picked up a Nintendo DS with Mario Kart DS. While I love the look of the red 
 DS, the game... not so much. Don't get me wrong, it is a fine game, but in the short time I've 
 had it I've unlocked everything in the Grand Prix mode, and have completed all but the secret missions 
 in mission mode. Sure, I could try and improve my ranking in GP, unlock the last mission, and unlock 
 the staff ghosts in time trial, but what is the point??? I've done the gist of the game in an extremely 
 short period of time. Even on the hardest difficulties, the game barely puts up a decent fight. 
 Now I'm not someone who enjoys REALLY hard games, but I was expecting more than this.
  
  The AI is pretty good at times though, and some races are pretty tight, but I think Nintendo could 
 have done some things to make the tense moments much more exciting. As it is now, the top screen 
 is your game screen and the lower screen is either a top view of the immediate area, or an overhead 
 map. I think Nintendo would have been smart to put in some kind of rear-view mirror for the lower 
 screen and have the overhead map on the main screen. This would help make things more exciting 
 when your opponents are coming up behind you.
  
  Overall, I think the people who will get the most out of this game are younger gamers and gamers 
 who haven't really played too many racing games. If you can find a place that rents DS games, this 
 would be a very fine choice for a rental as you could get the most out of it in a short period 
 of time. As for me, I'm just gonna erase all the data and start over from scratch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachdragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Mariokart DS is the best game in the series and quite possibly the best for the DS. First of all 
 the online is awesome it rarely loses signal and is also lag free and the ability to find your 
 friends is awesome. it has all of the modes you would exepect to find in a Mariokart game. The 
 graphics are much better then the N64 installment but not quite as good as the Gamecube installment. 
 The sound is classic but can get repetitive. And most of all this game has a whole lot of replay 
 value since its online. Its definetly the best installment so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisisinlondon1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart, ahhhh I was brought up on this stuff. I was only 3 when the 64 version came out and 
 man did I ever love it. I couldn't play for the life of me but I enjoyed it. When we got a Gamecube 
 in 02 double dash was the first game we bought. I was in heaven. Anyway on to this version. I bought 
 it used for 30 bucks and played nonstop for about a week. The graphics are good for a DS game but 
 it's the gameplay that is the best part. The game never gets old. If it does than there are still 
 a pantsload of unlockables, Karts, tracks, etc. If you're a mario Kart fan than you'll know it's 
 a great party series. This one is no exception, what with the addition of online play and Download 
 play. This is one of the most complete feeling games to hit the DS yet. A must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skorupskid
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot. it is probally the best game on DS. Their isnt many great games on the 
 DS, but this game is great. I would recommend u to buy this game if u dont have it ( only if u have 
 a DS though) .
  
  Game play: Their are so many modes in MK DS. The on line mode has got to be the best new feature 
 it has. They made a new mission mode. Their is 12 characters in the game and 32 different tracks 
 including 16 old tracks.
  
  Graphics: Their really isnt much to say about the graphics except they could be a little better. 
 Some things look a little sharp, but its not that bad.
  
  Sound: They have some good tunes for each track. You cant really get better for sound if its a 
 mario game.
  
  Value: This game is worth $30-$35. if you play online or multiplayer, you would most likely like 
 it alot. I usually play multiplayer and play against my friends.
  
  The Good:
  - Finally you can play nintendo games online
  - New mission mode
  - Good drifting
  
  The 
 Bad:
  - Not to much to choose from when doing multiplayer download play
  - Not to much to do in on line play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ejacko
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Good: 
  Whats great? 
  - The drifting is great. But for beginners, 
  it feels like im trying to drift with a shopping-waggon. 
  - Multiplayer (ofcourse) 
  - Online, 
 finaly, Nintendo is going online
  - its Mario Kart
  
  Bad: 
  Needs change, or something
  - No control settings? Havent Nintendo learnt at all? 
  My thumb 
 looks like an L after half champion. (two races) 
  (in Metroid, the controller was a BIG failure)
  
  Ugly: 
  It shouldn't be there at all
 
  - The third mission boss. Who can actually beat HIM? 
  He even cheats, the third lap, he jumps over the edge. 
  - The Blue shell is really annoying. 
 Ive got hit 3 times in ONE lap. 
  
  Everything else if fine. Graphics, sound, tracks, controls (the in-game one) etc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlayaNiNO
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been a great game throughout the years. From SNES to GCN each title always 
 was a balst to play. Then Mario Kart DS shows up, and I must say it matches up with it's predecesors.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  All the models are in complete 3-D, ala GCN version and not like the wierd 3-D look of MK64 models. 
 It may be a little blocky, but this is on the DS, it's not really a power house, but graphics are 
 not the meat of the game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  This is where it truly shines! (SHINE GET!) Lol, anyways, it plays alot like previous MK, but controls 
 a little different. Like how you powerslide here is alot different then Mk64. There is a total 
 of 32 courses, but only 20 of them are available online. The courses may seem short in some cases 
 and a little long in others. But that really won; t stop you since it's really fun to replay. The 
 mission modes can keep you busy too.
  
  Sound
  
  Since some of the old courses are here (16 of them) you get to hear some of those old tunes. The 
 new courses even has great music by DS standard, bettter than beeps and boops of the GBA version. 
 Can't really complain about it too much, if you don't liek just mute it.
  
  Online
  
  It sorta falls here, the online part of MK is limited. You can't communicate with others online 
 unles your using AiM or MSN to talk to them, you can't exchange friends codes as easily, since 
 you need to know them and ask them for it in person or message boards. Other than that the other 
 parts of online is alright.
  
  Conclusion
  
  MKDS is a great game to add to any DS owner's library, worth the money you spend on it. I had mine's 
 since November 16th and I'm still having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullmage550
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. The online play is amazing. The mulitplayer is so much fun. Single player 
 is great too. The graphics are amazing. Trying to unlock all the karts and characters isn't too 
 hard. The missions are a bit harder. Dry Bones, Daisy, R. O. B., and Waluigi are fun to unlock and 
 when you get them they are even more fun to play with. Once you unlock all thirty-six karts for 
 every character you will have five hundred and seventy-six characters/karts to chose from. This 
 game is a must have. If you don't have this game you should go out as soon as possible and but 
 it. If you have this game you should have online for it too because it is so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thx4datips
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 10:53 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart: DS is one of the greatest games out for the DS so far. It plays smoothly and the controls 
 are simple, yet it doesn't make the game easy. After you unlock everything, every character has 
 many karts to chose from, and whilst it may not have two charecters in the kart at the same time, 
 there is the online function of the game. After a while, you get used to the gameplay and the computer 
 charecters seem to be too easy to beat. Thats when you can play the online section of the game. 
 The online section of the game is when you want a challenge (although some people are less of a 
 challenge then others) and you can choose to race rivals for a race with the same skilled people 
 as you.
  Of course, even the worst people can play the game... and win. With the new weapons and good weapons 
 you get when you're in last place, it's almost anyones game. Overall, while the game isn't the 
 perfect game, it's still a great game, one of the best for the DS, and I recommend this game to 
 anyone, Mario Kart fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidstebbins
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  As my second Mario Kart game ever (first was double dash) , I didn't know what to expect. Double 
 dash was lackluster, but something told me it was because of the two people in the cart. Going 
 from MK: DD to MK: DS, it's like getting out of the freezer and into the frying pan.
  
  The online is the best part of the game, but I use "best" in a relative sense. Even the online 
 sucks because you can't choose who you play against, you can't make friends with anyone you play 
 against online, and you can't communicate with anyone in or out of the lobby. I mean I know this 
 is Nintendo's first crack at the whole online thing but COME ONE!
  
  The single player is too easy. The battle mode is stupid. The multiplayer? Well, no one around 
 owns a DS, so online is my only way of playing multiplayer, and it sucks.
  
  Sorry, sheep. I hate this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnik824
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  So you've a DS eh? Good, because this game is good it was practically built for it.
  
  Gameplay: If you've played previous Mario Kart games you'll have a fair idea of what to expect. 
 But it feels so fresh and relaxing (except online, I got blisters on my hands I was trying so hard) .
 
  
  Graphics: OK so the graphics are little low-resolution, but does that really effect the gameplay? 
 No, there not so bad you can't make out the characters.
  
  Sound: Oh I love the music in this game, Peach Gardens and DK Pass especially. You'll find a song 
 you'll like.
  
  Value: Best part about this mother of a game. For a portable system, I havn't been so addicted 
 to a game since Pokemon Sapphire on the GBA. Oh this game is the first DS game ever to be online, 
 and it's free!!!
  
  Tilt: Someone tell me what this means... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariolover100
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  a suberb game best mario kart ever i was amazed by the new tracks and weapons if they make another 
 i will buy it then start playing when i got mario kart ds i jumped and started play for 5 days 
 straight no sleep no food for 3 days and i lost about 20 pounds ( : and my friend started crying 
 because he's too poor to get it ha ha well back to the game mario luigi how come no baby mario 
 and baby luigi what about baby bowser if they make a mario kart for nintendo rev. im going to ask 
 if they can put the baby versions in there that way it will be funner and funnier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze35
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  ( JUST TO LET EVERYBODY KNOW I WAS A HUGE LONG TIME NINTENDO FAN BUT THE FAILURE OF GAMECUBE AND 
 THE WASTE OF RESOURCES AND MONEY OF THE NDS CAUSED ME TO QUESTION AS TO WHY NINTENDO ARE STILL 
 MAKING ANY MONEY..... I USED TO ABSALOUTLEY HATE MY SONY CONSOLES BUT THINGS HAVE CHANGED .... 
 its dissapointing since the Old Goldeneye 007 Days to be here now ..)
  
  nothing burns like my hatred for crap consoles and NDS Being one of them, its like buying a N64 
 That has Snes Graphics for like 70% of its games over and XBOX this is what buying an NDS over 
 a psp Is Like.... ok were to begin If Nintendo promise a Mario kart they mean it.. mario kart is 
 very innovative with its new style, new characters and new maps + some awesome retro ones which 
 shows that yes Nintendo love an excuse to use SNES graphics on all their games .... ok This section 
 is important because a lot of little kids who need not be named but i still want to literally kill 
 them still think That WI FI is online play ... NO IT IS NOT stupid nintendo advertisment , Wi Fi 
 is the ability for a wireless device to interact with other wireless devices Eg NDS TO ANOTHER 
 NDS or NDS TO A ROUTER!!!! .... Not NDS TO DAMN INTERNET ....
  Mario kart allows its users to use Wi Fi to connect to a router to use ICS or straightline connect 
 to play multiplayer excellent idea! if little children who generally all own NDS Consoles can figure 
 out how to connect without the usb Wi Fi Hub device! ... overall the graphics are mediocore but 
 they make up for it with solid gameplay and good multiplayer in short if you dont own a NDS pat 
 on the bloody back you are a intelligent person otherwise you best buy this game because nintendogs 
 is for girls and this is a real game... 
  
  also id like to say PSP For life !!!! 
  why have 256 000 colour display when you can have 2 560 000 colours! the extra 2 million counts!!! 
 Psp is better!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teletran59
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:03 am PT
Review:  This is a mammoth game that should not be missed by any ds owner, it is what a ds game should be 
 and nintendo has really outdone itself this time. a great assortment of weapons, the classic characters, 
 crisp quirky graphics and an exceptionly smooth frame rate mean even with 1 card and no friends 
 there is plenty of good times to be had, however for those of you out there lucky enough to have 
 mates with ds consoles of their own (like me) then the multi player will keep you entertained for 
 so long that it seems like it never gets old which is quite possible. The multi player genius is 
 enhanced by the fact you only need the one card for all this enjoyment. In my opinion the best 
 $70 bucks you could possibly spend on a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgersrock
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game on this web site, right there I knew I need this game. When I got it 
 I was surprised, it had exceeded my expectations by a long shot. When you hear the title Mariokart 
 DS you think, oh its just another racing game, but you are horribly wrong. This came as a surprise 
 to me that not only did it have the new tracks, but it also had N64, NES, SNES, GBA, and GC tracks. 
 The single player is good, but the prize is the WIFI. Mariokart has WIFI enabled this game so you 
 can play anyone around the world. When I am playing WIFI, I notice that I have never played the 
 same person twice! This game is a must have for Nintendo DS owners and anyone thinking of buying 
 a DS should strongly conceder making Mariokart you first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon_d00d816
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This DS game is so very addicting. With the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, it's 10 times more addicting! 
 The ability to make your own icon, name, and battle with other people is just another truckload 
 of features from the gaming company king, Nintendo. And the ability to taunt your opponents by 
 throwing random objects at them is just plain fun to do. Crashing and bashing its way on to the 
 DS, its the perfect game for anbody's holiday wish list. To say my opinion about his game in one 
 word is just....... is just........ JUST GO BUY IT TODAY AND SEE WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codejunkie500
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  this game was a huge hit on the N64 i played intill i passed out. when it 1st came out. my mom 
 played it intill i couldent win anymore it sucked that she kicked my ars. then i got reallllly 
 good. Great game 10-10. if only it had it on PSP or some sort of game like it. i hope a really 
 good game would come out for PSP but they just won't grrrrrrrrr. lets just see if thy will make 
 a good game. o ya has any 1 heard about PS3 price if u have please tell. and if any one can tell 
 me when it will be coming out. thx.
  
  
  
  
  LATERZ, codejunkie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohnonotme23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is so cool it will knock your socks off. the mutliplayer is great, and the free wi-fi 
 at mcdonalds is even better its great folks. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its 
 cool. its cool. vits cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. its cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemetroid5565
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  great game no flaws all my 10 go to this....... one word to really say this game is really really 
 really really reallly really really really reallly really good..... INTERNET!!!!! yeah i said it 
 internet gameplay awsome man!!! u won't belive how fun it is and how bad u get ur @$$ kicked on 
 it. U got to get this game for someone and hide it because they would now u got it because thue 
 game is so good u can smell it in the AIR... and then the person would acculty rip it up and start 
 playin! that is how good the game is! i say 10 baby!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PWNANATR
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  First off this is a great game. I expected it to be just a crappy as mario cart: super circut just 
 with wifi, but ut wasnt. Many of the nirto cup circuts are just as good or better then the gcn 
 versions (because of the new 36 available karts for each charecter) . As i finished the nitro circut, 
 i was extatic. I loved the game enoug but there were stil 16 more tracks that i hadnt even tried 
 out! when i actually tried out the retro cup tracks i was EXTREEMELY dissappointed. Most of the 
 retro cup tracks are snes tracks that suck SO bad that they shouldnt even be counted as tracks. 
 So instead of 32 tracks i think there are really only 16 tracks worth racing on. (thats stil a 
 lot compared to nfsu2's 4!) 
  Now for wi-fi:
  After i finished both cups on 50cc (the easiest diffuculty) , i thought i'd try out wifi. Since 
 i was in my "ds gaming chair with sorround sound speakers connected, i didnt really feel like geting 
 up to move downstairs to the router (yeah im that lazy =P) so i tried to connect from 60 feet away 
 from the router through 5 walls. to my astonishment, it worked, and with 2-3 bars! (3 is the maximum) 
 To connect you could match yourself with people on your friends list (which is i never really choose 
 having only 1 friend with a ds who is never on) , people in your reigon, or world wide. Im not 
 very parient, so i picked worldwide and it stil took a long time. when i finally got into the match, 
 to my horror i realized that there was no voice chat! what is the point of going online if you 
 cant even talk to the other people! Ok so when i got over my dissapointment, i realized that even 
 without voice, online is ok, just not really worth playing over single player since the people 
 you play might as well be bots if they cant talk. 
  Other than that the only thing that bothers me about this game are some of the weapons. Sometimes 
 i get out 10 seconds in front of the pack just to get bombed my a homing shell and get knocked 
 off of the course, falling into 6th place and blowing the entire race, and the cup that i was shooting 
 to win.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otogi87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  this takes all the mario karts before it and just dominates with it. There are more the 30 maps 
 new and old my fav luigi circuit from the gcn included this game is one of the best game i've ever 
 had this was worth the preorder unlike dragon ball z super sonic warriors 2 this is a game that 
 will not get old just always back and batttle with ur friends but no battle on wifi i hope working 
 on that but u can play off wifi in battle. Even if u have no friends that have it or no wifi u cant 
 talk so doesnt matter playing with computers.
  
  Thers misiong mods with 6 stages 8 levels in each stage and bosses that new i'ved never saw that 
 in a maio kart game its just hot on wifi i swear they cheat even when i use the same cars as people 
 they are just faster great have a friends list its a perfect game to show THAT DS OWNS PSP SUCKERS 
 PSP SUCKS COMPARED TO THE DS exetp for graphics well yeah if u dont have it yet buy i give it a 
 5 out 5 as adam or morgan reveiwed this on their show one of them had to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cradleOFfilth37
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  This game comes at just the right time for Nintendo, being around the holiday season. This game 
 has a handful of new courses but also has some tracks from the GC and SNES games. I find the game 
 to be easy on 50 CC and 150 CC should take you a while. 150 is a good challenge. Dont worry about 
 how long it lasts you, it lasts long enough. It also now has drifting to turn so you dont have 
 to brake, and introduces some new power ups. Also the bottom touch screen is made useful by showing 
 a helpful map showing where everybody is and you can see if a weapon is coming at you. This would 
 all be enough for me to consider this warranted of a purchase, but theres still WiFi. Which allows 
 you to swap friend codes with other Mario Kart Wifi users so they can be on your friends list. 
 And when you start a wifi race you can select it to be friends only, that way you trust the person 
 your playing wont disconnect if you are winning. Also, dont worry you have 60 slots for friends, 
 that should be enough. And if you are enough of a social butterfly that you fill all 60 slots you 
 can always remove some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teka522001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  An amazing game And one of the first to boast NDS's online feature. This game is one of my favourite 
 games and is definitely in my top ten! Quite challenging and fun and when you get bored you play 
 somebody from japan lol! A GAME I COULDN'T PUT DOWN! This game easily matches any other handheld 
 game on the market and crushes half of them in gameplay. One of the most enjoyable parts of the 
 game is that you dont need 2 game cards you only need one to play multiplayer. Also you can add 
 people to your friends list with there unique freind code 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mertalicgoff
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  The game is just like its older brother for gamecube, "mario double dash", although of course without 
 being able to control two partners. It has a lot of the same levels which it has improved on and 
 made incredably exciting, with new items, characters, levels and now with side missons as well. 
 The missons consist of completing simple tasks and after eight of these you battle, thats right 
 battle, a big boss. Another added feature is how the game rates your races, A*, A, B etc, which 
 shows you not only how many points you have won, but also how well you raced. It is so addictive 
 and such a good game, a "must buy"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 5:40 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the best DS titles i've seen to date. I've spent so much time on it because 
 there is so much to do. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is really amazing. There are so many things you can do to affect the race, you could 
 be in 8th place one minute, get a bullet bill item and then jump right to 3rd. All of the items 
 are really great, unless your the victim of it. It had several different racing modes, Grand prix, 
 which is a four race at a time competition, Time trial, which times how fast you and you alone 
 can complete the track, afterwards you can choose to race your ghost which is basically just an 
 image of you in the previous time trial, you try to beat it, basically beating your old record 
 just visual. There is also a VS mode where you can just choose to race at any track and in prix, 
 there are over 30 tracks in all. Battle mode is where you either try to pop all five of and opponents 
 balloons (balloon battle) or try to collect or steal the most shine sprites (shine runners) . The 
 last of the one player modes is mission, which consists of a series of missions you must complete, 
 followed by a boss. You can also make a kart avatar that will be on your kart as you race, you 
 use a basic paint tool to draw something and color it. Each kart is unique with it's own speed, 
 acceleration, handling, weight, drift, and items. There are 4 unlockable characters and one other 
 unlockable grand prix.
  
  Graphics
  
  This already great game to begin with gets even better when you see the amazing graphics it has. 
 Of course gameplay is the most important, but when is has amazing graphics as well, well, that's 
 one good game.
  
  Wi-Fi
  
  The Wi-Fi capability on this game is really addictive. Basically you search either regionally, 
 worldwide, friends, or rivals. The first two explain themselves, as for friends and rivals, friends 
 is for if you have a friend code of someone else on your friends roster, and they're online, it'll 
 search for them and put you in a race with them. Rivals searches for other racers with your same 
 skill, that way if your a beginner, you won't be put up against somebody who's a pro, or if your 
 a pro, you can have a good challenge.
  It will search for up to 3 racers for you to race together, if it can't find three within a certain 
 amount of time, it'll just race you with whatever you could find.
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to any DS owner, no DS should be without it. Ever since 
 i got this game i constantly play it. It is really addictive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_smitersux
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart was one of the games this year i was truly looking forward to for the DS. Metroid was 
 the other but i don't think that will ever come it's more likely a newer handheld will be out called 
 the rebelion or something dumb like that. Anyway mario kart has four great features; grand prix, 
 timetrial, battle and mission. All are quite fun and take up time also making oyu feel like you 
 are not playing the same game as you are doing different things the missions especialy were fun. 
 Having new characters was also good added to your choice and the comp could choice to depending 
 on the character you choose they choose people that are likely to beat you i. e lite charcters versus 
 lite characters and heavy versus heavy. Being able to change karts to your preference was also 
 a nice add to the game. This game lives up to it's name, it has heps of maps, characters, games, 
 and fun a must buy for DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScorpMaster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the best of the Mario Kart Series. The online play is great! There is always someone out 
 there waiting for a challenge. The game is very addictive. It has 32 great tracks from Super Mario 
 Kart all the way to Mario Kart Double Dash! Including New ones too. Balloon battles are much more 
 fun now! Especially when you play with your friends. You can challenge up to 7 of your friends! 
 But don't worry if someone doesn't have a game card because you only need one to play with 7 of 
 your friends! The graphics are great for a handheld console. Overall Mario Kart ds is a great game 
 to get, the multiplayer would have to be the best part of this game. You must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jace7o2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  i knew this game was good so when my bro picked it up i wasnt suprised to find out.......... it 
 was. its got the same game mechanics from the previous iterations however it takes the best outta 
 each of em and combines em to make a stellar package. the graphics are sweet for a ds game and 
 the best part is that ive experienced NO LAG, crucial in a racing game, even online. the sounds 
 are classic so theres nothing to complain and i enjoy hearin old tunes again. as for value, u really 
 cant get much more value from a game than this, with a good amount of modes to play thru and the 
 wi-fi and online features theres no excuse for not playin with friends or other ppl, its even more 
 fun when ur playin wi-fi w/ some friends at lunch and u cuss at their every move, hahahaha, priceless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballACamAXYZ
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  The DS seemed to be underappreciated because of it's first appearance: Bad graphics compared to 
 the PSP, not so good sound, some glitches, and some plain terrible third party games that drag 
 Nintendo down like Dora the Explorer or some other bad Disney game. But here is the proof that 
 the DS is better than the PSP! Mario Kart DS!
  
  The graphics are excellent, considering that the DS can't make 128 pixel graphics. It has a smooth 
 frame rate of 60 frames every second, and hardly has lag. That's why I give the graphics a 10.
 
  
  Surprisingly, there's quite a variety of ways to play Mario Kart DS. There's the standard modes 
 of Grand Prix and Time Trials, but there's also Vs. mode and battle mode, with you racing or fighting 
 with 7 CPUS. But I find the real highlight of the Single player mode is Mission Mode. You're given 
 an objective, and it's incredibly well balanced. Some missions require you to find coins, while 
 others need you to drive through some numbered gates. There's a lot of variety, and you'll love 
 it. Especially the bosses. They're HILARIOUS!
  
  The sound is not bad, but some tracks like Tick Tock Clock have somewhat bland music, and aren't 
 the flashy tunes of Double Dash. Other than that it's really not a problem. I gave the sound a 
 9 because of those 4 boring tunes
  
  Lots of value here. Especially with the Wi-Fi. Get a wireless adaptor or a USB connector at EB 
 games, because this game is sort of boring without the online racing. It's always good to have 
 the feeling that you crushed some Japanese racer who would've schooled an NOA. The only hitch is 
 that 12 of the 32 tracks aren't available in Wi-Fi like Bowser's Castle and Waluigi Pinball.
  
  I'm telling you, Mario Kart DS is the BEST DS GAME! Forget those negative critics that gave 
 Mario Kart DS a bad mark. This game has NO RIVAL! Not even Star Wars: Battlefront 2 for the PSP 
 comes close to this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Classic Mario Kart style gameplay. Over 30 different tracks with alot of characters to choose from. 
 The 8 from Mario Kart 64 are the characters you start out with and as you progress more through 
 the game you'll get more characters.
  There are over 30 different tracks, both old and new, and all are really good. I'm sad to say that 
 some of the tracks seemed a little too short and takes away some fun value. Unlike all the other 
 Mario Karts, you have to beat the cups in consecutive order on all the cc's instead of unlocking 
 them all in 50cc and doing the last 1 in 1500cc right after (I know this sounds kind of confusing 
 but you'll understand as you go through the game) .
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, it's pretty solid. You can finally have bots on battle mode or compete 
 with 7 friends with LAN. Plus you can blow into the microphone to blow up your balloons which is 
 pretty cool. There are also some of new items (some of them exsclusive to the racing part) that 
 can be used, such as Blooper who sprays ink on opponents screens, and the bomb-omb which everyone 
 can get.
  There are also shine battles where you have to get shines and if you have the least shines when 
 the round is over then it boots you outta the game.
  
  Online play is very limited. You can't communicate w/ anybody in anyway. All you can do is race 
 them. It also wouldve been better if you could do battle mode over the wi-fi. As far as I can say, 
 online play is the sane thing as really hard bots so dont buy this game just for the wifi.
  
  Graphics:
  Excellent graphics. Colorful environments with great detail insure this to be 
 the best looking racing game on the DS. That doesnt mean that there arent problems though.
  For example. The characters look blocky, Some stuff that is suppossed to be 3-D is 2-D, They got 
 rid of the roller coaster in Baby Park, and water doesnt look like water but it looks like Blue 
 Jello.
  Other than those many flaws, the graphics are solid
  
  Sound:
  Of all the topics, sound has to be the worst part of this game. They used alot of music over and 
 over again so youll only hear a couple of different music pieces but most of them are still the 
 same but the way the music sounds is at least pretty good.
  As far as voice over goes, they hardly made any new voice overs. They used alot of the same from 
 other games. Mario's ahah sounds EXACTLY the same as it did in Mario 64. Another thing is what 
 happened to Wario's voice. It's sooo much deeper now than it used to be and it sounded a hell of 
 alot better in Mario Kart 64. One more thing is whats going on with donkey kong. My god it sounds 
 like he's talking through a very crappy radio. You can hear his monkey sounds but it sounds soooooooooooo 
 fake.
  
  Replay:
  Perfect, just absolutely perfect. Playing tracks and battle mode and everything else is always 
 fun. You can play through all the cc's as many times as you want with any character.
  The only real flaw is that if you want to keep playing over the wifi, it takes a long time to find 
 opponents.
  No questions here. This is the best part of the game
  
  My Overall: 9.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morales664
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest racing games of all time. Forget "driving sims" Mario kart brings us 
 what we want from a racing game, no nonsense driving with weapons thrown in for good measure.
 
  The usual gameplay is here, you choose your racer from a list of famous Mario names and whip round 
 famous locations from previous games. The carts handle beautifully and the weapons add a new dimension 
 to the game instead of swamping the driving like it did in Super Circuit and Double Dash. This 
 game is very focused on the pureer Karting joy, weapons are stingier so it is harder to win by 
 simply firing your way to the top, the carts are more classic and the famous jump has returned. 
 If you loved the original and the N64 version but the focus on weapons in Super Circuit and the 
 alterations to gameplay in Double Dash put you off then this will take you back to heaven once 
 more.
  It doesn't hurt that the graphics are amazing either. Lots of people criticise the DS graphical 
 capabilities just becasue the PSPs are better. This game shows you that the console is capable 
 of sweet 3D and it looks about twice as good as the N64 game. One of the best thing about the graphics 
 is the draw distances, you can literaly see all the course while driving so there is little to 
 no pop-up at all.
  Soud wise this game rarely fails to dissapoint, classics return and some sweet new melodies have 
 been put in, these too will go down as classics in time.
  In terms of value this game is the deepest and richest Mario Kart ot date. There are DOUBLE the 
 normal amount of tracks, half are remakes but they are no worse for it. Missions and bosses help 
 to mix up the gameplay and the multiplayer will literally own your life. 
  In multiplayer you can race 7 of your friends at once with only one cart but your options are limited. 
 If everyone has a cart then this game is in a league of its own, I drained my battery from a full 
 charge with one session of multiplayer. Battle mode returns with some brilliant lands for you to 
 fight in. A new mode called Shine Run sees you collecting Shines and when the timer runs out the 
 player with the least will be booted. It makes for some hectic gameplay as you frantically attack 
 your friends for their shines before the timer hits zero.
  This game makes progress in some ways but also regresses. An online feature and a more comprehensive 
 single player experience take the series forward but the gameplay elements from Double Dash are 
 gone. This could be considered regression but it is more of a good thing.
  In terms of the genre Mario Kart DS shows the others what a real kart game should be like.
  On 
 the side of innovation this game can't be faltured. The second screen is used as a map and the 
 touch functions let you zoom in and out. This isn't particulaly big but racing games aren't designed 
 around a touch screen but the map is invaluble and after a few hours of gameplay you will be using 
 it instinctivly. The mic is used to blow up you balloons in battle which just adds more fun. The 
 real innovation comes in the multiplayer. Even with one cart the multiplayer is un matched and 
 the addiction of online (the first for Nintendo not just Mario Kart) makes this game one of the 
 most pioneering on the machine.
  This is the best DS game available and brilliant for both novices and veterans. 
  
  Overview
 
  
  Gameplay - Takes MK back to its roots, great driving with the weapons adding to the fun (not taking 
 away from the driving)
  10
  
  Graphics - The best on the DS, looks sweet with great draw distances and only the slightest hint 
 of lag online
  10
  
  Sound - What you would expect, hum along tunes that complement the gameplay
  10
  
  Value 
 - The deepest Mario Kart game to date although the missions get a bit dull. If you have friends/online 
 this could lasts a YEAR easy, if not then a month
  at most
  9
  Innovation - great use of the lower screen, not much touching or mic but online shows just what 
 this machine is capable of doing.
  9
  Progress - More of a regression than a progression but in no bad way. It seems more pure than Double 
 Dash and the gameplay is definitely more focused for it. The online takes the series forward better 
 than Double Dash did. In terms of the genre this shows the wannabe kart racers what they should 
 be like.
  9
  
  Overall a brilliant experience and worth getting a DS for 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_masta14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Just when I thought Nintendo has completely run out of ideas (which they have) they come out with 
 this awesome racing game called Mario Kart DS. This game is really really really good. You get 
 all the characters you know and love....... I think. There is also great graphics if you look beyond 
 from some of the 2-D stuff. There's great music and sound. It's like taking the original Mario 
 Kart (from the 64 that is) and putting it in the palm of your hand. But what really caught my attention 
 was the wi-fi thing. This is the first time that Nintendo brought in online play (finally) . Now 
 you can take on opponents across the globe. Although I couldn't get that option without an access 
 point (dammit) this is still a great game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raaaani
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  So, now is the fifth Mario Kart-game here... In 2003 the Gamecube version was released but everybody 
 was after they have played the game very upset. It wasn't as good as the the other Mario Kart-games. 
 Now, two years later. Are this Mario Kart, now for the DS ready to bring the serie back to it's 
 right place in the lead of the best series ever made in game history? Well, I think so. Mario Kart 
 DS has everything you ever wanted to see in a Mario Kart-game. 32 tracks (16 new, 16 classic Mario 
 Kart-courses from the before games) , battle mode against CPU's, and the best of all. Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection!
  
  Say, if I am in the US, you can play against someone in for example Japan! If you have a computer, 
 a broadband, and a Nintendo Wi-Fi USB Connector you're ready to smash everybody across the world. 
 Amazing, huh? Ok, back to the gameplay. In the Single-Player Mode you'll have more things to do 
 than ever before! The orginal Grand Prix and Time Trials are here (you know what Grand Prix and 
 Time Trials is) but there's also new modes like the Mission Mode where you must complete different 
 types of Missions and the Battle Mode are also here ready to play in the Single-Player!
  
  You'll start with 8 characters (you know which they are) but if you are a good racer you can unlock 
 new playable characters. Every character got three different cars (you start with two but you'll 
 unlock the third after a while) . There is a normal kart, and two different new cars!
  
  16 old school tracks are rebuild to the DS version and ready to play. 4 courses on every Mario 
 Kart-game. The courses are familiar to you. Who do not remember courses like Moo Moo Farm, Frappe 
 Snowland, Baby Park and the first Mario Kart-course in the Mario Kart-serie. Mario Circuit 1...
 
  
  That was all I want to tell you about Mario Kart DS. The best DS-game right now and it will hopefully 
 be a while. Thanks for checking out this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellas-rule
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS has certainly proved a success, and no wonder; with brilliant graphics, excellent 
 gameplay, catchy tunes, months of life span and some Nintendo magic, this is most definitely the 
 best game out on DS so far, and one of the best this year. You can choose from new and retro tracks 
 from all the previous titles, and battle mode is now available in single player mode, which is 
 perfect for a handheld. Also, once completed, a total of 32 karts can be chosen by each character, 
 including the new additions such as the legendary R. O. B and Dry Bones, a lesser known character 
 from the Mario games. Adding to this, the wi-fi capabilites are simply a break-through and deserves 
 respect for beating the PSP to selling a mutli-player game to such a large scale. Play anywhere 
 with anyone in the wordl, simply genius. Well worth the money spent :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_GamerZ4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I would say this game was the best Mario Kart throughout the Mario Racing games, i would give this 
 9.0, gamespot probabily over rated this game, it gets boring sometimes when u cant nfinish a cup 
 race or whenever u beat a mission or the game. This is still a good game, with the double screens 
 and online play, double screens help alot, seeing sercret shortcuts and red shells or blue shells 
 or whatever is following you to knock you off the track! thats one thing thats good about this 
 game. Another thing is the online, Wi-Fi Connection, if you have this game and you want to go online, 
 its 40.00 dollars for it, free online play if your wondering. This is the best cartoon racing game 
 out, for now unless Nintendo makes another racing game out of the mario season or DK or w/e. Anyways 
 here you go, if you read it, Thank you, good bye!
  
  Shadow_Cloud Wc3 FT
  Server: Azeroth
  
  Shadow_Auron D2 LoD
  Server: US East 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samlacoup
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS brings along an old school gameplay, a massive selection of new and old circuits, 
 one new item, and a successful internet mode.
  
  First things first, dont bother to take the stylus out! Mario Kart DS does play like any previous 
 Mario Kart title, AB to accelerate and break, LR to slide and use items, and the cross to steer. 
 Like Mario Kart: Double Dash!, it is possible to get a small boost if you slide successfully. However, 
 every character has now very distinct characteristics. Thus, while some may be good at drifting 
 and will need to use the slide as much as possible, others have better handling and wont necessarily 
 have to slide. Obviously characters with strong drift will have a weaker handling and the other 
 way around. The same apply to speed and acceleration. Finally, heavy characters are advantaged 
 during contacts with other racers and high items bar will get you strong items more often.
  
  In Mario Kart DS, you can expect all the famous personages of the Mario Kart series, excluding 
 the baby versions of the personages present in Mario Kart: Double Dash!. Of course 16 new circuits 
 have been made especially for Mario Kart DS but 16 old races selected from the NES, GBA, N64, and 
 NGC have been included! Theres also a new single player mode. It requires performing random missions 
 such as driving trough gates, collecting coins, or battling a boss. One more notable addition is 
 that it is now possible to save, send and receive ghost in the Time Trial mode (some developers 
 have even save a few of their own ghost ;) .
  
  But all the big fuss about Mario Kart DS was about the ability to play online. It has been a worldwide 
 success but lets first talk about the negative aspects. An entrance in the online world is always 
 approximately successful, but each attempt is a gain of experience, so we can be confident that 
 the service will be improved in the future. Firstly Nintendo had to make some sacrifices, only 
 four players racing at a time, only 20 circuits available, it is not possible to use a banana or 
 a shell as protection, and no Battle mode (ouch!) . Note that it is not possible to chat at all 
 time either. However, the game doesnt suffer from frame rate, it is easy to connect, and you are 
 guarantied to find one to three opponents in 1-3 minutes. Id personally recommend the worldwide 
 research as it is quicker, you have more chance to find payers at all time, and that lags are rare 
 (even when playing people from Europe, Asia, and America all in the same time) .
  
  To sum, Mario Kart DS brings together everything that made the success of the previous Mario Kart 
 games. The gameplay is untouched, 32 circuits are available, the brand new Mission mode will add 
 a few hours of fun, and the online possibilities, while not perfect, still brings an experience 
 not possible in any other Mario Kart title. I thought that I would get bored with this old Mario 
 Kart recipe, but once again Nintendo proves that it can add enough to their license to bring back 
 the enthusiasm! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nelly_12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best u get to unlock new cars get new tracks and everything this game i think 
 is better than all the other Mario karts yea the graphics arent better then gamecube but it is 
 good enough for a ds game. this is the best racing game so fair gor ds. if u have double dash and 
 u like it u should get this game it is even better. and u can even go on wifi and battle other 
 people. u can battle rivals or even friends i give this game a 10 because it the best. i love this 
 game and i no u love it to. wen u c other people giving it a low rating its because they like psp 
 better or they just dont u to get the game because they hate Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh_1228
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  wen i played this game i was so blown away i starded it was awsome the music was okay but it wasnt 
 the best but i still think the music is fine and the grafics were awsome evyrthing was the best 
 so get online and start playing with the onling gameplay wich is realy cool. and i only rented it 
 for five days im getting it for christmas but when i get it i will be playing it like crazy and 
 i no that i will be playing thhat game onlinesorry for the bad revuw i kinmda new at this so get 
 on your ds and go to online and thats were ill be christmas day pce out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus_37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is like the other's, excelent. Game has good char. selection and Kart selections 
 as well. The Retro cup is awsome for those who love the old school tracks or the new comers who 
 can enjoy the old tracks for first time. Missions is something new, personaly i think its ..... ok.... nothing 
 really special and gets old quick. Unlockables in game is decent amount and not to difficult to 
 unlock. Gameplay is great, music good, graphics are good for a MK game. Havent used the Wi-fi service 
 for it but its a cool option to have! Game is easy to play and fun which makes it good for anyone 
 who likes a racing game thats diffrent than the rest. Mario Kart is always a pick up and go game 
 so never gets "shelved" for to long because you always have the itch now and again to race your 
 kart off! A must buy game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Bear
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The greatest addition to the Mario Kart franchise, Mario Kart DS features the greatest array of 
 characters, cars and tracks plus some new and exciting additions. These additions include: Mission 
 mode, Wi-Fi online play, and wireless multiplayer with up to eight players. The characters include 
 the SMB all-stars and some unlockables. There is many new tracks plus some favourites from the 
 old MK games. Various difficulties make getting the worthy unlockables a fun challenge. Most call 
 this game the best MK game yet, and also the best DS game yet. The feel is superiour and the game 
 runs smooth even during Wi-Fi online play which wil keep you playing for hours. There is always 
 someone ready to play!!! Pick up this great game and join the fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuafaille
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is good.
  The best part is probably all the tracks it has 32 tracks 64 if you count them on mirror mode. 
 The tracks are old tracks from n64, Snes, Gba, Gamecube and are great. Multiplayer mode is perfect 
 and wifi is great to with one exception. Theres no way to talk to the person in wifi you face but 
 it is still good. 
  There is also a mission mode which has been added which is very different and fun. Its a great 
 addition and hopefully mario kart ds 2 will be out in a year or two. There are many to people to 
 choose from and many to unlock
  Same goes with karts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Flag
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best the DS has to offer. This game is almost like Mario Kart 64 but with 
 new maps and new game types. The game types are Grand Prix, Time Trial, VS mode, Battle and, Missions. 
 The game is some-what difficult; less if you've played the previous games. The games sound is incredible. 
 The music is loud and wacky and the characters voices (more like grunts) are the same. You can 
 be characters such as Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, Donkey Kong, Wario and, Bowser. There are 
 also many weapons you canuse like red, green, and blue turtle shells, bomb-oms, banana peels, stars, 
 and newer abilitys like the big bullet move and more. The game is a great buy for just $35. I recommend 
 this game for everyone and this game is just great overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekmazter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  All of the Mario Karts wrapped into one and now it's multiplayer capable online! Can you say YES!
 
  
  I ended up getting a DS just for this game and for that reason it was going to have to be good 
 to justify the purchase. I am glad to say that I made a good choice, and even happier to say that 
 this is truly a GREAT game.
  
  More karts, more characters, more tracks. It's all in there. In that little memory card the size 
 of your dads thumb! Graphics, gameplay, red turtle shooting fun! Grab a beer, grab a coke, it doesn't 
 matter. You just need some liquids as putting this one down is difficult. Keep a bathroom nearby 
 and tell your friends in CA to get online. 
  
  Gameplay: Superb
  Graphics: More than ample for this to be a hit
  Sound: Hey, it's Mario Kart, and it sounds as 
 good as all the rest
  Playability: Anyone and everyone can get good at this game and now that it's online, we'll see 
 who they are :)
  
  Go get a copy of this. You will not be dissapointed. Highly addictive and fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmodee
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  this is 1 heavy game i was on it non stop 4 ages 50cc easy 100cc not hard not easy 150cc kinda 
 hard . it is so good if u must have steel it NOW.
  i herd some 1 asked their friend to borow it and since than no 1 has seen him but on the day he 
 went missing nothing was taken but his DS the game and his charger. that is how much the game is 
 worth so if u ever see this game in a shop and u dont have it grab on to your parent leg until 
 they buy it . if that dose not work steel it but make a pln for where u r going 2 run and try 2 
 find out how long u will be there probably 6 month because since i got it it hasnt been turned 
 off it is running off the mains. back to the game the grafics r good the speed is good and multiplayer 
 is good if u have red all of this u r like me a computer ect. mad about games .
  THANK YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:00 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of Mario Kart 64. Then I was a fan of Mario Kart: Double Dash and now I'm a fan of 
 Mario Kart DS. This is the best Mario Kart yet.
  
  The handling seems much better now. If you've played any of the other Mario Karts you now what 
 do. Pick a character than pick a kart (or cart) . This time around you can do missions and then 
 fight some bosses. It's really cool. The graphics looks just as good as Double Dash and that's 
 saying something.
  
  This game can also be played online with Nintendo Wi-fi but I'm not connected with it yet so I 
 can play that. So basically if you have a Nintendo DS and want to race against friends online then 
 this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has ever played a Nintendo system and i think it's safe to say that is almost anyone 
 who has ever picked up a joypad has played a Mario Kart game. A racing game that includes all of 
 your favourite Nintendo characters from past and present, armed with some whacky weapons and some 
 zany courses, Mario Kart has always had a unique feel that keeps fans-alike coming back for more. 
 This is the 5th installment in the popular series and has gone back to it's roots in the sense 
 that the two-manned karts have been ditched for the more conventional single racers. 
  
  Mario Kart DS features a whole host of single-player grand prix races that comprise of four tracks 
 each, this many not seem like much at first but if you add all of these tracks together and include 
 the unlockable mirror mode tracks that adds up to an impressive 128 races for you to compete in 
 within this one mode. There are three speed classes to choose from like in all previous installments, 
 50cc, 100cc and 150cc. Each one see's the speed of your kart increasing and also the speed and 
 AI of your oppnonents. Unlike previous installments your opponents seem like they are finally learning 
 a trick or two and do some pretty clever thing's, from power-sliding around tight corners to trailing 
 shells behind their karts to shield themselves from attacks. There are two seperate forms of grand 
 prix within each racing class this time around, you have four 'Nitro Cups' which consist of brand 
 new tracks that are new to this platform and you have four 'Retro Cups' which consist of one race 
 from each of the four previous installments. So your first race will be a classic track from the 
 Super Nintendo version, the second a classic from the Nintendo 64 version and so on. While most 
 of the best tracks from previous games are here there are some i just can't believe didn't make 
 it, like the original rainbow road and some of the classic bowser castle levels.
  
  There are 12 characters for you to choose from this time around, 8 are available from the start 
 and the other 4 are all unlockable through grand prix mode. They have missed none of the big names 
 out but unfortunately 12 is a little disappointing considering the Gamecube version had well over 
 20+ characters. Characters such as baby mario, baby luigi and even koopa troopa have been dropped, 
 i don't know if they just couldn't fit more into the game or if Nintendo decided 12 was enough 
 but i can't help feeling a little annoyed. There are plenty of karts to choose from though, each 
 character has 2 karts to start with, a classic kart and a character specific kart. As you progress 
 all of the 36 karts will be made available for all of the racers and that gives you 432 different 
 options to choose from, which should keep you going for a little while. Each kart has a different 
 set of abilities, depending on the track and the style of racer you are your kart will make all 
 of the difference. These abilities are speed, acceleration, weight, handling, drift and items. 
 All of them pretty much speak for themselves, the only one i will need to explain is items. This 
 ability see's you picking up better items throughout the race the higher your item stats are, for 
 example you will have a lot more chance of picking up something useful like a star higher up the 
 field than you would a banana or a green shell when you have a healthy item stat.
  
  Being a Mario Kart game i feel i need to mention some of the new items included this time around, 
 there are 2 worth mentioning and these are bullet bill and blooper. Bullet bill is essentially 
 chain chomp from the Gamecube version, instead of a huge chain chomp pulling you along you morph 
 into a bullet bill and plough your way through the field until the power-up runs out. Blooper is 
 perhaps the more inventive of the two and see's black ink squirted on the screen of all your opponents, 
 making it harder to drive for a short period of time. Other weapons such as the 3 red shells and 
 the string of bananas that were missing from previous games have also been included for good measure 
 too, so there really is a large array of weapons for you to take advantage of while in a race. 
 The weapon system is as balanced as ever and players who find themselves near the back of the race 
 will get the best weapons and as you move towards the front of the pack the weapons get considerably 
 less effective. This can seem somewhat unfair at times but it does help to mix thing's up and keep 
 the race interesting from start to finish.
  
  In addition to the grand prix mode this game offers the predictable yet addictive time trial mode 
 which see's you competing for the best time on any given track, if you get a good time you can 
 save and trade ghosts with your friends and try to beat each others personal bests. Perhaps the 
 biggest shock to Mario Kart veterans will be the new mission mode which gives you a number of objectives 
 to complete against the clock. The game boasts 61 of these missions which get gradually harder 
 as you progress, ultimately ending with a boss fight at the end of each set of missions. These 
 missions have a lot of variety and will not only keep you entertained but will really help you 
 improve different aspects of your driving as you complete them. 
  
  Battle mode also makes a welcome return with two modes, balloon battle and shine runners. Balloon 
 battle is essentially a last man standing game where you fire weapons at your opponents and pop 
 their balloons, however this time around there is a small twist. Putting the DS to great use you 
 only start with one balloon and in order to get more you need to blow them up yourself via the 
 built-in microphone on your system. This may sound like a bunch of hassle but with some practise 
 turns out to be great fun and while it may sound easy to just keep blowing your balloons until 
 you're the eventual winner you leave yourself exposed because you have to lower your mouth to the 
 microphone in order to do it. Shine runners is a capture the bag type game, whoever has the most 
 shines at the end of the time wins. However the driver with the lowest number of shines gets eliminated 
 every so often and this makes for some frantic action. Another new addition to the battle mode 
 is the ability to play by yourself with bots, so if you don't have any friends around you can get 
 some much needed practise.
  
  Having Mario Kart on the DS opens up so many new features to the series, i have already mentioned 
 the microphone and i feel i should mention the new map system. One screen shows you racing and 
 the other screen can be used to bring up a map of the race that not only shows you your location 
 on the circuit but also the locations of items, opponents and other thing's you may find useful 
 to help you win the race. Another returning feature is the ability to jump, as is the ability to 
 drift around corners and can really give an experienced karter the edge in a race. There are many 
 ways to use this effectively, as you enter into a drift you can wiggle the d-pad left and right 
 and give your character a small boost as you come out of corners. More advanced techniques make 
 it possible to boost on straights, this is known as snaking and only the most skillful of player 
 will be able to use it effectively. Perhaps the coolest feature is the fact you only need one DS 
 cartridge to play this game with your friends, while this does limit your character and track selecting 
 options it is still something many handheld games fail to implement.
  
  I'm sure if you have read anything about this game over the past couple of months it won't have 
 slipped your attention that this game has the ability of going online, so you can test your skills 
 against people from all over the world. All you will need to go online is a wireless router or 
 a Wi-Fi USB Connector that you can purchase from your local gaming retailer. While there are various 
 problems you can experience while attempting to go online you should eventually get up and running. 
 You will need Windows XP for example and routers can pose a problem from time to time but once 
 you have sorted all that there is nothing stopping you from experiencing a game that was clearly 
 meant to be played with players from all over the world. You have the option of playing with random 
 people from various regions or alternatively you can race against friends by entering a 12-digit 
 friend code. Playing online does have some inevitable drawbacks, you will have to wait a few minutes 
 while people join the race and like every online game you're going to experience disconnects from 
 players who have a poor connection or simply don't want a loss on their record. Your opponents 
 stats are readily available to you as you meet them online as are their unique game elblems which 
 you can design yourself using the games simplistic painting program, alternatively you can choose 
 from a number of ready-made emblems.
  
  This game has some great graphics and great sound to add to it's addicitive gameplay and huge lifespan. 
 All tracks, characters and karts are highly detailed and many of the games effects are some of 
 the best the series has seen. You won't find many framerate issues here either, from what i 've 
 experienced of the online portion i've had no problems here either. This is undoubtedly one of 
 the best installments in the series and a welcome addition to what is already an impressive line-up 
 for DS owners. If you are a fan of the Mario Kart franchise then this is as good a time as any 
 to purchase a new handheld.
  
  Gameplay - Addictive as ever and adds some cool new features to an already winning formula.
  
 
  Graphics - A highly detailed game that brings the tracks, characters and karts to life.
  
  Sound - A fun soundtrack and some funny sound bites add to what is already an enjoyable gaming 
 experience.
  
  Value - So much to see and do here, the addition of online play gives it seemingly limitless lifespan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anjel_Few
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say, Mario Kart for the DS has finally been released and shipping with Online support. 
 I really just have to say, that i am very impressed with this game, 
  The Tracks, some new, some old, are all extremely well done. For the new tracks they have really 
 added a nice variety of fun quick tracks, as well as some longer more challenging tracks, but all 
 of wich are fun. All your old favorite tracks ranging from the Super Nes to the GC are all here, 
 all redone, and just as fun as you remember them. 
  The Graphics are superb, i would go as far as to say i feel they are much more crisp then even 
 their N64 counterparts. The animation is very fluid, all the effects are spectacular, and just 
 the inclusion of the second screen to show you the track is great, it adds much more then i thought 
 it would.
  Single player is a wonderful assortment of zany racing with skill and a bit of luck making their 
 rounds. Learning when to powerslide and when to boost are key for this game, especially in the 
 150CC races, as well as Online. The pickups are great, and really add to strategy of the races. 
 The Idea of wining new Carts and new Drivers was a great inclusion in the game, making for definate 
 replay value. The battle Mode is great fun, all that you remember before, with the addition of 
 having to use the mic to "blow" your balloons up when they pop. And new to this Mario Kart is the 
 additon of Level play, where they give you objectives and a set time to get them done, and off 
 you go, they are great fun and really round out the single player experience.
  The Multiplayer in this game is Fantastic, i have yet to use it with just friends, over the wireless 
 connection, but i have played many an Online game, and they are a Blast. Getting Online is Amazinly 
 simple, Nintendo really has made the connection a connect, press 2 buttons and it works affair, 
 making for a very streamlined, easy connection to the net. They have also started selling a USB 
 WiFi adapter for anyone who would like to get there DS online, but doesn't have a wireless conection, 
 and is not about to buy one for just there DS. It simply plugs into the USB connection, you install 
 the software, turn your DS on, allow connection, and Boom your online, its that simple. One downside 
 of Online is the Exclusion of Battlemode, you can only race online, and you better get practicing, 
 because some of the people you will meet online are gunna be good, Maybe your like me and thought 
 oh come on its Mario Kart what kinda skill is needed, well when you start playing online you will 
 find out, People Powerboosting, Snaking and really knowing how to play the game. With the Inclusion 
 of Friends codes, you can also Find friends whenever you wanna play and they can find you, and 
 it really makes for an even better time.
  All in all i really have to commend Nintendo, they put out a great game, that is really fun to 
 play, and easy to get into, but yet takes some definate time to master, and so far i really have 
 to say, i think this is the best Mario Kart yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbrisevac
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one of the many reasons to get a Nintendo DS. It is better than the past Mario 
 Kart games, though I enjoyed double dash.
  
  There are many options when it comes to playing this game, there are 16 new tracks exclusive to 
 the DS, there's retro cups, with 16 classic tracks (four from the snes, n64, gba and gamecube) 
 that keep fans of the series entertained and brings back memories, and there are many missions 
 to complete and battles to do when you want to take a break from all that amusing racing.
  
  I dont have Wi-Fi yet, so I must be missing out on a lot. Doesn't matter though, this game 
 is still terribly good without wi fi.
  
  The graphics are fantasic for a handheld, they are better than that of a n64, the tunes are catchy 
 for respective levels and the game provides dozens of hours of entertainment.
  
  There are lots and lots (maybe too many) options when it come to choosing your vehicle, and there 
 are lots of characters to choose from once you unlock them all.
  
  For anyone who is looking to buy a DS, here is a perfect starter game. For anyone who owns a DS, 
 It's a must have, racer fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adzy2005
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on the release date and i was instantly hooked the graphics are the some of 
 the best ive seen on the ds and it is very enjoyable (apart from blue shells!) 
  
  But multiplayer is when this game is at its best you get enourmous satisfaction from hitting your 
 best mate with a shell or a bomb. the game is technically brilliant aswelll as there is no slowdown 
 during wireless play and the range is quite good. all in all a must buy if you own a nintendo ds.
 
  
  just make an investment for a wifi usb connector! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiker71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  First off i wanta say this is my second mario kart game (i played dubble dash before) and i have 
 to say i loved them both.
  This is the kind of game you buy a DS for.
  
  The battle mode is back and better then ever. More placeses to duke it out with ur friends and many 
 modes with download play or muti cart 4 more places and karts.
  While were on muti play this game has great download play some of the best 4 all DS with racing 
 battling and shine thief but the downloading player must be shy guy : ( but that really dont mater 
 cause hes preaty good. With muti cart mode u can chose all places and each char and pick his guy. But 
 whats more is the added of online place thanks to Nintedo WI-FI players can chose up to 20 tracks 
 online.
  
  Now onto the single player modes. (Yeah i said MODES)
  Theres racing (no duh) battle mode, shine thief, and the new misson mode 
  racing go like normly 
 with 50CC 100CC and 150CC and mirror mode 150CC this is how u can unlock all the karts and stuff.
 
  Now theres the battle modes fun 4 a while but just not as fun as taking out ur friends in a battle 
 and same with shine thief. But misson mode this is great fun and somewhat changeling theres 6 lvls 
 with a unlockable 7th one i wont tell how to get it here but its kinda hard.
  
  Well thats about all if u like my review give it a thums up if u wanta know more PM me.
  (Sorry 
 4 spelling erors) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BM2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 5:52 am PT
Review:  I have never really been a fan of racing games. Nothing against the games themselves, but I just 
 sucked so badly that I never really tried any of them for more than a lap or two.
  A little less than a month ago, on a game fair, I bumped into Mario Kart DS.
  I was just moving 
 around the DS consoles and when I saw that one available, I decided to give it a try.
  My first reaction when I saw it Mario Kart DS was: oh, no! But since I am not a quitter, I went 
 for it. How was not my surprise to discover the funny and cool game that it is. I didn't even feel 
 the pressure of it being a racing game.
  In fact, it made me even change my opinion about the style that has become my second favorite since 
 then (fighting games are still my cuties, in case you might be curious) .
  Shortly, Mario Kart DS is for all ages, for all skills and its different game styles offer a long 
 time game play.
  After all, it is MARIO!!! ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrChrono01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off with saying that this game is GREAT, yes there are alot of new tracks and old ones 
 (which makes it great, the old tracks are awesome) . The wifi is great and all!
  
  Ok gameplay, So picture a racing game that never gets old that you can always go back to and there 
 will always be a new opponent to play of course im talking about using the wifi but if you do not 
 have wifi its still okay because nintendo has put some nice new features and everything to keep 
 this game fun and exciting.
  
  The graphics are by far the best graphics on the DS to date! Not much to say but nice, but hopefuly 
 the DS has better graphical power than this because i am quite sure that nintendo stated that the 
 DS has "Near Gamecube graphic potentional"
  
  Sound is pretty nice but definetealy could have been better, music is okay and the sound effects 
 are not to bad, not much more to say about sound.
  
  Vaule, for 30 bucks and for a game that will scarcley get old, then hell yeah the value's great! 
 One of the best things about this game (I find) is that after the first 2 weeks i had purchased 
 this game i noticed i only played it alot the first week, i had not really explored the wfi matches 
 (sure I had played a few but not much) . Well then i just played 1 match then another, and another 
 and well now im hooked. I play at least 2 matches per day not and let me say that for the amount 
 of fun Im having with this game I think its worth 45$$!!
  
  Tilt, oops, i kinda got into tilt on the Value (my bad) but yeah your get the point IT DOES NOT 
 GET OLD!!!!!!!
  
  If you have a DS but not this game WHAT ARE YOU WATING FOR!
  If your do not have a DS then.... um.... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR GET ONE!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Nintendo continues they're 'one for every platform' tradition with the Mario kart series with they're 
 first and probably only iteration of the series on the DS. And for such a small console, it's amazing 
 how far the DS raises the potential for the Mario Kart series, with online play, single player 
 battle mode (finally) , and a huge improvement in course design, Mario Kart DS is the best game 
 in the series, and the killer-app for the DS.
  
  When Mario Kart game onto the console systems it felt like it had holes in it, Mario Kart 64 was 
 just Super Mario Kart but with bigger tracks and 4-player gameplay that was'nt actually as good 
 as 2-player in super mario kart. Mario kart Double Dash once again did'nt really add anything to 
 the series apart from a gimmicky 2-player per cart feature and a half-baked power sliding feature. 
 Mario Kart DS is not like that though, it's what Mario kart 64 should have been, it takes all the 
 best part's about the series and works magic.
  
  There is now finally alot more ways of winning than relying on getting a good weapon, there are 
 tonnes of ways you can increase your speed while racing, a revamped and much more rewarding version 
 of mario kart DD's boosting system is included aswell as a new tailing feature that give you a 
 10 second speed bosst by tucking up behind your opponent for a certain time, of course, you will 
 still have to rely on your luck a little bit, but there are some brilliant new weapons that will 
 let you catch up quickly such as the bullet bill which rockets you past your opponent's on auto-pilot, 
 smashing anything that get's in it's way.
  
  The gameplay almost never get's old now, the game is far more acsessible to lone-gamers, you can 
 now play battle mode on your own which is a huge improvement over the previous games where battle 
 mode was only acsessible if you had another controller plugged in, I have played against the bot's 
 quite often and it's almost as fun as playing with mates.
  
  There is also a brand new mission mode. In mission mode there is 6 levels (one hidden) each containing 
 8 missions along with a boss that you fight once you've completed each mission with any ranking, 
 the missions often focus on different aspects of the game which could potentially make you a better 
 overall. But each mission only lasts about 30 secs which means it's pretty short lived, and completing 
 it sadly offers few rewards.
  
  But the grand prix mode as you would expect is back and better than ever. 
  There are now around 
 8 cups, 4 which are new (The nitro grand prix) and 4 composed of tracks from the other games in 
 the series (The retro Grand prix) each cup contains around 4 races. The retro cups are cool but 
 the lineup of courses on them is slightly weak, one particularly bad one being choco mountain. 
 But it's ok because the new cups really steal the show.
  
  The 16 brand new tracks in the game are amazingly well designed, and they are all different and 
 unique to each other. Waluigi pinball is one of my favorites, it launches you to the top of a giant 
 pinball machine and leaves you to make your way back down while avoiding huge pinballs, it's absolutley 
 insane, the new bowser's castle is probably the best in any mario kart game featuring some of the 
 coolest traps ever such as a circular rotating bridge that forces you to constantly make slight 
 adjustments to your kart or fall to the lower route, and that's bad.
  
  But the mutiplayer like all mario kart games is where it's at and Mario Kart DS has the most fully-featured 
 multiplayer in the series, it's now not hard to have a truly frantic multiplayer gaming session 
 thanks to the bot's, the bot's in this game are'nt that stupid either, they are aggressive killing 
 machines and will use tactics unlike they have done for the past 4 mario kart games. And you can 
 now play 8-player which is great if you have lot's of freinds with nintendo DS's.
  
  The battle mode is also back and is better that it has ever been. Rather than starting out with 
 3 baloons you start out with one and 4 others to inflate by blowing into your mic or pressing the 
 select button, (if you can't direct air accuratley I would reccomend breathing into the mic) if 
 your playing in school you will probably use the select button so you don't look stupid but blowing 
 them up yourself is faster and more fun.
  
  And that's not the only thing improved about battle mode, the 5 new couses are some of the best 
 in history, 3 of which are undeniable classics. The gamecube battle map pipe plaza is also here 
 but not as notoriously large.
  
  But the most impressive new feature that I have been saving until the near-end of this review is 
 the online play, by simply taking a DS with this game inside it to a wi-fi hotspot you can hook 
 up and play with gamers around the world, you will probably want to limit your play to local servers 
 though to keep latency's down. There are three simple ways to hook up with any server you like, 
 'rivals' automatically matches you up with players of a similar skill level to you, (probably by 
 using your progress in single player as a referance) 'worldwide' let's you play against gamers 
 from all around the world, and 'freinds' let's you play against your freinds if they are online 
 (you can up to 36 freinds) . If you have a computer running windows Xp at home you can play online 
 using a wi-fi adaptor, but if you don't you will have to visit one of your local hotspots, most 
 of these hotspots are sadly macdonalds joints, a big shame since macdonalds food is disgusting, 
 if you live in the east hotspots are practically everywhere in the cities. But if your in the west 
 you will have less luck. I have'nt actually played online myself but I will tell you about it in 
 one of my blogs when I get a wifi adaptor.
  
  While playing online you will probably want to consider your appearance in the form of emblems, 
 your own hand drawn pictures that appear while you race online, you can do this by using the emblem 
 editor, the range of colours you can draw in means that you can even recreate your favorite sprites, 
 and show them off to your enemy's.
  
  While playing you will also want to consider what kart your using and there is now a larger range 
 of kart's to choose from than ever before. There are initially 2 karts available for each character 
 but there is lots to unlock. Each kart has 6 characteristics, speed, accelaration, weight, handling, 
 drift, and items. If you want excellent accelaration and handling your best bet is yoshi's egg 
 cart, if you want medium kart characteristics with a top items score your best bet is peach's pink 
 rolls royce, a critical part of the strategy is picking the right kart for each situation.
  
  As for graphics Mario kart DS is one of the best-looking games on DS. The graphics are sharp, 
 detailed, and unbelivably smooth, I found my mouth watering from the amazing use of colour. The 
 sound is also great, the quirky character shout's sound better than ever along with the weapons, 
 and the music is spot on.
  
  With online play, single-player battle mode, and a drastic improvement in course design, Mario 
 Kart DS revolutionises the series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedfelt
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is definitively the best game released until now for Nintendos dual screen portable 
 Wi- Fi gaming machine. With Mario, his friends and enemies, Nintendo are letting us play against 
 people all over the world through Nintendo Wi- Fi connection.
  
  Mario Kart DS contains lots of unlockable characters and carts, 16 new tracks and 16 classical 
 tracks from the snes, n64 and gamecube versions. The game features a Grand Prix mode, battlemode 
 with even more tracks/ stadiums, a new missions mode, a multiplayer mode and the most important 
 thing, the Nintendo WFC match mode. The revolutionizing thing about this game is of course this 
 last mode. The gameplay is very similar to the older Mario Kart games, but the WFC match mode 
 gives the series new life. Playing against players all over the world via Wi- Fi is great fun and 
 often very challenging. Multiplayer gaming has never been this easy, and easy is often the better.
 
  The games graphics are some of the best I have seen on the DS, and the music gives you the right 
 Mario Kart feeling.
  This game is suitable for new players, and old fans will definitively love this masterwork of a 
 Nintendo creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS
  Imperfect is Perfect for Mario Kart
  
  Graphics (12.5%) - 9
  Controls (15%) - 9
  Variety (25%) - 9.5
  Replay w/o online (25%) - 8.75
  Replay w/ online 
 (25%) - 9.75
  Sound (7.5%) - 8.5
  Depth (15%) - 8.5
  
  OVERALL w/o Online - 8.95
  OVERALL w/ Online - 9.20
  
  Graphics - 9
  My first rule is that there shouldn't be slowdown, 
 and you'll never find slowdown in Mario Kart DS. Everything is also very clear and colourful, and 
 there are some nice effects to go along with the tracks (particularly Luigi's Mansion) . The only 
 downside are the character models, particularly Donkey Kong, can be a big ugly, although the karts 
 all look very good.
  
  Controls - 9
  One thing's for sure -- if you crash, it's your own fault. Controls are very tight and responsive, 
 although it may take some adjustment from analog if that's what you've been playing the more recent 
 Mario Karts with. There are a few minor problems, though -- the first is that it can be more difficult 
 to drive while holding an item behind you, but since that's not really a necessity (and not even 
 an option in online) it's not really a cause for concern. The second is that should you want to, 
 it can be troublesome to use the break while still being able to press the item button (if you 
 use the face buttons instead of "L" as I do) ; but no one uses the break, so once again, not really 
 a cause for concern. The only real detractor from the controls is the fact that it can wear on 
 your thumb to do the repeated power-slides after a while, which are unforgiving if you don't do 
 it quite right.
  
  Variety - 9.5
  This Mario Kart is easily the most feature packed. More tracks, characters, carts, and game modes 
 than ever before make for a tremendous offering. The slight detractor is in the options, which 
 can't be all that specifically defined. More in replay value on that, though. The unlockables are 
 standard fare -- tracks, characters, carts and don't take all that long to unlock for someone familiar 
 with the series.
  
  Replay w/o Online - 8.75
  When not online, I find myself playing the Time Trials, trying to beat all the staff ghosts and 
 best my records. The missions aren't all that difficult to finish (or fun enough to go through 
 again) , and the unlockables easily gotten. What you're expected to go back for is the battle mode 
 with AI opponents, the time trials, and your grades in Grand Prix and Mission modes. 
  Battle mode is not all that fun, surprisingly. You MUST have 8 participants -- there is no way 
 to choose to play against only 3 AI opponents, which is a real letdown. Why they chose to do this 
 is even moreso: The AI is dumb. Beyond dumb, really, because they just seem to travel along a scripted 
 line repeatedly and shoot at random. Not only that, the courses are, for the most part, bad as 
 well. The only shining instance is through LAN and the Block Fort level.
  As I said, Time Trials take up most of my time as each track has a difficult, but not impossible, 
 Staff Ghost to beat, as well as it keeps your own ghost. You can also send your friends your ghost 
 (But make sure yours is the better time over your friends, because you can only have one non-staff 
 ghost at a time and it will overwrite theirs) . The grades are very difficult to achieve the highest 
 grade, and in Grand Prix, you can get first place in every race and not get the highest grade of 
 three stars, so I don't feel the desire to bother -- if winning's not enough, then forget it.
 
  Ultimately, there are several things to do, and it should take up plenty of your time; but at 
 the end of the day, it feels rather shallow on your own if you don't have (a) friend (s) to play 
 with.
  
  Replay w/ Online - 9.75
  Online adds an extra point to the replay as it adds real competitors to the mix. There's now more 
 strategy, more competition and flat out more fun. You can't drag items behind you and there is 
 no triple banana, but that's fine. One-on-One can be very fun as it becomes a real mental game 
 also. You can't choose how many people to play against, and you can only play in the one way -- 
 5 races and see who ends up with the most points at the end. But it's all still the thing you'll 
 want to go back to.
  
  Sound - 8.5
  Tracks have appropriate music and all the items are unique sounding and helpful to hear. I tend 
 not to notice the music too much during the race, but end up with the tune in my head after I've 
 stopped playing. It's rather strange 0_o.
  
  Depth - 8.5
  The depth is tricky. You can outrace your opponents the entire race and lose by an unavoidable 
 blue shell at the finish and lose. However, laying back for a better item and saving it and catching 
 up without items is a trick you can pull, but a risky one at that. There are many ways to go about 
 playing, and you can win in just about every way you can imagine -- if only you didn't feel so 
 cheated by horrible items in a race sometimes. It also seems like the item rating doesn't affect 
 what items you get except the number of mushrooms in Time Trials.
  
  Overall w/o Online - 8.95
  This is a great game, online or not. But the old nemesis of Replay 
 value while alone comes back even with all the new modes and features in Mario Kart DS. You know 
 what the feeling is like, but I do say this game absolutely destroys Double Dash.
  
  Overall w/ Online - 9.20
  With online, it seems GameSpot and I agree to the decimal. Mario Kart 
 DS isn't perfect, but that's what Mario Kart is all about. Gritty, crazy races which you never 
 know how it's going to turn out. It has never been easier to deem a game in a franchise this deep 
 as best-in-series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KojiBrother
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  When you open up the case and smell that fresh from Nintendo plastic smell, you know you have 
 picked up something special. In fact, I will say that this game alone is the sole justification 
 for picking a DS up instead of a Sony PSP. Now before Sony fans rise up with their pitchforks, 
 let me explain my reasons for giving this game a high score and my love. Twas a bit wonky and 
 had its issues at first, but Mario Kart DS sports a robust multiplayer, decent online mode, and 
 fully fleshed out single player. It handles online play in a way the PSP only dreams. Its sense 
 of familiarity breathes to life the hidden potential of the Nintendo DS and gives players the chance 
 to compete in a realm of anonymity without the bothersome hassle of friends lists and Gamertags.
 
  
  Mario Kart has many redeeming features that separate it from the pack and justifiy the hate-ige 
 that I dish out on the PSP. The PSP offers players a 3D world that matches that of the PS2, unfortunately, 
 a lot of the games for the PSP, you can play on the PS2. Thats not to say that Mario Kart is exclusive 
 either, however, unlike most PSP games, Mario Kart supports community via its online service in 
 ways PSP doesnt. One of those ways is by providing a player with a phone number that he or she 
 may give out to close friends. This kind of competition is then shared amongst friends and co-workers 
 alike. But that doesnt leave out strangers though. In the words of our leader, Jeff Gerstman, 
 Mario Karts online option screams Do you want to play online against other dudes, yes or no? 
 the concept of online play to Nintendo is your friends list is truly a friend list. Only people 
 who know you intimately will have your friend code that they can access at anytime. Sharring of 
 this friend code is like sharing a phone number. 
  
  Each friend code varies from game to game. This variation can be seen as a good and bad thing. 
 In a good way it gives players the freedom in knowing that their games are protected from unwanted 
 access. In Xbox live, if someone knows your Gamertag they can bother you no matter what game you 
 go to. If you happen to be foolish enough to share your friend code online via Gamespot forums 
 or other places, rest easy in knowing that you only give out a friend code for one game and not 
 for all the others. The bad part is, no conformity over different games. The point is, Nintendo 
 DS Wi-Fi Connection is a system where actual friends can hang out. Playing against strangers is 
 nice, but playing with a girlfriend or best friend is something that cannot compare to any other 
 experience. 
  
  Enough about the WFC for a moment, lets focus on the gameplay.
  
  Mario Kart DS has some nice gameplay elements that are reminiscent of the N64, however, they maintain 
 a certain choppyness that was in the Double Dash version of the game. As MK Double Dash proved, 
 power sliding is important. The way in which Nintendo implements this returning feature though 
 makes everyone wish that the DS had a joystick. The lack of a stick makes power sliding a lot harder 
 on the thumbs, but it is noted that the DS D-pad is quite sensitive and will react fairly quickly. 
 The choppiness comes from the lack of traction some cars have with the road, making a turn that 
 seems like it could be slid into turn out to be a major face in the wall. After getting use to 
 the controls (best way is to play a lot of time trial and the missions) you are ready to tackle 
 the single player.
  
  Sporting tons of tracks (Still havent beaten it yet) the single player includes tons of original 
 tracks and some returning ones from the SNES, N64 and even the Gamecube version. Each track is 
 rendered in glorious 3d and for the 2nd time in the games history, so are the characters. The 
 frame rate holds solid throughout and the AI are smart enough to baffle even the craziest of MK 
 enthusiasts. 
  
  Sound design is brilliant. It supports the DSs surround sound speakers and if turned up loud enough, 
 players can actually here cars whizzing behind them and beside them. It is an amazing feat to say 
 the least. The music is excellent and doesnt distract too much. The bottom and top screens are 
 both helpful. Although the bottom has no stylus function, it shows a very accurate map that helps 
 if a players vision is impaired on the top screen. In most cases it is possible to finish a race 
 just looking at a map screen. The new weapons in single player are all welcomed with the exception 
 of one. The blue shell. The blue Shell has been upgraded and given the ultimate screw job title. 
 This shell marks the doom of the first player and there is no way of stopping it, absolutely none. 
 People who say they have are lying. 
  
  One feature that stands out is the mission mode in single player. These missions are very important 
 because they teach you the basics of how to drive and handle karts. Each mission has about 8 objectives 
 and one boss battle. These missions range from collect the coins to jump through hoops backwards 
 The amazing thing about these missions is that you are ranked for how well you complete them, not 
 just for completing them. Making mission mode a fun thing to do and replay.
  
  Next up is multiplayer. 
  
  Think the best battle mode from the N64 and the best battle mode 
 from the Gamecube and you got what this multiplayer is all about. Apart from giving players the 
 ability to race on almost every track (some tracks omitted fro list for assumed networking issues) , 
 the DS give players the chance to face off in Balloon battle, or shine hunts. These battles are 
 great and get a room lively and talking.
  
  Mario kart DS is a great way to sit and play. Online is awesome and so is the offline. I give this 
 game three thumps way up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:53 am PT
Review:  Man, this game rules!!! I been playing this game a lot. I glad that I have waited for this game 
 and it really did pay off.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the Nintendo DS system. Still not as good as Gamecube, but still 
 looked good. I like ow they made some of the retro race tracks look better in this game.
  
  The sound is always good in the Mario Kart games. May not seem special but it is still really. 
 
  
  Tons of replayablility in this game. You can play with people around the world. I have yet got 
 this to work in a McDonalds restraut, I hope I can in the near future.
  
  Definely worth ever cent to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, plain and simple. MK: DS serves up alot of new and old content. Plus, with 
 the WiFi matches, I actually set down my 360 controller for a handheld.
  
  Pros- A ton of new content makes the single player alone worth buying this game. WiFi makes this 
 the first online Mario Kart, and the process to get online is smooth and simple. The online matches 
 themselves are truely intense. The graphics are way better then you'd expect from the DS, almost 
 like your playing it on Gamecube. The controls work well. The sound is very clean. You can draw 
 your own symbol using the touch pad, and some kids are just 2 damn good at it. All and all, very 
 strong title and definantly the best in the series.
  
  Cons- The kids online are too good.
  
  Final Word- If you have a DS and like Mario Kart you 
 should already have this game. If you don't, why??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slapshakle
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:46 am PT
Review:  This is what we have been waiting for !
  
  The Good :
  
  32 Tracks.
  Online Multiplayer.
  Ability to use bots for battle mode.
  Mission mode really gets your karting 
 skills up.
  Beating your friend on the finish line with a blue shell !.......
  Making your friend slam his DS shut because of it !
  Stats get tracked ( would be nice if it 
 included play time aswell )
  Beating your freind in battle mode 27 - 3 !!
  
  The Bad :
  Frustrating CPU players
  Getting beaten on the finish line with a blue shell !
  Having a sore 
 voice from screaming at the CPU...... lol
  I don't have my WiFi adaptor yet.
  Getting blue knuckles from punching my table due to frustration
  
  For me playing this game 
 is kind of Love / Hate. Sometimes it's the best game in the world, other times i feel like stomping 
 my DS. I highly recomend this game to every DS owner, even if you have a short temper like myself.
 
  
  Im still waiting to play online, my WiFi adaptor is in the mail as I type this. See you online 
 soon ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calkaimainer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  Mario is out for a very predictable outing on the DS, but you know what? It's the Best Mario Kart 
 since Super Mario Kart, Maybe even better! With online play which is the best, but is still great, 
 and a deep single player, and ONE CARD MULTIPLAYER with DS Download Play, you can't go wrong, can 
 you? Of course you can't!
  
  This game has 32 Tracks, Half of which are Old tracks, 4 from each past game! You can create your 
 own 32x32 Image to use on your cart, and your personal emblem!
  
  There's 8 Characters at the start with 1 unique cart each with stats, and one Standard cart. There 
 are 4 Unlockable Characters, who each come with the carts mentioned above.
  
  You start off with 16 Tracks, 8 New, 8 Old, and you unlock the rest by competing in Grand Prixs, 
 having 3 Difficulties, 50cc, 100cc, 150cc and one unlockable one.
  
  You can play online, by yourself, or with friends who only need a DS!
  Online Wifi Play is... different, 
 it lets you play online, permitted you have a Wifi Connection and Broadband or above. I, sadly 
 don't have a Wifi Router, so I can't go into detail, but here is what I do know:
  There is only Race modes, not battle, with 20 of the 32 tracks there, all characters are chooseable, 
 as long as you have unlocked them.
  
  Onto Multiplayer and Battle -
  Battle is a mode with two Sub Modes, Balloon Battle and Shine Runners, playable on 6 Battlefields. 
 Balloon Battle is the Usual one, where you have Balloons, and your opponent [s] have to hit you 
 with the items to pop a Balloon, but of course, there is a twist in this version, with that you 
 have to blow them up by blowing into the DS Mic, or Rapidly pressing select.
  Shine Runners is a game where one must collect the most shine sprites, and the person/people with 
 the least at the end of the time limit is eliminated, and so it goes.
  
  Multiplayer is just simply awesome. With one card and provided all your friends have DS' they can 
 play all the modes, races, etc. with only one drawback, they must play as Shy Guy.
  
  I could go on and on and on, but that would be boring, so, here's a sentence to end it:
  Buy 
 this game now, or if you don't have a DS, buy the DS+Mario Kart DS Bundle NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe87man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  The game was cool, but people get tired of the same thing, over and over and over....
  Gameplay was good, same as other mario kart games..
  graphics AWSOME for just the ds
  Sound, depends 
 if you like old stuff 
  the game was good overall but only buy this game if u are looking forward to another mario kart 
 game thats pretty much the same thing.......... .... ... ... ... ... ..... .... ... ... .. . . 
 .. . . . ... .... ... .it was worth the 35$ and the tilt was great......
  
  For more info go to to mariokartds. com or nintendo. com .
  
  ... .. or just read the gamespot 
 review.... ( mario had a little lamb little lamb litte lamb.... incy wincy yoshi went up the water 
 spout..
  DOWN came luigi and washed yoshi out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sphenmiler
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  To make a long story short MArio Kart DS is the best online racing game ever. We all love mario 
 kart, and now all your favorite courses are all in one game. SIngle player is fun and necessary 
 in oreder to unlock all the characters and karts, but the best feature of the game is the online 
 play. Set up your WiFi and race against anyone in the world, how much better can that get. This 
 will easily be the top DS game for a long time. The only future game that I can see competing with 
 MArio Kart is Metriod : Hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This is.. the best Nintendo DS title. 
  
  Mario Kart DS is fun, fast, addicting, and it's something that you or your family will enjoy for 
 countless hours. The graphics are great, the gameplay is smooth. I am 110% confident that if you 
 go get MarioKart DS that you will be satisfied.
  
  Once you start playing; it's going to be extremely difficult to put it down. This is definately 
 without question the best cart racing game that has ever been made. 
  
  My DS was stored in its closet since the release. I had only about 10 hrs worth of play on it since 
 I got it last year... This game has changed all of that. 
  
  I hope you get and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3v0luti0n
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Ive never been a fan of Mario Kart, in fact i have never even liked Kart Racing games or racing 
 games in general. But as i walked down the Asles of Best Buy with 35$ in my pocket i knew i had 
 to spend it on SOMETHING and i need a game to hold me up tell Animal Crossing. Plus i never played 
 an online game. Within minutes of playing i was sucked into Mario Karts addicting gameplay.
  
  Gameplay- VERY addicting from the start of the 50cc to the end of mirror mode youll keep coming 
 back. Tons of unlockables keep the game going. But what got me playing it was its online play, 
 which is very simple to connect too. Hook up a compatible router and race with some freinds across 
 town... or strangers across the country either way youll still have fun (except when you are winning... the 
 medal is all yours... your record is gonna get a boost and just at the finish line the oppenent 
 dissconnects.....) 
  
  Graphics- Hear is what really suprised me. The graphics are great. Pure 3D, bright colorful and 
 the frame rate always keeps up, even online. The game delivers a great sense of spead also. 
  
  Sound- Ah yes, my one complaint. The sound is simply distracting online and without being able 
 to pause i need to bear the annoying beats that is the Mario Kart music. But dont get me wrong. 
 It fits the game well.
  
  Closing comments- Wore out your copy of nintendogs? Waiting tell New Years to get Animal Crossing? 
 Either way this game is pure fun and you wont go wrong with this addicting kart racer. Oh and feel 
 free to PM me to add any comments on my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katanaguy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS does a good job of smoking the competition. Mario kart borders low quality GCN graphics 
 and high end N64 graphics. It also makes for a plain fun game just to play when you don't have 
 a lot of time. The three levels of difficulty make it challenging and if you are a beginner you'll 
 be able to jump right into the easy mode, if you are you are a veteran to the Mario kart games 
 then you'll find every thing to be the same control and gameplay wise. Mario kart has some nice 
 additions to the series some DS related and some other wise like with the stylus you can draw your 
 own emblem for the front of the kart your using. There is a mission mode which is ok not a bad 
 addition in which you might find your self collecting coins, power sliding and what not. I would 
 recommend this to any one who wants a game for their DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trnuf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I never was a big fan of Mario Kart. I enjoyed it, but nothing more. But this time it's different. 
 The game is good at every point. Great graphics, perfect or almost gameplay. The OnLine mode is 
 a boost to the otherwise very good value. What's too bad about the game is that when you play OnLine, 
 everybody are quitting when they are losing... it's quite annoying...
  And they could have put less shells, especially blue ones. In OnLine, it would be cool if we could 
 play "Battle" mode also.
  
  Certainely the best DS game out yet, so DS owners, you must check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdVader
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, if you own a DS and LOOOVE racing games, this is an extreme must have. Even if you don't like 
 racing games you need to give Mario Kart a definite try. 
  
  MODES:
  
  Time Trial is great for unlocking staff ghosts (with a fast enough time) and learning the fast 
 ways through a map from the creators who save their ghosts to your game!
  
  Grand Prix, the main part of the game, there are 3 different modes and an unlockable 150cc mirror 
 mode. Here you can unlock karts and some cool characters. (If you were alive and gaming when the 
 SNES and NES were out with their accessories, you'll be suprised at one of the unlockable characters 
 you can race as :D)
  
  VS is like in the 64 version, you just set up the game how you want and pick your own level and 
 do the maps in any order you'd like.
  
  Battle is completely new and made better on the DS. On the go with no one to battle with? NO PROBLEM!!! 
 You can now play with more than just real players but there are bots that have a mind of their 
 own! They will use even the slickest moves that you do to dodge, fake, and block and steal baloons 
 and items. Very good AI here.
  
  And I wouldn't have a good review if I didn't bring up the on-line play.... IT IS A GREAT FIRST 
 ATTEMPT FOR NINTENDO AT ON-LINE GAMING! It is extremely addictive! Show off your stats, shortcuts, 
 tricks, and skills to players across the globe. Getting a "star" ranking for every prix in the 
 game will allow you to have a yellow star put for you while you play on-line, intimidating the 
 other players! The online play is extremely close to perfect.
  
  This game is still worth it offline too, it is great on both sides of the fence and is extremely 
 hard to put down. Suitable for all ages (in my opinion) and you will have a blast. This is a must 
 have, and is definitely the best portable game I have seen yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomdisasta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  Best Mario Kart game out there. Cool new selection of tracks along with old ones and more karts 
 for each character. The graphics are crisp on the DS like the surroundings and background effects, 
 and the online mode is just amazing. The Wi-Fi set up is so simple even a non-computer expert can 
 figure it out. Just search for a wireless access point and connect to it. The hard part might be 
 the security if it has one. Then you can go out and buy a USB connector for the computer. I am 
 so addicted to this game that I played for 10 hours staright when I first got it. It is fun to 
 meet new people and play with people that are unknown. Recommend to everyone of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake289
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  mario kart ds is making its debut on the nintendo ds handheld, remakeing old tracks and having some 
 new ones, theres no story to this game (of course cos its a racing game) but who cares, the game has 
 a better single player so if u dont have any friends or dont have wifi or internet at all then 
 u can play with better bots then b4.
  
  the grapics are good but if they speand more time on the game then it could be the best looking 
 ds game yet, now time to talk about wifi i dont have wifi yet but ive played on it, wifi is good 
 but if your new and have no 1's friend code then u have 2 play with a stranger and could be a pain 
 in the ass or somthing which is a bad thing cos i wont wanna play with a pain in the ass guy, there 
 should be a voice chat becos ds has a mic so y cant we use it well and least after match or somthing 
 u can talk 2 your friends.
  
  now for gameplay, this game has 3 modes once again 50cc,100cc and 150cc, it gets harder plus once 
 u compele the tourneyments on each of them u unlock a chareter or new karts, it will get harder 
 50cc is the easyist and 150cc is the hardist so u will spend hours playing on single player, when 
 your playing on LAN u just need 1 mario kart ds game card 2 play with up to 8 players but they 
 can only play as shy guy if they dont wanna play as him tell them 2 buy the game, plus wifi will 
 keep u on it 4 hours and hours till a new mario kart game comes out.
  
  the value is good if u have a wireless router 4 your internet then u wont have 2 buy wifi (which 
 makes it cheaper) and the game has a nintendo ds with mario kart ds pak and the game will keep u 
 going 4 hours so its a big thums up 4 value
  
  overall this is the best ds game out at the moment (could be the best ds game ever) and is a classic 
 so BUY THIS NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deltayoda
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS has many qualities that fans of the series will enjoy very much. Some of them are 
 having 32 tracks, 16 new and 16 of the best tracks of the old games. They have many of my favorite 
 tracks from the Gamecube, SNES, N64, and GBA versions. There are also single player missions, which 
 help to improve your skill a lot. They are also a lot of fun to try to get the highest ratings 
 on. I also like how the battle mode is now single player as well, with 8 karts battling at once. 
 It can get pretty insane. The time trials are of course in, and there is also a better versus mode. 
 You can make it like a neverending grand prix, because it adds up the scores from each race you 
 do. And of course the online play just makes an already almost perfect game that much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Everything you loved about every Mario Kart game so far is here. Plus online and wireless multiplayer.
 
  
  This game is awesome. The graphics are perfect. Not just the look either, the whole presentation 
 of the game is excellent.
  
  Online play is fun and simple to setup. Nintendo even has a site up to check and compare your stats. (On 
 all Wifi enabled games btw)
  When you race others, they can see your emblem (in options you can paint your own) floating over 
 your nickname.
  
  The sound/soundtrack is great. All the effects are perfect. And the songs form the retro tracks 
 all sound sweet and give you a warm fuzzy feeling. Sometimes I even think I'm sitting infront of 
 my TV with the SNES again.
  
  Track layout/designs are top notch and innovative. All the best tracks from previous game are here, 
 plus tons of new ones. (4 from the SNES, N64, GBA, GC)
  
  Seriously if you liked any of the other Mario Kart games. Or even if you like Cart racing or racing 
 in general. Buy this game, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fireman7775
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The greatest game on the DS so far. Absolutely amazing! Weapons, classic Nintendo characters, huge 
 variety of carts to choose from, huge variety of courses, Nintendo Wi fi play, awesome multi player, 
 great graphics, great sound, great game play, and fluid game play. On top of all that it is truly 
 fun! Now what more could you want. If you are looking for a great DS game for the holidays then 
 this is what you need to be looking for! Plus it doesn't have any blood or gore or violence so 
 that the younger children can play along too. Well like I said this is a truly awesome game and 
 I would give it a 10 any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSageCola
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game will make the DS. End of story. Now there are some new item additions from the other 
 mario kart games, and a set of new tracks for the DS in the nitro cup racing. Mario Kart then brings 
 back some of your favorite courses in the retro cup. Unlockables are a nice add on, as you get 
 more characters and karts. The mission mode to this game is addictivly fun, and you will spend 
 a lot of time trying to beat it, or get that covenent 3 star rating. Now all the single player 
 modes and games are great, but the game shines when it comes to the wifi connection. Getting online 
 and playing your friends is deffintly a great advantage, and it is wireless. If mario kart double 
 dash had a downfall it was the lack of online play, but this game puts it in there and makes it 
 great. If you don't have wifi you can either buy a USB adapter or go to a wifi hotspot. Like your 
 library, local bookstore, panera bread, or if you want to stoop so low mcdonalds. So go buy this 
 game and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirreltakos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:42 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't picked up this game yet for your DS I suggest you get it NOW! Easily the best Mario 
 kart game yet and best racer for DS. I have played a little of it online after going to McDonlads 
 and it was quite fun. I don't have fast internet myself so that's kinda a bummer.... But when I 
 get the chance to play it online I sure do. There are a few new characters and 16 new tracks to 
 play on. Also there are a few new weapons to play wth and use against your enemies. The handling 
 on this game was great. And there is no need to use touch pad if you don't want to. If you do not 
 own this yet it is one of the few great games for DS. Along with Animal Crossing, Meteos, Advance 
 Wars, Nintendogs, etc...
  
  This is the best racer out for DS and best Mario Kart game so if you like racing and own a DS buy 
 it. And epsecialy buy it if you have wifi at your home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Mystic_
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart, the Mario Racing game for the N64, Gamecube, GBA and finally the Nintendo DS. This 
 game is very awesome, has new characters, at least i think O_o. Like the other parts, you can use 
 Weapons to knock your opponents off. Unlike the other parts, You can choose which car you use. 
 It has Multiplayer mode ( you need an USB thing) And you can play against people from other people's 
 like Japan, England, U. S etc. This game is one of the best Nintendo DS Games there is, Not to mention 
 one of the best Racing games on the DS :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnozmeH
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  At first you will come to this game thinking it's just like the other Mario Kart's in the Nintendo 
 Franchise, but the DS version finds a way to amaze you on such a small screen. Straight up from 
 the beginning of the race you will see that the DS has added new items, stages, and characters 
 to keep the game fresh for each individual. The battle aspect brings the old balloon match, but 
 introduces my favorite battle, Sunshine Match!
  
  If you have the DS you might as well just stop reading this and just go out and buy the game now... 
 no second doubts here with this fresh DS title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullMetalLuffy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart started on the SNES, then the N64 and then the GBA and finnally the Gamecube. So everyone 
 knew DS was going to recieve a glorious return from our plumber in a cart (or kart) . This Time however 
 the game is taking itself online. Even with or without the online though there has never been such 
 a refined and deep mario kart ever. 
  
  It plays just as the old mario karts, you win cups to unlock new cups to then unlock cool stuff. 
 Yet like any good game knows you got to keep the main-frame and expand on it. You start off with 
 only 6 cups, 3 cups are new courses and then 3 other ones are classic tracks from SNES, N64, GBA 
 and GCN (which is rendered nicely) . All the added- features from each of the games are also include 
 (powersliding to different karts) . It really is a all-in-one package here.
  
  Also new is the mission mode which consists of simple objectives such as breaking a few boxes to 
 going through gates what makes it really great is the boss battles which are very strange, yet 
 somehow very seems like a ovious thing they should have done yet know one thought to do or cared. 
 There are 6 worlds and there not incrediblely challenging or fun but its a nice distraction.
  
  Lets not forget the mutliplayer, where you can choose from races, in-famous balloon battle, 
 and the the not-so famous shine shinners (or whatever..) Anyhow, its all there if you have or don't 
 have a kart you can still play but you are forced play as shy guy. Which isn't all too bad in fact 
 its a rather good thing because nintendo never seemed to put him in the actual game except in vs 
 giving you a weird excuse to not also buy the game.
  
  Single Play has so much to offer as well from the missions like I said there is 6 cups from the 
 start (8 unlocked) yet heres where you get some more replay, good or bad. You see, there's 50cc, 
 100 and 150 each with 8 cups. each cc you must play every cup then unlocking mirrior as well. In 
 the end you get and must complete 32 cups all which aquiring a gold. Repetitive as it may seem 
 you are rewarded in the end with the strangest secret mario kart character ever as the bring there 
 NES robot buddy R. O. B into the mario kart universe. 
  
  Now the real reason everyone really has been intresting in kart this time around is online! Though 
 with some regret the features are limited as you don't have a buddy list thats so easily accepted, 
 you and that friend must have your "friend code" oviously so you don't get anyone one on your list 
 you don't want or like. Still its mario kart online and we have been waiting a while, I say take 
 what you can get. Another key feature which can help you tell one person from another is a emblem, 
 one you can either choose or make yourself. Giving you the oppurtunties to differ from one yoshi 
 from the other yoshi. 
  
  Now if your not going to be surprised by one thing in mario kart it has to be graphics and sound. 
 Now don't get me wrong the graphics and sound are amazing. Its just the usual mario-y feel and 
 sound , you will hear the same "whoo-hoo" and the "whoo-hoo-wee-hee" as you did past mario karts. 
 
  
  The game really does have a good amount of replay as only the GP aspect should give you at least 
 a week of work and the missions boost it up to another week. That dosn't include the mutli-player 
 and online play which is nearly endless. Then of course you have time trials and ghost racers. 
 Also theres just playing just to enjoy the greatness of it. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shear1017
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is one game with so much to offer. There is over 30 tracks and karts and 16 characters, 
 youll want to have it. The online play is amazing. There is always someone ready to play. The gameplay 
 is very addicting and the items twist the gameplay so even the guy in last place can catch up. 
 The new mission mode is fun and they will enhance your skill. The graphics and sound are great 
 and with online play the fun never ends. Its the best in the series and even has tracks from all 
 the old games. Mario Kart was meant for the DS and ive been waiting 2 years for this game and when 
 i got it on release day, I was certain that it was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omali
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  They could've called Mario Kart: DS the Mario Kart Compilation and then some, and still gotten 
 the same message across. Because that's what Mario Kart: DS brings to the table: The best of Mario 
 Kart's past, plus more, but also is the first real online Mario Kart. 
  
  To start off, Shigero Myomoto apparently decided to drop the dual racer scheme. No, avid gamecube 
 fans, you will not be controlling two racers like you did in Double Dash. The characters include: 
 Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, Donkey Kong, Wario, and Bowser as the regular eight we all love. 
 The game goes even further by adding Daisy, Waluigi, and Dry Bones. While the character selection 
 is great, they really could've done better than Dry Bones. That's just scraping at the bottom of 
 the mario universe there.
  
  The game also goes further by doing what many of us wanted in earlier versions: The ability to 
 practice multiplayer games in single player. Added into the game, other than the Time Trial and 
 Grand Prix is:
  Battle: bundled with the usual baloon battle, MK: DS now offers shrine collectors. This game is 
 based on Mario: Sunshine for the gamecube, where you collect the shines on the several multiplayer 
 maps. If you get hit, you lose your shine, which is dropped onto the field for anyone to pick up. 
 after a set amount of time (witnessed by the 5...4..3...2...1) all of the players with the least 
 amount of shines will be booted from the game, waiting for the end. Of course, this repeats until 
 only one player is left.
  
  Another new addition is the microphone support. One of the new items is the squid, which will coat 
 the screens of your enemies with ink (making it hard to see) . Of course, this may have worked better 
 if Nintendo covered over the bottom screen (the map) as you can easily switch between the two without 
 trouble. You can use the microphone to blow the ink off the screen. The mic is also used in balloon 
 battle where you blow up your balloons to keep from getting booted.
  
  Another single player piece is the mission mode. Do random things in the game (complete a lap backwards, 
 collect X amount of coins) . This adds no more content that i'm aware of, but adds fun new, if not 
 slightly frustrating, gameplay.
  
  Of course the reason we play 99% of mario games is because of the party supports. All of the single 
 player modes are there in multiplayer. And Mario Kart was a great time to release Wi-Fi support. 
 I, personally, have not had a chance to use the wifi-support. However, I have played several times 
 with people in my general area (IE: school)
  
  Pros: Classic NES, GBA, N64 and Gamecube maps, compiled with completely new maps. We love Mario 
 Kart. New weapons along with all the old ones, same with characters.
  
  Cons: My DS battery just ran out of power. The local pizzaria just went out of business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MADDOX007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Although good, the online multi-player is a pain to start for me. Nintendo needs to give something 
 to the on line that will give DS wi-fi all it's cracked up to be. Good although boring after a 
 few hours of game play. They need something that Sony gave to PSP. What is it? It is at this point 
 irrelevant since there is not much that Nintendo can do about it. I would say buy it if you want 
 but I would save up for another game first. The graphics are great especially for the DS. Sound 
 could have been a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willdyer10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  The Good: Gameplay mechanics have been perfected, lots of tracks, racers, karts and modes. Its 
 the Mario kart game you have been waiting for.
  
  The Bad: Can sometimes be hard to get a 4 player match going. Players just disconnect without warning. 
 Online could do with some fine tuning.
  ---
  Now dont go looking at the bad and thinking that the online play is completely screwed because 
 its not. It can be great fun playing against other players from around the world and your friends 
 too. There are a few problems with it though like people disconnecting without warning and the 
 lag can make it look like karts are flying. There are a few players who will go online solely to 
 gain wins and not to have fun so you will be driving along in 1st place when suddenly players will 
 disconnect they do this because all they care about is rep and because there is discipline system 
 in place. Its not a major problem and if you can you should still get online and play.
  
  Moving swiftly away from the bad points this game is a lot of fun in fact its probably the funnest 
 Mario kart game ever, there is the introduction of a mission system that will have you driving 
 though so many tires and out racing some bosses. This new addition adds a great way to hone your 
 driving skills without firing you straight into a grand prix its also gives you something else 
 to do rather than race all the time. The new grand prix is great as well it has all the difficulties 
 you would expect from 50cc to 150ccmirror and this time around Mario kart has a whopping 32 (I think 
 thats a MK record) tracks 16 of which are brand new and the other 16 are retro tracks from the 
 gamecube, n64, snes and gba which gives you a chance to play all of the great old tracks in a new 
 game. Every track has great design and youll want to race on them again and again to find out 
 the shortcuts.
  
  Gameplay: Its the best it has ever been with the introduction of mini turbos, new power ups, 
 and a wide selection of karts and racers. Although in the past there has been some controversy 
 over snaking (where a player constantly does mini turbos) after you have played the game for 
 a while and finished all the cups you will learn how to snake and it wont be a big deal anymore, 
 in fact it will give you a 1-up on the CPUs allowing you to get a 3-star rating on the grand prixs. 
 The new tracks have great design despite some tracks being particularly annoying (rainbow road!) 
 they are all enjoyable.
  
  Graphics: A game that uses the DSs capability to the full with colourful tracks, detailed racers 
 and karts and exciting power-ups. All of the power-ups and their effects look great (especially 
 bullet bill) the graphics can even are compared to the PSP because they are simply great.
  Sound: The music is nice but to be honest while you are racing you dont really notice it that 
 much. The music though does have great rhythm and its up beat to keep you enjoying the game and 
 nudging you on to keep playing.
  
  Value: Even after all this time the game is still great value and its a game that any DS owner 
 should pick up and play. It can give you hours of fun and enjoyment even after you have finished 
 all the grand prixs and mission. It can be fun just to race against the CPUs and its even more 
 fun if you can race against friends or get online.
  
  Overall: A fantastic game and in my view still the best game for the DS. It doesnt matter if you 
 cant play the game with friends or get it online there is still hours of fun waiting for you. 
 With all the new features this game has it will (and has) withstood the test of time and there will 
 still be people playing it in years to come. A DS classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiernanth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  The value that this game boasts is very impressive, so do not ever expect to sell this game once 
 you have it. this game has a huge single player which includs you having to play at least all the 
 coarses 110 times on 50,100,150cc as well as the mirrow mode. The game also has a mission mode 
 in which you have to complete the various objectives the game gives you. There are 54 of these 
 which lenghtens the already massive game life this has as well as getting to play against the computer 
 ghost for all the levels. this is perfect proof on why on how you should get this game for those 
 offline. There is even more to the game than I had expected, playing against players online, against 
 your friends at school. what else is to the game, great gameplay, classic 64 style graphics, music 
 from choco mountain that is so good that it will make you cry as well as an unmatched tilt to a 
 game witch falls under one catagory, FUN! Buy this game instead of crap like yoshi touch and go, you 
 will definetely, definetely have a good time with this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is by far one of, if not the best in the Mario Kart franchise. This time around you'll 
 find all of your favorite and classic mario series charcters including Peach, Mario, Bowser, Toad, 
 DK, Wario, Luigi, Yoshi, and even a few secret characters. The racing is solid, and the fun is 
 everlasting.
  The basic gameplay of the franchise has not changed, but has improved greatly. Mario Kart DS has 
 a variety of new characters, weapons, and 32 courses! In the gran prix of this game, you will fin 
 two different types of courses, retro, and the brand spankin new ones (that rock by the way) . The 
 retro courses consist of some of fanboy's favorite courses throughout the series, mixed with 4 
 courses from every Mario Kart game in existence. All of the 2D courses you may recognize from the 
 GBA/SNES have been put into 3D. While the 3D is not a major improvement on the appearance of the 
 courses by any means, it well suits the game.
  The next major improvement in the series, is a new mode called mission mode. In this mode you will 
 be given a task such as "collect all 20 coins in the given time" or something of the sort. After 
 completing about 8 or so of these missions you will fight bosses (which most will recognize from 
 SM64) . After beating these bosses, you will be sent to the next level and do it all over again, 
 only with different missions and bosses. I must say it is a great addition to the game and is an 
 awesome challenge for people who have already beaten the game.
  The third part of the game I found interesting was the battle mode. here you will find Shine Thief 
 Battles, and Balloon Battles. In Shine thief your objective is to capture as many shines as you 
 can by shooting your friends with green turtle shells (YES!) . Balloon Battle ( my preference) is 
 like a Mario Kart version of deathmatch. The objective is to shoot all of your friends until they 
 are out of balloons. Whoever is the last one standing wins. Lastly, I found both the old and new 
 courses for battle mode to be more intense than ever. Battle mode has definitely improved through 
 the years.
  Graphically, Mario Kart DS is not at all a laggard compared to its other games in the series. The 
 variety of unique car designs and charcters make you feel like your the one driving the kart. While 
 the graphics are not gamecube graphics, they are not bad at all. In comparison, the graphics are 
 much like the N64 graphics, only maybe a little more cleaned up.
  All in all Mario Kart DS is by far the best DS game you will find to date. Whether your a Nintendo 
 Fanboy or not, you are sure to love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendomaster
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS a highly anticipated sequel to Mario Kart: Double Dash. The single player has many 
 modes but multiplayer is were it's at. If you have a Wifi router you can play against anyone in 
 the world and there's always competition. All the Items are here even some new ones. New characters 
 adn new Karts. Everything has been redone. The tight control from every Mario kart is here too its 
 everything your would expect. This is a great game. If you own a DS and don't have the gaem but 
 it on your christmas list and you won't be disapointed this holiday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theraddestman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 11:24 pm PT
Review:  ok alot of me reviews are just like 10 cuz i like them and i dont wanna do any thing like give 
 it a real rating but. This game is to me the greatest handheld game of all time and even just one 
 of the greatest games of all time .Wow its just good i couldnt get how they put so much content 
 into this game for once i mean this is oging to take forever for me a while to beat but thats how 
 i like games get this game if you have and gamer sence in you buy this game if not then your just 
 not a true gamer.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaggymcp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Well I have to say this game is hands down the BEST Mario Kart ever !, I won't go in to everything 
 on the game, just because as you can tell from everyone scoring the game is damn near perfect, 
 I just had once complaint.....
  
  WHY O WHY did they not include a battle mode for Online play ? its only for wireless play, and 
 you can't play battlemode over Nintendo WIFI, this had to be the most idiotic thing Nintendo has 
 done yet..... If it would have had Battlemode Online then hands down his game would have been a 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetravman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  It truly is a game that fullfilles the dreams of MK fans everywhere. The DS version now stands 
 as the #1 MK game to date. Even the best racer for the DS right now. Sure, it doesn't use the DS's 
 capabilities all that much, but still captures attention of all who plays it... well most people 
 anyway. Whoever calls this game down should be ashamed of themselves. I don't think there is one 
 thing that went wrong on this game.
  
  The gameplay is almost the same as the 64 version, but the action seems more intense with the extra 
 items, extra speed, and the new put on, the drifting boost. The drifting boost isn't new, because 
 it was on the Double Dash game, but feels much better somehow when riding a kart with a single 
 character, while DD was with 2 characters. There is now 8 cups, having 4 courses each. 4 that includes 
 the classic ones from all 4 previous games, and the other 4 being a new edition to the series. 
 The new ones are completely welcomed to the MK series. Some are unique, and at the same time, very 
 very fun. Even the new rainbow road, and the new bowser stage. Those were my favourites all the 
 time in Mario Kart games. I did love the stages on the other past games, and some of them are put 
 on this game as well. But I do feel this game should actually have ALL classics in this game. I 
 don't feel all the past stages are not very good. Mario circuit for the SNES for example, cmon, 
 that isn't a real stage. And the Peach circuit for the GBA actually is very similar to Mario Circuit 
 in a way. Anyway, most past stages are welcomed for me again.
  
  The graphics are totally improved over Mk64. The characters are actually in 3D, and 3D karts. As 
 the 64 version didn't. The characters didn't look 3D, as the stages did however. Everything in 
 MKDS was 3D, except for the items of course. The colors are bright in the game, and makes the characters 
 look very amazing..... but what's with DK's teeth always showing. That ain't right.
  
  I found the music to quite amusing. The soundtracks on the past stages were the same, which is 
 great. But the new soundtrack on the new stages are well done. I sometimes hum along at times... it's 
 true haha. The engines on your little karts sound realistic. And all of the Mario characters still 
 have their humourous, and yet charming voices.... but sometimes irritating listening to Waluigi. 
 He is not right.
  
  There is now a lot more depth in the game.... I mean a whole LOT more depth. There is now 8 cups, 
 4 more than usual, so it will take twice as long to complete them all. Each completion of cups 
 always unlockes somethin exciting. Other than the grand prix tropies, there is mission mode. There 
 are great number of events to do, and most of them being very fun, and sometimes challenging. The 
 rank system in there spices things up. And the boss battles included in mission mode is a great 
 addition. They all have to be defeated in a certain way, and a familar way as well. For example, 
 Big Bully, get your mushrooms, and ram him off the edge. Sound familar? All bosses are familar 
 in all the past mario games. These are not the only great attraction of the game. If you're sick 
 of playing by yourself, why not hook yourself online? I'm seriously, this is what I really wanted 
 in a MK game.... and a Super Smash Bros game, but I have to wait longer for that to happen. Connection 
 is easy, and you can hook up with people around the world, and face off with someone with similar 
 talent as you. And best yet, you can keep in contact with your friends by adding friend codes. 
 Online will record your wins, and losses. So keep the victories climbing boy.
  
  Best DS game yet, best MK game yet. This is a must have game for newcomers, and whoever gave up 
 Mario Kart shall come back and see what you are missing. The Wi-fi is the best addition MK, and 
 is well suited for it. I can't wait to try other Wi-fi games. This game is not disappointing, trust 
 me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godigoshin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  the game is amazing. twice as many tracks as the n64 version, and tons of extras! dry bones is 
 actually a good and usefull character, and ive seen people play as ROB. online is awesome, one 
 very lame thing online is that if there are 2 racers and the other racer disconnects, the player 
 who stayed in doesnt get a win! i would have 3 time as many wins if this would just change. snaking 
 sucks and i cant do it and it makes me angry but its not cheap. online gives unlimited replayability, 
 if you cant get online... its still unlimited! download play and time trials baby 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wezdog564
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has been very successful with putting their poster character into other games other than 
 the original mario games. Golf was good, tennis was good, kart was wonderful, but nothing compares 
 to the excellance of Mario Kart DS. This is definitely the best in the series, or any other mario 
 based sport title out there.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is wonderful. Very responsive and precise, and everything acts as it should. 
 The battle controls are very good as well. One touch of a button and youve used your item, its 
 that simple. Nothing else to say but perfect. 10/10
  
  Graphics: Definitely the best that the DS has seen. Wonderful enviroments and a great mix of colors. 
 The level design is very intuitive as well. The camera is not annoying because its always right 
 behind you. The only minor thing I had problems with when it comes to the graphics was the low 
 polygon characters. Although they look great they could have been better. The game also runs at 
 a smooth 60 fps at all times (at least when Ive played) . 9/10
  
  Sound: Its the usual when it comes to Mario titles. Nice music, great sound effects, and everything 
 about the sound is wonderful. The music is great lie any other Mario game with quick upbeat songs, 
 and on the last lap it changes to a quick based song. Every character has his or her own unique 
 sounds to themselves and they have sounds for getting hit and when they hit other players. The 
 kart engines sound gret in this game as well. 10/10
  
  Value: With tons of modes, tracks, and unlockable characters, this game is a great value. It has 
 the usual championship mode with three class engines (50cc, 100c, and 150cc) , but it also has a 
 bonus class for when you complete those, the 150cc Mirror Courses (all courses are backwards) . There 
 are 30+ tracks in the game which is great and you can play time trials and ghost runs for every 
 one of them. In addition to the original 8 characters you can unlock an additional 4 (dry bones, 
 daisy, waluigi, and R. O. B) by beating certain engine classes. And the online is really a good bonus, 
 enough said about he online mode for you online players out there. 10/10
  
  Tilt: With intuitive gameplay, wondeful graphics, tons of tracks, and online play this is obviously 
 the best DS game to date and is very fun to play , and youll be playing for hours. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  If you've played other Mario Kart games, you know the drill. Fun, action packed, cute, racing. 
 This game takes the best part of all the previous Mario Kart games, and mixes them together. The 
 result is the best Mario Kart game ever. The graphics are superb for the DS, and the split screen 
 really helps. The music is very MIDIish, just like the previous games. There are remixes of old 
 Mario tracks here, but nothing really stands out in the music department. The cute sounds of the 
 characters making noises are also present... This may annoy you, or it may make you laugh.
  
  Of course the big new thing is online play! Once you set up online play (at it is pretty easy) , 
 you're ready to go, with no monthly charge! You can race anyone from around the world, who is set 
 up also. The problems are, as I write this, there are not many people online to play with. It is 
 impossible to create a friend's list, unless you know their friend code. And there is no way to 
 get someone's friend code as you are playing. The online play is a nice feature, but I must say 
 that is very limited. The good thing is, you can get friends, who also have a DS, and play multiplayer 
 with multiple DSs, and that is awesome. 
  
  Overall, it's the best Mario Kart game ever. You'll have a blast, if you have friends to play with. 
 If you don't, the game will get old quicker than if you did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YUNGlink
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2005 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is sweet. The only thing bad about the game is getting hit with the blue shell at the 
 very end of the third lap! GRRR! Makes me mad when I'm about to win and end up coming in 5th because 
 of one item. DK looks weird with his grinning teeth, but other than that the graphics are good. 
 It took a while to unlock the 7th mission, but it was worth it. If you don't have this game, you 
 don't know what you're missing. My favorite character is Luigi, with his great handling and decent 
 speed, its hard to compete against him. He has all around stats, which is perfect for competitions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmiyamoto
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart franchise has always been a stalwart in Nintendo's lineup of games. Featuring all 
 of the iconic Nintendo characters in zany karts, a party-like spin is what makes Mario Kart great. 
 While it still takes skill to be good, an assortment of powerups can be used to vault you from 
 last to first in a matter of seconds. This all sounds familiar, (and it is) but what makes this 
 game stand out is its astounding graphics, portability, and (FINALLY!!) online play.
  
  Before prying open your DS to try out this installment, first realize that youre about to experience, 
 without a doubt, the best Mario Kart to date. The first thing that struck me as amazing was the 
 sound through the dual speakers. When you use headphones, every little nuance, whether it is the 
 all-powerful blue shell whizzing fluently by your head or the flooring motor of another kart flying 
 by your kart with the help of a speed-boosting mushroom, the sound in this game lends the experience 
 a resounding sense of realism and immersion.
  
  But the sound merely compliments the top-notch gameplay. While some complain about the DSs lack 
 of a d-pad, Mario Kart DS has incredibly tight, intuitive controls unprecedented when in comparison 
 with other racers. Every character has different karts at their disposal, and every one controls 
 differently with weight, speed, handling, and acceleration all coming into factor, among others. 
 Pure excitement accompanies every single race because whereas most racers dont provide excitement 
 when youre in the lead, MKDS keeps you on your toes, knowing that an unsuspecting red homing shell 
 could be right on your butt as you speak.
  
  A new gameplay tweak, while small, gives the game a lot more spice to every race. When youre hot 
 on the tail of someone, if you stay right up on his or her butt you can get an additional boost, 
 which the game calls drafting. The countless amount of times in which I used this tactic to speed 
 on by for the win at the end brings a widespread smile to my face.
  
  If you remember all the great tracks in previous Mario Kart games for the SNES, N64, and GCN, youll 
 be happy to know that a plethora of the more classic ones are back in all their colorful glory. 
 And colorful is a perfect word to describe MKDSs graphics. Being fully 3-D, vibrant with life, 
 and surprisingly detailed, every aspect of the visuals is pleasing to the eye. Special effects 
 are amazing, like when the bomb, one of the new items in the game, explodes or when your screen 
 gets splurged with ink, making it hard to even know where youre going on the track.
  
  And since the game is so dependant on items within the game to diversify the experience, its only 
 natural to assume that multiplayer plays a large part. The game allows you to rally up seven of 
 your friends and play eight player races or battles with one game card (this feature is a godsend) . 
 Seeing that I have over ten people at my school with a DS, this feature alone makes multiplayer 
 an absolute riot. And if this isnt the case, there are bots available, allowing you to play multiplayer 
 balloon battles or shine running sprints by yourself. You can even adjust their smarts, keeping 
 all ranges of players happy.
  
  While I'll be the first to tell you that the online play is limited, I'll aslo tell you that's 
 really thrown out the window when you're on the last lap of the last race for the win, and your 
 heart is pulsating in anticipation of a dramatic finish... and you get blue-shelled at the finsh 
 line and lose. I know, this sounds terrible when it happens to you, but the first time you inflict 
 this kind of wrath on someone else, I gaurantee you'll have a perpetual smile on your face, lasting 
 right up until the time you turn off your DS. Yes, it's limited, but you know what... it's Mario 
 Kart online. Nuff said.
  
  To add to the list of new gameplay additions, tack on the new Mission Mode. This mode forces you 
 to do a variety of things in a certain amount of time, like doing five boost-drifts, and even presents 
 boss battles at the end similar to the bosses of Mario games.
  
  Having said all these things, what makes this game tick is how well everything is executed. Every 
 facet of the game is proficient, and has those qualities that make it easy to learn, and tough 
 to master. And after taking your driving prowess online to test the waters, youll be pushed over 
 the edge and will easily come to the realization that this game is nearly flawless. Entertainment 
 is a video games goal, Mario Kart DS has it in spades. Trumping this game will be a seemingly 
 insurmountable task for Nintendo, and is a clear indication of how utterly awesome it truly is.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreakyLime
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:59 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS 
  
  Introduction :
  
  I've been a fan of the Mario Kart series for quite some time, owning Super Mario Kart and Mario 
 Kart 64, and recently selling Mario Kart : Super Circuit. I have yet to pick up Double Dash, but 
 i have played it alot. I knew this game was for me, and it turned out. It was. This has been the 
 game i need.
  
  Gameplay : 
  
  Gameplay, eh?
  
  Well the frame-rate stays steady and goes with jumping or "paper" effect. I've only had the framerate 
 drop once in Pipe Plaza (Battlemode) . Well, it's pretty much old Mario Kart gameplay. Get to the 
 end using items to grow your chance of winning.
  
  Grand Prix : Well this is the "main" mode of the game, and the place where unlock everything. There 
 are 4 classes, 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and 150cc Mirror. All of these contain the same cups and are 
 really only different from the speed and A. I Intelligence. Except Mirror, everything is... MIRRORED! 
 
  
  Time Trials: This is the mode to show whos boss of just pure racing skill. Get a good time and 
 you can even Vs. Nintendo staff themselves! I usually do Time Trials to brag over the internet 
 without having to go online. Its a good function. You start with either 1 mushroom, 2 mushrooms 
 or 3 mushrooms, depending on which kart you pick.
  
  Vs. Mode : Just pick any level, any engine class and play! Basic Mario Kart right here folks!
 
  
  Battle : Ah, nice function battle mode is. You can play against CPU opponents finally, and may 
 i add, great fun. There is also a team function which allows others to gang other unwanteds, like 
 Luigi. Now there are 2 modes of Battle. Balloon and Shine Runners. Balloon Battle is just your 
 average balloon battling, with a twist. You have to blow up your own balloons using the microphone 
 function, or holding select. Basically you go round one of 6 courses killing each other. Shine 
 Runners is where everytime you hit somebody, they drop a shine (if they have one) , and you pick 
 it up and you get another shine. Its basically whoever has the most shines wins.
  
  Missions : Do wacky missions for some leader for some guy. There are 6 mission sets, each with 
 loads of sub-missions and an end boss battle. If you star rating above every mission, sub mission 
 and boss battle you unlock Mission 7 set. Star that or above and you get... Nothing. Usually missions 
 involve like : "Break 10 crates" "Get 20 coins" "Kill 10 goombas" etc.
  
  
  
  Graphics :
  
  Well one of the things about this game are the nice graphics. Most of the things 
 were nicely done and are reasonable, but you may get the odd stupid 2d thing, like a banana or 
 shell. The graphics are crisp and clear and give a feel of Mario Kart. Most level surroundings 
 are 2d which is a shame, but it still looks bloody brilliant.
  
  Bowser has gone flip-floppy and looks like a morhped version of a turtle.
  
  And if you pay 
 them out, lets see you do better ;)
  
  
  
  Sound / Music :
  
  Woot, you still here the item box breaking once you touch it, and the classic scrolling through 
 items. That brings back memories. The music for the tracks is Nintendo made and suits the courses 
 well. The sound effects are above average, like only one or two things will sound gimmiky. They've 
 even given sounds to people shouting out in the crowds, which most racing games these days don't 
 bother with.
  
  
  
  Wifi : 
  
  Now this is where it stands out. Being able to play over the internet for free has attracted alot 
 of customers, and alot of fun. Now i haven't been able to because i don't have a wireless router 
 and can't afford a WiFi adapter right now, ill just have to cry. I've heard the WiFi setup is quite 
 bad, and takes a while to find an opponent or 3. Also some nicknames and emblems are rude and offensive. 
 But once your in the game, its fun as hell! The only trouble online is when someone is losing they 
 often disconnect. Meh, they get a loss added to their record so who cares.
  
  
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  This is where the game also shines. You can keep playing this game over 
 and over, trying to get a better record and just playing online. Or getting a three star rating 
 for everything. Did i mention if you star or above every GP class and cup you get a star by your 
 name? Well i did now. I currently have a star and almost two for two starring or above all of them.
 
  
  _______ ------_______
  
  So far this review can only be used on my website, http://www. freewebs. com/freakylime , and on 
 Gamespot. 
  This was originally posted on my website.
  Normal copyright laws apply. Contact me if you would like to use it.
  Freakylime@gmail. com
 
  
  _______ ------_______
  
  Also note, The 30 to 60 minutes learning curve is to learn it fully and to get a basis of most 
 advanced techniques. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoodyFlame
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Primarily, i found really good and fun, the online and all, but then it became boring, annoying 
 and everthing else bad, why you ask?
  
  Graphics/Sound: those are really the only good hing about this. No complaints here.
  
  Gameplay: 
 First, the good stuff are um.... the are more maps, and there are old and new maps. Now the bad 
 stuff, it feels like you are pushing a 1000 kilo boulder along a 179 degree mountain slope because 
 it just feels so slow and thats enough to make it boring
  
  Value: I guess if you dont mind the speed, the multiplayer is fun (actualyy i had fun and i minded 
 the speed) but the online is quite bad because it takes forever to hook up with someone and not 
 only that, thyere is no voice
  
  overall its not THAT bad as a game, but if you mind the speed, then never buy this game in your 
 life!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Review: Mario Kart DS
  
  I love the Mario Kart series, and it's many incarnations over the years on the SNES, Nintendo 64, 
 Gameboy Advance, and Gamecube. Mario Kart now comes to us on Nintendo's new Handheld the Nintendo 
 DS. Can Mario Kart DS possibly live up to the pedigree set by it predecessors.
  
  Story:
  The story is the same as every Mario Kart game before it. You take on the role of a character from 
 the Mario series of games, and out to prove that they are the best kart racer in the mushroom kingdom.
 
  
  Graphics:
  What is truly surprising is that the graphics are top notch; the graphical quality is only a few 
 notches below what the look of Mario Kart Double Dash on the Gamecube. Each of the new levels that 
 you race through is large and impressive, and so too does the look for all of the backgrounds for 
 each stage, even the Classic levels have been updated and improved visually while retaining their 
 original feel.
  
  Music:
  The Music is vintage Mario Kart catchy and fun. Even the original tracks use revamped and updated 
 versions of the original music from their respective games. Every blip and bop, and burnout feels 
 just like every Mario kart game you have ever played. You can not help but turn the sound all the 
 way up when you play this game which is something that I have not said about many DS games. 
  
  Game Play:
  Mario Kart DS fortunately does not stray too far form the family tree when it 
 comes to control and game play, which is a good thing because fans familiar to the series will 
 have no problem adjusting to the game, and new players will adjust quickly to the nuances of the 
 game. New weapons add a bit more strategy to the game as well; the Bullet Bill power up can bump 
 you up 4 or 5 spots almost instantly, or the Blooper power up will temporarily blind all of the 
 enemies ahead of you 
  
  Design:
  Nintendo did another good job in this game. You now get to select 2 different karts for each character 
 at the start of the game, with more to be unlocked as you play through. There are 16 new courses 
 and 16 classic courses from the 4 other Mario kart games, though I personally would have liked 
 to have seen all of the courses from the venerable series, because while I liked many of the courses 
 from the other games that they selected they missed some of my favorite stages, like DK jungle 
 form the N64, Bowser's Castle 1 from the SNES. Other new things offered in Mario Kart are a "Mission 
 Mode" which is a series of challenges including boss fights, and a different type of battle mode 
 called "Shine Runners", essentially a he whom has the most shine sprites in the end is the winner. 
 But the thing that everyone is so geared up about is this is the first official Mario Kart game 
 to be able to be played online so create you own logo and challenge your friends, or family, or 
 a stranger from 3 states away 
  
  DS owners, Mario Kart fans, and portable gamers everywhere, start your engines. This is another 
 Killer App for your Nintendo DS. All self-respecting DS owners will own this game. All and all 
 Mario Kart DS gets my highest recommendation. 
  
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Game play 10/10
  Sound 9/10
  Fun factor 10/10
  Tilt 10/10
  Average score 9.6
  
  Mario Kart DS:
  Pros:
 
  Excellent Graphics
  More karts
  More modes
  New online play
  New power ups 
  
  Cons:
  Can I get a few more tracks? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: R-Dogg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  finally, a mario kart game worth buying. DS is a great game and actually has wi fi. after beeting 
 the races don't feel down cuz ur done with the game and have no use for it... there are mission, 
 yes fun missions at that. many other modes come along with the game too. as for the wi fi... its 
 fun but you can't communicate at all other than sharing friend codes. the actual multi is fun and 
 its true... there's always some body waiting to play, you will have great fun if any of your friends 
 have a DS also. its fun and worth buying, this will make a good christmas present for anybody looking. 
 great game all in all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snorlaxandcam
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  a brilliant game and probably my favorite ds game of the year mainly due to its online capabilities 
 wich is always great fun to do for short bursts or for hours and the online i completely FREE!
 
  
  Mario kart ds is my favorite of all mario's karting games it has everything you'd expect and more 
 it has 16 brand new tracks and also 16 old ones from the Snes to the Gamecube 
  
  This game also has a new feature wich is the missions where you have to do things like collect 
 coins or drive through gates and at the end of each level you have to fight a boss on the first 
 level you have to fight the big bully in a kart 
  
  Mario kart keeps your favorite things from previous mario karts and adds plenty of new things to 
 keep you playing and in my opinion is well worth the money you pay for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rcsaints
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game, and the best game out for the Nintendo DS as of 11/14/05. There's nothing not 
 to like about this game, great graphics, sound, mechanics, and most of all great fun.
  
  GAMEPLAY ------10.0
  It's perfect. The kart action moves at a smooth frame rate and excellent 
 control. It's a lot of fun, with friends, on Nintendo's WiFi Connection, and alone. There's not 
 much touch screen use except for painting your emblems/avatars/logos and navagating the menus. 
 The game connects to Nintendo's WiFi Connection effortlessly in public and excellent at home if 
 you have a compatible router. The hardest thing for me was finding my WEP keys. There's always 
 room for improvement in your racing and that will keep you coming back for more after you beat 
 the Grand Prix mode and Mission mode. Grand Prix offers 4 Nitro Cups (New tracks) and 4 Retro Cups (Races 
 from other Mario Kart games) . Each cup contains 4 tracks so that's 32 tracks in all, there's a 
 great variety too. The four difficulty levels are 50cc (easy) 100cc (medium) 150cc (hard) and 150cc 
 Mirror (backward tracks) .
  After beating all cups on each difficulty you will unlock new characters or new karts for your 
 characters. After beating all difficulties you will have 12  
 Kong, Toad, Wario, Waluigi, Daisy, ROB, and Dry Bones) and each character will have 3 unique carts 
 and 29 other carts that are the other character's unique carts.
  
  GRAPHICS ------9.5
  Near perfect. The graphics are great for Mario Kart DS. It's the best 3D modeling on the DS so 
 far and it moves at a great frame rate even on WiFi (unless you or your opponet has a crappy connection) 
 The character models are only dirty when there's 5 people bumping into each other or an 8 player 
 wireless race (Which you only need one card for.) 
  
  SOUND ------9.5
  Near perfect. The sound is everything you could wish for a Mario Kart game. Good background music 
 and nice item effects although some background music for tracks sound alike. The menu music isn't 
 really noticeable but who really cares about the menus when your trying to get into a game.
  
  REPLAY VALUE/WORTH ------10.0 
  Even if you can't play online Mario Kart DS has tremendous 
 replay value. The many missions, tracks, etc. etc. give you plenty to do and time trial will last 
 you months. If you can play online then you have a game that will last a VERY long time, even with 
 friends this game could last you a VERY long time. It's not a must buy/rent, It's a MUST BUY/MUST 
 BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DexStrous
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I've been following the Mario Kart franchise ever since it's release on the SNES and I have to 
 say that Mario Kart DS is by far the best thing to come out of the franchise. It's one of the few 
 games that actually takes the best features of its predecessors and combines them together to form 
 a masterpiece.
  The single player portion of the game is enough in and of itself to ratify the purchase of the 
 game. The newly added Mission portion of the game is an incredible edition to the game. The Missions 
 in Mario Kart DS add an additional element to an already great game. You are able to complete up 
 to seven different mission levels each one harder than the next, but each one allows the player 
 to improve his skill level. Missions could be improved by missions with increased difficulty and 
 lengthier levels but its a great start to the new addition.
  The new levels in Grand Prix mode are fun, but I love the retro levels. The select levels that 
 are in the game a great, but it would always be fun to have some more, but then again, thats we 
 can use revolution to play all the old tracks and levels.
  The multiplayer is definitely where the game really shines. If you are able to link up via local 
 wireless than definitely take full advantage of everything the multiplayer modes has to offer. 
 The traditional battle mode is still in the game as well as shine runners. These modes can also 
 be played in single player modes with 7 other computers but inherently you are not going to have 
 enjoyment of yelling profound insults at the opposition. 8 players can go head-to-head in local 
 wireless and you can mix and match those who have karts and those who dont. Those in your party 
 without karts are forced to play as shyguy but are still able to play the myriad of tracks and 
 game modes as those with the game cartridge. Each individual cartridge keeps tracks of wins and 
 losses you have in each game mode. This is great to see how you stack up against your friends or 
 perhaps enemies who have the game.
  Of course the online features of the game are the real center of attention. Personally I love what 
 Mario Kart DS online has to offer, but there definitely is room for improvement in this area. When 
 playing online you are limited to playing a versus type mode and many of the tracks are left out 
 due to latency issues. However, I still have lots of fun playing with actually people across the 
 world. Its definitely a great start to Nintendos Wifi Connection but there is a great deal of 
 room for improvement in this area. Youre definitely going to have a lot of fun online but you 
 may feel shorted when you look at what could have been done to make it better.
  The sound and graphics in Mario Kart DS is top tier compared to currently release games for the 
 platform. I did have an issue where the sound cut completely out at one point of the game, but 
 I dont know if it was because it was my particular game or my DS, but I havent heard anyone else 
 with this problem so it must be one or the either.
  The game is definitely full of lasting appeal. With the endless possibilities in multiplayer and 
 online youll be pouring many hours into the game. Tons of unlockables and the opportunity to beat 
 staff ghosts and improve on existing records will keep you playing Mario Kart DS for a very long 
 time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hckydude1103
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  When i picked this game up i really wondered if it would live up to the series name. I have loved 
 all the mario kart games and so has my family. 
  
  Ok the gameplay is just amazing more then 30 tracks from the other games and some are from new 
 ones there is alot of local wireless multyplayer options and between that and the wifi and single 
 player modes all make the game a decently long, fun experience and will keep you playing for hours 
 at a time the one problem is that theres no wifi battle mode and you cant race all of the tracks 
 online
  
  Graphics:
  
  for a ds game i was impressed with how smooth and beautiful the graphics were right now it is the 
 best looking ds game out that i've played.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sounds in the mario kart games has always been pretty fitting for each track and for the game 
 i liked them and found them all to fit the game like the other ones have.
  
  Value:
  
  This game is worth the 35 dollars between all the game modes and multyplayer options you will never 
 be bored with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jared7913
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  it was so far the most satisfing Nintendo DS game yet i mean Im totally hooked until i get animal 
 crossing!!! This will keep the world going for a couple years! blah blah blah thats all people 
 ever say about the ds but i love the thing its amazing!!!!! ! ! n he he he he he he he he he he 
 he blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blahb alh fjdsah hfs fhds djfh dfjhfah safdj f ad fd The 
 DS is so inovative i could marry the damn thing its so cool f f f f ff f f f f f f d f he he heh 
 heh. this is bull
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Imagine getting items and throwing them at people. Imagine that you can get an item that: turns 
 you into a bullet and makes you invincible, hit players so hard that they hurt themselves. Imagine 
 that you have a 3-D game with graphics to match the GCN. Imagine if you can take this perfect game 
 with you, anywhere. Imagine that you can play people around the world...
  
  Mario Kart DS is an adaptation from Super Circuit. With nearly all of the old items and some new 
 ones. You also have a variety of players/karts to choose from including: Yoshi, Mario Toad etc. 
 The game also has familiar tracks from the old Mario karts like: Mushroom Bridge, Yoshi Circuit 
 etc.
  You also have the good old Battle Mode where you can play the computer/other players. You have 
 the balloon battle, where you have three /one balloons and you have to try to get other player's 
 balloons away. You also can create an emblem that will appear on your kart. Also the classic Grand 
 Prix is there with the usual 50cc, 100cc, 150cc. But the biggest treat is the WiFi connection. 
 By using the USB, WiFi wire, you can play people around the world!
  
  It's just right to play and will take 30minutes to learn how to play. However it will take months 
 to master the game. I spend about 3 hours playing it because I am usually busy. It's worth the 
 value and the graphics are marvelous. Could be the best graphics on a DS game. Sound is good and 
 I recommend this game. A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowser12345
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  mario kart this has to be hands down the greates mario kart game of all time , the mario kart series 
 has had its ups and down since its snes depute but this game put it wright on track.
  
  Graphically it look similar to the n64 version and it has many similaritys
  to that version you 
 cant but help love the fact that it has wifi capabilitys and online play this makes mario kart 
 exellent in its playability these function are what was missing from from the gamecube version 
 this was a dwon side on niontendos behalf which cost them a lot of good games which the xbox had.
 
  
  thinking back to the days of n64 the battle mode was great but somtimes my friends are not on my 
 skill level but nintendo has fixed this by adding bots nice touch
  
  but i like the gam as a whole it has plenty to do and has also got mission mode which allows ppl 
 to learn the ropes
  
  in all this game is great and it is essential to any nintendo fans collection
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  If you liked Mario64, you will love this game!
  The graphics are beautiful (soooooo much better than 64) and the racing is smooth and comfortable. 
 For mkds they took all the best levels from SNES, GBA, GC and N64 so you get the best of... um..4 
 worlds? yeah! its sweet. Online play is awesome and it gets so competitive you almost forget your 
 a little lizard driving an egg! I wish there was online battle for this game but oh well, we'll 
 get metroid for that i suppose.
  The only complaint i have is that the racing itself seems a little slow, even when going 150cc 
 you dont quite get that sense of rush and adrenaline like you did with F-Zero for GBA or something, 
 but i think overall the gameplay and quality of the game makes up perfectly for little things like 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkn15
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This is by far the best game to enter my DS. Even if you aren't a fan of the Mario Kart series 
 this is an excellently balanced racer. Just Grand Prix mode alone is more that enough reason to 
 buy this game and avoid the real world for at least 30 hours but there are wondrous races to be 
 won online with the new Nintendo Wi-Fi connection which this game is the first to take part in. 
 The online mode may only support 4 players as compared to the LAN-like 8 player matches and cannot 
 play all modes but is still an excellent addition to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE-SALAZAR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  one of the nicest games games ever played for the DS system a must have game not worth much in 
 the price decent price good value in playing online too! anyone says this game is lame or dumb 
 or boring they can stick in their corn hole and smoke it in a pipe. the freind codes are a way 
 to find out if your friends are oline or not if you dont feel like playing agianst some on online 
 in the either rivals regeional or world wide just ask a friend that you know that has a broad band 
 connection and a wireless router and if HE/SHE lives some where else E-mail them from either nintendo 
 the official website or if you know that person as a pen pal in your aim or E-mail address ask 
 them if they have that game and ask for the freind code. No wireless router or broadband connetion 
 just go to your local hot spot and play there for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guile1001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the one game I really, really wanted for my DS, and I got it and have not put it down yet! 
 From the very easy 50 cc mode to the extreme 150 cc difficulty it just makes you say I more try 
 over and over again. From the wide selection of tracks and karts to the super cool hidden R. O. B 
 character this game will keep you going or hours and hours and hours the only thing I felt need 
 a little more work is the fact that some of the karts are a little faster than others but thats 
 o. k with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralem1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  When I bought the game I wasnt expecting much of it. I had an idea what it was going to be like 
 and I knew what to expect. You have a selection of 8 characters to choose and each have 2 karts. 
 The Single player is average and is exactly what I suspected a Grand Prix mode, Missions, Vs, Time 
 Trials, and Battle. Overall the single player is easy to beat. There are many characters and karts 
 to unlock in the Grand Prix, but everything else to me seems pointless. The greatest part about 
 the game has to be the Wi-Fi. At first I was a didn't understand how it worked and how to set it 
 up, but as long as you have a wireless router or a usb Wi-Fi connector it is very simple. I started 
 up the game and the game did everything for me. It found my wireless router, and saved it to the 
 ds, and I just started playing. The multiplayer is amazing. Whenever my brother is watching tv 
 or Im bored at my friends house, I can whip out the ds and it finds my or my friends router. Barely 
 any lag, and even if your bad and always in last place then you pick up good items, and always 
 have a chance. The one multiplayer problem I had is that I cant find my online stats. You can log 
 on to nintendo. com and find out your online activity, but I cant find my win to loss ratio. Overall 
 I believe this games multiplayer is amazing, and the single player to be a average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendomaruigi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This in my oppinion is the best DS game yet. The Wi-Fi is asowme and so is single player. This 
 for me would be a reason to get a DS (if i didnt already have one) . Call me a fanboy if you want 
 but this game is worth a 10.0 The unlockables are very fun to try and get and also you can race 
 as R. O. B. There are two new items. Known as the killers Bs which are the bullit bill and the blooper 
 which are very helpful. The graphics and gameplay are also very goodbut unfornatley there are no 
 boundries in some places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legnaleugim2003
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best kart game I have ever played I am takling of kart games of cartoon 
 character. I recommend this game to everyone because of all the tracks old and new 32 in total. This 
 game have all it needs to be in the list of the best games of the year if we are only talking about 
 ds games, but what makes this game so especial is the wi-connection that let you compete up to eight 
 people this can take the replay value to 100 hours or more of fun with with other people or with 
 your friends. So I encourage you no matter what other game you want for the ds you should buy this 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario247
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:  simply the best !! what more could you ask for it combines flat out racing with the fun of weapons, 
 it looks like mario kart: dd but it isnt its so much more !!! im hooked ill need counciling to get 
 off this and i mean it !
  ok it may have a lil less charecters then the other mario karts but who cares the carts rock my 
 socks ! it really does push the ds limits to the max i can see this game becoming a all time classic 
 if you havent alredy got a ds i sugest u get 1 for christmas with mario kart !!!!!! wooooooooooo 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanng1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  I have recently bought Mario kart ds and it is a brilliant game. I have used the online feature 
 which allows you to connect the ds online to play people from anywhere. It was very competitive 
 knowing there's a real person providing me challenge. The other modes like the balloon battle and 
 shine runners are also great as me and my sister enjoy playing it. This game is very easy to complete 
 as it took me round about one day to complete. If you are thinking what game to get I would highly 
 recommend this game, as it is the best game in my ds collection so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyamsha
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This is an incredible game that shows everybody how nintendo can take the 1st place again on video 
 games.
  
  First of all incredible fun to play alone the cups and release all characters and cars, u will 
 spend some time getting all. The new tracks are amaizing the bowser castle (wow) the peach garden 
 (nice) the cheap cheap beach (beatifull) the waluigi pinball (creative) .
  
  Second its very fun to play missons, its a nice way to teach how to play and how to drive but wait 
 thats not all.... u can play of curse on wifi, what do u else whant????
  This is the true revolution and nintendo its taking back the line of incredibles games to play 
 for life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunisherAB
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a great and solid game, best racing game I played in years. Mario Kart DS is the game Every 
 DS owner should have. 
  
  This game has 16 great levels, plus it has 16 old ones from every Mario kart game ever made. These 
 tracks are fun and are a blast to play. All My favorite characters have return, with so new ones 
 that I like, Like Dry Bones.
  
  Online mode is fun, I like to play it all the time against people that I don't know, by playing 
 wi-fi worldwide mode. I play all the Time and My Username is Pertoria.
  
  So if you like mario kart and like online, then you'll LOVE Mario Kart DS.
  If you have a PSP 
 and Love Mario Kart, then sell the PSP and get a Nintendo DS, beacuse it's worth it to have a DS 
 and Mario Kart.
  
  I give it a A+
  For a Great and fun game, that has online play and great gameplay. 
  And of Course, It's Mario 
 Kart!
  
  AB Crew 2005 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g4supercraz1111
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This is far the best Mario Kart because the long crazed courses. What keeps it from being perfect 
 is the items. It not the weapons that were in the game but, the quality. The red shell half the time 
 couldn't hit anybody and I could easily tell the difference between the item box and the fake item 
 box. The positives were the multiplayer, wifi connection and the ability to play battle in single 
 player mode. The negative were the items and the kart choice. I also like that eight people or cpu 
 play battle at once. This is one thing that Mario Kart DS has the advantage over the previous Mario 
 Karts. The mission mode was okay it didn't bring to much excitement to the gameplay. It was something 
 to do after you beat GrandPrix in all cups. The wifi connection was a wonderful surprise that Nintendo 
 brought to Mario Kart. It was only one factor that made the wireless connection more enjoyable than 
 the online play. That you couldn't play the battle mode. There were only a few misses in the game 
 but, Mario Kart DS is the best Mario Kart that I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFish62
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  When Super Mario Kart debuted on the Super Nintendo in 1992, it brought with it an entirely new 
 genre of mascot racing mayhem. For his next outing on the N64, Mario upped the competition and 
 created one of the best racing titles available at the time. Since then, Mario Kart has graced 
 the screens of Nintendos Game Boy Advance, the GameCube, and even Japanese arcades. Although Mario 
 Kart DS lacks the innovative team-based mechanic of its GameCube predecessor, this portable version 
 is perhaps the best entry in the mascot racing genre since the plumbers first SNES outing.
  
  All of the familiar single-player racing modes make their return in Mario Kart DS, in addition 
 to a few new features. The portable title contains eight grand-prix competitions containing four 
 races each. Half of these tracks are new, well-designed courses that are a blast to play. The other 
 16 tracks are borrowed from each of the previous Mario Kart titles to form the games four Retro 
 Cups. While some of the track choices are questionable, they do make for four well-rounded Grand 
 Prix competitions. It should be noted, however, that a number of the GameCube courses have been 
 altered in order to make online racing more balanced. As always, Grand Prix competitions may 
 be held in 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc classes. As you progress through the game, youll unlock a fourth 
 class, 150cc mirror mode, which will effectively double the number of tracks by forcing you to 
 race backwards. Youll also notice that speed, opponent aggression, and computer skill will increase 
 steadily with increasing class.
  
  In addition to the traditional Grand Prix mode, Mario Kart DS includes time trial matches in which 
 you can unlock staff ghosts by approaching their best times. You also have the option of competing 
 in single-player VS. or Battle matches against the computer. When selecting a Battle match, you 
 may choose between the classic Balloon Battle or the relatively new Shine Runners. In Balloon Battle, 
 the player is tasked with bursting all of his opponents balloons with items hes picked up on 
 any of the games six battle arenas. The unique features of the DS, however, let the player re-inflate 
 his balloons by blowing into the microphone. The object of Shine Runners is simply to collect more 
 Shine Sprites than your opponents. Those players with fewer Shines will be booted from the match 
 over time, and the winner is ultimately the last player standing. Mario Kart DS also offers a single-player 
 mode that is entirely new to the series. In Mission Mode, the player can choose from a variety 
 of tasks that focus on various skills necessary to master kart racing. For example, you may be 
 asked to perform a certain number of power-slide turbo boosts in one lap, collect coins, or defeat 
 one of seven familiar bosses from the Mario universe. While Mission Mode doesnt exactly bring 
 anything new to the genre, it does offer a fun diversion when youve only got a few minutes to 
 pick up and play your DS.
  
  The first time you play Mario Kart, youll be able to choose from eight classic characters, each 
 of whom has two karts to choose from. As you progress through the Grand Prix competitions, many 
 more racers and karts will become available, including a nice surprise from Nintendos past. Each 
 kart has a number of attributes that you should be aware of before making your choice. As in previous 
 versions of Mario Kart, speed, acceleration, weight, handling, and drift all have noticeable impacts 
 on how your kart performs on the track. New to the series, however, is an Items feature that dictates 
 the quality of weapons youll receive from the games numerous question blocks. If youre tired 
 of always getting bananas when youre in first place, youll want to choose a kart that has a good 
 Items rating.
  
  The DS version of Mario Kart also includes three new power-ups that complement an already outstanding 
 line-up of items. Taking advantage of both screens, the new Blooper item squirts ink in front of 
 the drivers eyes so that the player is forced to rely on the surprisingly accurate and nearly 
 SNES-quality lower screen map. Although driving over a speed boost or using a mushroom will quickly 
 clean off any ink, Blooper is still a fun item to throw at your friends. If youre a racer who 
 frequently finds himself frustrated somewhere in the lower ranks, Bullet Bill will be your new 
 best friend. If youre lucky enough to use this new power-up, you and your kart will be transformed 
 into the infamous projectile as you plow through your opponents on auto-pilot. Its great for catching 
 up in a pinch. The final power-up addition, the Bob-omb, is tricky to master. Like the banana and 
 fake question mark, it can be thrown ahead or dropped behind your kart, only to blow up a few moments 
 later. Timing is difficult, but landing a Bob-omb hit can be oh-so satisfying.
  
  Of course, Mario Kart DS offers the same amazing visuals and sound that gamers have come to expect 
 from the series. Each character (with the exception of Donkey Kong and his desperate need for dental 
 work) and every kart are beautifully detailed. And although the SNES and GBA courses are of somewhat 
 lower quality than their N64 or GameCube counterparts, each arena is instantly recognizable as 
 classic Kart. The games sound effects are also vintage Mario Kart, and youll find yourself quietly 
 cursing under your breath as the hum of that infernal blue shell slowly approaches.
  
  Despite the systems lack of an analog stick, the control scheme maps nicely onto the DS. Thankfully, 
 Nintendo didnt bother tinkering with the touch screen. The D-pad remains faithful to the titles 
 SNES roots, and power-slides are easily controlled with the R button. If you ever get tired from 
 playing Mario Kart, it wont be for lack of a good control scheme.
  
  Where Mario Kart DS truly shines, however, and what sets it apart from its predecessors, is its 
 incredibly entertaining multi-player modes. With just a single copy of the game, you can race or 
 battle up to seven opponents. Although there are restrictions on character and circuit choice when 
 using one copy, youll also find exclusive content (like the ability to use Shy Guy as your racer) . 
 If you and your friends all have copies of the game, get ready to try out every circuit, character, 
 and kart that youve unlocked in an eight-player free-for-all.
  
  Its easy to see why Nintendo chose Mario Kart DS as their flagship title to launch the Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection. Getting online is simple and easy to do from home or one of the nations increasing 
 number of Wi-Fi hotspots (Starbucks, McDonalds, etc.) . Unlike Sonys PSP, which maintains online 
 network settings from the systems main menu, all of Nintendos connection settings are managed 
 in-game. Nintendowifi. com lists wireless routers that are supported by Nintendo, as well as a search 
 engine for finding hotspots in your area.
  
  Once you get online, you can search for up to 36 of your closest friends or rivals. Youll also 
 be able to compete with regional opponents who are in the same country as you, or worldwide. Four 
 players are supported in each race, and only 20 of the games 32 tracks are available. Online races 
 consist of four-track Grand Prix events, and each player can vote on which course he wants next. 
 The only frustrating aspect of Mario Kart online is that there is currently no way to prevent sore 
 losers from ducking out of a race when they fall behind. But dont let this minor setback prevent 
 you from experiencing the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. It offers free, unlimited replay value for 
 an already superb title.
  
  Mario Kart DS is one of the best reasons to own a Nintendo DS. If youre a long-time fan of the 
 series, youll find enough new content to keep you entertained for hours on end. And if youre 
 new to this quirky, yet engaging genre, youll begin to wonder what kind of cave youve been living 
 in all this time. Nintendo chose a great series to launch its Wi-Fi Connection service, and, because 
 the added hours of entertainment are completely free of charge, they can even be forgiven for the 
 glaring lack of the SNES Rainbow Road. Well done, Nintendo. Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pop1039
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Has all the characters that we love from Nintendo i. e. Mario, Yoshi. Only 1 game card required 
 to play with up to 7 friends. A great amount of unlockables. Online enabled. Just plain fun.
  
  Cons: Don't have a USB connector? Don't have a wirless router? Go to a public place i. e. McDonalds 
 to play online.
  
  Just like the previous Mario Karts, this one comes standard with your Grand Prix mode, Time Trials, 
 and VS., and Battle. Two new modes are introduced in this version. Missions and the Nintendo WFC 
 (WiFi Connection.... meaning you can play online for teh n00bcakez out there) . There's also the 
 lan WiFi multiplayer.
  
  The Grand Prix mode consist of the Nitro Grand Prix and the Retro Grand Prix. In the Nitro Grand 
 Prix there are 4 cups with brand new courses while the Retro Grand Prix consists of 4 cups featuring 
 your favorite classic Mario Kart courses. There's 50cc, 100cc, 150cc and Mirror Mode makes a return. 
 In mirror mode all the tracks are flipped.
  
  Time Trials lets you race on an empty course for your best time. You can send your data to your 
 friends and they can try to beat it and viceversa. Also, each track comes with a staff ghost that 
 you can race against. A staff ghost is the data of a Nintendo staff mamber that recorded his/her 
 time. These ghosts are very hard to beat.
  
  Vs. mode is just racing on a track you pick with bots. This mode is basically like Grand Prix but 
 you choose on a specific track to race on. It may not sound it, but this mode adds great replay 
 value.
  
  Battle mode has bots in it finally! There's Baloon Battle and Shine Runners. In Balloon Battle 
 you start with only one balloon. In order to have more balloons you must press and hold select 
 to blow up balloons. In Shine Runners, whoever collects the most shines before the time expires 
 wins. However, getting hit with an item makes you drop your shines.
  
  Mission mode includes all kinds of crazy tasks with varying difficulties. Some missions are as 
 simple as collecting the rings while others may be as hard as performing 15 power drift boosts 
 in one lap.
  
  1 game card is all that is required for 8 friends to enjoy a heated battle or race ( dont forget 
 the ds kids ) . When using 1 game card, the game is limited seeing as your friend can only be Shy 
 Guy and not all courses are avalaible.
  
  The WFC is a great feature with a ton of potential. The bad thing is that you can only race with 
 up to 4 players online. Also, there is no battle mode online and some tracks are unavalaible.
 
  
  This version of Mario Kart is the best so far and if you aren't a Mario Kart racer already try 
 this one out you will enjoy it. The WFC is extremely fun but could use more work but with patches 
 coming up I'm sure Nintendo will add the things we all want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottB2345
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has always had a special place in my heart, unlike other game companies. It makes me so 
 sad to see what has been happening to most of the gaming industry lately. Where most of it has 
 been corrupted by money, horrible advertising, and horrible games. "Hey son, do you want to go 
 buy the latest copy of "terrible gameplay ' 05"?, no thanks mom, I'm gonna hold out for "Same Bad 
 Game '06" on the new high definition system so that I can really see how poor the character animations 
 and physics are, IN HIGH DEF!!!
  
  My review of Mario Kart DS
  
  Good:
  Legendary controls
  Unbelievable graphics
  Awesome game-play
  Amazing level design
  Online 
 feature is the best
  
  Bad: 
  Cant hold items behind you while playing online
  Cant use all the tracks while playing online
  DK Pass music is terrible
  The looks on Bowser 
 and DKs faces are disturbing
  Playing against the computer at Mario Kart will never be fun again.
  The ice-cream level in battle 
 mode is terrible
  
  Summary:
  There is absolutely no reason not buy this game immediately if you have a DS. (and if you don't 
 then go buy one) Buy this game now because nobody will ever trade it in and you will never find 
 it used. (because it's so much fun and it never gets old)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twinkle-Toez
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Well to start it off, this is a great game all around. Controls are great, sound is perfect, Graphics 
 well done and gameplay is maximum! First off the only negative thing about this game is the graphics. 
 And even those are great! Its just the little sharp pictures every now and then. Dont get me wrong... but 
 I think just a minute or two more work on the graphics would have made this game 100% perfect. 
 But i'm not complaing... another thing wrong about this game is nothing! I just wish there were 
 more newer levels. Not to spoil anything, but I like Rainbow Road the best. Hint Hint... A great 
 game!!! Go buy it, its worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xflopped
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:28 am PT
Review:  One of the few first games for the DS to include the brand new Wi-Fi ability, Mario Kart DS makes 
 itself known as one of the best Nintendo DS games to date.
  
  First off, MK: DS is a great game and assured enjoyement, though there are some new installements 
 to the series as well as some theat were taken away. Mario and the gang are back at it, yet those 
 of you who liked the two players on a single kart option may just be dissapointed. Though, it won't 
 stop you from playing with your friends or over a WiFi connection.
  
  Also, a great addition is drifting. Just like in the preceeding Mario Kart 64, you're now able 
 to do a simple jump once more though now, using this you may quickly turn around corners causing 
 you to gain some time, and not only that but if you repeadetly press left and right on the D-pad, 
 you'll be able to perform a small boost this time allowing you to gain speed as if you took half 
 a mushroom.
  
  In total there are 36 karts to collect and a couple hidden characters, one of which you might remember 
 from all your time spent playing some great games on your NES. It includes the original grand prix 
 mode with the option of 50cc, 100cc, 150cc and the unlockable mirror mode. Then, there's the old 
 time trials and battle mode, and great news, Block Fort is back! Then later, there's the wireless 
 multiplayer mode.
  
  The tracks are composed of two types of races -- Nitro and Retro. Nitro, is all the new tracks and 
 courses added in MK: DS, some of my favorites are the Tick Tock clock- taken straight from the level 
 of Super Mario 64 and the Airship Fortress- Those enemy ships from Super Mario World 3. Now, the 
 Retro races are a collection of tracks from previous Mario Kart games. They all start with a track 
 from the SNES game and move on to the N64 version and later the GBA version only to finish off 
 with the GCN version. A great idea on Nintendo's part for all the MK fans.
  
  Now, the most anticipated part of the game is the WiFi function. If you have a wireless router 
 at home, you're basically all set. If you don't, you can simply buy a USB connector from Nintendo. 
 These things come with a two minute installation and the small, wireless machine. Once you have 
 this ready, you can start playing from the get-go. Simply tap on the WFC option in the game and 
 connect to the internet with a press of a button. Once the DS has found a source, you can have 
 the option to search for gamers worldwide or in your region and wait until it finds some players 
 you can rival against. 
  
  In conclusiuon, if you own a DS but not Mario Kart, go buy it right away beore I'm forced to steal 
 your money and buy it for you. Whether you're in the casual crowd or an avid gamer, you'll enjoy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonnyhe2002
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:58 am PT
Review:  I've been play this for a week now and i just want to say this game is one of the best DS games 
 out right now. Although the graphic is not superb, it instantly bring me back to the nintendo era, 
 where gaems were simple and simply fun. The old school gamers will enjoy it and the new school 
 gamers will know why old shool gamers like these games. This is the best party/racing game for 
 the DS and even the PSP. The shear fun of it make me come back for more and more. Also it has networking 
 so i can play with other pople and say things to them like "Eat my dust and shells". But i haven't 
 play the networking feature yet. Nintendo is just one of those companies you could rely on for great 
 and perfect games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrownBoy90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:21 am PT
Review:  My review is solely in response to one I saw on this very site, which gave the game around 4.2! 
 Now I won't name the user, I mean he's obviously lost his child within and I feel sorry for him. 
 Why do I feel sorry for him I hear you shout! Well think of it like this, Mario Kart DS is one 
 of the best Mario Karts in the series, the feeling you get from 8 players LAN is magical! It gives 
 me the same feeling as when I first got Super Mario Kart on the Snes. This guy cannot see that 
 and so... you have to feel sad for him, I think it's time people like thats stopped playing video 
 games and took up something more fitting to their frame of mind... like... reading or pottery.
 
  
  The game as a whole took a wrong turn when the Cube version was released; I did not like that version 
 as much as the others. So I was hoping for the DS version to bring it back into pole position. 
 Nintendo have not let me down, thought there is one thing that I still am aggrieved about WHERE 
 ARE THE COINS??
  
  The slip streaming is a great addition, its so good, when I go back to other versions, the fact 
 that it is not included it very noticeable.
  
  This game is one of the best I have played this year and I really dont think that you can own 
 a DS and not have a copy of it. I read some reviews going on about how it could have been better, 
 how the game doesnt use the touch screen enough just because its there, it doesnt mean you 
 have to over use it. Though it would be handy if Nintendo had included a track editor, one for 
 the future I think.
  
  There are some nice new tracks in there and I love the mission modes, they keep me coming back.
 
  
  I would have liked to have been able to save more than one emblem, and it would have been great 
 to have those coins back in as I feel they are as much a part of this game as a red shell is.
 
  
  All in all though this is a game that makes you happy, angry (when you are just about to finish 
 1st and then a blue shell drops on your head, leaving you 5th!!!!) and like a kid again. 
  
  I cannot wait for the revolution version!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattarat
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:26 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart, a game first introduced on the SNES, then the N64, Then on GBA and then on NGC. Now 
 it has blasted its way onto the DS and has some amazing things that i only just found out the other 
 day. The story... uh, well there isn't one. All you do is race. When the menu loads up and you 
 go into single player, there's so much to do. Grand Prix, Time Trials, Vs, Battle and Missions. 
 In grand prix you get to choose from your favorite character, which have 2 karts to choose from. 
 (Here is one of the things i found out, when you finish the nitrp grand prix and retro grand prix 
 you can unlock new character and karts. Another plesent suprise is the retro cup, it has circuits 
 from all the Mario karts ever made, so you can race on moo moo farm from N64, sky garden from GBA 
 and mushroom bridge from GCN. I simply can't wait till my mates get it and we can race or battle 
 against each other. But if there not around and your in the right area, you can access the WiFi 
 and play with people around the world. I bet your thinking, where are these hotspots, well just 
 go to www. nintendowifi. com and you can find them. Nintendo have thought of everything, because 
 if your not near a hotspot, you can buy a special USB connecter that plugs into your broadband 
 (which you need) and then play with people around the world. This is a must buy for any DS owner's 
 still out there who haven't sold or traded there DS's for PSP's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshinator64
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  First there was Super Mario Kart, Then Mario Kart 64, Then the really cool Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. 
 Comes along Mario Kart DS the greatest of them all!
  
  Mario Kart DS has new tracks and old tracks which is really cool.
  
  The DS dosn't use it's 
 touch technongly that well but who cares? it takes very good advantage of haveing two screens. 
 Top for your driver and bottom for map, oncoming object's and The name of opponets the bottom screen 
 is very usufull you can even look at that and win (i did once)
  
  If you have friends with a DS but no Mario Kart?? No need to fear DS download play is here. You 
 and eight friends can play MKDS at the same time using only ONE game card. Which can be immpressive 
 if you actually have eight friends with DS's.... (i don't but let's progress)
  
  MKDS has single player VS. and Battle mode. (battle mode rocks!) the VS. mode I find is pointless 
 if your just by yourself it's just like playing Grand Prix mode just picking wherever you want 
 to go. Battle mode rocks! i only play ballon battle (and if you have i'm pretty sure you do too!) 
 rarther than Shine Theif.
  
  This game also has an all new mission mode. Which is okay it's easy to beat you have to fight Mario 
 Bosses which is really cool. But that's about it for mission
  
  The best thing of the game that i can think of would have to be the Wi-Fi mode. it's very very 
 VERY easy to connect just go to a W-Fi enabled place (like McDonalds. chechk www. NintendoWi-Fi. com 
 for more about that) when you play MKDS online not all the tracks are there but at least a good 
 number are. There's also no lag meaning the game dosen't stop and then go like my heart beat. Connecting 
 is easy and fun. you can challange anybody pretty much at anytime.
  
  With all of this being said I think that Mario Kart DS for the DS is worhty of geting a 10 out 
 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmkj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Like I said... WOW! This game is a real wow! ANd with the all-new wi-fi connection, fantastically 
 wow! I never thought of a portable system playing around the world. Now, I love the DS even more! 
 This game is an absolute knockout! Bestsellers at all game stores! This game (like the others that 
 they're coming out with) is like playing or talking over the internet. Everyone who plays sees what 
 other players are seeing on their screen and a touch of a button will act the same on your DS as 
 on all the other players DS! I dont know how else to explain this game. See the commercials and 
 hear it on http://nintendowifi. com/. This game has gone wi-fi even in the deepest of the worlds! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The latest installment in the Mario Kart series is by far the best yet. Mario Kart DS combines 
 all the best elements of the previous Karts into one fantastic package.
  Take advanced powerslides from the GCN, hops from N64, and tracks from SNES, GBA, N64, GCN, and 
 some DS riginals, and you have a fantastic game called Mario Kart DS. The new version revives balloon 
 battle and takes another crack at shine battles. Add to that short range wireless play for up to 
 8 player races or battles, and online grand prix wi-fi for 4 players, and this game gets all the 
 sweeter.
  The music is fun and original, the tracks are varied with little secrets thrown in, and the action 
 is intense. This is a MUST buy for any DS owner, wi-fi or not. Why are you still here? Go buy Mario 
 Kart DS now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdioSkater0085
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is everything it is said to be if not better!
  I love the many different ways to play! Gran Prix, VS., Battle, and Mission, They all keep things 
 new and fun.
  I also like the fact that u can be on teams in VS. mode. Its another one of those twists in this 
 games great gameplay that makes the game wat it is... Awsome. Items and tracks are great and wont 
 displease. Mission mode definately keeps things interesting and it made for another very solid 
 mode in this game. All in all 35 bucks is way worth this very very impressive and wat i give the 
 best in series Mario Kart DS will not disappoint!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjfoku1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is just so fun. It has over 30 courses great multiplaying action and the wi-fi is just 
 amazing but they could of added more characters in the game. Besides that the game is just perfect 
 the game has crisp and clean graphic and it has great sound for a hand held game. To finish this 
 review i would recommened this game for people of all ages and for people who just want to take 
 a break from all of the same shooting and plat forming games and just play something that is just 
 all out shell throwing fun. this would be a great game for the holidays 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darcybaston
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Intro
  Mario Kart. Only in this game can you enjoy the greatest parts of arcade racing like stats, drifts 
 and wickedly creative courses. Throw in a WiFi enabled connection and you've got all the world 
 as your circuit!
  
  This is one slick game. It's much more exacting than the GameCube version and I find that the skills 
 I build in MKDS are vastly improving my performance on the GC. Nice.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are smooth and consistent and it doesn't lag at all during online play. The sound 
 is amusing and adds to the atmosphere of individually themed tracks. Notification text is still 
 a bit unattractive as there's fill in characters like 'o' and 'd', but it's more a franchise branding 
 than a loss of prettiness. 
  
  AI meets RI (Real Intelligence)
  If you think computer players are interesting challenges, wait until you meet human mastery! There 
 are some people out there that can do insane things with the least likely of karts and odd parts 
 of race tracks. I keep running into this one player who can bounce his Yoshi egg to the extreme 
 left and right edges of straight pavement (like in the Figure 8 track) so that the speed boost 
 remains somewhat permanently ON. And it's a boost that mushrooms and star powerups can't catch 
 up to. NUTS! 
  
  Get on track with the rest of the world
  It's 3am and you've got insomnia. Somewhere else, somebody's just waking up and another is taking 
 a lunch break. Know what you've got there? COMPETITION! It's an incredible concept that's not brand 
 new, but the experience is so smooth and easy, it feels it: people of the world are there to race 
 you 24/7. Somebody's always up somewhere. After a couple weeks of racing at various times of the 
 day, I'll tell you that you may not always get a race put together in just seconds, but within 
 a minute or two, you're set. TIP: If you can't find somebody in either Friend, Regional or Rivals, 
 opt for Worldwide which blasts open the portal of eligibility. You'll meet tougher challenges that 
 way too.
  
  Gameplay
  Although you'll feel zippy on 150cc grand prix when playing alone, the WiFi connection mode defaults 
 to a slower setting. This doesn't take away from the gameplay experience in any way. Things may 
 not blur by as quickly, but the importance of being technically accurate with your drifts, item 
 timing and shortcuts becomes paramount. This will keep up the hand-cramp factor for ya. As well 
 as your teeth grinding.
  
  Stats
  Most of the stats you'd like to see are there. But where they're displayed more prominently online 
 is at NintendoWiFi. com. The verbose stats of the game reflect single player off-line use. For online 
 play, you get an assortment of win/loss stats but little else. 
  
  I win! I.. uh... lost?
  The online play does have occasional glitches. Sometimes you'll clearly come in first, and on the 
 summary screen be displayed as being in second place. Weird? Only for a short period. The win/loss 
 screen stays on top of more accurate results behind the scenes. So even if you seem to have lost 
 on a track here and there and you feel you should have been first, the win/loss screen will more 
 accurately reflect it. Of course, sometimes you're second and end up in 1st, which I'm sure is 
 where the "nya nya" kicks in guilt-free.
  
  For the price, there's an insane amount of gameplay in MKDS. Once you tire of positions and timing, 
 you can go for a purer form of achievement by completing the missions section. Unlockables abound, 
 so replay poor rankings as much as you can to get as many stars as you can!
  
  Being able to lie in bed in the morning while sipping coffee, or sitting at a coffee bar with a 
 jolt of something-something, and race... is one sweet deal. You won't be disappointed. Nintendo 
 got this one RIGHT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBGohan2005
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  Please if your going to say that a DS game stinks don't compare it to PSP. Some of us just have 
 a DS. Give a real reason besides oh my psp is better. Personally I'm getting this game because 
 I think it's a good game. People who give this game a low ranking and have a psp don't know how 
 to rank because they havee a psp. You have to look at it in the world of DS not psp. For those 
 who give a low ranking to this game who don't compare it to their psp, good job. That's ok. I mean 
 personally in my opinion I don't like the psp because expensive and costs like a ps2 when it first 
 came out. Also the psp does the same thing as the ps2. So if you have a ps2 why get a psp. Anyways 
 who knows it just my opinion i don't care if you disagree because this is just me. I'm not getting 
 a DS till Christmas. so ya this'll be my first DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kbs64
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:38 am PT
Review:  1...
  2...
  3...
  GO
  Its Mario Kart and you can take him anywhere. Even on the toilet. Thank you Nintendo, the world 
 owes you a great amount of praise for now I can kick anyone in the world while sitting on the john. 
 
  
  Thanks to the power of Wi-Fi and the Nintendo DS you can literally kick some serious "sh*t" and 
 leave your opponents "flushed" in the dust. 
  
  With all the little tweaks and additions. Mario Kart DS feels new and refreshing Not only that 
 but you got to revisit some of the most popular Mario Kart tracks from every single game in the 
 series. Remember how much fun and easy it was to be drifting on Moo Moo Farm on the N64 while trying 
 to avoid those crazy moles? Or drive across Mario Circuit 1 from the SNES? If you don't remember 
 then all I have to say to you is, "Shame, Shame on you". If youre a little kid thats at least 
 8 years or younger... well I guess I could let this one "drift" (slide) .. haha. Anyways, all those 
 popular retro classics are back for more kart racing mayhem. 
  
  Mario Kart has all the popular game modes that we have all grown to love. The "Grand Prix" 50cc, 
 100cc and the 150cc are here. Time Trails with ghost mode where you get to race against your self 
 is here as well. The cool thing about this is that you get to send and receive ghostly racers from 
 other Mario kart users with Local LAN. Verse Mode is here and Battle Mode is here as well. The 
 new addition to Mario Kart is the Mission Mode where you got to duke it out with characters from 
 past Nintendo games. This game mode helps create more verity. Not that Mario Kart needed it as 
 it is fantastic game on it own but it sure helps. 
  
  Its Multiplayer options are great and easy. You can tell that Nintendo put a lot of time and care 
 to make it as easy as possible. For Multiplayer users that wish to play against other local friends. 
 There are 2 options. One is "Normal Mode" that requires every Nintendo DS user to have a copy of 
 Mario Kart. Then there's "Simple Mode". Just as the name applies, its a simple version of the 
 game. The gameplay and graphics and sound are surprisingly intact but anyone that doesnt have 
 a Mario Kart will have to download and play as a shy guy while the person with the full version 
 gets to decided who they want to play as. And I think that totally blows and makes me very sad. 
 On the other hand the game feels and plays fantastic regardless. With Multiplayer you get to play 
 "Balloon Battle" which is always well you know fun. The weird thing... you start off with one balloon, 
 leaving you the option to blow into your mic to inflate the balloon or press the select button. 
 I'm sure the whole gaming community will agree with me when I say, "Mario Kart DS, you leave me 
 breathless. And that is no joke". The other mode is "Shine Runners" where you could guess but I'll 
 tell you anyway, "YOU CHASE THOSE STARS from Super Mario Sunshine. 
  
  Other things you get to do are create your own emblem that you use with your touch screen. The 
 emblem is placed on your racers car for everyone to see. This little feature doesn't do anything 
 for gameplay but does let you customize your Kart a little bit. Oh ya did I forget to mention that 
 you get to create your own nickname ... isn't that amazing... "Wow". 
  
  The most interesting aspect is Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection that allows you to play against anyone 
 on a global status. Its very easy to get online as long as you have a compatible wireless router. 
 If you don't, then you be having a hard time getting online. If you don't have a wireless router.. 
 You can buy a Nintendo Wi-Fi USB Connector at Nintendo. com and purchase it for the small price 
 of ($34.95) .
  
  Control is tight and responsive and you have lots to unlock such as tracks, karts and hidden characters. 
 Graphics and sound is rich like Bill Gates piggy bank. And no matter how many times you hear those 
 beats, they just never get old. The game is fun and looks beautiful with no graphical hiccups. 
 On or off line, playing online works just as well. All the characters are right where they're supposed 
 to be. 
  
  Nintendo has done it again and brought us a charming and wonderful game with tons to do. This is 
 a must buy for any Nintendo DS user wanting try online gameplay or even just play with a friend. 
 Heck this is a good enough game for you to go and buy a Nintendo DS if you haven't yet. This is 
 a gem my friends and this is a game that everyone must have. And for some reason, I haven't been 
 able to put it down yet. 
  
  (revised 1:23AM by Kim Byung Suk Siegling) November 21, 2005
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed about this game.
  
  Gameplay: You can choose from like 10 players and then battle each other. The tracks in this game 
 are big and this game is the first game that features WIFI connection which is awsome.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are the best graphics I have ever seen in a mario game before. 
 The players look awsome, the tracks are great and the modes and cars are incredible.
  
  Sound: The sound of the cars in this game are beautiful. Not to mension the unbelivible soundtracks 
 in this game.
  
  Value: You can play for like 6 hours and then finish the game. The storyline isn't very long but 
 the online feature can last forever.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is the best mario game out there and you should definitely whould 
 like to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The core fighting of the game is most likely not something that hard core fighting gamers would 
 enjoy, but gamers that are less serious about the fighting part of the game would most likely enjoy 
 the fighting, DBZ fan or not. However its not very complex but the characters do have all of their 
 own moves. Each character has a standard energy attack, the most common being Kamehameha. Even 
 though all of the other characters who don't have kamehameha have their own energy attack with 
 a different name, its virtually the exact same thing, but just looks a bit different. However each 
 character does have certain special moves that only they have, but a lot of the special moves are 
 very similar between characters. On the other hand some characters can upgrade their strength, 
 in exchange for constant Ki meter drain. All of your special moves take up Ki, but you gain Ki 
 from successfully hitting an opponent with an attack, or you can charge it up yourself. Anyways 
 for example, Goku can go Super Saiyan if he has a certain amount of Ki gauges, but the Ki gauges 
 will constantly drain, and if he falls down while lower then the required amount he will return 
 to normal. Most characters in the game can "power-up" at least once in this fashion.
  
  Graphics:
  These are definitely some of the nicer cell-shaded graphics I have seen recently. 
 The cool thing is that the characters are cell-shaded to keep the anime feeling of the show in 
 the game, but the backgrounds are all 3D and look pretty good, so everything fits together pretty 
 nicely. There are however a couple graphical problems at some parts but arn't a huge ordeal. Such 
 as Raditz, his hair goes through his armor, but its not really a big deal.
  
  Sound:
  The characters voice acting is done pretty good in the story mode, but the music in the fighting 
 part of the game can get on the repetitive side. The characters also say things in the battles, 
 but their isn't a huge variety in the things that they say. The punches and kicks all sound find 
 but arn't over the top, but the special attacks and energy beams do sound nice.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderJames
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Today we stand in tomorrows doorway to the future, it was no doubt for a Mario Kart game to come 
 out on any Nintendo, but now hes back in the best graphics Nintendo has ever seen. You will start 
 out only the most basic characters, although the you unlock character as you keep beeting grand 
 prixs, the games unlockable characters stillupset me, there shouldn't have been Daisy and should've 
 replaced it with someone a bit more complex like Shadow Mario from Mario Sunshine.
  The graphics I can say stunned me, they were sleek, sexy. and the frame rate was amazing (but it 
 should because a cartidge had no loading times) , the game has no slowdown and has to much gameplay 
 to explain, there is a one player mkission mode, and battle.
  The one thing about Mario Kart Ds, was the wi-fi, its good and/or ok. Nintendo made it to simple, 
 it should have been more complex like a Socom online room, you can create game and have teams of 
 friends, instead you have a variety of stuuf, rivals, regional, worldwide, and of course friends, 
 there arent neccesary ranking to see how you rank in the would, but you sure are given a record, 
 which can sometime show someones hidden talent, my record is 22-40, it may seem bad. Another lag 
 was photo finishes, I was playing my friends one day on Moo-moo Farm, the race ended being up a 
 photo finsh, I finshed in first, then all the sudden in a bout a split second, i was in second, 
 apparently the online server doesnt count photo finshes, and this has happened several times in 
 fact.
  In conclusion, I would recemend Mario Kart to anyone with a Ds, and anyone considering to buy s 
 DS should look in Mario Kart as Well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButtonBasherBW
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Of course, with any Mario Kart the fun comes in the multiplayer. This title, like many other DS 
 games has the ability to upload the game to another DS via their Download Play option. This instantly 
 gives it a good boost in terms of available multiplayer content.
  
  Now, shall we begin with the presentation? Graphics are very smooth, frame rate wise, and very 
 clearly show what they need to show. The only problem that some might face is that the characters 
 can seem a bit blocky, but all is forgiven (and forgotten) when the race actually begins. Once 
 you're out on the field, you couldn't care less about it and just get right into racing hard!
 
  
  That's where it really comes into play - the games feel is just great. For those wondering, it 
 plays more like the N64 version, but with the drifting of Double Dash. Items are around as usual, 
 but it's just unfortunate that there isn't a 'no item' option that Super Circuit had available 
 for a true test of skill.
  
  Among the items comes a few new ones, such as Bullet Bill and Blooper. Haven't seen Bullet Bill 
 much, probably cause that's an item for the last players, but they seem alright.
  
  The sound is great. The DS speakers don't do it justice. Get a pair of headphones, or plug your 
 system into an amplifier and then you'll actually hear it how it was supposed to be heard!
  
  It's got some value with it, but for the better players out there it probably won't last too 
 long unless you love competing in Time Trial or have friends around to play with either online 
 or offline. I don't see this title lasting as long as some with players if they've only got it 
 for the single player. Like a lot of titles, it all comes down to the multiplayer and how often 
 you and your mates like to have a good run at it. Still doesn't compete with something great such 
 as Smash Bros Melee. Now that there is an excellent title to have!
  
  Overall, it's a pretty good game. Definately worth having in your collection of DS games, especially 
 if you liked previous Mario Karts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mik19
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is Reccomended to all readers. Expecially that its only $29.99 f or an excellent game....
 
  Graphics-9- The Graphics were just amazing. Everything was nice. You find sometimes that D. K's 
 arms are a little arritating, bacause they r rectangular.
  But its the DS the graphics kinds suk compared to PSP.
  Gamepaly-8-This is the best singleplayer 
 gametype u can find on the DS right now, cause of the variety of modes ( YES, they have battle mode.)
 
  They have all the old MArio Kart maps plus a variety of more. I rated it an eight, because the 
 online sux. Sometimes i can't even get on even though i have a connection.
  Sound-10- The sound is perfect. There is a little bit of voice talking and good sound efect and 
 BGM... EXcellent for the DS.
  Value-9- This game is worth keeping or later. You might get bored of it in about 14 hours of gameplay. 
 The week later you feel like playing it again.
  Reviers Tilt-10-OVERALL THIS GAME WAS AWESOME SO BUY IT!!!!!!
  ITS ONLY $29.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numberonesbfan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game for any ds owner when i bought it i never regreted it and i still don't it 
 isn't as good a n64s version (my opinion) but nothing beats the classics anyway this is overall 
 the best mario game on ds right now if you think different i don't care 'cause it's my opinion 
 still. if you don't even like mario kart games i think you'll like this because it's kind of like 
 burnout with mario's touch and no adventure (oh well go figure) so i suggest if you have the money 
 and it's there BUY IT!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwen10darrinTn0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS is a great game to have for your DS handheld. It has lots of gametypes and fun maps. 
 The items are various and entertaining. The only thing bad about this game it the short campaign (grand 
 prix) . if you are an avid gamer you might beat this game in about 4-5 or so hours. It gets harder 
 once you beat it and there are a few unlockables but nothing big. The controls are great, and the 
 graphics are ok for a handheld. If your into racers on a handheld you shoud definately get Mario 
 Kart  
 jkddd ddddd dd dd dd dddd d d ddddd dd ddddwwo wwo wo  
 fffffffffffffffffffdsfsfdfafd sfffffffffffffffffee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee  
 eeeeeeeeeeee eeeee e ee ee eeeeee eeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  As every Nintendo and Mario Kart fan knows, Mario Kart is all about the gameplay, and how fun the 
 game is. Well this game is all that, but it just got funner. With the new Mario Kart game for the 
 Nintendo DS comes Online play, now you can race with your friends, with people in your country, 
 or anyone around the world, this is an outstanding game. It didnt take much to beat and get all 
 the karts and racers, but when you do that, if you want to become really good, you will need to 
 go back, race again, and gain 2 stars for each cup and you will get 2 stars by your name for online 
 or wireless gameplay, which really shows how good you are to other people. The game has all new 
 items, all which rock, they have Bullet Bill which you can transform to for a while and pass everyone 
 knocking back people whoever you hit, and Blooper, who can squirt ink on other players screen. 
 Online play is great, and if your lucky, on Thursday at 3pm california time, you can race with 
 real makers of the game, its great. This is a must have for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilinla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played a Mario Kart game before, you have been missing out on the funnest series 
 in video games. Sure, maybe Mario Kart DS is almost identical in Gameplay to the SNES version, 
 but you can't find a fault in the design, gameplay or tracks present in this version once you start 
 playing.
  
  Gameplay: If you watch someone play, you might wonder whether people just love Mario too much and 
 want to give his games high ratings, especially when this game is almost the same in gameplay as 
 it was a decade ago. But, if you ever get ahold of this game, you'll fall in love with it in an 
 instant. Is there a logical explanation for this? No. It simply happens. However, since this game 
 had already been done gameplay wise better with an analog stick, it feels just a tiny bit weird 
 now. It's not bad at all, in fact it's as best as you'll get on a D-Pad, it's just that it might 
 seem like a step back. And, if you're like me and play for hours on end, your thumbs will really 
 whine after a while, no matter how much you tell 'em to shut up. Nothing you can't get over, though!
 
  
  Graphics: Much better than the N64 game. Not quite as good as the Gamecube, though very nice looking 
 nonetheless. Perhaps the best looking DS game so far.
  
  Sound: Great. I like how the made much better the Game Boy tunes. It really shows you the DS's 
 capabilities. Gamecube track songs seem a bit slower and not as good as the others, for some reason.
 
  
  Extras: This game is recomended as both a single player game, and as a multiplayer game. The single 
 player campaign has an amazing amount of things to do. You'll play 24 cups, about 50 different 
 little missions, play with up to 8 computers battle and shine runners, along with versus, and race 
 against yourself in Time Trials. Time Trials in past games seemed very boring, but this time around 
 it is much more attractive. Plus, there are many unlckables, so that is another incentive to keep 
 coming back to this game.
  
  Mulitplayer, however, is much more hectic and fun. I won't say about online, because you probably 
 already know, but it is fun (although TOO limited) .
  
  In the end, with its amazing new tracks, bells and whistles, and collection of old tracks, this 
 Mario Kart is trully amazing and deep. Don't miss out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellowrockview
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  this game is just abousoluty FFIN INCREDIBLE.
  
  
  
  ill start with the gameplay-10/10
  the controls are absoulty perfect they rule you can drift 
 boost and lots of other kuwel features. proboly the best gameplay feature is the fact it DOSENT 
 use the ds touch screen b4 this game came out i was prayin it didnt hav any touch screen features 
 and exept 4 the menus and makin ure kart symbol thts all it has the controls have been redifined 
 perfectly and are incredible u can race while firin a shell while drift boosting there tht gud.
 
  
  graphics-99/10 
  the graphics r incredible they are very very well defined charectors and karts. if anything this 
 game luks better than double dash!!!!!!! i realy cant say anything more about the graphics exepct 
 they rule.
  
  sound-10/10
  the plinky plonky mario kart tunes are amazing.
  theres a different tune 4 each race and there all amazing remeroble tunes the sound effects and 
 fun little voice acting like mario saying "yahoo" for example its incredable sound i wouldent change 
 a thing.
  
  value-998/10
  there are so many mario kart tracks in this there are sum races from former mario kart versions 
 these are, snes , n64 , gba , and last but not least gamecube. but there not crapper races u hate 
 there the best 1s from the game like luigies circuit or moo moo farm there all incredable and provide 
 hours of endless play. there a 3 difficulty levels in the grand prix portion of mario kart ds these 
 are also the speed of the kart these are 50cc 100cc and 150cc. there are 8 cups in total 4 of which 
 are retro cups which feature tracks from old mario kart games and 4 normal cups. theres also a 
 time trial mode were u pick a race and try 2 do 3 laps in the fastest time possible if u get a 
 fast time u can unlock a staff ghost this person is a absoloute boff at this game there time is 
 always the fastest and is hard 2 beat. theres a battle mode were u can play 2 battle games ballon 
 battle were u have 2 blow up ballons either by holdin the select buttons or blowin in the microfone 
 and beat computer opponents buy destroyin there ballons.
  theres also shine runners were u hav 2 collect the most amont of shines in a time limit then the 
 people with the least amount of shines gets knocked of and so on and so forth until theres 1 person 
 left standing. theres 9 battle maps so of which are new and sum of which are classics from old 
 mario kart games there all quite fun to play on. 
  theres also a versus mode ware u play against computer opponents and just pick howevermany races.
 
  theres wireless multiplayer were u pick a race and race . 
  but the big thing is nintendo wifi were u play against other opponents.
  
  This game is so 
 incredible u just cant help smiling i would recommend this 2 any 1 hu has a ds absouloutly incredible.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeless_hobo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:20 am PT
Review:  Okay if you like the Mario Kart franchise this should be one of your favourite games on the DS. 
 When i first bought this game i played the single player Grand Prix for a while and maybe an online 
 race once in a while. I beat all cc modes and all the missions in a matter of 2 days. After that 
 i started playing online, now after a while ( in my opinion! ) this game starts to get old and 
 repeditive.
  
  Graphics ( 10/10 )
  
  These are some of the best graphics I've ever seen on the DS, although nothing revolutionary.
 
  
  Gameplay ( 8/10 )
  
  Now if you have big hands, this might be a little complicated for you. Because the X, Y, B, and 
 A Buttons are so close together, it might feel a bit odd for the first couple of days. 
  
  Sound ( 7/10 )
  
  It might be just my DS, but sometimes the sound is a little bit fuzzy ( its 
 hard to explain, but it just sounds weird sometimes )
  
  Value ( 7/ 10 )
  
  I think this game was worth the experience, while it lasted.
  
  Overall Score ( 8 / 10 )
 
  
  To me, this game just doesn't look to be one of the best online games out there, if your saving 
 up your money, id rather go with Metroid Hunters or Animal Crossing WW.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: girlbakura
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  Are you a fan of Mario Kart?
  
  It doesnt matter! No matter the experience youve had with the series, this is an excellent DS 
 choice. The graphics are very nice on both screens. The races are always exciting, unless your 
 opponents are complete idiots. Playing the Grand Prix and such are the ways to get new features 
 (different racers, levels, etc.) But the real fun comes when you get on the Wi-Fi.
  
  There you have the choice to race againstanybody! In my first hour of Wi-Fi usage, I raced against 
 a guy from France, Japan, and Spain (Crazzzzzzzy) . The online battles are great ways to test your 
 so-called skill. The only problem with this is that you may face an opponent fearful of losing. 
 Let me relay to you my very first Wi-Fi experience. 
  
  I was racing against a fellow named Striker. I was winning. Near the end of the race, he justdisconnected. 
 My friend had a similar experience with a racer named Deeo. If either of you are reading this, 
 you suck. But this is the only annoying thing about racing unknowns. Take a note from me, lose 
 gracefully. Allow yourself to lose! Besides this small annoyance, this game is highly addictive 
 and super fun.
  
  Theres always somebody ready to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterds64
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Well being my first review I will hopefully make this short and sweet.
  The latest Mario Kart is similar to Super circuit with the inclusion of classic tracks, but it 
 takes the good things from all Mario Kart games, including character specific carts (of which you 
 can eventually access more)
  and will make a great purchase.
  I will break it down-
  
  Graphics-8
  All you need and is the second best in graphics in all mario karts
  
  Gameplay-9
 
  Standard Mario Kart with new items to fool around with including Bullet bill with acts like auto 
 pilot but invincible ot items as well. Single player does lack but multi is were it's at. 
  
  Sound-8
  Just like the rest of the Kart games, and even the classic tracks have their original 
 music and good sound effects
  
  Multi player-10
  With online this will be great with 4 but offline it is 8 and include Balloon battle and shine 
 thief from Double Dash but you have to inflate your own balloons making for more strategy.
  
  Overall-9.0
  Any Mario kart fan should get it and playing online will be the best as this 
 game is meant for muti player not single, single is just for practice, and find some friends if 
 you can't get online.
  MARIO KART FOREVER!
  (By the way I haven't finished this game yet, but when I do I will keep playing until the end of 
 the DS era) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercanti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  this is a totaly buy for anyone with a ds i mean its great anyone could pop this in and have a 
 great time the graphics are without a doubt better then the n64 one (not quite as good as the gc 
 one) but the cool thing is that you can play some of the courses from the older mario kart games: 
 mario kart nes, mario kart 64, mario kart advance, and mario kart double dash 
  thats all and good but i wouldnt of mind seeing more courses both new and old they give you good 
 selection but not that the courses get borring really fast its just after the 3,000 time going 
 around them you kinda want more but my biggest complaint but strangly also own of my biggest compliments 
 is you dont use the touch screen for much of anything if anything but the good thing is it gives 
 you a map so accurate you could play off of it and sometimes its smart to (like if you just been 
 inked be a sqid) 
  i loved this game from beggining to end and im still trying to unlock everything and with the multiplayer 
 both online and off ill find myself playing this game probably just as long as the other mario 
 kart games ..... YEARS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Take the greatest tracks of all the mario games to date, give a wide variety of characters and 
 cars, put a mission mode, online play and add 16 great new tracks and squeeze it all together and 
 you have this tight neat little package.
  
  This game is polished, perfected and online! While theirs nothing new or innovative on this installment, 
 it takes together what makes every other mario kart game so great and addictive and excels on it. 
 
  
  With fun new levels, retro levels and online features, this may be the best mario kart to date. 
 Although it does feel a tiny bit rushed, don't get me wrong still a phenominal game its just they 
 could of easily made some less repetitive levels. 
  
  They really take advantage of the turbo slide on this installment and the misson mode is very amusing 
 and fun to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielpapps
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is almost as good as you can make a racing game. Its graphically superb and tracks 
 are excellent (although the DK snow level is dissapointing) the different variety of Karts is great 
 and the new items like the squid and bullet billl are aome of the best items on the roster. The 
 driving and drifting is very natural and is quite easy to get good at, but is very hard to be a 
 master at. the only downside i can see is that the character roster isn't that good, i mean the 
 GC version had such a large host of character, this maybe due to small memory on the cartridge, 
 but its aways good to wish.
  
  Basically MArio Kart DS is a must have for any DS owner and will make a few people buy a DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak2k5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought Mario Kart DS about a day after it came out and let me say its amazing. It has all news 
 levels plus levels from the past games ( Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, and Mario Kart: Double 
 Dash) . It also has a few new weapons at your disposal. 
  
  As far as drivers there is a good selection for a handheld Mario Kart game and after you unlock 
 everything, each character has three vehicles. The game also has a couple of characters you can 
 unlocked.
  
  The control is pretty good, I played for a couple hours the first day I got it and my hands didn't 
 cramp up. The touchscreen is really helpful too since its basically a map and shows who has what 
 weapon and if ones coming at you.
  
  Online wise Mario Kart DS is pretty good for a handheld system. You can't communicate with out 
 racers or trade friend codes with them (since you have to tell them your code and since you can't 
 communicate you can't) . You can also make your own emblem with the touchscreen. The negative thing 
 about online was it only supported 1-4 players while WLAN can support 1-8 players.
  
  Overall Mario Kart DS is a good game and I recommend this game to anyone that has playing and liked 
 the previous Mario Kart games or anyone who likes Mario in general. Mario Kart DS will not disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dman360
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been a great franchise, with decent racing games, but out of all of them this is 
 the most addictive and fun game. the best part of the game is the on-line Wi Fi option for great 
 multi-player all around the world. The down side is that it is still the same Mario kart style 
 over all these years, but that still makes it very fun. In conclusion this is the best holiday 
 game for the DS, if you have a DS then you have to have Mario Kart DS. No buts, you have to have 
 Mario kart DS, you have to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdvr2006
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  MKDS provides the most fun you can have with your DS 
  each person has the proper mario kart and there own kart
  
  Mario: B Dasher (looks like a rubber 
 ferrari)
  Luigi: Poltergust 4000 (looks like a vacume cleaner)
  Peach: Royale (looks like an old fashioned car)
  Yoshi: Egg 1 (looks like an egg -duh?)
  Toad: 
 Mushmellow (looks like a mushroom)
  Donkey Kong: Rambi Rider (looks like a rhinosorous)
  Wario: Brute (looks like a racing car in the 1960's)
  Bowser: Tyrant (looks strangly like bowser)
 
  
  weapons are improved most of them are to help you go faster or beat the hell out of you opponents.
 
  
  it has a missions mode! wow the DS has really outdone itself this time and the missions are so 
 great as well 
  
  It keeps that fast pace all the time you wont be able to put it at all
  
  MKDS allows 8 people to play in the same room with 1 single cartridge as long as everyone has 
 a DS
  
  MKDS is pure Mario Kart heaven. The handling is near perfect, the tracks are the best in the series 
 and it has a multiplayer that is second to none
  
  goods and bads
  
  It looks better than you thoght the DS was capable of.
  
  Nintendo is better at making tracks 
 than God is at people. Fact
  
  The online multiplayer service is free so play all day with no worry.
  
  eight players on single 
 cart means anyone can get in on the action
  
  but we wanted more unlockables apart from that this game is perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Gummi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  Oh my god!! I got this game like a week ago, and since then I have taken it with me EVERYWHERE!! 
 I also searched for rouders in buildings, like my school, and they were all locked, so I hade to 
 enter a WEP key. I simply went into the office, during lunch, and saw the WEP key, written on the 
 rouder!! So now I can play anytime I want at school!! :D: D: D Oh, and "APIMPnamedYOSHI" I have added 
 your FRIEND code, please add me? My friend code is : 128909056347. So, about the game itself, I 
 have beaten the "mission" mode, I thought the "Sliding boost" things were the hardest!! But, this 
 game is so wort it, I'm not even gonna talk about it!
  
  Thanks!! Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is nothing except the best DS game to date. It's fun, addictive, and looks great. 
 The online play just doubles the fun and value of the game, even though online play is held back 
 a little by the limited players at a time (up to 4) . The graphics are smooth, the sound is crisp, 
 and the amount of things to do is mind blowing. Mission mode is new to the series, and it should 
 stay in the series, it plays great. Not to mention the great feeling of playing on some of the 
 best Mario Kart courses in the series. Any DS owner must have this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PIMPNamedY0SHI
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure how to explain the game. It's just so good i can't stop playing it. I play story mode 
 the most but every so often i will get on it is All THAT AND A BAG OF CHIPS. Once u start u just 
 cant stop. I'm not even joking its that good. I love using yoshi cause he is just .... Him i mean 
 Yoshi is by far the best Nintendo charecter. And once u play on-line imagine the possibilities of 
 Nintendo wi-fi with Animal Crossing and Sk8land, but i'm here to talk about those games. and look 
 at the ds [:: {_} ::] It is awsome just look [:: {_} ::] the ds is
  [+ {_} ::] [+ {_} ::]
   If u Guys and Gals [p. s im a guy] want to play me my friend 
 code is 124614174758 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTABadBoy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart is sweet! This game is the best in the series by far and this game really shows of the 
 DS's capabilitys. The graphics are sweet with no slow down ant any point. The sound is classic 
 mario. The gameplay is top notch. Alot of unlockable, like cars, charctars and levels. The retro 
 tracks are great especially baby park (personal fav) . One big thing nintendo concentrated on this 
 mario kart was the online play. The Nintendo WIFI Connection is brillaint play anybody anywere! 
 for free!
  Mario kart is sweet! This game is the best in the series by far and this game really shows of the 
 DS's capabilitys. The graphics are sweet with no slow down ant any point. The sound is classic 
 mario. The gameplay is top notch. Alot of unlockable, like cars, charctars and levels. The retro 
 tracks are great especially baby park (personal fav) . One big thing nintendo concentrated on this 
 mario kart was the online play. The Nintendo WIFI Connection is brillaint play anybody anywere! 
 for free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smallfry189
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Some people may be saying "I've got other Mario Kart games; why get the next?" and I'll tell you. 
 You may have experienced Mario Kart before, but this version is very much up to date. It has all 
 the weapons of other MK games and ties them together well. It has a lot of different courses ranging 
 from beaches to stadiums to all your old favorites. The tracks offer plenty of variety. You may 
 only start with 8 players, which is great, but you can get 12, each with a wide array of karts. 
 Even when the single play gets stale, which is a while, you can link up with you Wi-fi and play 
 across the country. The multi-player may be frustrating at times, but when it works, it works great. 
 I'll say this is one of the few must-own DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belzilep
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  Dont judge this game by the screenshots: youd miss an incredible gaming experience. Effectively, 
 still shots show pixelated characters and environments; however, Mario Kart DS is amazing to see 
 in motion. Assuming the Nintendo DS has about the same graphical power as the Nintendo 64, this 
 game passes the test in terms of raw polygons, but solidly delivers an incredibly smooth frame 
 rate and excellent graphical effects and explosions: all this crazy racing never hinders the speed 
 of this game.
  
  Mario Kart DS looks good, but it sounds good too. Youll recognise the same Mario universe goodness 
 through the well-done voice samples, item sound effects and tracks music. The development team 
 even tricked out the item box selection sound on the track Waluigi Pinball to make it sound more 
 like a casino machine! This is the kind of creativity and polish players are searching for: dont 
 mess with the standards, but give them something new. However, having listened to some of Castlevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrow amazing tracks, I know the sound chip is capable of much more than what you hear 
 through the built-in speakers. In that case, Mario Kart doesnt have the same sound quality when 
 listened through good speakers: you still get that electronics chip feel. And no sound room destroys 
 part of the fact that the songs included are enjoyable to listen outside of the game
  
  But the DSs main capabilities arent acoustic; Mario Kart DS dishes out some very good things 
 with this dual screen. While not really a new and creative way, the racer offers a well-designed 
 mini-map on the lower screen while the top screen shows a 3D view of the race; all information 
 needed to the race is on those two screens, like who is in what position, how far back (or ahead!) 
 your opponents are, what are the obstacles on the course, and even what items your opponents have 
 in their possession! This makes for a new strategic twist where you can plan even more ahead. On 
 a side note, though: while the use of dual-screens in race is well-done, the screen use in menus 
 leaves somewhat to be desired. Not that the menu layout isnt good (in fact, its very intuitive) , 
 its just that it looks bland. Some style on those menus wouldnt hurt anyone, you know.
  
  But menus arent what make or break Mario Kart DS; gameplay does. And the game delivers: you find 
 in the latest iteration of the Kart franchise some of the old and new. We should note the reappearance 
 of kart hopping, powerslide boosting and item dragging. New to this game (or at least, more apparent) 
 is drafting: if you stay close behind an opponent for about 3 continuous seconds, you gain a substantial 
 speed boost to get ahead of the pack. Visual clues will let you know. This new feature is somewhat 
 of a gamble: watch out for bananas, fake item boxes or shells! Speaking of items, all the list 
 makes it back to the DS, with 3 new additions: the blooper, that does spray some ink on the upper 
 screen of all of your opponents ahead; removable by boosting or manoeuvrable by the way of the 
 mini-map. The bob-omb, that explodes on contact, much like the spike shell, except it is laid like 
 bananas or fake item boxes. The bullet bill, that transforms you into, you guess, a bullet bill, 
 destroying everything in his path, much like the star, except much faster and you dont control 
 your kart the time the item is in effect. Naturally, you wont come across these items often if 
 youre in first place And youll have plenty of tracks to be first, 32 to be exact: 16 all-new 
 and 16 retro ones, 4 from each previous Mario Kart (with some graphical, gameplay and sound enhancements) . 
 Another addition: kart stats. The 36 different karts available in-game are all ranked differently 
 in acceleration, top speed, item luck, drifting, handling and weight. This makes for a highly customizable 
 game where everyone can be first, except if someone has incredible driving skills
  
  And if you think youve got them, why not show it to the world? Mario Kart DS is one of the first 
 two games to benefit of Nintendos new online service, Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Youll compete 
 against up to three human opponents from the world in a custom Grand Prix where you choose the 
 tracks to be played (only 20 of the 32 in-game, though) . Do this and win in 4 different settings: 
 Worldwide, against everyone the world over, Regional, against people from your region or country, 
 Rivals, against people of your calibre, or Friends, you guessed it, against your friends. Finding 
 people to play with is easy and isnt long. But having friends in this game isnt so easy. You 
 need to share your game-specific 12-digit friend code. And since you cant chat on Nintendo WFC, 
 youll need other ways to add friends to your roster (up to 32 at a time) . What about the stat 
 freaks? Unfortunately, Mario Kart DS only has one statistic in-game: your number of wins and losses. 
 Not a lot. However, that can be corrected through stats uploading by the Internet. Maybe one day, 
 youll see how your time trials compete against the others But if it is in development, weve 
 yet to see it. Theoretically, everything stored on your DS card could be used for Internet stats, 
 this isnt the case as of now (it could change) . And if your little brother plays online, it all 
 goes into your stats; no profiles are available You could always play Mario Kart DS in wireless 
 multiplayer, all options available if everyone has their copy, or character Shy Guy limited if 
 you choose DS Download Play. And this will net you automatic friends in your roster.
  
  Mario Kart DS = Plenty to do. Practice your driving skills in Grand Prix Mode, Time Trial, or even 
 VS or Battle mode against computer-controlled characters (a new addition) . Unlock Staff Ghosts, 
 and try to beat them. Plenty of unlockables are ready to be found. And the all-new Mission mode 
 will let you test your skills in 6 series of eight missions with an additional boss at each series. 
 And if youve done all that while mastering all 32 tracks, then prove your mettle wirelessly or 
 online: Mario Kart DS offers something for anyone, anytime.
  
  Verdict
  
  Graphics 9.5 Heres the gamble: better stills or better motion?
  
  Sound 8 No sound room? So 
 I can listen to Mario Kart DS on my quality speakers?
  
  Presentation 9 Dish out some style on those menus!
  
  Gameplay 10 The good old arcade feel 
 through and through.
  
  Multiplayer 9 Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection has incredible untapped potential.
  
  Lasting appeal 
 9.5 Twice the tracks? Check. Staff ghost times? Check. Unlockables? Check. 
  
  Final rating 9.2 Best Mario Kart ever, and its on DS! And with online? Yay!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikk
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I've played every incarnation of Mario Cart and it always brings a smile to the fans faces. This 
 is no different and will sure to please anyone who tries it. I love how it's presented like a cunningly 
 easy game, but when you get into it, there are so many facets of gameplay. From the weapons/powerups 
 on the track, powerslides (very important to master) , shortcuts and tailgate boosting. I love how 
 they included old tracks as well although even though they have a new version of Wario Raceway, 
 and rainbow circuit. It would have been cool if they had the old versions as well. Oh well you 
 can't fit everything in. Damn good game that should have been released along with the Nintendo 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quantum_shift
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  When you think DS, you probably think of games like WarioWare and Feel the Magic that effectively 
 use the touch screen capabilities. But, Mario Kart DS is as good as those two games, and you don't 
 even need to touch the touch screen. MKDS has probably the best graphics we've seen so far on the 
 DS, rivaling that of Super Mario 64 DS. Nintendo needs to put more games like this out for their 
 handheld. It is a must buy, and the reason to have a DS. Go get it NOW!!!!. You can't miss this 
 one. And if you don't have a DS, sucks to be you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmccord
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I was so much looking forward to this game! I ran out to the store immediatly to buy it, and traded 
 in a couple really good games for this one, thinking, "Hey, this HAS to be better than those!" 
 I was so excited. But it turned out pretty disappointing for me. The graphics were fun and cute, 
 and pretty good for the most part (except I HATE fake 3D, which there was a little of) . The controls 
 were good. The track design was good, but there felt like something was missing to me... I can't 
 put my finger on it. Some of tracks felt more like a regular racing game than a standard Mario 
 Kart cartoony game. I can't figure it out exactly. I may be wrong. On the other hand, some of the 
 maps we're especially Mario-filled, unique, and fun! My favorite of these flashy ones is, hands-down, 
 Waluigi Pinball!
  
  This game has plenty of unlockables. New karts, new characters, new CC's. However, I don't know 
 if it's just me, but I unlocked all of the stuff REALLY quickly. It didn't seem to last there. 
 It was a heck of a lot fun while I was doing it, though! The game also has some new modes never 
 before seen in the Mario Kart franchise, like Mission mode. Some other fun things are Ghost Transfers, 
 which is helpful sometimes.
  
  If you bought this game for the online, don't! That's what I was looking for, and personally, I 
 think it was destroyed! First off, it's limited. Only 20 circuits to race on, no items dragging 
 behind you, NO BATTLE MODE, and only 4 people a race! I'm sure Nintendo has an excuse - technicle 
 reasons, probobly, but I mean, come on! I would've rather taken a delay. I thought finally I'd 
 get to play 8 player races, but no way.
  
  Another huge flaw in the online is the lobby. The fact is, there isn't one! You just hook up with 
 random people. I was expecting at LEAST something as good as Halo's online lobby, or the Delta 
 Force series, or even Games. Com style lobbies. But nope, you just randomly race different people. 
 People that disconnect all the time - and don't anyone DARE tell me it's because they have to leave 
 or their router just temporarily D/C'ed for a second, because people tend to D/C right after I 
 kick their butts and send 'em to last place!
  
  The scoring system is odd and confusing, but you'll get used to it. By the way, another flaw in 
 the online is the "Friend Code" system. It looks like it's coming in every Nintendo Wifi Connection 
 game. It'll be especially painful to have to have friend codes for online in Animal Crossing.
 
  
  Besides that, the gameplay is fun and the game is entertaining, just not what I was expecting from 
 Nintendo. A short and easy, but it's still a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is one of those gaming staples. Like Halo for an Xbox aficionado, Gran Turismo for the 
 Sony faithful, or Madden for practically anyone who likes sports, Mario Kart is one of those games 
 that - when it comes out for your hardware, you can't not own lest you rob yourself of a necessary 
 experience. With the questionable exception of Double Dash on the Gamecube, Mario Kart DS is - 
 like each previous entry in the series - its console's killer app.
  
  I suppose I've cut to the chase already by practically insisting that you really aren't a DS owner 
 until you've bought, played, and online-enabled Mario Kart DS. So there's your recommendation. 
 But if you want more in-depth details of why it works, that's what the review is for. Read on.
 
  
  Have you ever played Mario Kart? If so, skip this paragraph. If not... wow. But anyway, Mario Kart 
 is a racing game that's not all about the racing. It involves weaponry obtained from item boxes 
 scattered throughout the course, though of course in this case it's light-hearted fare. Items from 
 the Mario universe make it into each racer's arsenal - green and red shells, mushrooms for speed 
 boosts, star powerups and - new to the series - the power to morph into Bullet Bill. Being in first 
 place on the third lap never guarantees victory in Mario Kart due to the weapon balance - the sucker 
 in last place has the best chance of landing a game-changing weapon, such as the dreaded blue spiked 
 shell which seeks out the first-place racer and ends with a powerful blue explosion. Likewise, 
 the first place racer is likely to grab only banana peels or the underpowered green shell.
  
  For this iteration, Nintendo did away with the two-racer karts that were the core of the Gamecube's 
 Mario Kart: Double Dash and instead went back to the old-school route of including one racer per 
 kart. Nintendo kept multiple karts per racer though, so you've still got more than one choice to 
 make when selecting who to race as. New for this game is the Item rating, which basically dictates 
 the chance of you getting a heavier-hitting weapon relative to your position in the race. This 
 makes things more balanced than they already were, as the kart that has the highest acceleration, 
 speed and drift ability may have a woefully low item ranking. Meaning, of course, look to collect 
 a lot of semi-useless items if you choose that kart.
  
  You start out with eight characters from the Mario universe, with more unlockable as you progress. 
 One thing I was disappointed in is that there are no character-specific special items such as the 
 ones seen in Mario Kart: Double Dash. As such, the motivation to choose different drivers is basically 
 the same as previous non-cube Kart games.
  
  There are a couple of new items in Mario Kart DS, as mentioned above. The Blooper item sends off 
 the squiggly squid to literally squirt ink on the screen of every racer in front of you. Though 
 you can race by looking at the bottom screen's map, it's still a bit annoying and seems to affect 
 the CPU opponents more than you'd think. Bullet Bill turns you into Bullet Bill himself. You're 
 basically on autopilot for a short while, and every racer in your path gets gleefully mowed down. 
 The Golden Mushroom acts just like a normal mushroom, except that once you activated, it's still 
 available for a limited and thus giving you infinite boosts for the while that it remains in your 
 item box.
  
  The new items thankfully don't disrupt the balance, because as expected Bullet Bill and the Golden 
 Mushroom are really very, very rare and are given to only the most loserish racers. The Blooper 
 powerup is something that you end up learning to deal with. Further, for the duration of the effects 
 of Bullet Bill and the Golden Mushroom, you can't pick up any items from item boxes.
  
  Making its return to the Kart series this time is the little hop that you use to initialize powerslides. 
 This is a welcome return for me, as I never quite got the same definitive feel in Double Dash, 
 which had no hopping. Powerslides are great, but Nintendo kept in the blue-spark red-spark system 
 from Double Dash, adding more strategy and skill to the mix. Just like in Double Dash, pressing 
 left and right on the d-pad when in powerslide mode generates sparks that give you a speed boost 
 when you release the hop button. You can also gain speed boosts by drafting behind opponents. So 
 while at its surface Mario Kart is still mostly about mashing on the gas and throwing shells, the 
 added tactics from past entries like sparks and drifting keep the driving from being totally tactless. 
 In fact, in the IGN Mailbag I saw a question about "snaking" online and whether or not it was "okay" 
 - snaking being the act of creating red sparks anytime you can, even when you're on a straightaway 
 and not rounding a corner. It's a tactic, folks; learn to use it, offline and on.
  
  And online play, of course, is the biggest difference in Mario Kart and probably one of the main 
 reasons you'd be interested in the DS iteration in the first place. Though late to the game, as 
 I feel Double Dash should have been supported online, Mario Kart DS finally lets four racers square 
 off at your friendly neighborhood intertron-web hotspot. Nintendo game plus internet? No way. Yes 
 way! But it doesn't come without flaws.
  
  Mario Kart is truly easy to get up and running online once you have the proper network settings 
 down. It's quite literally, "Connect to the Wi Fi service? Ok, how do you want to match up? Ok, 
 searching for matchups. Have fun." Once you're connected to the Wi-Fi network, you're presented 
 with four ways of finding challenges: those in your region (Regional) , anyone in the world (Worldwide) , 
 anyone who has a similar win-loss percentage to you (Rivals) , or those whose "friend codes" you've 
 collected into your Friends list (Friends) .
  
  Yes it's simple, but to a fault. There is no lobby. You can't see who's online, and pick-and-choose 
 who to play first. I couldn't, say, mix-and-match a four-player game with my friend and two random 
 people, for instance. You can't see peoples' records before you play, and you certainly can't see 
 any sort of reputation ranking - because there is none. There are no scoreboards or leaderboards 
 for lap times and win/loss records, though you can see a smattering of online activity on NintendoWiFi. com.
 
  
  The simplicity of the online presentation trickles down into actual gameplay. The ONLY mode available 
 is four-player racing, and it's always in 3-lap, 4-race sets. There is no Battle or Shine mode, 
 the two multiplayer modes available in local Wi-Fi and single player. There are only 16, instead 
 of 32, tracks to choose from. You can't drag items to shield yourself online either. What's worse 
 is when a sore loser drops off in the middle of a race. Sure, they get 0 points for that race, 
 but it doesn't matter because it won't affect their online reputation - since, again, there IS 
 no reputation meter. The game also doesn't replace the dropped player with AI opponents to even 
 things out. So once again, it's literally, "Do you want to play online? Cool - against what kind 
 of people? Ok, here you go. Enjoy." That's it.
  
  The only real big gripe about this that I have is that there's no stinking battle mode. The limitation 
 on who you get to play with doesn't bother me so much, and the available tracks are great enough 
 to play on. But man - can you imagine the frenetic Battle mode online? Isn't this what we've all 
 waited for? Instead, all we get is four player racing. It's still tons of fun though, and works 
 very well. Lag is kept to a minimum, even when playing against worldwide players. I'd see some 
 karts zipping around the track, but it's never gotten in the way of gameplay to the point where 
 races are won unjustly.
  
  Multiplayer by yourself is an option due to the usage of Bots. The multiplayer modes are up to 
 expectations on local wi-fi, with traditional balloon Battle mode and a new Shine Runners mode 
 which is basically "last man standing" with Shine sprites. Basically a few shines are scattered 
 about as a timer goes down. When it reaches zero, the racer with the least shines gets knocked 
 out, and the timer resets; this continues until there is only one left. If you and another player 
 each have the same amount of shines and are the only combatants left, it's time to get your game 
 face on and knock one of those shines off of his or her silly little rig and claim it for your 
 own. Otherwise, the game will do an Energizer Bunny. Although I do miss the Bob-omb Battles, Shine 
 Runners is basically as fun as Shine Thief and I'd rather have races online than the Bob-Omb battles.
 
  
  Along with single player bots, Online and Shine runners, another addition is the Mission mode. 
 Here, you can hone your skills as a Mario Kart player by completing several tasks such as performing 
 power slides, collecting item boxes, completing laps in a certain time, et cetera. There are several 
 of these little missions and they're great for making you a better competitive player so that come 
 online time, you're ready to compete. I really like this mode because of the practice, but also 
 because it gives me even more reason to turn on Mario Kart DS when I'm done with all the Grand 
 Prix mode. The value here is just fantastic, and don't forget about the Mirror Cups that put you 
 through tracks in reverse that gets unlocked late in the game.
  
  Aesthetically, there's nothing realy new here. The graphics are mostly reminiscent of the N64 version 
 without texture filtering (gee, doesn't that sound familiar for a DS game...) but move at a totally 
 unwavering 60 frames per second. The team did a great job of translating the Gamecube racetracks 
 to the DS version. The sound, too, is your typical fare. The music is your general cheery Mario 
 fare, as are the sound effects. Nothing has really changed here; everything about the audiovisual 
 experience screams "Mario".
  
  The bottom line with Mario Kart DS is this - it's accessible to everyone, playable by everyone, 
 and now, you can compete with everyone - across the world. It's got the best tracks of the four 
 existing versions (Cube, N64, GBA and SNES) . It's got great new track designs, like Waluigi Pinball, 
 and tons of replay value due to the assorted multiplayer and single player options. It's Mario 
 Kart, and it's online. While the internet play is limited, it's a start, and there's so much to 
 do offline too. In my opinion, there are a few DS games that I genuinely like more than Mario Kart 
 DS; hell, there are always games that will be better than Mario Kart on any given Nintendo system. 
 But I'd be hard pressed to ever say that I don't need Kart in those systems' lineups. Karting is 
 just a necessary experience, and the Nintendo DS version is no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeb1uk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This has probably been the best mario kart game ever. Double Dash had the graphics and stuff but 
 it just too out from the original game. the N64 version was probably the 2nd best. I'm not really 
 bothered about the graphics as long as it's good enough and so MK DS's graphics were perfectly 
 fine, better than expected.
  
  There is a good amount of characters and a big variety of karts. It's great that characters can 
 use other character's karts. The gameplay is great, the feel is nice, it doesn't blur and the music 
 was good enough for me. A lot of different stats and cool new tracks. The multiplayer is incredibly 
 fun, especially playing online. It felt so good to play online downstairs sitting on my sofa. 
 
  
  For some of the negative points: I think the retro cup tracks were bad choices, there were so much 
 better tracks to choose from which they just didn't put it : ( They should've kept bob-omb battle, 
 that was my 2nd favourite battle mode and some of the weapons from double-dash should've been kept. 
 The online play was quite limited, I was happy with it but also disappointed. The limited tracks 
 and weapon holding and a few other things. It would've been better if you set up your own games 
 and you could allow certain people to join. 
  
  OVERVIEW: The game is great, new tracks, stats, characters, karts, they were all fantastic! The 
 multiplayer is great and the wi-fi, the missions are cool and all. I got the game just 3 days ago 
 and am still into the game. I would recommend this game for anyone that has or hasn't played any 
 mario karts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game it lasted me forever I like to pick on people in races online thats right this 
 game plays online and its a Nintendo game ( holy Cow) .
  Online racing is not the only good thing about this game in single player mode there are tons of 
 things you can do. They have cool missons like kill the Bully and Stomp the Goomba . Those Goombas 
 are the real brains behind Bowser army. You will also enjoy Grand Prix Mode which is where you 
 race the CPU and unlock secret racers. This game is the opening online game for Nintnedo and a 
 good one. If you have not played any of the Mario Kart series now is a good time to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micky666micky
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a game that is easy, for the real racers. But it gains harder in the 150 CC Cup and 
 in Level 6 of the missions.....
  There are some new things here that are different of the other versions:
  -first of course the 
 Nintendo Wifi Connection (Duh!!!!!!)
  -then you can unlock characters+karts.
  -you can race with karts of the other players (Note: you have to unlock the other karts)
  -you 
 can do balloon battle and shine runners not only in Multiplayer but also against the computer.
 
  -racing and battling in teams
  
  and last but not least...........
  -some (cool) weapons. (bullet bill, and inkt squid (i will call it like that) )
  one thing is 
 TOO bad no battling in the NWC (Nintendo Wifi Connection)
  
  but here i am ending my story (my first review is this one) and one thing i say NINTENDO ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Micky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8hairball8
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I have had my DS since it came out a year ago. there has been a few games that have really caught 
 my attention, Mario 64, Nintendogs, Yoshi touch and go, feel the magic and spider man (yeah i said 
 it... oh wait spider man... never mind) . no i have picked up a copy of Mario kart. this game is wonderful.
 
  The controls in this game is very simple. they made it easy and with that it has made the game 
 more attractive for the younger kiddies. also unlike many of my game cube games, i have yet to 
 find a glitch. even when im playing on line at my dads house, the online game play is smooth even 
 with one bar of reception.
  The graphics are B-E-U-T-FULL! the move flawlessly and ar better then i expected. from the early 
 screen shoots, the game looked good but they have dazzled me. my only complaint is the hands, they 
 have one mass for fingers.
  The sound is classic. there's not much to say here because all Mario games have the best quality 
 music.
  The price is normal for a game so it is worth the extra two somthing for the mass tax. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkmasta100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing DS game. I think its the best game out for the system so far. I already 
 got all the characters and beat all of the missions, which are really fun. Mario Kart DS adds 4 
 new cups, all new tracks, as with some old tracks from the previous games. They also added a "mission" 
 mode where you have to do the objectives where they tell you to do. Also, you can play Battles 
 with bots in the game of play with your friends. Then it has the classic Grand Prix and Time Trials. 
 The new feature they added is the Wi-Fi Online play. The online play is good but, I think they 
 could of added a bit more then just vs. racing, they could of added the Battle mode with Balloon 
 Battle and Shine Runners. But other then that, its good. Well if you like racing games and you 
 have a Nintendo DS then I would recommend buying this game. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Although this game will revolutionize the modern handheld as we know it but it will open many doors 
 for Nintendo. 
  
  The PSP was THE BEST HANDHELD SYSTEM EVER CREATED!!!! Until Nintendo cam out with the new "Wi-Fi" 
 thing allowing those of you (including me) to go global and play against others in Mario Kart DS. 
 I bought 2 DS's and never knew about the PSP until it was too late. But now I can use the "Wi-Fi" 
 and challenge my brother whild in seperate cars which is amazing to me.
  
  Overall I loved this game and will become an all-time favorite for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobMango
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Remember the days of Super Mario Kart? Well if you enjoyed that game, or any Mario Kart game, you're 
 in for a real treat. MKDS provides DS-owners with their first taste of WiFi, and with it comes 
 hours of fun. There is plenty of things to do in MKDS, and you will be kept busy for a good time. 
 While you can beat the Grand Prixs in a short amount of time, the newly added Missions and Online 
 play are great. The graphics are smooth, and the game plays flawlessly online. A definate must 
 have, worth the money. See you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek22
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  if you are a fan of the mario kart series or just want to get involved in the series i highly recomend 
 this game to YOU. this is a fun, exciting, adventure pack video game. its graphics might need soom 
 work if youre comparing it to a PS2 game. But considering this is a hand held game. its fine. its 
 controles are great. the sound is preaty good. and its extras that you can find went youre racing 
 are pretty cool. if you beat this game realy quick it doesint matter just save up youre babysitting 
 money and buy a WI-FI connector for like 30 bucks. the online is great. and the whole game is great. 
 if you want to know more about this game or just have a question. then you can send me an email 
 at dorf_8@hotmail. com
  
  see ya
  Cole 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psishade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game and worth a lot. There is so much to unlock, so many cups and tracks to 
 play on. the music is great, especially once you get to the old retro tracks. Between unlocking 
 all of the characters, and beating the new mission mode, this game will take you a while. I've 
 been playing for over 10 hours and I still have quite a bit left to do. This is an awesome game, 
 and if anyone owns a DS, they definetely need to get their hands on this game. Even if you don't 
 like racing games, this is awesome. I can't say enough about this game, but you must be insane 
 to not get this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett_duffman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:45 am PT
Review:  this is such a good game, all of the different modes of play, the tracks, new weapons, its just 
 a good game, the only reason that i didnt give it a ten is beacause it didnt have some of the old 
 tracks that i liked. the characters are a thrill to use too. mario kart really pushes the ds's 
 graphics, probably the best ds graphics ive seen to date. the sound is amazing, especially how 
 when you hit a character, they beep at you, i love that. it doesnt take to hard to learn the basics 
 of the game, but there are techniques that do take a while to learn. overall this is a very good 
 game for any audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superweasle
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  Who can resist a classic Mario game? This game is just like playing one of the old Mario Kart games, 
 but with a new twist. With new items to attack other characters with and the coolest wi-fi mode 
 ever, this game delivers everything you need in a racing game. The excellent wi-fi mode lets you 
 play with people all over the world, create friends far away, and even create new enemies. The 
 graphics are awesome for a hand held game. The music is like you'd expect in a Mario game, although 
 can get a little annoying after a while. The value for this game is fair; meaning it will last 
 for quite a while before getting old. And with all of the characters and modes to unlock, there 
 is a certain quality that motivates you to play. Overall I would highly recommend this game to 
 DS owners around the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikekane21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  16 New tracks, 16 Retro tracks, new items and all the classics. This is a mario kart fans dream 
 come true. 
  Every time a new Nintendo console comes along, you know soon rather than later you will be playing 
 Mario Kart on it. The series is almost as old as Nintendo's console history, this game puts all 
 the best features from the old games, chucks in new weapons and a Wi-fi mode.
  
  Ok, this game on single player mode won't keep you hooked for more than a month but the mulit-player 
 mode will make this game last the rest of the DS's lifespan. Theres something about playing humans 
 instead of computers that makes it so much fun.
  
  The Wi-fi mode is limited but is a nice addition to the game, if you can succesfully get it to 
 work (45% of you in North America could at time of writing) .
  The controls will make your thumb hurt th first few times you play, but after that you should get 
 used to it and find it natural to hold down on the A button to accelerate.
  The graphics compare well with the Nintendo 64 version, and in my oppinion succeed the Nintendo 
 64's graphical capability. The sound in game is up to the usual Mario standards with songs which 
 will get stuck in you head all day. A classic game which will go down in karting history, if you 
 have a DS this is the must-have game of 2005- the best game for the ds yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rydet87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  As I take my DS and sit on the couch with Mario Kart DS ready to be played, my addictions to the 
 past Karts raised the bar that much higher. Mario Kart DS just made itself the best in the series 
 with classic gameplay, tight and addictive gameplay, impressive graphics, and over a decade's worth 
 of nostolgia that makes the expierience that much greater.
  
  Gameplay: Take the SNES Mario Kart, add Double Dash's and 64's driving tricks, then add new items 
 and the best tracks from throughout the series' history and you have one heck of pedigree. The 
 gameplay doesn't dissappoint. and remind's you why Nintendo remains the best devolper on the planet. 
 The fluid controls make controlling your kart a breeze and the map on the bottom screen is one 
 of the best new features. No more forgetting about that hairpin curve; that is, if you remember 
 to check the map.
  
  Graphics: One of the best looking DS games to date. Looks just as good, if not better, than Mario 
 Kart 64 and that is while playing 8-player over the internet. The graphics do chug a very little 
 bit in single cartridge play, but that's acceptable considering how ambitious this entire game 
 is.
  
  Sound: Classic Mario. Nuff said.
  
  Value: Online play adds layers onto the replay value, but I'd still play MK: DS all the time without 
 it. I wore my battery out twice in a day. And Nintendo has a very long lived battery.
  
  Tilt: One of my favorite DS games yet along with Meteos, Castlevania, and Nintendogs. The full 
 expierience in the palm of your hand. Doesn't get much better.
  
  Total: I give this game a 9.5 for it's quality gameplay and feel. Nothing is like shooting a Koopa 
 Shell into the rear of some guy in Utah. Except shooting one into a guy from Kansas. Just go get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShenlongBo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  Owners of Nintendo's fledgling dual-screened handheld machine could not have been more elated by 
 the initial announcement, subsequent hype, and the eventual release of Mario Kart DS. Although 
 this installment makes almost no strides in cultivating the traditional single-player game, eight-player 
 LAN plus free, serviceable online play via WiFi, coupled with with the famed brilliance of classic 
 Mario Kart gameplay, more than warrant all the wanton excitement.
  
  If you've ever played a Mario Kart game before (honestly, who hasn't?) then you'll feel right at 
 home with Mario Kart on the DS. Obvious changes, like eight-way wireless multiplayer, and, of course, 
 the overdue online option stand out, as do the single-player Battle, VS., Emblem Edit, and Mission 
 modes, but the overall feel, presentation, and structure are the same Mario Kart fare of old.
 
  
  Returning to the Mario Kart series are the Grand Prix and Time Trial modes. The Grand Prix mode, 
 however, boasts an interesting twist, in that its title belies the fact that there are actually 
 two unique Grand Prix courses available to race at the onset of the game. The first one, dubbed 
 the Nitro GP, is host to sixteen all-new tracks which are divided among four "cups" as follows: 
 Mushroom, Flower, Star, and Special. Sound familiar? As a bonus, the aptly named Retro GP accomodates 
 sixteen tracks of its own. Each of those sixteen tracks, however, are pulled straight out of past 
 Mario Kart games, spanning the SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN, and are apportioned similarly in the Shell, 
 Banana, Leaf, and Lightning Cups. That means Mario Kart DS features 32 tracks to tear around at 
 either 50cc, 100cc, or 150cc speed/difficulty settings. 
  
  The unforgettable, hectic gameplay the series is known for makes its way to the DS fully intact. 
 It's still heaps of fun to zip around tracks, powersliding at every opportunity, and infinitely 
 fun to invoke items like red "homing" shells, banana peels, and phony item boxes to wreck your 
 opponents' progress. And, naturally, it's still plenty frustrating when it happens to you. But 
 it's all in good fun, and is possibly the defining element of the Mario Kart experience. The DS 
 introduces its own brand-new items into the series as well. The Blooper item squirts black ink 
 on the top screens of every racer holding a better position than your own, hindering their vision 
 and, thereby, impeding their progress. Bullet Bill is a simple reinventing of the Chain Chomp item 
 from Double Dash. Using this item transforms your kart into a giant Bullet Bill and speeds you 
 onward, pummeling any opponent in your way as you go. And, best of all, it's on autopilot, so you 
 can just sit back and enjoy the destructive ride. Your position in a race at the time that you 
 gain an item will determine the quality of the item that you receive. So, back-of-the-pack racers 
 receive choice items like red shells, Bullet Bills, and stars, while frontrunners usually pull 
 weaker items like banana peels or green shells from item boxes. This time-tested formula helps 
 to further balance out the gameplay, and makes for some enormously exciting close calls at the 
 finish line.
  
  The Grand Prix mode is where you'll unlock everything you're going to unlock in the game, not counting 
 staff ghosts. There are eight characters available to use at first, each having two unique carts 
 which are characterized by traits like acceleration, top speed, drift, and so on. There are only 
 four characters to unlock, for a total of twelve, but each winds up with three standout karts. 
 In what is perhaps the coolest twist of all (small spoiler alert) , once all the unlocking of goodies 
 is in the books, any character can commandeer any kart. While it is humorous to put Donkey Kong 
 in Dry Bones' tank-style kart, combining karts and characters also has strategic implications. 
 Every character has inherent traits that affect the performance of a vehicle. So if you prefer 
 the lightweight speeders like Yoshi and Toad for their dexterity and off-road capability, but detest 
 being knocked off course by brutes like Bowser and Wario, simply have Wario, D. K. or newcomer R. O. B. 
 pilot the vehicle and trade a bit of handling for a weight advantage. In a sense, each character 
 has 36 total karts at their disposal in which to compete (end spoiler) . In Mario Kart DS, the selection 
 of the kart is at least as meaningful as the selection of the racer, sprucing up an otherwise straightforward 
 element of the game.
  
  The Time Trial mode, as its name suggests, pits player against the clock in a race to ring in the 
 fastest course time possible. It's a great way to learn the nuances of each track, and the perfect 
 place to practice powersliding through the various tracks' many twists and turns. The game automatically 
 creates a ghost file of your best time that can be sent to friends' copies of Mario Kart DS and, 
 if you're speedy enough, you might unlock the secret staff ghost who will race alongside you. More 
 often than not the staff ghost will show you the best way to handle a given course's turns and 
 reveal existing shortcuts. Staff ghosts will often overshadow your own best times while expertly 
 zipping around the track. This is an allegiant recollection of yesterday's Time Trial modes, and 
 it's still loads of fun and highly addicting.
  
  Battle mode is unsportsmanlike conduct at its finest and is no stranger to Mario Kart. Its application 
 to the DS game, however, separates it from the pack by the overdue option to play solo with CPU 
 controlled bots. A whopping seven CPU controlled bots, to be exact. And if you want, you can split 
 up into two teams of four to really mix things up. In one Battle mode variant, players are outfitted 
 with one balloon attached to their buggy that can be popped or stolen by the dirty deeds of other 
 players, while four other balloons wait in the wings to be inflated. To inflate them, you literally 
 blow them up via the DS microphone. Besides the dual-screen display and optional functionality 
 in the emblem editor, this is the only utility of the DS' peerless features, and it's a pretty 
 nifty one at that. In the other Battle mode option, you scoot around one of six arenas, collecting 
 Shine Sprites (think Super Mario Sunshine) while unleashing your arsenal to knock the Shines out 
 of rival players. The player with the least amount of Shines at the end of a set time period is 
 out, and the contest continues thus until a winner is determined.
  
  The biggest downfall involved the Grand Prix mode is that once everything is unlocked, there is 
 little incentive to replay it outside of getting better ratings for each cup -- which provides 
 exactly nothing in the way of tangible rewards. Maybe that's enough for you. Or perhaps you like 
 a bit more variety than that. That's where the VS mode comes in. In it, you can choose your engine 
 class, opponent difficulty, track order, and terms of the competition. What it offers you is a 
 means to quickly and easily race on whatever tracks you want to without having to mull through 
 tracks you might find boring or frustrating. Like Battle mode, you can choose to separate into 
 two teams of four to switch things up a bit. Every facet of racing in VS. mode, from the lousy 
 no-cinematic startup to the lifeless "you win" screen, is unapologetically plain, but it still 
 breaks up the monotony of Grand Prix mode as it is intended to do.
  
  You can also have a stretch of fun in the game's Emblem Editor mode, composing works of art pixel-by-pixel. 
 Your fine creations will be automatically situated in predetermined positions on whichever kart 
 you happen to be driving, and it's a cool way to customize your ride for online play. Unfortunately 
 you shouldn't get too attached to any one emblem if you intend to ever create another one because, 
 surprisingly, only one can be stored on the DS card. Also absent is the ability to swap your logos 
 with friends, which is a total bummer.
  
  Playing with friends is the best way to play Mario Kart, and Nintendo included some cool ways to 
 do just that. For instance, DSes use magical powers to talk to each other, so up to eight players 
 with DSes of their own can get in on Grand Prix, VS, or Battle mode madness -- wirelessly. Of course, 
 it's best if everyone has a copy of the game so that all the courses, racers, and karts are available, 
 but single-card playability is available. Also, Nintendo has finally opened up to online gaming 
 with Mario Kart DS. It's one small step for Nintendo... and one small step for gamers too. Fact 
 is, the online component works, but it's pretty dry. The very best thing about it, in fact, is 
 that it's cost-free and (more or less) ready to use right out of the box. You can choose to race 
 against people globally, regionally, or as registered friends/rivals in best-score-outta-four matches. 
 Track selection is determined by player vote before the races ensue, and then you're off. Sadly, 
 playing online takes you back to the stone-age (before the invention of magical powers) where cave 
 men played Mario Kart only four racers at a time. Occasionally you'll even find yourself racing 
 against only one or two opponents if more don't come available, and that can be a tad boring. The 
 final ding against the Wifi play is that fan-favorite Battle mode is unavailable online. On the 
 bright side, though, playing online is smooth as butter and virtually lag free. Nintendo's first 
 step in online gaming may be a small step, but it's still a small step in the right direction.
 
  
  The graphics and sound found in Mario Kart DS mirror the gameplay in that they represent tried-and-true, 
 undeniably formulaic presentations. The characters themselves, as well as their karts, have undergone 
 sparse visual renovation since, well... ever. The same is true for the game's interface and assortment 
 of tracks. The layout is so typical, in fact, that even the 16 new Grand Prix tracks and 4 new 
 Battle Mode arenas feel familiar and a bit uninspired soon after first sinking your teeth in. Further 
 complicating matters are the awkward 3D graphical flaws that, once upon a time, were easy to overlook. 
 Nowadays, however, steering wheels should be circles, not octagons, and it's hard to turn a blind 
 eye when big characters' legs taper down and just disappear into smaller carts. But these visuals 
 represent about as much as anyone could ask for this early in the DS' cycle, and the honest truth 
 is that they still look pretty nice. The audio follows the trend and is remarkably ordinary. Many 
 of the sound samples, from the item selection sound to the "3, 2, 1!" countdown diddy at the beginning 
 of each race, are completely recycled from past Mario Kart games, with only a few exceptions. Characters 
 will occasionally chime in to celebrate overtaking an opponent or to voice disapproval when being 
 surpassed. Your racer will still groan upon being pummeled by an attack and gleefully approve when 
 you score a hit. Again, this is all very typical, if not predictable. Overall, the audio/video 
 package maintains the fun theme Mario Kart is known for, and is the perfect accompaniment for the 
 simple, approachable nature of the game. 
  
  To completely reinvent an already dazzling franchise could have been disastrous, but missing a 
 great opportunity to really polish the game is regrettable as well. Why aren't there more retro 
 tracks to unlock? Why are there only 12 characters to choose from (13 if you count Shy Guy, but 
 he only appears in single-pak VS. play) ? Why can't I save more than one emblem in the emblem editor 
 or share them with friends? How come I can't edit the appearance of the karts and characters? What 
 about a stat-tracker? Wouldn't it be cool if Mario Kart DS tracked my accuracy with green shells, 
 red shells, bananas, Bob-ombs, and the like? Why are there only two startup screens when I should 
 be able to unlock, or better yet, make some more of them with the emblem editor? Hey, what the 
 heck happened to my trusty, somewhat dusty speedometer? Now that it's gone, I really miss it. And 
 for goodness sake, why don't I get to watch the other racers finish racing after I finish anymore?! 
 These types of questions will probably begin to percolate in your head once the newness of Mario 
 Kart DS wears off, and that tends to happen right about the time you finish unlocking everything 
 in the Grand Prix mode -- which can be accomplished in ten or so hours by a veteran player. If 
 you don't have easy access to the online play or any pals to race against via LAN, the sweetness 
 of Mario Kart DS probably won't take long to cloy.
  
  The fact remains, though, that with great gameplay comes great replayability. In truth, Mario Kart 
 DS could have, and certainly should have, been more fully fleshed out and polished than this. Not 
 only would it have further differentiated this installment from installments past, it would have 
 served to further enrich the series' shining legacy. But take that with a grain of salt. Mario 
 Kart on the Nintendo DS is decidedly the series' finest recurrence; worthy of a spot in every DS 
 owner's collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfkunrendered
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first got it I played it constantly.50cc was way to slow, 100cc, was ok, but150cc was the 
 stuff. After I beat all of the classes, I moved on to the missions. The missions were actually 
 fun, though I dont see how they are supposed to help you, I really liked the boss mode. After that 
 I did battle it was ok, but it needed more maps. I was dissapointed with the online, only four 
 players, no battle mode, and you cant even get friends from online, you have to know the person. 
 My friends and I played together and it was intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drake444
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'm from Europe (the Netherlands) so I just got the game (1 day b4 the official europe release) 
 anyway... I've been playin it for 4 dayz now... Non-stop. I just can't quit. This game totally blew 
 me away... Amazing graphics ( just check Waluigi Pinball) , The gameplay is fast and solid (no frame 
 drops) its just totally cool... Im totally lovin' it... I haven't got time to play the multiplayer 
 yet nor the wifi mode, but just 2 more dayz and bk tot skool lets see if im already unbeatable;) : p... at 
 this moment I havent played a better game yet and none of the other DS games got Graphics like 
 this.... Nintendo, you've done it again.... another masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Comedyco
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been good. From its beginning's on the Snes to 64, gba, gc and now ds. But out of 
 all of them, ds is the best. Sure, i had a hell of alot fun playing all previous versions with 
 my friends, but now, not only can i play with my friends on the ds version, but i can play with 
 the rest of the world on the awesome ds Wi-Fi. This is a marvelous game with so much to offer. 
 All the new modes, the cool new courses, the new items and the classic courses and characters we 
 love. Sure the games not difficult, but its a blast with so much replay value, only a Mario Kart 
 game knows how to deliver. And for anyone who says the graphics are **** i was surprised to see 
 how smooth the characters and animations look and how much better it was then the chunky, outdated 
 graphics of the 64. Graphics wise, the ds version is somewhere in between the 64 and GC versions 
 graphics.
  In my opinion, this is, so far, the best ds game on the market. That's not to say that such games 
 as Tony Hawk, & Castlevania (my personal fav.) aren't up there with Mario Kart, but Mario Kart is, 
 in one way or another, the best ds game up to date. 
  Gameplay-10 So much fun, so addicting
  Graphics-9 Smooth, fast animation, good effects.
  Sound-8 
 Mostly remixes of old Kart music, but still captures the effect of the game
  Value-10 Between the online playing, the battles and vs., it has so much value 
  Tilt-9 I love 
 it!
  
  Kart ds is a wonderful experience, and well worth any price they slap on it. If you own a ds, you 
 must have this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesus128
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Easily the best Mario Kart we have ever seen. 
  
  Words cannot begin to describe how stunning this title is for the DS. The graphics are out of this 
 world, the sounds are spectacular, everything about this game is top notch. 
  
  Mario Kart DS takes the seriesto new heights delivering amazing gameplay, unbelievable graphics, 
 it really begins to show the potential the Nintendo DS system has to offer. A massive 32 tracks 
 to race on, 8 player LAN, 4 player Wi-fi, battle mode, mission mode, it's everything you could 
 possible want from a Mario Kart title all wrapped up in a nice bundle.
  
  A major new feature with Mario Kart DS is the fact that it is Nintendo's first in Wi-fi games for 
 DS. Soar to new heights and be the best in the world with playing Mario Kart online. Truly amazing... it 
 will blow you away!
  
  Mario Kart is a must for all DS users... incredibly fun to pick up and play, but also at the same 
 time fantastic to sit down and play for long periods of time.
  
  Seriously the best Mario Kart ever seen. Flawless effort by Nintendo, you will love this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MK_Malcovich
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I have played alot of Mario Kart in my day. They have all been fun and entertaining. Mario Kart 
 DS brings about all the good of previous Mario Kart versions while remaining true to the formula 
 and delivering some innovation. The gameplay is as fun as ever and the introduction of the new 
 items as well as the online play make this a high scoring category with a 9 since they really havent 
 changed that much. The graphics are a good use of the Ds's capabilities and are on par with other 
 DS games. They recieved an 8 because i believe there is more to offer from the Ds's hardware. Sound 
 also recieved an 8 because they are good and are used well, however they are not spectacular. Mario 
 Kart DS has excellent value and i have already played it online and with friends and I can say 
 that both modes are wonderful, assuming you have friends and get out of the house enough for social 
 interaction once buying this game. Online mode doesnt have all the features one could desire, but 
 there is NO LAG, not only that but i can play it from my room upstairs while my routers in the 
 basement. It is excellent. If you own a DS, you owe it to yourself to buy this game. If you dont 
 own a DS and are a fan of Mario Kart or kart games or of fun in general, BUY THIS GAME AND A DS 
 FOR THE HOLIDAYS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BountyMatt90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS delivers the perfect package. It has several fun-filled hours of great singleplayer 
 and multiplayer. In single player, you can go through a total of 8 different cups, each cup having 
 4 races. So do the math, and that's 32 total courses for you to choose from. There are 4 new cups, 
 and 4 cups with a bunch of the old courses from the SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN Mario Karts. The 3 
 kart classes are back, 50cc, 100ccand 150cc. There is also and unlockable 150cc mirror mode. That 
 leaves quite a bit of playing time. There are also around 70 missions where you need to complete 
 different tasks which include collecting coins, driving through hoops, and even boss battles. The 
 multiplayer is insanely fun. Offline, you can play with up to 7 other players with a DS, you don't 
 even need 7 other games to have a great time. The major drawbacks of playing without gamepacks 
 is no kart selection for players without the game, and you can only choose from 2 cups. Just imagine 
 the fun and mayhem with 8 people throwing bananna peels and avioding shells all in one game. The 
 online is nearly just as fun, but the biggest drawback would be that only 4 players are allowed 
 in each game. This is Nintendo's first true online game, so I have to give them credit, Mario Kart 
 was the best choice to break the ice that they have left in the freezer a bit too long. You have 
 your wins and losses kept for your and others viewal, and basic online functions like that. There 
 is very little lag and such, and you can also play with your friends via a 12 digit code, which 
 I certainly approve of. Overall, I think Mario Kart DS certainly merits the DS game of the year, 
 just because it accomplishes what games should, it's extremely fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_devster
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  If you have read my UT2004 reveiw, i would like to bank on it. even though i've never played this 
 online (yet, i'll get the USB adaptor for xmas with sonic rush :) ) UT2004 would have to be the 
 second but i know this will rock multiplayer. how do i know that you ask? BECAUSE I HAVE PLAYED 
 THE SNES, N64, AND GC ONES MUTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! oh and when i played DD with my mate and 
 one of his mates i kept coming second exept the last race we did and i owned the pants off of both 
 of them (i looked away then) now back to MKDS. the racing achieves near perfection i just hate it 
 how the blue shells fly over the other karts until it reaches the guy in first place then crashes 
 on his head and makes a massive blast that stops other racers trying to sneek past them while they're 
 flying up in the air and if thats you in first all the time, expect to be bombarded by those
  
  theres also a mission mode which is a refreshing change from the racing which is things like 
 "drive through 5 gates within the time limit". that is like a shrunken down version of Super Mario 
 64 DS. the only thing i dislike is the fact i know the fun will end but i will always have Metriod 
 Prime Hunters: First Hunt to look forward to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowsersfire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  Quite frankly this game is THE best on the DS at the moment and is arguably the best Mario Kart 
 game ever made. Double Dash was far too slow but MKDS takes it back to top speed. The gameplay 
 is often frantic with racers continually swapping positions making it a real race to the finish 
 rather than a follow-the-leader style play. There is no debate on the graphics front. They're the 
 best on the DS to date and when moving the game looks almost as good as its Gamecube counterpart. 
 The visuals are bright, colourful and sharp. There have been no frame rate issues that I've have 
 experienced. There are a variety of modes, Grand Prix, time trials, battle modes and more. There 
 are loads of new tracks made specificly for the DS and many tracks taken from Mario Kart history. 
 Singleplayer alone would warrant the game a 90% but with the inclusion of single cart play, multi 
 cart play and online play all for free the game goes beyond any other. The wireless Internet play 
 is easily set up so long as you have a wireless router and the game quickly finds suitable players, 
 from the continent or from all around the world. The friends list allows you to play specifically 
 with your friends rather than random people.
  
  The only negative points of the game are that the battle mode is restricted meaning that online 
 battles are not possible. This is a real shame as the battles are great fun. The only other negative 
 point is the fact that Nintendo still hasnt realised that the Blue Shell is the worst idea thay 
 have ever come up with. It automatically homes in on the player in first position and makes them 
 skid off of the track. It's not even avoidable. It takes a certian intensity out of the game making 
 it more impersonal and is often considered as a cheating weapon, though it isnt the fault of whover 
 gets it as if they dont use it they can't collect any other weapons. Its something that just knocks 
 the score down slightly as I just can't get over it.
  
  Overall the game is an absolute masterpiece and deserves every  or $ that its sold for. If you 
 don't have the game then buy it now. If you do then I'll see you on the track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_Hewson
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is totaly worth buying, there are so many selections and things to do A+ game! the Graphics 
 are the best and there are so many unlockables kool karts! wicked Characters! and the greatest 
 nitro cups, and a great selection of oldies tracks! and this game is realy koole because you can 
 du missions on it to improve your skills! totaly awsome game play, and ime must keep yappin on 
 about the graphics, there are so good! the creators spent real detail on this game. and also u 
 can connect to other people on the internet like from around the world and race with them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: another_star
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY 
  Its not just a racing game. Its more than that. Sure, its not a racing sim, but tell me, can you 
 shoot red shells at your opponent in a racing sim? Can you drop banana peels on the track so your 
 opponents can slip on them? I didn't think so. And if you're tired of racing, then don't worry, 
 how about you and some other guys meet up and try to hit each other and pop each others balloons. 
 This game is highly addictive and load with tremendous FUN!
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are absolutely awesome. Compare it to MK: DD on GC and you'll swear the graphics look 
 the same. Even though MK is a cartoonish game, the graphics are one of the best i've seen. The 
 game's graphics are smooth, and very impressive.
  
  SOUND
  Engine's roaring, tires sqeaking, little voices said by the characters, oh... and is that the sound 
 of a shell coming towards you? What more could you ask for? Yeah, maybe there isn't any dialogue, 
 but it is a Kart Racing game. You have the sound of the Kart, and tires, and sound of the weapons, 
 hmm... and technically, thats all you need, so im guessing hearing the characters yell is just 
 a bonus.
  
  VALUE
  2 words... ONLINE PLAY! Thats all that is necessary right? Being able to play against people WORLDWIDE 
 is just magnificent. It brings millions of challenges, hours of fun, and extra hours keeping your 
 positive record alive. 
  Many unlockables can leave you hours of play as you try to unlock everything.
  Run a time trial. 
 Then go for another Time Trial, but this time, you're not just against the clock, you're against 
 your ghost. And if you think you've got the best time and ghost, send it to your friend and your 
 friend can try to beat it. (vise verse) Oh, and not to mention, there are missions that you try 
 to complete. but if your results (in anything, timetrial, grand prix, battle, missions) arent good 
 enough for you, then you can replay until it reaches your satisfaction. Oh, and if only you have 
 the game, that doesnt mean you cant play multiplayer with 7 of those other guys that have ds's.... 
 DS download play (single cartridge) with 7 other people. Thousands of possibilties, thousands of 
 replay-ability.
  
  TILT
  DS's first game to feature the online function. Not only is it the first game to feature online 
 function, but its a GREAT and MAGNIFICENT game to introduce it. People complained that NINTENDO 
 wasn't featuring online play... well... there you go!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gidspor
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  mario kart is better than ever! it went from the n64 to the ds!!! it is the best ds game yet... 
 i love it..... as soon as i bought it i have played it alot........ and the wifi thing is SWEET..... so 
 you HAVE TO buy it............... you will love playin online and beatin people on  
 is one of the best things EVER........... i gave it a great rating......... A  
 seems like i play it more than 5 hours a day a  i 
 like it................. the difficulty is hard.................... the learning curve is 0 to 30 
 minutes or less............... its classification is a masterpiece.......... gameplay 10............ graphics 
 10...................... sound 10............... value  tilt 10........... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josoz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart DS has tracks from every version of the game, all the mario characters, and the bonuses 
 that totally kick but. The gameplay has improved greatly from the last game, with new bonuses, and 
 the option to have more than one kart a driver. the difficulty has been let up though. I have had 
 this game for 2 days, and already 150cc seems pretty easy to me. I am working on completing the game 
 on 150cc. the gameplay was better in this game than any other mario kart game. I also like the cool 
 emblem feature. I can't draw, so i had my mom draw me an awesome emblem.
  The graphics in this game are also great, but would be better if on a console version. The drivers 
 look real, but something that is really ironic is that princess peaches's graphics look the worst 
 of any driver. The emblem's graphics are also great and overall this is one of the greatest mario-based 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinPiccolo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Mario Kart DS is possibly the single best game for the Nintendo DS to date. With the introduction 
 of the great and interactive Wi-Fi feature. You can play with people set on your friend's list, 
 rival's list or even specifically in your region. Of course, Worldwide play is my favourite. The 
 new mission mode adds elements to the Mario Kart franchise we've never seen before and Nintendo 
 definitely doesn't disappoint.
  
  With new characters like Dry Bones, and R. O. B. the Robot and remakes of classic tracks like SNES 
 Mario Circuit, GBA Sky Garden, and GCN Baby Park, this game has nostaligic references written all 
 over it.
  
  Definitely go out and buy this game if you have a DS, because it's a ton of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zVirus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The biggest flaw of Mario Kart DS is how the online lacks a bit. Here are the reasons why: 
  
  1- Only 20 out of 32 tracks are playable online... some courses I'd really like to see are not 
 playable online!
  
  2- Only up to four players.... why?? 
  
  3- No battle modes. You can't battle or even play the fun and innovative new shine runner battle 
 mode. While you can play battle modes with wirless multiplayer, the wifi internet does not allow 
 it. 
  
  4- There are only 4 players for online wifi mode, but no bots are allowed to fill up the other 
 spaces. Alot of the times you may only have 1 or 2 other opponents, so this can be kind of odd...
 
  
  5- I would have liked to seen some lobbies or something where you can enter and initiate a pictochat-like 
 chat method while you wait for everyone to be ready., instead of the game just randomly finding 
 the first people it finds that are attempting to play. 
  
  That's about it really, the game is awesome other wise. The characters and karts are really good, 
 (though I'd love to see diddy kong or some koopa troopas!) and all modes of play are really fun. 
 To get the most value out of the game, you must go through 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and then 150cc Mirror 
 mode. That, and there are 8 cups to go through, so they can keep you playing for a long time. 
 
  
  There are 4 brand new cups, as well as 4 retro cups. The retro cups' courses consist of: One from 
 the SNES (Mario Kart) , then one from the N64 (Mario Kart 64) , one from the GBA (Super Circuit) , 
 and then one from the GC (Double Dash) . These retro cups are fun, but some of the choices they 
 picked for courses could have been better. I wasn't too much of a fan of "Moo Moo Farm", "Frappe 
 Snowland", "Baby Park" and a few more. 
  
  The SNES ones are.... from the SNES, so they aren't too impressive. They mostly consist of watching 
 out for obstacles on the ground that will slow you down. The real life of this game is actually 
 the brand new courses. These are so fun to race! The obstacles are clever, the courses themselves 
 look great, and there's a nice variety. 
  
  For Multiplayer, you can use one card to have 4 people play. but the others are automatically Shy 
 Guys (not playable otherwise) and you can barely race any course (just a few) . You can also battle 
 to some extent. It didn't anger me what lacked in single card multiplayer because this game actually 
 lets four players play using one card like many games do not, so i see why not everything would 
 be offered. Beggars can't be choosers. 
  
  The full value of Multiplayer is when everyone has a card to use, though playing with just one 
 can provide some amount of time for entertainment anyway. Online mode can pit you up against either 
 people about your skill level, people worldwide, regional people, and your friends. 
  
  Mission mode breathes even more life into this game, as you can do all kinds of tasks and get ratings 
 on them. Getting ratings is great because you can always go back to missions to try and get better 
 ratings on them. There are mission levels that give you 8 missions and upon clearing them (doesn't 
 have to be in order) , you then fight a boss. Boss battles were surprisingly fun in my opinion. 
 
  
  Mario Kart DS is the best in the series as it breathes new life into the franchise and not only 
 stuffs in elements from previous games, but gives many new elements as well. This game will keep 
 you entertained for, hell, maybe even years! Got some friends with DS or a wireless router? Then 
 you can have hours of multiplayer as well! 
  
  And also, all McDonald's fast food resturants now have wireless hotspots so you can play online 
 whenever you go to McDonalds! That's really cool. 
  
  FINAL VERDICT: 
  
  Difficulty - Just Right. Like I mentioned earlier, getting everything requires you to go through 
 all the cups, which get harder and harder (though never too severely hard) and the missions get 
 get really frustrating when you like barely miss something or have troubles, but the more you try, 
 the better you get at it. 
  
  Learning Curve - 0 to 30 minutes. MK fans can jump right in, though to learn about all the new 
 stuff can take just a bit. Even gamers new to the series (if you have a DS and this game, I doubt 
 you're new to Mario Kart) could jump right in and let the races begin. 
  
  Time Spent Plaing, to Date: About 10 through 20 hours. I'd say closer to 10 than to 20, but I'll 
 be playing this game for a lot more hours! I've had it for about a week now, and it seems like 
 the experience MKDS brings will not get old anytime soon. 
  
  Classification: Best in series. 
  
  9.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tannernin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a fun simple game. For those of you who have never played mario kart, You race 
 other mario characters using items like shells, bannans, and bombs.
  There are 3 main modes Single player, Multiplayer, and online. Single player modes include Time 
 trial, Grand Prix ( play this to unlock new characters and courses) VS. ( like a quick race) , Battle 
 ( you have baloons and your goal is to knock other people out by hitting them with items) And a 
 new mode to the series, mission. You need to do small objectives in a limited time. Including drive 
 through the gates in order, collect the coins, and bet the boss. 
  Multiplayer mode is divided in to two groups simple and normal. Normal is for players who have 
 more than 1 game, and simple is for download. In download you cant chose from much courses*, but 
 in normal you have all of the courses. There are 3 games you can play Vs, battle, shine runners*. 
 
  And Last, but definately not least Wi-fi. For free you can play anyone across the world. You can 
 pick to play friends ( once you find out a friend code, you can enter it and play with other people) , 
 rivals (people around your skill) , worldwide, Regional ( Your country) . Here is a step by step 
 process on online. Pick a character, pick a course ( you have a wide selection, and to chose a 
 course its voted on. if theres a tie, its randomly selected) . You play 3 other people. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good in my opinion. There slightly better than the n64 version. 
 As for those who care about graphics, you will forget all about them. 
  
  Sound: Also like The N64 version, the Sound is very simialar. From the music to the n character 
 speach, all most all will enjoy the sound.
  
  Closing Notes: For the simple gamers to the hardcore gamers, you will enjoy this game. all the 
 elements are fun. 
  
  * only 8, and the people that are downloading have to be shy guy.
  * Shine runners: You have to get the most shines possible. at the end of eacch short period of 
 time, the person (s) will be eleminated. This mode is also available in single player.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowbarchris
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Feature wise, this is the best game in the series but some of the new features start to drag the 
 experience down. Not much was required to make this a perfect DS game but Nintendo decided to try 
 new things.
  The powerslide is back, but it has completely destroyed the experience. Its annoying to have to 
 do every turn to keep up with other players, even the CPU. Its more fun to just steer through a 
 corner without everyone boosting past you. This element drags down the racing a bit and although 
 I managed to beat all 4 cc classes using little or no powersliding at all it would have done better 
 without it. Some features are really great, the new items are cool, i would've liked to see more 
 but these still provide enough new obstacles. The kart selection option could have been good, had 
 the karts been better. Some just look ridiculous and the stats, especially weight should have been 
 character specific, I mean Toad should be able to turn the Hurricane easily. The item system is 
 good keeping things fair, the blue shell can get very annoying and just a way of dodging it would 
 have been nice as long as it wasn't too easy.
  
  The new courses are fantastic, and the new renditions of old courses are all great instead of the 
 same old same old. The Retro courses are good still, but the selections of which courses was horrendous. 
 Whether they were aiming for the best or the most memorable they failed. Almost all the courses 
 were not very memorable at all. The SNES and GBA tracks could have had a better rehash without 
 destroying the experience. Especially the rainbow blocks, they really needed to be removed, instead 
 of being made the only stand out feature in these bland tracks.
  
  The options in versus are fantastic and couldn't have been pulled off better. Customizing a random 
 track Grand Prix can keep things fresh.
  
  Battle mode is awesome and the addition of bots is great and doesn't let single players miss out 
 on the experience.
  
  Missions were a creative idea, but don't offer much replay value even if you get a bad rating on 
 them.
  
  Online and multiplayer is what this game is all about. This is a great game amongst friends, its 
 a shame online couldn't offer more so that the fun of versus matches could be enjoyed with friends 
 more often.
  
  The Graphics are great and should have been done like this on the N64. The sound is great with 
 good music although the characters seem to have grown silent and there are no memorable phrases 
 like "I'm Luigi, Number One".
  
  Mario Kart concentrated on too many new areas and didn't quite hit the mark. For all the "new karts" 
 and other unnecessary features could have been more courses, which would ideally make "the greatest 
 mario kart game ever". Mario Kart's 'touch' has always been in its courses and frankly the ones 
 in this are not enough. Some of the Retro tracks are just not fun to play on because of their age 
 and this would have a been the best with four times the number of tracks it has now, even if they 
 were old ones brought back from N64 and Gamecube.
  
  The racing is as good as ever minus the utterly awful powersliding, the courses are good but not 
 plentiful enough, online needs to be much better incorporating Battle Mode and so on, it would 
 be good to see in a year's time a "Mario Kart DS Revised" that betterred the online features, instead 
 of us having to wait for the next Nintendo handheld console's Mario Kart which could be subject 
 to more unneccessary experimentations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shan14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun but it is a little too short, it has good graphics and the new misson mode 
 is really fun, you'll Iike the battle mode and the new shine-runners, but the best part is the multiplayer 
 wi-fi which allows you to play with other gamer's who are connected and have a Mario Kart DS game 
 cartridge. Also there are new charecter's, each with different types of karts, this game also mixes 
 the tracks of old and new Mario Kart games.
  The bottom line is that if your a Mario Kart fan you should definetly buy this game and even if 
 your not it's more than worth it to go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigtymer113
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Intro: The previous Mario Kart titles well, let's just say that Gamespot doesn't like them. Now, 
 those were the ones that everyone loved and were the best driving games on the consoles, and everyone 
 bought them. Now it looks like the people at GS are changing there minds, but for a good reason. 
 Mario Kart: DS. This is a must buy for your ds and all in all, gaming library. This is another 
 good reason to buy the ds, even though the ds has its bad share of games.
  *CoughNintendogsCough*
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 Mario Kart ds offers classic characters, such as 
 the orignals like Mario, Luigi, Peach, Dk, Bowser, Waluigi, etc. But Nintendo has added 2 new Mario 
 Kart characters who are both secret (unlockable) but I won't spoil them for you. They have also 
 added a new "Mission" mode where you go through missions with certain objectives, such as Driving 
 backwards or collect 30 coins, and the list goes down. There fun, and exiting, and some will leave 
 you stumped. The most probably pointed out thing before Mario Kart ds was launched is that it will 
 now hold online play. I have yet to experience this feature, but from what I heard you really don't 
 want to verse people with Japanese names, as they are the best racers and will kick your butt to 
 the abyss. Now in battle mode, insted of you only playing battle mode with a friend, you can play 
 with up to 10 computer characters. This adds much more fun, but to experience battle mode fully, 
 you should have a friend to play with since you can laugh at them if they lose a balloon. The battle 
 mode has two types of gameplay: Balloon battle, or Shine runners. Shine runners is much like the 
 Gamecube version of where you get a shine and if you hold it for 1 minute, you win. But shine runners 
 is like musical chairs. Shines appear on your touch screen, and you have to get a certain of number 
 in a time period, and the people with the least amount of shines gets booted, but you still keep 
 on playing to get more and win. Also in battle mode, if you use a mushroom and hit someone while 
 still going fast, you take their shine or balloon, this adds new strategies, and insted of starting 
 out (in balloon battle) with 3 balloons already filled, you have to stop and press the select button 
 to fill them up. You also get more balloons than you normaly would in the n64 version. Now Nintendo 
 has also in racing mode or verses mode, a new mode called the "Nitro Cup" and the "Retro Cup". 
 the Retro cup is a couple of courses from the previous 4 games all in 1 side cupe such as the shell 
 cup, or the leaf cup. I think I covered most of the gameplay, so lets move on to the other catagories.
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10 The graphics in Mario Kart: DS are amazing, and have acheived a new level. The 
 explosions, the clear view, it's so crystal clear, especially on a portable console. If they had 
 a flaw, it's probably the very few inaccuarate character models, such as Bowser, or Mario. But 
 othrewise, they are a sight to behold. If your legally blind, well, it's sad that you can't appreciate 
 this graphics.
  
  Sound: 9/10 The sound is good, but Nintendo could've done a little better. In the retro cup, you'll 
 immediatley reconize the sound in Yoshi Circuit, or Mushroom briddge, and that's cool to hear. 
 Now if your legally deaf, maybe your missing some things, but dont be too sad.
  
  Value: 9/10 The value was good, especially with the addition of the mission mode, and its so cool 
 once you unlock all the karts for all the characters, so then you can play with DK, but use a lightweight 
 kart. Very cool, and a very fun addition. Now, its not all that long, but long enough to get a 9. 
 This is based off the single player mode, not the online mode.
  
  Overall: 9.7/10 Mario Kart: DS is a must buy for the ds, and if you dont have a ds, just go out 
 and buy one so you can truly appreciate gaming aceivement. Get thids game now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 2:44 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has again pulled out its kart racing franchise with great fanfare, and has delivered once 
 again on its successful Mario themed racing game. A wealth of single player options combined with 
 online multiplayer makes Mario Kart a must have for DS owners, and gives an excellent reason to 
 pick a DS over a PSP for the upcoming holiday season. 
  
  Though Mario Kart has gone through many incarnations, Mario Kart DS offers the most complete game 
 of Mario racing to date. In addition to the standard mixture of options comes the most significant; 
 online multiplayer for up to 4 people. The execution may leave some disappointed, but the bottom 
 line is that the excitement and intensity have been captured perfectly. The single player is still 
 no slouch compared to the multiplayer, as new additions help hone your skills.
  
  The online multiplayer is the most exciting aspect to the franchise, as it finally gives the opportunity 
 to players all around the world to hash it out with each other. The play is a great deal of fun, 
 finding people will only take about a minute or two, and the play is virtually lag free. There 
 are some difficulties that are noticeable, such as the absence of a means of communicating or obtaining 
 friend id's, which are needed to add people to your buddy list. The roster of online play is also 
 limited to racing, meaning that those wishing to hash it out in the balloon or shine matches are 
 going to be disappointed. Still what the multiplayer is is a ton of fun that anybody can enjoy 
 for 10 minutes or 10 hours.
  
  Single player must be completed to unlock racers and cars, but the good news is it's never a boon 
 to the overall package. The single player has received some new additions as well such as the mission 
 mode. This tasks the player with completing objectives such as racing against time, destroying 
 boxes, fighting bosses, and a multitude of other actions which, though repeated with many permutations, 
 never feel stagnant. Included in multiplayer as well is the ability to play battle modes with bots, 
 which put up a good fight and help mix up the replay value of the game. 
  
  In addition to increased roster of racers and new maps, Nintendo has added choice maps from previous 
 Mario Kart games. These include Snes, GBA, N64, as well as GC versions. The choices are excellent, 
 as nobody can say they didn't enjoy Choco Mountain, and the people who did just wanted to be different. 
 
  
  Overall, the only thing that hurts this package is the absences from multiplayer, though these 
 can easily be overlooked once playing the game. The graphics, sound, and gameplay are all top notch, 
 and at about 35 bucks, the value of this game goes above and beyond the expectations for the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyrobo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  i think its great ds finally has a good racer, the others just werent up to scratch. Also its the 
 ds's jump onto Wi-Fi and i think thats great, congrats!
  Im a nintendo loyalist and playstation loyalist (and for that matter xbox hater!!) so i have alwaysed 
 loved mario-kart and those classics, but i want a juicy racer, one that isnt cartoon, even though 
 i love that.
  Poor old ds, hasnt had a fair go, but with the release of metroid coming soon i look forwarding 
 to adding metroid and trauma centre: under the knife to my ds collection.
  My advice, rent this first and see if it lasts a few days not just the first 2 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  Now that Mario Kart DS is here, I can finally say that I made a very good decision in buying my 
 Nintendo DS. With games like Castlevania, Advance Wars, Super Mario 64, and this, there is just 
 no denying that the DS has finally started to show its true glory.
  
  Let me start off by saying that I have never owned a Mario Kart game before. I have played Mario 
 Kart before on other people's Gamecubes and Nintendo 64s, but I have never actually gone out to 
 buy one of them until now.
  
  As you may know very well by now, Mario Kart DS is officially the first game to come out for the 
 Nintendo DS that supports the Nintendo Wi-fi Connection service. To be honest, I don't think this 
 service will really impress anyone at all, but what it will do is let you play Mario Kart DS competitively 
 with other people around the world that you don't know and do so without any lag or any hassle 
 whatsoever. The service is actually fantastic in that it lets you connect with three other players 
 online within seconds and you'll be off choosing your kart and your level. It's so easy to use 
 a three year old could do it, and I think it's safe to say that was exactly how Nintendo intended 
 it.
  
  If you don't have a wi-fi hotspot or a mcdonald's around for you to go online with, don't worry. 
 This game packs a single player punch as well. The game features a robust but fairly easy grand 
 prix that has four classes: 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and mirror 150cc. Each class goes faster than the 
 last as you might expect, except for mirror 150cc which just features the same speed as 150cc except 
 with backwards racing courses. Within each class you haev the Nitro Grand Prix which has 16 new 
 and unique courses made specially for the DS, and a Retro Grand Prix that features 16 race courses 
 that are remade from older versions of Mario Kart. With each grand prix you win, you get more characters 
 and karts to choose from. These new characters and karts are brought into your online mode and 
 can be used in multiplayer from that point on.
  
  Aside from the grand prix modes, you get time trial for competing for the best lap time with friends, 
 vs which I still haven't figured out the point of, battle mode which features balloon battle and 
 a new mode called shine runners, and missions where you complete specific tasks in a designated 
 time period. These modes provide a lot of extra value to the game, and keep you playing past the 
 time it takes to finish the grand prix modes.
  
  In terms of graphics, if you've seen Super Mario 64 DS's graphics, you've basically seen Mario 
 Kart DS's graphics. They're very good for a DS game, but I don't think you'll ever be going "Wow, 
 those graphics are so good!" The graphics might be a little less impressive than Super Mario 64 
 DS's graphics simply because a lot of the things on the racing courses are just 2D sprites placed 
 on 3D maps. At least the actual karts are modeled in 3D unlike the Nintendo 64 version of the game.
 
  
  The sound in this game is good. It has nice music that you might hum to while playing, and the 
 sound effects are clean and have no noticeable short-comings. Once again, the sound is good.
  
  Online isn't the only way to play multiplayer in the game. If you have friends with the game, 
 or just friends with a DS, you can play them all in the local wireless multiplayer modes that support 
 up to 8 players from one cartridge. If you have friends near you with a DS, this mode will greatly 
 extend the life of this game.
  
  Now if you do happen to have a wireless online connection in your house, the multiplayer online 
 mode is much more limited than the single card local multiplayer mode. First of all, you only get 
 about half of the tracks featured in the game to choose from. Secondly, you have no means of communication 
 between players online. This may put off a lot of thirteen year olds who like to scream and curse 
 on their microphones or chat rooms online when they lose, but for those of you who can handle it, 
 it's not that big of a deal. The only actual distinction you have from other players is your emblem 
 and your alias. There is also a very bare-bones friends system. You basically call up one of your 
 friends who have the game and tell them to give you their friend code, then you give them yours, 
 and afterwards you both have to be looking for each other in the friends option when looking for 
 people to play with, so the only way you can play with your friends online is if you call them 
 personally and ask them. Getting past all of these short-comings, this game has a very easy-to-use 
 online interface and you'll find yourself many times just trying to get more wins than everybody 
 else, regardless of the lack of communication. Just watch out for the people who have profanity 
 and nudity on their custom emblems.
  
  So, if you're thinking about getting this game, but you don't have an online connection, go buy 
 it anyway. If you're thinking of buying this game and you have an online connection, but you don't 
 like single player racing games, buy it anyway. Basically, if you own a Nintendo DS and you like 
 video games at all, buy this game.
  
  P. S. Look out for me online, my name is VashOwnsU, and my emblem is a picture of Vash the Stampede. 
 See you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhomerun
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 4:13 am PT
Review:  If you were dissapointed in the past with the Mario Kart series, you need not be worried about 
 purchasing Mario Kart DS. The game is absolutely fantastic. I just bought it two days ago, and 
 I can see myself playing it for months and coming back to it for years. It's one of those games 
 that has such huge value that you know you'll never put it down.
  
  If I went off explaining everything good about this game, it'd run out of time. The gameplay is 
 best in the series, graphics are great for DS, and definatly far surpass Mario Kart 64, there are 
 32 tracks to play on, featuring new tracks, and ported tracks from N64, SNES, and Gamecube, online 
 play, local play, and single cart play, battle mode, everything, just everything! There are even 
 missions that you can do, too. The missions are nice for quick play instead of a grand prix, which 
 takes up more time.
  
  There's way more that's great but I don't have the time to explain it all.
  
  Downsides are 
 few and far between. I would have liked a battle mode online, and online chatting. Also, it can 
 sometimes take a while to gather 3 other players online, and I don't know if this is because everyone's 
 stuck in a game and there's no one to play or what. It can take up to 5 minutes just to find some 
 people to play with. With astounding launch online numbers.
  
  People have been badmouthing the online play a lot, though, but it does have many unique good points. 
 I like how it syncs with nintendowifi. com, and also it has a very competent rivals matching system 
 to match you with people of your skill level. Of course you can also do worldwide, friends, and 
 regional.
  
  If you have a DS and a little cash, this game is worth it. You should get it. Like now. Only if 
 you're really really tired of playing any kinds of racing games should you not get this game. As 
 in you can't stand another second of racing. Certainly the DS version of Mario Kart plays a lot 
 like the older versions, but it refines the formula so perfectly and features so much to do, it's 
 just incredible. It's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  its a good game and it looks great for a ds game but if you don't got online it sucks and there 
 is alot of hackers in mario cart i was playing online ten tis guy from england shot me with a shell 
 and i flyed offthe map and lost the race. the #2 screen for this game is used 4 noting but a map 
 witch helps but whats the point in olny having 2 screens if you use 1 fornthing important. but 
 i was amazed the game looks and sounds great but online you can olny have 4 guys........... and 
 u can't play all the maps online it is very fun 2 play ad it has lots of replay in it befor it 
 gets boring playing online and playingvs comp is similar sometimes u cant even tell if you are 
 playing a human or just the system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cshadl1234
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome in all directions. Once again, I picked it up after reserving it at my local 
 EB Games. Took my friend down there and we then went to McDonalds (My router was down) so we could 
 play online. Unfortunately, that was the day of the big "WiFi Crash." So we didn't get to play 
 online.
  
  Well, since I had to wait until Friday for my router to be fixed I decided to complete the entire 
 Grand Prix mode. The framerate is great in this game and everything goes perfectly smooth. Graphics 
 are awesome besides the low poly count of the characters, everything else is smooth. 
  
  The new and old tracks make the game feel like a great sequel celebrating all that is Mario Kart. 
 The retro tracks from the SNES, N64, GBA, and GCN definetly bring back memories. The only flaw 
 is that the developers took out some of the shortcuts on the GCN version tracks. The new tracks 
 are very well designed and are great fun to race on.
  
  The wide character selection (when you complete the entire Grand Prix) is great. The 32 karts are 
 another wonderful addition to the game.
  
  Now, onto online play.
  
  You can create an emblem, choose your name, and prepare to race against 3 other people online.
 
  The downside to online is that it is VERY limited. You can't even talk to someone while choosing 
 characters. They should have made a "Lobby Course" where you can just free roam around maybe a 
 city or something and chat with the other people until you are all ready.
  
  Well, maybe in the next installment to Mario Kart DS series.
  
  Overall, the game is great 
 and a definite must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauraPalmer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  wow... mario kart ds is superb. everything about it is great. i was a little skeptical but believe 
 the reviews, it is awesome. of course, the wifi play is the most exciting part. at any time (if 
 you have wifi at home) you can get on and play mario kart with anyone in the WORLD! up to 4 players 
 play at once and you can design your own logo that identifies you and is displayed on the front 
 of your car. 
  
  there are a wide range of courses from snes to the gamecube and more. in single player mode there 
 are alot of choices too. you can play straight mario kart or there is a mission mode that is really 
 fun. and you can also play against someone who has a ds but doesn't have there own copy of mario 
 kart. it just great!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owyn999
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:28 am PT
Review:  Alright well I guess I can start with the game play. The game is definately replayable, the tracks 
 aren't many but there are 32 of them. The Karts and characters all give you a different experience 
 each time you play and the balancing of the item drops are pretty decent as well.
  
  The grapics seem to be next well the graphics are very nice, they are sleek and run wonderfully 
 on the DS even the updates of the old tracks look fairly good. The backgrounds add a bit of viewing 
 pleasure and usually bring up some fond memories from other old games, like when you race in front 
 of peach's castle.
  
  Now comes the Sound, well what is there to say the music for a handheld holds up well and doesn't 
 detract or distract from the game, the sounds themselves are pretty good as you get a bunch of 
 different sounds that make sense and aren't repetitive as they are used when they should be. No 
 overbearing dialogue which isn't needed.
  
  The game was more than worth the money that you spend on it and as long as you read the FAQ's on 
 the online connection with you're router you will be able to set the DS up in no time flat to connect 
 to anyone in the world. The only downside that I see is that the online version doesn't currently 
 allow you to play any other mode but a four race prix, though I must say that the way that tracks 
 are chosen is probably the best that I have seen in an online console game.
  
  Well I guess that covers everything, so please review at your leasuire and let us all know what 
 you find good and bad with the game but I for one think it was extremely well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrandyk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the new mario kart game comes out but its on a handheld so you are probably thinking that 
 all handheld games are just watered down console games with worse graphics. well boy are you wrong 
 on this one. mario kart ds is way better than mario kart double dash, 64, and advance. the only 
 mario kart game that comes close to it is the original but this one beats it out definitly. the 
 graphics are definitly better than mario kart 64 but definitly dont get to gamecube standards; 
 great for a handheld game. gameplay is out of this world because its mario kart ONLINE. the online 
 service is wonderful and the only thing wrong with it is that there is no punishment to the people 
 who quit right in the middle of the match probably because they were losing. the sound is o. k. 
 but then again sound has never bothered me on a handheld game because all the time i have the sound 
 muted. this controls pretty well however on more than one ocassion my thumbs get kinda sore mainly 
 my right thumb because of how close the r buttion is to the a, b, x, y buttons. all in all i would 
 have to say this is the best ds game out there but i have yet to play nintendogs or the castlevania 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordhector1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart+online= Great game and endless hours of fun. ITS soo cool buy this buy this buy this 
 game. Its worth buying just for the onlione multiplayer. Theres 30 or so tracks great characters. 
 The people are not always the same on the multiplayer online. The graphics and awesome and the 
 karts match the characters personallity more than double dash. Its probably the best racing game 
 that same out this year. You can unlock characters and play loads of tournaments. This is simply 
 an awesome game and easy to understand. Mario kart ds is an all around good game and fun to play 
 for fast and short periods of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tienchiha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite possibly the best game on the DS to date. It captures everything the old Mario 
 Kart Games ever did, and then adds everything else. From the single card download play, to the 
 Wifi compatability; this game shines on all fronts.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  When you first turn this game on and start your first game, you will be blown away. These graphics 
 are better than any game on the DS to date, which is why I am giving it such a high score. From 
 the overhead course reviews, to the drifting sparks; this game captures the Mario Kart spirit just 
 right. I give this particular portion of the game a 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  You will be stunned how addictive this game is. Think of Mario Kart on the GBA, plus Mario Kart 
 on the SNES, plus Mario Kart on the GCN, and you have the ultimate Mario Kart game. Even once all 
 the wow factor of the game goes down, there is still tons to do. From the time trial staff ghosts, 
 to the Single game grand prix, Mario Kart DS wil have you wanting more. The only downside to this 
 game is that the wow factor is so high, that time flies and the game is over with before you know 
 it, which is why I give this portion of the game a 9/10 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  This game is bleeding with beatiful music that you have come to know and love. No matter if you 
 are listening to the crazy caribbean music of Donut Plains or to that funky hip hop beat of the 
 Wario Pinball track, you will love the music of this game. This game even features all of the old 
 tracks and totally redone music that you remember from the past. Trust me on this one, as a music 
 freak who loves good music and despises bad music, I have distinguished this title as one of the 
 best music soundtracks on the DS yet.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  Trust me, this game is a great multiplayer game and one of the most exciting. even if you have 
 only 2 people including yourself, the single card download play of this game surpasses Meteos, 
 and any other game that you have played on the DS. Multi-card versus makes it even better by adding 
 the 24 tracks that werent on single card. Wifi is amazing, and dont believe anybody who says it 
 is overhyped. Wifi adds to the games overall replay value, which was already a major selling point 
 of this game.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  This is one of those games that you want to take to your friends and display them the game that 
 just killed any memories of any Mario Kart game they ever played. The value to this game and overall 
 presentation is so good, you will want to play for hours just looking at the title screen.
  
  Overall: 9.7
  
  This game is amazing, and anybody who says that this game is anything less 
 than that needs to get their Adrenal Glands checked. The people who review this game have never 
 even played it so just put them on mute. Have fun playing this excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 200163796
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I am loving this game! I got it three days ago and I having playing for hours. Its fun, addictive, 
 and just great. The gameplay is great and their is lot of great content too. I have not tried the 
 online mode yet, but online is just icying on top. You owe to yourself to buy this game if you 
 have a DS. If you don't, this is a great time to buy one. I have never played another Mario Cart 
 before, and i am telling you this is a great racing game. I don't care about other mario carts. 
 This gotta be the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracula95
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  When you play this you will love it. With a great assortment of drivers and very good cars you 
 will be playing this for a long time. There are so many courses and good items that make this gaming 
 experience worth the money you on it. Since the game can use the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection there 
 will be lots of players to race with. Great boss batles. You can race with up to eight players 
 at once so the it makes multi-player gaming very good. The game is worth buying and playing repeatedly. 
 Nothing is bad in it and since you can see every obstacle on the bottom DS screen who can say anything 
 bad about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WithTheDawn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  Lets get things straight - I have always been a massive fan of the Mario Kart series. At the same 
 time, the only other hand-held Mario Kart game, Super Circuit for the GBA really annoyed me. When 
 I heard that another Mario Kart game was being made for the DS, I was immediately concerned both 
 that it would work far more efficiently than the GBA version, and that the features of the DS would 
 not be gimmicks but would actually aid to the gameplay.
  
  Far from being disappointed, I have been amazed at just how well the game performs on the system. 
 Already it has become natural to look at the map on the bottom screen during races in a way that 
 makes you wonder how you ever managed to play the game without it, and the game controls as well 
 as ever with the D-pad. Mario Kart DS bears a sticking resemblance to Mario Kart 64, yet at the 
 same time does everything somehow better.
  
  Gameplay :
  
  Mario Kart DS maintains all of the features that have made the series great previously. You begin 
 with a selection of 8 classic racers: Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, Donkey Kong, Wario and 
 Bowser, all of which generally have either speed or acceleration and handling as main attributes. 
 Each racer will begin with a selection of two karts, and this will increase greatly as you unlock 
 certain features, as will the original cast of 8 characters.
  
  A new and interesting feature is the particular karts "item" rating, which simply improves the 
 chances of getting good items if it is high. Having a low item rating and being in first usually 
 means you will only get banana peels, having a high rating will often enough give you triple green 
 shells even if you are leading the pack. Once you get used to the handling of your favourite character, 
 all racers will eventually have a kart with a max item ratio, and are often the best one to go 
 for.
  
  Single player mode is divided into five areas: Grand Prix, Time Trials, VS, Battle and the all-new 
 Missions mode. In Grand Prix you can initially play at either 50cc, 100cc or 150cc speed, and in 
 each there is a selection of 32 races divided into 8 cups, 4 of which are all-new and generally 
 feature environments from previous Mario games, the other 4 of which are consisted of classics 
 from all previous Mario Kart games. All of which, including the Gamecube ports, surprisingly, play 
 very smoothly and much like their original versions. After choosing a cup, you will play 4 races 
 and gain points according to position. If you have the most points at the end of the race you win 
 :D. You will also get a ranking that seems to be based on the times of each of your races, ranging 
 from E to triple stars. Even in 50cc, it takes some effort to get triple stars, and in 150cc it 
 will probably takes weeks of playing to gain the rank.
  
  Time Trials simply allow you to race on a track without other racers or obstructions in the way. 
 This mode relies on your ability to powerslide, which, once you get the hang of it, is easier than 
 ever. Achieving fast enough times will allow you to unlock staff ghosts which, to put it bluntly, 
 will totally wipe the floor with you. You will have to perfect three laps just to keep up with 
 them, and beating all the staff ghosts is a major feature of this games lasting appeal. In addition 
 to this, you can also transfer over friends ghosts and play against them until you beat them. 
 When up against any ghost, the bottom screen helpfully shows their path, and if they are sliding 
 or power boosting.
  
  VS mode allows you to take on seven racers in any tracks that you have unlocked. You can change 
 both the speed and the computers difficulty, and can even break everyone into two teams of four 
 and go through races acting as a team. I imagine this would be quite fun with 7 friends around, 
 but still has some value even by yourself.
  
  Battle Mode in back and better than ever. There are two games in battle mode; Balloon Battle and 
 Shine Runners. The former is similar to the N64 and GC battle modes in that you hit your opponents 
 with items and cause them to loose their balloons. However, this version now has a nice little 
 twist to it that both adds strategy and uses the DS's features very well. You start with only one 
 balloon and a stock of four and need to either blow into your microphone or hold select to inflate 
 up to three at any one time. The former is quicker, but somewhat less dignified if you happen to 
 be on a train like I was :D.
  
  Shine Runners is similar to the Double Dash's Shine Thief. In this version you race around collecting 
 stars off the ground, and shooting opponents to make them drop their stars. A clock continually 
 counts down, cutting off the people with the least stars each time until there is a winner. Battle 
 Mode can now be done against bots (finally!) , which have difficulty ratings of easy, normal and 
 hard, the later being quite a serious challenge. There are six courses for this mayhem, four all-new 
 ones and two old ones: Block Fort (N64) and Pipe Plaza (GC) . Block Fort has always been my favourite 
 battle course from any Mario Kart games, and it is great to see it in here, particularly when you 
 can play against up to seven other bots or people. Long after you tire of Grand Prix, Battle Mode 
 will still beckon you.
  
  The Missions mode is an all-new feature that consists of six levels, each having 8 sub-levels and 
 a boss. The sub-levels get you to perform tasks such as driving through tires, collecting coins, 
 or doing a certain number of powerslides in a lap, and once again rate you from E to triple stars 
 depending on how quickly you manage it. Getting triple stars in all missions, particularly the 
 later ones will be an extreme challenge, and will keep you playing the game for a long, long time.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Another very impressive feature of this game is the graphics, which in many ways look superior 
 to the N64 version. The racers themselves dont look quite as good, but that hardly matters anyway. 
 The tracks are all very well laid out and presented, and aid the whole feel of the game very well 
 with a constant 60 frames per second that runs very smoothly. Even the ports of Gamecube tracks 
 dont look much worse at all than their original versions. The graphics, while not quite perfect, 
 do nothing at all to hinder, and quite a lot to support, the gameplay of this game.
  
  Sound:
  
  The tracks are filled with catchy little tunes that loop over and the exclamations 
 of characters are you pass them or they pass you. The tunes are good enough not to get annoying, 
 but are generally nothing really special. Still, the sound matters little really. If you dont 
 like it, just mute it and put some better music on, it will play just as well.
  
  Controls:
  
  I really had concerns over how this game would handle on a portable. But this 
 is one of the easiest games to control that I have ever played. Even the advanced technique of 
 power sliding takes very little time to master, and steering the kart around obstacles is as easy 
 as you would like. My little sister played the game earlier and won the race... sure, it was 50cc, 
 but this is my little sister. Anyone should be able to pick up this game and pretty much have it 
 worked out by the end of the first race.
  
  Lastibilty:
  
  Not only are there so many modes to play, there are ratings that will take you ages to perfect. 
 The game by it self will be one that you still play with some regularity years from now. As with 
 all Mario Kart games, the lastibility comes with the multi-player. If you happen to have 7 friends 
 with DS's, then you can get them over and play any feature of the game against them, even if they 
 dont have the game themselves. And then of course there is the wi-fi connection whereby you can 
 take on someone on the other side of the world. While some people have complained that this is 
 a somewhat limited feature, it should really be seen as something extra on top of what is already 
 terrific.
  
  Rent or Buy?
  
  Buy this game. If you do not have a DS, then buy a DS for this game. Get your friends to buy a 
 DS to get this game. If you are a fan of games... hell, if you are a fan of having fun, then you 
 need to buy this game. This is easily the best DS game out so far, and I would not be surprised 
 if it is still considered that long after DS games stop being made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is as it had been promised an extrodanary addictive racing title as fun as its preddcesors 
 and even funner on its own terms. if your new 2 mario kart (very lil of you should be new) the 
 game pits the world of nintendo against each other in a fun racing game. the game has almost every 
 past lvl in any mario kart title. yes of course the graphis are dim down for GC version of MKDD. 
 but still given the game is great in single player i mean it'll keep you busy unlocking new karts 
 , new tracks ,new chars i believe as well. but now mario kart has a new feature 2 many among the 
 aleady great features. it stands as the DS 1st fully automative Online Wi-Fi supported title. any 
 McDonalds resturante or Wi-Fi zone you can find will make you appreciate the DS much more and also 
 make this game much alike the Socom Series, where u wont be able 2 put it down, or all you will 
 want is 2 school some people wirelessly on your DS and have them Begging you and pleading you there 
 Daddy. Mario Kart DS, basic short broke down version of it.... If u have a DS and dont have this 
 game, GET IT! if you dont have DS and your thinking of it b/c this game YOU WONT REGRET A THING!! 
 its a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Here's the fact in short order.
  
  It's a driving game with some great new power ups, modes, and features that make it the best yet.
 
  Power-ups:
  SQUID- He inks out the top screen forcing you to use the bottom, it's more of an inconvience for 
 opposing players that generally won't slow down a human much but the A. I. slows down when its used 
 against them.
  BULLET BILL-A mix of power ups in one... Kinda like having a Star and Mushroom at once and then 
 putting on auto pilot... But be ready to take over when your free ride ends. (after about 5 seconds)
 
  Modes:
  Mission Mode- A great new idea and it adds alot of challenge, basically it puts you through scenarios 
 like "drive through 10 gates" "Collect __ boxes"ordo __ number of power slides in ___ number 
 of laps". Great idea especially for portables.
  Online Mode- Very simple yet extermely enjoyable, if you've got a wireless router your literally 
 on in about a minute. Finding a game takes a couple mintues but after you find a match you can 
 play with those (4 or less) players as long as you want.
  Features:
  -Up to 8 players with one cartridge... I've had some serious races during school. Including regular 
 vs. mode and battle mode which are both alot of fun.
  Downsides to the new stuff:
  -The squid power up isn't that useful because it shows the octopus on your screen first.. giving 
 you time to adjust to the bottom screen. If it just blacked out alot of the top screen all at once 
 instead it would be more useful.
  -I guess the fact that people can quit is a downside but I mean your probably gonna have enough 
 fun racing against just one guy and if you've got three players even better, and four better yet, 
 but it's never fun for the last place guy soooo... I personally don't quit but when someone does 
 I don't se it as a problem.
  The new tracks are largely inspired versions of old ones, they're all good too.
  
  Graphics 
 are smooth at first ou'll think it suffers from not giving you a fast enough sense of speed, but 
 trust me, in time, once you get down the ins and outs of the game you'll be going real fast. weapons 
 are rendered in 2d i guess that's for the sake of online, but this does't hinder anything. The 
 game is colorful and very alive looking. N64 traacks look kinda muddy, GBA tracks look kinda flat, 
 and Snes tracks suffer from both, however the GC tracks and especially the new tracks look great. 
 Luigi's Mainsion, Waluigi Pinball, among quite a few others are new highlights in the series.
 
  
  The game is pretty loud... um... sound effects all sound right, its got energy to match the mood. 
 Good Deal here.
  
  Value is massive, online makes it last longer then the other Mario Karts, Mission Mode is a great 
 and at times challenging expansion, and there's tons of tracks and 8 circuits which you can try 
 to get 3 star ratings on, on all 3 difficulties. There's unlockable characters, menu screens, and 
 difficulties. 
  
  THIS IS ALOT OF FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay, looking at this game, you're probably just thinking this is a port. Well, you're wrong.
 
  The graphics in this game are pretty much N64 graphics. A little fuzzy, but hey, that's DS, and 
 that's pretty much what it's capable of.
  It features levels from the SNES version, the N64 version, the GBA version, and the GCN version. 
 That's about 32. 20 are playable online. It has all the characters you'd expect to be in here. 
 From Mario to Wario, and from Yoshi to Waluigi. This game has a lot of characters. You'll have 
 to unlock 3 of them.
  This game controls really well, except they could have let you map acceleration to another button, 
 B maybe, but this is a minor detail. One of my favorite things about this game is the fact that 
 you don't have to do any of that touch-screen stuff with your fingers. Just plain kart-racing, 
 and it's a lot of fun.
  The online in this game is very good considering it's a DS game. It takes about a minute to gather 
 three other people, but be warned, some people have NASTY custom-emblems. That's all I'll say. 
 I have an Xbox 360 logo as mine. (My friend code is 090253802400 if you want to add me to your 
 friend list, by the way)
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is a really great game. It takes all the tracks you love from previous games, 
 has good graphics, great controls, and fun characters. You should totally check this game out unless 
 you're some kind of crazy lunatic monkey man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptfreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It doesn't use a whole bunch of the DS features, but it is still loads of 
 fun. I bought it yesterday, and have barely been able to put it down since. That is where I find 
 the few problems with the DS. My hands do get cramped, but I think part of that is because my hands 
 are so big. 
  
  The first mode anyone playing this should do is the single-player. If you are new to the Mario 
 Kart series, especially if you are new to the portable, do the Missions first. These are small 
 exercises designed to improve your racing abilities. They also allow you to experiment with a variety 
 of drivers. 
  
  From there, I started immediately on the Grand Prix, where I think the heart of the game is. There 
 are 3 engine classes, 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc. 50cc is the easiest, 150cc the hardest. Each engine 
 class has a Nitro Prix and a Retro Prix. Each Prix has 4 cups, and each cup has 4 races. That's 
 alot of tracks, and they tend to get a little bit harder as you go through them. The Nitro tracks 
 are all brand new, only on the DS game. The Retro tracks could be from the SNES, N64, GBA, or GCN 
 versions of Mario Kart. Each cup has one from each game. 
  
  After finishing both Prix on 50cc, I decided to set-up the WiFi connection. This couldn't have 
 gone much easier. You simply pick WFC on the Main menu, setup a connection, and start playing. 
 You have 4 different ways to choose who you want to race. There's the Worldwide option, the Regional 
 option, the Friends option, and the Rivals option. Worldwide and Regional both work right away, 
 but you need to have raced a few times to get friends or rivals. Once you get some friend codes 
 from people you know (you can't get these through the game) , you can chose the Friends option. I'm 
 still not sure how the Rivals option works. 
  
  Pick one of the options to pick your opponents. This may take a minute or two, depending on when 
 you are playing and how many other people are online. However, on nintendowifi. com, they have stats 
 showing when the online traffic is the most, and therefore when the best times to play would be. 
 After getting a group together, you simply pick your character and kart like normal. When you get 
 to the track selection, pick one track. Each other person will pick one, and the computer selects 
 one at random. If there is more than one person who picks a track, that track is automatically 
 chosen. You then race 4 times, with different tracks each time. At the end, a winner is chosen. 
 You can then choose to leave and find another group, or stay for another round. Stats are recorded 
 on individual races. So, say if you win 2 races, but screw up on the other two and come in 3rd, 
 your record is 2-2, not 0-1 for losing the entire race. 
  
  Overall, this game is amazing. Even having played it for only 2 days, I am already addicted, and 
 can't wait until I can unlock even more new characters, items, and who knows what else. This game 
 may seem simple on the outside, but with so many different possible combinations, nothing is ever 
 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuHae
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  MARIO KART!
  
  this game is one word: B-E-A-UTIFUL! now let me tell you why...
  
  Gameplay- PERFECT. very fun! wether your 5 or 82 this game is for anyone!
  
  Graphics- Backround 
 iz perfect, karts are perfect, and no more head-riders!
  
  Sound- same old nintendo owning songs. 
  
  Value- priceless
  
  Reviewer's tilt- 10
  
 
  Now i got no more to say.. but it says i need 100 words.. So i'll give you 100 words:
  
  Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. 
 Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. 
 Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. 
 Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. 
 Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. 
 Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. 
 Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. 
 Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game features classic mario Kart Gameplay. All the items are here, and they evened 
 the skill level in players by giving the Good items to the people in last place and the useless 
 ones to the first placers. There are many shortcuts in the game, and the game does not fail in 
 this part.
  
  Graphics: The best on the DS PERIOD.
  
  Sound: I didnt really care for the sound, it wasnt anything special.
  
  Extras: Ah, the online 
 play. Its very good, being the first DS game to do it, and I expect that it will beat Socom in 
 number of people playing it.
  
  Unlockables: The unlockables in the game are basically incredible, with Courses, Characters, Missions, 
 Cups, Karts, and more.
  
  The replay value on this game is extraordinarily high, because of online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evagelios
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game today. I have to say that I was surprised at how well they captured the game 
 in a portable form. I like all of the items, and tracks, and I really enjoy the "Retro" tracks. 
 Some of the hit tracks from past Mario Kart games are here. This brings back all of the good memories 
 of playing the original on the SNES. One thing that I belive they could have made more clear, was 
 the starting boost. I see the bots pull it off all the time, but I never can get it down. I have 
 been playing for hours, yet I havent been able to use it once. This gives me a feeling of inferiority 
 on the 150cc tracks. The addition of slipstreams (Getting a boost, by driving behind another racer) 
 is a great one, in my oppinion. The bottom screen acts as a radar. You see enemy racers, you see 
 traps and other items. This makes a lot of people think the traps got worse.. But I am concentrating 
 so hard on the top screen, sometimes I fall for my own. This game is amazing. Simply put, buy it 
 if you even think you might enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPRULES15
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Marios Kart ben around along time. I thought Mario Kart Double Dash was great wait till you see 
 this one. It was a very thoughtout game. Making it online was a very smart thing also. That will 
 probably boost Nintendos sell a little. To make thing game perfect I would have to say that they 
 should of put more characters in the game. But everything else was great. For anyone who has played 
 I recommend it to buy It's worth the money. And for those who have never played Mario Kart why 
 not start now? Marios Kart Mario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario KartMario 
 Is Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fooballu2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a Mario Kart fan, then i played Mario Kart DS.... i can't put it down, its like 
 a drug. Anyways, they did an awesome job on making the new levels, I am thrilled that they put 
 block fort back in battle (also would of like the sky tower or wat ever the other 64 battle level 
 was called) . The maltiplayer is great, i play with my friends all the time at school. The online 
 is pretty good, considering that its the 1st nintendo online game, but i dont think i should compare 
 it to Halo. The missions are a good addition to the gameplay, and it has alot of unlockables. The 
 weapons are awesome, im glad they took out the character specials.
  
  If I had any problem with the game, it would be the fact that you need to actually have friends 
 to have people on your friends list..... well, friends that arent poor and cant afford high-speed 
 internet like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irkensolider
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the DS has its first instant classic. Bringing the popular kart racing series to the DS, 
 Mario Kart DS is the finest in the franchise. There gameplay is expansive, with several different 
 single player modes, including Grand Prix, Time Trial, Battle, and the new Missions mode. In this 
 new mode, you need to perform tasks, such as collecting coins, performing power slides, and finally 
 ending a level with a boss battle. It's almost like the story-mode element that's been missing 
 from Mario Kart for oh-so-long.
  
  The control is tight-controlling your cart isn't a chore, and the button functions are quick and 
 simple to learn. The sound is the game's weakest point, as the roar of the engines usually drowns 
 out the actual music, which is nice.
  
  The new courses are awesome, and several old favorites from the Gamecube, Super Nintendo and Gameboy 
 Advance return for the DS version. There are two new weapons: the blooper (which sprays everyone's 
 screens with ink) and the bullet bill (which acts like Double Dash's chain chomp) .
  
  My favorite extra is the ability to create your own custom emblem, which will be displayed on your 
 kart at all times, and above your head in multiplayer battles, online and in LAN games.
  
  With lots of characters and extras to unlock, tons of replay value, and the great online play, 
 this is one DS game you can't afford to not own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sbsc40
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  good remake of a clasic game. its lots of fun and perfect if you can manage to sneek it into school. 
 great to play with friends, although i havent been able to play with more then two of my friends 
 yet. its a must buy if you already own a DS. my rating is somewhere around a 9.5.... go pick it 
 up. there is strong gameplay along with all the old characters.... also a must have for any fan 
 boy. great addition to any ds collection, great for road trips or what ever you need it for (im 
 personaly going to be playing durring my xbox 360 campout) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferratus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  A new Mario Kart game has arrived and there's only one way to sum it up : it's just like the older 
 games. If there's one franchise where each games are similar, it's Mario Kart and this is especially 
 true this time. The game plays, looks and feels just like its predecessors. That doesn't mean it's 
 not a great game though.
  
  If you have enjoyed Mario Kart in the past, you will enjoy this one. If you didn't like it before, 
 you probably won't this time around. As a fan of the series since the Super NES version, I am enjoying 
 this one quite a bit. 
  
  Let's start with single player.
  
  The most important mode is the Grand Prix mode. First, you select your category (50CC, 100CC, 150CC) , 
 then your driver and you kart. At this points, you can select one of 8 cups to compete in. Each 
 cup contains 4 races on 4 different tracks. The first 4 cups contain all new maps whereas the later 
 4 contains 4 old maps from previous games in the series. That's 32 maps total and this should please 
 any fans.
  
  Another single player mode is the "Time Trials" mode. It's just as you might imagine and it uses 
 the same tracks as the Grand Prix mode. It plays out exactly like previous games in the series.
 
  
  By far the biggest new feature in the series is the multiplayer using the Nintendo WFC (Wi-fi Connection) . 
 You can connect to any wireless hot spot that's either open or using WEP encryption. WPA is not 
 supported unfortunatly which is a shame. Setting up a WFC connection on your DS is extremly easy, 
 even more so if you use the Nintendo WFC usb stick with your computer.
  
  Multiplayer is fun even if sometime finding 4 players can be difficult. Playing with a friend is 
 always easy though.
  
  The last feature is the game is new to the serie. Its' a mode called "Missions" where you are tasked 
 with a specific mission. This mode is fun, but it's not exactly the highlight of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riff60
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game looks great, it sounds great, it plays great, wifi, and its just flat out the funniest 
 game for the DS. Were this title during the DS launch, it would have sky rocketed sales. You should 
 defiantly own this game, and play it allot. The emulated surround sound sounds really good and 
 these are the best graphics yet on the DS. If you dont own this game or a DS now you have a REAL 
 GOOD RESON TO!!! I can't get enough of this game, and the wifi works great and doesnt require 
 any extra hardware. If you already have a router at home or you go to a hot spot your set. The 
 Mario Kart cartridge is your wifi hardware... how cool is that! The game play is awesome and totally 
 takes you back to the good old SNES days of battling your buddies for hours!!! You can just pick 
 this game right up and start playing; the controls are 97% of the old snes was, its great. And 
 this game looks a thousand times better than the snes or n64. We're finally getting to see what 
 the DS can do with its recent titles. Bottom line, you should OWN this game if your a TRUE DS PLAYER!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeroy2005
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Kart has long been up there as far and away the best karting , or even racing, game 
 ever made. It was a game that filled a gap in the industry, a gap the was desperately needing filled. 
 Mario Kart DS, unlike its N64, GBA and GCN predecessors, has finally bettered it. The retro tracks 
 are the best in the series, although with 3 or 4 arguable inclusions and omissions, and the new, 
 nitro gp, tracks are, on the whole, the best yet. Waluigi Pinball and Airship Fortress are both 
 inspired and Rainbow Road is as annoying as ever! The new mission mode is a great inclusion, really 
 challenging your basic skills if you are looking for the top marks and refining your skills at 
 the same time, making the rest of the game quite a bit easier to master. For the first time you 
 can also face bots in vs mode and battles, which i found great for getting back into the swing 
 of it and sampling the new tracks and loving every moment of being back on the great Block Fort. 
 The online play is where this game really stands out however, and is the feature that pulls it 
 away from Super Mario Kart. Setting up a game is incredibly simple and you never really know how 
 it's going to turn out, in my case its great to have a challenge from another human for a change 
 with so many extremely average friends! Also it's hard not to be able to gloat about coming up 
 against foreigners and giving them a good old pasting! The only major minor in this game that must 
 be pointed out is the blue shell. Why nintendo why? Get rid of the damn thing for the next installment 
 please, it is a totally unjustified crappy cheat weapon that very very rarely benefits the user 
 and generally sends the second best racer to an undeserved victory. Of course when you are in second 
 place in the last lap and you benefit from it you dont complain but you cant help it feeling like 
 a very hollow victory. Lose it please. Anyway apart from that its all pretty perfect and its hard 
 to see any future installment beating it, but with Nintendo being Nintendo i' sure they'll find 
 a way to prove me wrong. After all they improved upon Metroid Prime didnt they..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clavisblade
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a great game to have for the nintendo DS!! The gameplay is much like the others 
 except it still always feels like a new game. The music in the game is a nice thing to have but, 
 I really don't notice it because I'm havin' to much fun playing the game. In the game you are given 
 multiply courses to race in. It even gives you classics for GC/GBA/N64/SNES!! The graphics are 
 great and nice to look at and the frame rate is great. The game have to online feature which sounds 
 really cool BUT, it to me is very very confusing and complicated. I still haven't gotten it to 
 work so I just going to try to but the USB thingy. All though the WiFi is confusing and hard to 
 get it to work for some people the game alone is great!! I thing this game is a must buy!! Once 
 I get the WiFi working I'll see you people on the course!! Prepare to lose!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zegjita
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:17 am PT
Review:  The nintendo gods have sent unto us a god itself! Just kidding. This is easily the best game on 
 the nintendo DS yet though. Forget about nintendogs, kirby and anything else on the DS. You have 
 to buy this one first if you're just getting one! Especially if you have a wireless network in 
 your house. This game has all the fun of the original mario karts, plus some original tracks, and 
 new ones. THEN if you have DSL or cable, all you have to do is pick up a wireless router and BAM 
 you're on the internet with either regional opponents or world wide opponents! Then if you don't 
 have DSL or cable, you can get 7 of your friends, who have DS's and just have them download the 
 game from you and instant tournament! This is a must buy game for anyone who has a DS and a god 
 sent for anyone who has DSL or Cable. Don't pass this one up. I'm going to go play more of it right 
 now! See you in the races! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:43 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS has got to be, without a doubt, the greatest cart racing game of all time. It takes 
 an already fantastic series, adds new levels, items, options and character and then makes all the 
 stuff that was already there better.
  
  What has really struck me about the game is that it really does have a near perfect difficulty 
 curve, even with just three different AI levels. You'll find yourself thrashing the 50CC GPs on 
 your first play, but then having to try 10 times just to come equal first in 100CC. However. what 
 it does do is make you want to play it all again. You'll slip up once on one race, costing you 
 a valuable position, but then straight away you'll jump straight back into the GP from the start, 
 it's perplexingly addictive.
  
  If you have friend or relatives with a DS there is absolutely no reason not to get this game. It 
 offers what is truly the greatest multiplayer experince offered from a handheld game of all time, 
 even 2 or 3 players can be insanely competetive and fun (which is added to by the incorporation 
 of bots to fill the number up to 8) . And I can say that without even having playing it online (yet) . 
 The only fault in my opinion is that it can get laggy in multiplayer when in Battles or with all 
 8 people in close contact, with bomb-oms and the like going off. Even if you can't get it online, 
 it's still one of the best games on DS. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkBomb_Gr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:17 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: very interesting 
  Graphics: Very bad, in mario kart 64 is very better from mario kart ds
  Sound: Game dont have good 
 music in the karts
  Value: is the better game for nintendo ds
  Reviewer's Tilt:45.00euro for this game NO NO NO FOR THIS GAME VERY BADDDD
  OK OK OK OK OK OK 
 OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 
  OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 
  OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 
 OK OK OK OK OK 
  OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 
  OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 
  OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 
 OK OK OK OK OK 
  OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK OK 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_munchkin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:02 pm PT
Review:  From Super Mario Kart (SNES) , then Mario Kart 64 (N64) , then Mario Kart Super Circuit (GBA) , then 
 Mario Kart Double Dash (GCN) , and finally this outstanding missing piece to the Kart Racing puzzle. 
 Mario Kart DS satisfies the insatiable hunger of comical racing (karts) fanatics, with its unique 
 blend between old and new.
  
  First, we'll start with the gameplay. You're probably thinking 'Been there, done that!' Well, let 
 me tell you something, you most certainly haven't. Although we found 16 tracks for a game satisfactory, 
 Mario Kart DS's new 32 track combination makes you feel ripped off with only 16. It features 4 
 popular tracks each, from each of the previous games (listed above) and 16 entirely new, highly 
 creative and original tracks. The compilation of the old tracks is called the 'Retro Tournament', 
 with the Shell Cup, Banana Cup, Leaf Cup and Lightning Cup, with one track from each old game in 
 a cup. All your favourites are here from Moo Moo Farm to Yoshi Circuit to even Baby Park. Then 
 there's the new 'Nitro Tournament' with the basic Mushroom, Flower, Star and Special Cups. New 
 tracks include a new Bowser Castle and Rainbow Road as well as Airship Fortress, Tick-tock Clock 
 and Waluigi Pinball (which rocks!) .
  
  But the races aren't the only part of the gameplay. There's also an entirely new mission-based 
 adventure mode with 54 missions ranging from Very Easy to Time-Trially Excruciatingly Difficult. 
 There are 6 levels (worlds) each with 8 missions each, then at the end of each level, you must 
 beat a boss. There are different ways of beating a boss; either beat them in a race, knock them 
 of the edge or hit them in vulnerable areas. Although many kart-games have a short and tedious 
 adventure mode (Crash Team Racing) , this games mission-based mode is a lot more than just a distraction.
 
  
  One last thing for the gameplay, each character now has 3 different karts, each with different 
 stats. Each car is very well suited to their character and each one has brilliant design. There 
 are 12 different character, 4 which need to be unlocked.
  
  Now, graphics. These are MUCH better than every other one except for maybe Double Dash. Mario Kart 
 DS lags just a little behind DD when it comes to texture, but all in all, they are spot on with 
 stunning environments, smooth edging and fluent graphic interpretation. Each characters looks much 
 better than on 64 and there are even new weapons to the game, including Bloopers, Bullet Bills 
 and Bomb-Ombs. All in all, the graphics are just a bit less than DD but much better than the others.
 
  
  Sound is pretty well in this game, with no fuzz or squarish robotic sounds. Although, the only 
 talking is the characters making snide remarks or exclamations, it still is well done. I mean, 
 no-one talks a lot when they're driving in a mini-kart being chased down by shells and angry Nintendo 
 mascots suffering from road rage anyway. The actual sound effects are excellent, with propulsion 
 sounds when shells are being blasted off or the creeping sound of the walking trees in one of the 
 new tracks. The background music is always suitable to the theme of the track and is generally 
 upbeat with perfect clarity.
  
  The new multiplayer functions were obviously well thought out, as now you can battle it out with 
 computer bots, rather than having to neglect that field of play when no-ones around. Also, you 
 can play either single or multi cartridge, but with single you can only the play the first eight 
 tracks. Mario Kart DS is the first game on the DS that goes online, racing up to three other people 
 across the globe or in your local area. However, many people drop out halfway through a race, which 
 can be extremely frustrating. But like I always say, we wouldn't be complaining about it if it 
 weren't there in the first place. So just appreciate what's there.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is an excellent blend of old and new, with 32 tracks, 6 battle stages, 54 
 missions, 36 karts, 12 players and a hell of a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Superb - This is the kind of game that you can pick and play for 10-15 minutes or for 
 hours. Unlike some other games where you can't really get involved unless you have plenty of time 
 to focus on it this game lets you decide what's appropriate and you can quit at anytime without 
 feeling like you just wasted an hour. The kart's controls are simple and easy to manage. Plus there 
 are plenty of carts to choose from so finding a kart that is right for you should make the game 
 even more accessible for everyone. 32 tracks to choose from offers plenty of variety also. A lot 
 of the classic and new tracks and power ups for the most part are here and offer tones of fun ways 
 to wreak havoc on the cpu or your friends.
  
  Graphics - Great - Great for what the DS can offer and very smooth. The replays look very nice 
 as well.
  
  Sound - Great - Engine noises, leader shells, they all have their own distinct sound effects, but 
 amongst all that you can still hear some of the classic music you would expect to here so long 
 as you're not the one getting blown up by the leader shell of course.
  
  Value - Superb - There are plenty of things to unlock such as some new characters and karts to 
 motivate you to beat all of the cups and again on each difficulty from 50cc and higher. There is 
 also times trials that you can unlock Staff Ghost Data for if you are able to get an exceptionally 
 fast time for the respective track. And something new to the MK formula is the Mission Mode which 
 gives you various goals such as collecting 10 coins within a certain amount of time or pushing 
 bosses off of the edge of a platform. Though in some respect you may find the Mission Mode a little 
 bit more difficult/frustrating than the Main Mode it is still just as rewarding and enjoyable. 
 The online and DS wireless modes just add even more replay value by allowing you to experience 
 this great game with friends.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - Superb - I have always liked the MarioKart franchise and every new MarioKart 
 has always been a memorable experience for me. One of the best features of the MarioKart games 
 is its great multiplayer capacities and the online access added to the DS version only enhanced 
 an already great game despite being limited to 4 players rather than the full 8 you can have through 
 regarlur wireless play. This game is a must have for 2005.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottahuch
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This Game is really amazing. It is the best Mario Kart . The graphics are the best I have ever 
 seen on a DS. the gameplay is really fun and the gameplay is about 50-75 hours long depending who 
 you are. Its highly addictive and is the first DS game to go online. There are 32 tracks 36 carts 
 and 12 charecters. There is a 13th charecter who can only be played in single cartridge multiplayer. 
 This is one of my favourite games and you should definately get it.
  The battle mode has 6 levels and you can play eight player multiplayer or eight player with bots. 
 It's too bad that you can not play battle mode online. the online has it's limits you can only 
 have three other people playing against you and you can only play 20 out of the 32 tracks. I see 
 mission mode boring and pointless plus it doesn't unlock any thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quintar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  As I mentioned above this is definently one of the best Mario Kart games ever and on the DS. Grand 
 Prix mode is back and better than ever with over 30 different tracks to choose from including some 
 classic ones from the SNES, GCN, and GBA. But the real reason to get Mario Kart is because of Multiplayer 
 and Wi-Fi. Battle mode has been upgraded a bunch with the option to add computer characters for 
 the slots that are open and new tracks. Wi-Fi, though far from perfect is still allright. You sometimes 
 have to wait a while to find a match though and not all 30 + tracks are avalible with it. Overall 
 though this game is one of greatest racing game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamester682
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  this is a great game ive never seen one like this the animation is great the carachters are too 
 courses from all games in the series.
  bravo for nintendo! have you ever played a game and before you now it your addicted to it well 
 this is that kind of game. also very good buy there is one little thing i did not like but i still 
 gave it a ten our of ten the little problem with this game is that its too easy to beat. this is 
 clearly the best one in the series the wi fi connection is great for this game there are some pretty 
 chalenging people out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lv100
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:19 am PT
Review:  This game is the best Mario Kart game yet hands down. It has over 30 tracks both new and old. (I 
 mean old too, from the SNES days and some GCN/GBA/N64 tracks too) 
  
  You start out with the original 8 characters and 2 karts for them each, each kart fitting their 
 racing style. As you progress through the game and grand prix (Nitro and Retro cups) you get more 
 and more goodies such as more characters, tracks, and karts. Soon enough you'll find yourself jamming 
 your DS into a wall because you made one simple mistake to lose it all in 150cc. But worry not 
 angry gamers out there, Mario Kart DS like many other MK games, you can change whos winning and 
 whos the lser in a matter of seconds with the new weapons. (Tip: People in last place get better 
 items)
  
  Yes I said new weapons, specifically the Bullet Bill which launches you throughout the track crashing 
 into opponent racers as it goes and the Blooper which causes every racer ahead of you to have ink 
 all over their screen that washes off in a few seconds or aired off once you reach a boost of some 
 sort. (Tip: When hit with the Blooper ink, use the bottom touch screen close view to navigate and 
 to dodge items and terrain)
  
  Power slide from the previous installments is also included along with the infamous turbo slide 
 where you get a little boost when power sliding. (Lingo: Power slide is when you drift in Mario 
 Kart ; Tip: To turbo slide first you must power slide and tap left right left right untill your 
 tires spark red. Let go of the slide and zoom!)
  
  Some new characters are revieled in this installment, as well as some that were taken out. (To 
 find out which new characters are included check GameSpot's hints/cheats to go there, warning though, 
 they are spoilers for new characters!)
  
  The nice folks at Nintendo also decided that 1 game mode wasn't enough. They added multiplayer 
 for both download and 2-8 cards, VS a short term category for Custom Game, or battle mode. Oh, 
 did I mention the brand spaking new (Well kind of) mission mode? Its a mode where you go through 
 various missions (duh) and when you complete them you get a grade if you beat it. The grade doesn't 
 really matter unless your a perfectionist and want to unlock the extra thing (cannot say, spoiler) . 
 After you finished the 8 missions, you fight a boss (which are mostly from Super Mario 64/DS which 
 is why its not really new) where you have to do different tasks to defeat the boss. (Hit it with 
 shells, beat it in a race, dodge its attacks, ect)
  
  The big addition Nintendo added is Wi-Fi technology added into the DS system and MKDS game card. 
 You need a compatible wireless router (Check http://www. nintendowifi. com) and broadband and $0. 
 Yup its free if you don't count the router and internet. If you don't want a router and don't plan 
 on getting one, go to Nintendo's website (http://www. nintendo. com) to order a Nintendo adapter 
 which hooks into your computer a transmits signals allowing the DS and DS ONLY to go online WiFi. 
 The distance of the adapter is about 30-40 feet depending if there is anything in the way of the 
 signals. The total amount (shipping/taxes ect) of the adapter is about $42 US, the adapter itself 
 is only $35 US. Unfortunately it is only available through Nintendo's website currently. Theres 
 a 3rd choice though! After you get MKDS scan your area for routers your neighbors might have and 
 you can just mooch of of theirs like I do. Its not illegal if they aren't smart enough to keep 
 it password protected. But you might want to ask them first if its for a while or at least until 
 your router/adapter comes.
  
  Enough tech. stuff. Lets get into WiFI details. Basic rundown: You connect to the wifi using your 
 router/adapter. There are choices if you want to play Rivals (Similar to your current record online) 
 Friends (Play with your friends on your list) [Info: You add friends using their DS game code which 
 they can find in WFC Friends Confirm Code] you can also play Worldwide or Regional. Tap one and 
 you'll see its searching for more players. Of course only 4 people can play an online game though. 
 If you are short a person or a few, you can't do anything about it, you just have to wait until 
 it is done searching which takes 3-5 minutes a game. After you get into the game online you choose 
 a character, kart, and level. The rest of your opponents will also pick a level. Its majority rules 
 for the levels, if not then random choosing. (You have a time limit to choose, so don't worry about 
 people that are away) There are some problems with online play such as:
  
  There is no chat function which is an important part of online gaming. Sometimes characters spike 
 (Counter Strike term meaning lag where you freeze, and then go really fast, aka double image) making 
 it hard to hit one another with green shells/bannana peels, ect. You have to wait for 4 people 
 to come, OR for the search to stop searching for people. You cannot play a particular person, if 
 you play a friends match online, it just brings all the friends that are on to the game, instead 
 of the 1 you just wanted. (Therefore you must delete all your friends from your list except the 
 one you want to play, and then tell him to do the same, and then enter the friends category, followed 
 by 5 minutes of waiting for the stupid search to stop searching, ect, ect.) Its a real pain in 
 the butt.
  
  One of the biggest problems is people ditching you when 1vs1. Any racer can leave a race unpenalized 
 on their score. (Info: Each match is out of 4 races/stages) So on the 4th race where your about 
 to get the official win on your score, the other guy can just shut his DS off and you won't gain 
 anything, and he won't lose anything.
  
  Controls are great, it seems better without the analog.
  
  Overall MKDS is a great game, best 
 handheld game of 2005 for me so far of whatever is left of this year. I recommend this game highly 
 to someone who has a DS and hasn't experienced it. The graphics are superior to those of Mario 
 Kart 64, and the frame rate is smooth no choppiness unless someone has a crappy router. 
  
  Final question: Rent, buy or stay away from?
  
  BUY definately.
  -------
  Tips:
  -------
 
  -Power Slide: Hold R while turning
  - Power Boost: While power sliding tap left and right untill your tires spark red, and then release 
 R.
  
  -Starting Boost: Hold accileration (Default A) when the number 2 is at its climax (WHen its the 
 biggest) and you should blast off. (Warning: Chance of spinning out if timing is wrong, to do a 
 slightly slower boost without this chance, hold gas when the 2 starts to fade)
  
  -Hold L/X when you get a shell or bannana allowing you to release whenever you desire and still 
 get another item from an item box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoardingKid07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  As my review text says, "This is the reason I bought the DS!" Really, playing this game, I realize 
 that this is probably one of my all time greats. With fun Single-player modes, including plenty 
 of tracks (twice as many as previous games, of which half are classic ones you may remember from 
 before) . Other Single-player modes are mission, battle and time trial modes. If you have a friend 
 with a DS, you can also wirelessly hook-up and match against each other. If you have a wireless 
 router, a Nintendo USB Connector, or if you don't mind weird truck drivers checking you out while 
 you yell, "Screw you Yoshi!!!" at your local McDonald's, you can play friends and random people 
 from anywhere in the world. With so much to do, thid game is a must buy for any one who even owns 
 a DS. Honestly, this thing is probably going to be the most remembered Mario Kart ever, and it 
 rightly deserves to be. This one game describes why I have always been a fan of Nintendo and plan 
 to be for many years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruzerramos
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  At first I wasn't sure if i should buy but then I did anyways and boy was it the greatest decision 
 of my life its awsome its has three styles of racing single player multiplayer and online the online 
 is all its ed up to be and more although there are few players online its still fun because I always 
 win haha so I think I might be unbeatable cause I have yet to meet my match and well yeah its just 
 flat out simplistic fun and its the perfect game for ds so if you have a ds get this game and hope 
 you won't race me and lose miserably if you find me my nickname is Cruzer so i'll see you suckers 
 at the track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:32 pm PT
Review:  wow. thats like all i can say. this game is absolutely amazing. the online is fluid and very smooth. 
 it is a overwhelming experience to play online. of course many of us have been waiting to play 
 mario kart online. i have been one of those people. i also played wi-fi with my good friend alex 
 roux. he is a beast. and i would like to give a shout out to eric, he too is a beast. but anyway, 
 the game ran smooth, and with three game modes, and a overwhelming replayability with like 20 tracks. 
 it was really fun. but i schooled him. im an old school gamer, i play MK on the N64. this is the 
 same thing with online play and a whole **** load of new features. i love this game, and it is 
 definently a game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Me2NiK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  You can't help but think that after realising that you just wasted a good chunk of your day playing 
 Nintendo's latest game in the Mario Kart series.
  
  Mario kart's story begins in a far off -- wait, no. Mario Kart is completely devoid of any story. 
 But who cares? If you've never played a Mario Kart game before (In other words, if you've been 
 living under a rock for the past few years) , the objective of the game is to select a character 
 from the Mario universe with which to kick the asses of other characters from the Mario universe 
 in an intense kart race involving various items, such as green shells (used as projectiles to... 
 eliminate the competition) , banana peels, and mushrooms. You begin with 9 characters, with two 
 karts each (this doesn't last long...) , each with varying stats, such as drift, acceleration, and 
 top speed.
  
  Veterans of the Mario Kart series will notice some simillarities and differences. The drifting 
 concept carried throughout the Mario Kart series is ever-previllant here, and functions the same 
 way as it did in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! for Gamecube. A new mechanic that you'll discover very 
 quickly, though, is the concept of drafting, ripped straight out of real-world racing. You will 
 gain a substantial speed boost simply by driving in the slipstream of a player behind you. Although 
 this sounds good in theory, this generally becomes the cause of much frustration when repetitive 
 passing ordeals are held until someone finally decides to give up. Backpedaling slightly from MK: DD!!, 
 all items are once again available to all characters, but a newly-implimented item stat detirmes 
 how good the items you get will be. Of course, the usual Mario Kart ballance is here (the further 
 back in the race you are, the better items you will get) . Also added are two new items: The bullet 
 bill, an item that will cause you to fly forward along the course at a blinding pace for five seconds, 
 and the blooper, which will cover the screens of all opponents in front of you with black ink, 
 and cause AI opponents to swerve for the duration. These items are integrated seemlessly with the 
 existing items, and nothing feels out of place.
  
  The 16 new tracks in the game (there are 16 others taken from the various other games and slighly 
 modified) are, for the most part, well designed and well-detailed. The retro tracks, however, seem 
 to be lacking polish, and some have removed shortcuts and some simply look like crap. Other then 
 that, the courses are a blast to play on, especially in the multiplayer modes.
  
  The multiplayer mode is extremely limited. Parts of it are badly designed. Due to Nintendo's extreme 
 parental care ideals, you will probably never play the same person twice. Despite all this, the 
 multiplayer is what will keep you coming back. Why? Just because.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart DS is a crown achievement on the DS, and if you own a DS, I'd highly recommend 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangespanky
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Simply A Great Game, Online play is awsome, easy to hook up. Just Great. I bought this game and thought 
 that it would be great But i was wrong... It Was Better! i love every part of this game. There 
 is over 50+ courses over 10+racers twice as many karts. Plus playing online is the gratest feeling. 
 When you win you rub it in. I love this game even more then Mario 64. YA YOU HEARD ME. MARIO ^$ 
 This is a must buy for any DS owner. Wry i have to mention this again but it has ONLINE PLAY!!! 
 I will keep playin this game to the day i die. I havwe played this game for over 250+ hourse and 
 i have no plan of stopping now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GREENWARRI0R
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This goes to Avrilkilla33. To me your review seems really bias, (as do all your other DS game reviews, 
 you rated great games poorly) Yet you rate PSP games very highly. I dont know, maybe you hate Nintendo. 
 Biggest let-downs of the year? Come on now, only a Sony fanboy would say something like that. Maybe 
 the online isnt that great, and the graphics are amazing but that doesnt make the whole entire 
 game horrible. On the other hand I have a PSP and the graphics are nice but there are ALOT of glitches 
 and there games are mostly sports and if you want a REAL re-hash go pick up GTA Liberty City Stories 
 (which Im guessing you already did since you gave it a 10)
  
  Anyway, time for my review. This Mario Kart, i dont know. Its great, brings alot of memories of 
 playing the original and N64 versions (since they do include levels) Graphics are good. Better 
 than N64, the characters are no longer sprites. Multiplayer is fun and online is great, though 
 you can really only meet up with friends you know, but none the less its great. Definately pick 
 this up if you have a DS. You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatrbub54
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This is definately one of the best DS games right now. If you have a DS and don't have Mario Kart 
 you don't know how much you're missing. First of all this game is so much fun. It's awesome. You 
 could play this game for a looong time. It's that good. The graphics are the best for the DS. Looks 
 better than Mario Kart 64. The sound is also very good. The music is Mario Kart style and sounds 
 awesome. You can unlock three more characters than you start out with. There is 8 cups in all and 
 they bring back a lot of good ones from the past games. There is fun missions to complete that 
 add on to the gameplay experience. They added items too like bullet bill and bloober. Overall this 
 game is just so good. I can't stop playing it. I'm playing it right now. It's 100 times better 
 than double dash and 64 combined. Go out and buy this game right now! If you don't you should be 
 ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lautaro_aust
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:29 pm PT
Review:  A great game worth all the hype it received, very good in game graphics. i have a small problem 
 with the speed of the game, even in 150cc the speed isnt up to par with its gamecube or N64 brothers. 
 Great sound , its amazing that they could get 32 tracks onto a handheld, theres heaps of karts 
 for each character to unlock. Single card multiplayer is excellent, and multi card play is even 
 better, definitely the killer app the DS needed. On the whole i would recommend this game to anyone 
 in need of an excellent game on theur DS. The best racing game to ever grace any handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: internetmovies
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to write any in depth stuff but I got the game today and spent the last 4 hours playing 
 it and I must say it's honestly the most easy fun i've had in a basic game in a while I havent 
 played Mario Kart since the N64 version and I did like the setup in that but I do like how they 
 went back to the basic setup... the menus are basically setup like the SNES Super Mario Kart... Ive 
 noticed so far there will be plenty of unlockables and fun ahead as soon as I can get a USB Wi-fi 
 connector and get online..
  
  Graphics are really good for the DS and the bottom screen as the Map is a cool Idea I like ligning 
 up my shells and stuff on the map to shoot CPU/OPponent racers easier and you can look ahead briefly 
 to avoid obstacles... just adds a new experience that I enjoy... though i do wish there was some 
 more stuff for the bottom screen they should have added like signature moves/weapons or something 
 to utilize the touchscreen more but no big deal.
  
  Overall this game is just plain out fun as hell and everyone can enjoy it. GO GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution2k6
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  sound 10
  the sound in this game is what you would expect from ur mario kart games from the laud roar or 
 your engine to the soundtrack u com to expect
  
  value 10!
  this game has 16 brand new levels but it also has some of the best games from all the older mario 
 kart games and not to netion the online play witch was very east to pick up and play
  
  controls 10 
  the controls are nearly flawless its just the lack of anolog that cramps ur thumb 
 up sometimes
  
  graphics 10 this game graphicly blows the n64 out of the water the caracter models level design 
 and more will make u say wow!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESISTEE926
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  If you remotely like mario or racing or own a DS..... GO HURRY TO EB AND BUY IT BECAUSE THEY'RE 
 SELLING LIKE HOTCAKES! Whats a hot cake anyway? Mario Kart DS has all the bells and whistles, like 
 being able to custom make your own racing symbol/ Avatar, Battle modes never seen on handheld mario 
 kart, and Missions that havn't been seen in Mario Kart period. With the highest quality on a handheld, 
 Nintendo didn't waste any effort on this game. They ported some of the best classic tracks to Grand 
 Prix as well as new ones. Missions spice things up a bit and taking a hint from double dash, u 
 can now unlock over seven Karts for each character, as well Karts for unlockable characters. (See 
 Gamespot's Mario Kart DS hints and cheats section for a guide to unlockables) My only dissapointments 
 was the dissapearance of special tracks that u could unlock after beating the Grand prix and the 
 difficulty of connecting online. Overall this is the best game in the series and a must-have for 
 your DS library. I was sucked into playing 9 hours the day I got it. Shoo shoo, of f to EB games 
 with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBdaMac
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  Anyone that has been around for the past 10 years knows that one of the best games that had ever 
 came out for the SNES was of course Mariokart. It added a new level of racing, not seen previously 
 and added excitement not yet found with any other console game. Because of this, Mariokart has 
 been one of the most successful games Nintendo has released.
  
  However, when you take an already amazing game and add multiplayer support of not only 7 of your 
 friends, but for people all over the world; it only adds to the intensity. The graphics, the gameplay 
 and fun is everything you would expect out of a Mariokart. 
  
  Even if you don't own a DS, purchasing one simply for this game would not be a stupid move. This 
 game can keep you occupied for many hours on end, and the last race is just as exciting as the 
 first. I give Nintendo props for keeping Mariokart as fun as they have always been.
  
  Go buy this game, get online with it and come get beat by me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voltaition
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  this game is really good. it was smart adding the missions the extra karts and all that crap. the 
 graphics was good for a portable the minimap was a big part of the game although it somtimes gets 
 me irritated because it keeps turningwhen you move around. the sound is great you could actually 
 hear the sound change when you go on diffrent grounds and when you make drifts. i think its a game 
 worth buying for the DS.
  
  the sad things about the game is that when you play a harder Grandprix like 150cc to make it harder 
 the karts go much faster and you stay at the same speed. for example your using luigi with the poltergiest 
 4000 and your going against a toad in 150cc with his mushroom. you know that toad is slower but 
 he goes faster. they all go faster then you so you have a less chance of bieng 1st
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  SCREW NINTENDO. COM
  (dont read this if your from a country with the wifi 
 crap)
  
  ***if ninty wants to make a world wide wifi why do they nmake one only for some countries not all 
 of them they really are a bunch of monkeys form a since lab***
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Note to the reader: This review is based soley on the game's single player content. Online features 
 have not been taken account into the final score, as I do not have a fast enough connection to 
 utilize such features.
  
  Mario Kart has a special place in my heart. I was a fan of the franchise since Super Mario Kart 
 for the SNES. My grandmother bought that for me on my 13th birthday. I'm now 26. This means Mario 
 Kart has been around for more than 13 years, and it's just as fun today as it ever was back then, 
 even moreso. 
  
  Mario Kart DS is a game that blends many good things from Super Mario Kart for the SNES, Mario 
 Kart 64 for the N64, Mario Kart: Super Circuit for the GBA, and Mario Kart: Double Dash!! for the 
 Game Cube. The first thing that stands out with Mario Kart DS lies within Grand Prix. You'll notice 
 two sets of cups, one called Nitro Grand Prix, and the other called Retro Grand Prix. Each set 
 is made up of four cups composed of four tracks with only the first two cups available at the start. 
 
  
  Nitro is where you'll find all the brand new courses designed specificially for this game. The 
 track selection here is probably my favorite of all the MK games. There are new twists to old favorites 
 such as Wario's Stadium and Bowser's Castle, but there's also tracks based on Mario 64's Tick-Tock 
 Clock and Super Mario Bros. 3's Airship Fortress, as well as completey new tracks such as Waluigii's 
 Pinball. That track's one of my favorite taking place in a hazardous pinball machine complete with 
 gigantic pinballs.
  
  Every cup in Retro is compiled of one classic track from each of the four previous versions. They 
 all follow an order of SNES, N64, GBA, and GC. The tracks for the most part have remained faithful 
 with some tweaking and whatnot for the new gameplay's mechanics. Even though you have probably 
 played these to death, having them mixed up in such a fashion and zipping around them with new 
 racers and vehicles tends to make these Retro cups seem fresh.
  
  Mario Kart DS also packs the standard Time Trials, Versus and Batte Modes. New for single player, 
 you can play Battle Modes with bots, so if you want to get your battle on and your friends are 
 busy, you can still get in some play. New to this version is a mission mode. Each level is broken 
 up into eight sub missions concluded with a boss fight. Boss fight, you say? In a Mario Kart game? 
 Yes, I say. And I say they are fun! Although I have only completed one level so far, the Mission 
 mode makes for a great change of pace when you're tired of straight up racing. I have been too 
 busy delving into Grand Prix to really give Mission mode my time.
  
  The gameplay of Mario Kart has basically remained the same. Gone from the Double Dash!! installment 
 is the abiility to have a second rider, along with having a second item slot. Remaining from said 
 installment is the ability to chose different karts. You start of with only two karts, but as you 
 progress through Grand Prix, you'll be able to unlock a full set of seven. The power drift boosting 
 system is present, but feels a little different in this version. What quickly becomes apparent 
 when you start feeling the control of the game is how bad you miss the analogue stick. I missed 
 a lot of drift boosting opportunites simply because the D-pad's not as responsive as I'd like. 
 A new boosting system has been implemented in the game which allows you to ride the wake of the 
 person in front of you. If you ride it long enough, you gain a powerful boost that will bump whoever 
 you hit out of the way.
  
  Pretty much every power up the franchise is known for is here. Green shells, red shells, slippery 
 bananas, fake boxes, nitro mushrooms, kleptomaniac Boos, the double-edged Blue Spike Shell that 
 homes in whams into the first place holder. Gone from Double Dash!! are racer specific weapons, 
 and still missing ever since MK64 is the feather. There are a couple of new additions. The first 
 is Bullet Bill, which turns you into said character and launches you like a guided missile around 
 the track, whacking anyone in your way. The second one is Blooper, which splats the person in front 
 of you along with everyone in the area with black ink obstructing their vision. The character specific 
 Bob-Ombs have become a standard weapon here, able to be thrown both ahead and laid from behind. 
 The lightning bolt is here as always, but sadly, it's been nerfed. It wears off faster for those 
 in lower places. This means that if you're really behind, the lightning bolt that used to let you 
 get a few positions back will do you no good here.
  
  Graphically, this game's one of the most impressive on the DS. Everything moves so smoothly, and 
 there are several places where it looks even better than the N64''s version. Some of the track 
 designs are incredible, full of color and vibrance. Just wait until you race Rainbow Road. It's 
 just a marvel for this system. 
  
  All the sound effects are familiar, from the smacking of turtle shells to the explosions of the 
 Blue Spiked Shell and Bob-Omb. As expected, every racer has their own voice and you'll hear their 
 varied exclamations over and over to the point of obnoxiousness. The music is just what you'd expect 
 from any Mario Kart game, and the arranges of the songs in the Retro Grand Prix make for pleasant 
 reminiscing. 
  
  Ridge Racer for the PSP is my favorite installment of the series. It's funny that another favorite 
 racer of a different series also happens to be a handheld version, and that is Mario Kart DS. I've 
 never had so much fun playing Grand Prix, mostly due to the awesome new tracks. Although I knew 
 it was coming, I greatly despised the Rubber Band AI. Yes, MK is designed to be a multi-player 
 game, but I really don't appreciate the viscious cheapness of the later Grand Prix cups simply 
 because multi-player is better with everything unlocked, and no one should have to tear their hair 
 out in order to do so. What I really appreciate is the very useful map they've implemented on the 
 DS's lower screen. Aside from showing you the layout of the track, it also shows you the placement 
 of items boxes as well as anything hazardous to you. With all that said, Mario Kart is an amazing 
 amalgam of every previous Mario Kart released that all fans and owners of the DS should by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Your_Apocalypse
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Is this new Mario Kart game on the DS any good? Does the touch screen interfere with any of the 
 gameplay, or does it make everything better and easier for you?
  
  Mario Kart has been around for a long time, since all the way back in the times of the SNES. It 
 made it's way to the N64, GCN, and even GBA. Now is it's turn on the DS, and let me tell you, it's 
 one hell of a great game. To start off with, this game's controls are very easy and responsive.
 
  It has the basic driving game controls for the DS - A is Acceleration, B is Brake/Reverse, etc. 
 You will find that the controls and all of that jazz will come easily to you and you'll almost 
 instantly be able to control your kart nicely. Also, the touch screen is used as a map, so if you 
 get inked by one of the new weapons, the Blooper, you can see on it. It also shows incoming weapons 
 on your buttox.
  Another nice thing about Mario Kart DS is the customization. You can choose from an extremely wide 
 variety of carts for each character. Also, you can change your name (this game supports 11 characters) 
 and emblem, which you can create on your own.
  Now, that wasn't much for controls, but now we're onto the regular gameplay aspect of the game. 
 It has the regular features of the other Mario Kart games - Grand Prix (50cc, 100cc, and 150cc) , 
 Battle Mode, Missions, Time Trials, and a new Nintendo WIFI mode (will explain later) .
  Let's start off talking about the Grand Prix. The Grand Prix has 3 different levels of difficulty, 
 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc. As it may be obvious, 150cc is the hardest and 50cc is the easiest. Once 
 you choose one of these, there will be 2 different modes to choose from inside here - Retro Mode 
 or Nitro Mode.
  
  Retro Mode (as it's name speaks for itself) plays retro, or old, levels, from the SNES, N64, GCN, 
 and GBA Mario Kart games. There are 16 familiar maps to long time players on here, 4 from each 
 game. Then, there's the Nitro Mode, which has 16 brand new tracks. Each of the modes has 4 cups 
 like usual, each with 4 races in them.
  When you're first playing on 50cc, you will notice that it's not much of a challenge. You could 
 probably win every race of 50cc in first place (I did it, you can to) . The new maps are wonderful 
 and fully developed, not too small or too big, and the environments are great.
  As you increase in difficulty, you can notice a big change in how the computer races. It does get 
 quite a bit harder - 100cc is a big step up from 50cc if you ask me. I say that you would want 
 to try to finish 50cc before moving forward at all. But, once you beat 50cc, you unlock 2 new characters 
 (beating both Retro and Nitro mode) , who the computers can use in 100cc and 150cc, increasing the 
 challenge. Also, after you finish each cup, you will get a rating - a C, B, A, *, **, or *** depending 
 on how well you did.
  
  Now that Grand Prix is settled, let's move on to the Mission Mode. As the name suggests, you do 
 missions. You start out with only Level 1, but by beating them, you can get to level 6, then unlock 
 Levels 7 & 8.
  The Missions are varied, really. Some of them, for example, you will get turbo mushrooms and you 
 have to go through a number of gates in order in a certain amount of time. The maps that you use 
 differ as well, and you can't choose the character that you use.
  Others, you need to do things like collecting a certain number of coins or getting weapons and 
 killing a certain number of "enemies" in a set time limit. Or, you could simply race a computer 
 character or do a certain number of drifts in a time/lap limit.
  Also, at the end of each level (You have 8 missions per level) you face a boss. The bosses have 
 different challenges for you to beat. For example, the first boss is Big Billy, and you must get 
 the item box in the center and try to hit him in a turbo and knock him off the platform.
  Also, just like Grand Prix, you get a rating. But, instead of after each level, you get a rating 
 for each mission you complete (1-1, 1-2, etc) . Though, you do get an overall level rating at the 
 end of each level.
  
  I haven't played Battle Mode, so I can't really explain that. I know that there are different types 
 of matches like balloon battle when you try to pop the other person's balloons. You can play from 
 2-8 player with a single game cart by doing a game download.
  The only downside is, when you're playing with a single cart, you can't choose the map and your 
 friends can only be shy guy. That really sucks.
  And Time Trial - there isn't much to this. All you do is do laps on maps and try to beat the time 
 limit.
  
  Then, there's the good new Nintendo WIFI connection games. You can get online either of two ways 
 - have the Nintendo WIFI adapter, or having a supporting router that works. When you have one of 
 the two, the rest is easy.
  All you have to do is choose Nintendo WIFI from the main menu, go to set-up, and then set it up. 
 If you have one of those two things, you can do a WIFI search, and then a list of results will 
 come up. You can choose one and then it will save your connection to the DS.
  Once you're online, you can do different things, like fight people Worldwide, face your friends, 
 or you could always face people who are regional to your specific country.
  When you're online, it randomly searches for people for you to face. When you get in there, you 
 choose the character that you want and what track you want (unless there is 2-4 votes on one map, 
 it will randomly choose one for you to play on) .
  Once you're racing, it's basically the same as Grand Prix. Just race and try to beat your opponents! 
 It's just like a regular cup match, too, because you have to play 4 matches, and the person with 
 the most points at the end wins. And, I'd like to add, I've experienced no lag whatsoever playing 
 online. Nintendo's done a great job.
  Also, to get your friend code, on the main Nintendo WIFI screen, you choose Friend Code, then you 
 click on CONFIRM - it will give you your 12-digit code to send to other people and have them added 
 to your friends list (after they have added you and you've added them) . Adding people is easy, 
 too. You just go to Friend Code and choose REGISTER.
  Other random things: When you are viewing the screen to choose which match you want to play (Worldwide, 
 Regional, etc.) , press UP and click A to view your current friends. And also, when you're on the 
 main menu, go to records to view your single player, multiplayer, and Nintendo WIFI records.
  
  --Final Verdict --
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Definitely the most enjoyable racing game on the DS. 
 It combines all of the great aspects of the Mario Kart series and it adds other great things, for 
 example, all the unlockables and being able to play ONLINE!
  
  Graphics: 9
  Some of the best graphics I've seen on the DS. I know that they could probably have gone further, 
 but that may have declined the enjoyable single player gaming, and I wouldn't have wanted that.
 
  
  Sound: 8
  The sound isn't a big thing Mario Kart DS. There isn't much sound in it. A little bit of menu music 
 and things like that - maybe a little bit of much in-game, but it's nothing that really stands 
 out as a key point in this game to make it any better.
  
  Value: 10
  This game is worth all $35 that you pay for it. Everything in this game makes it worth every single 
 penny.
  
  Tilt: 10
  I have enjoyed this game so far for how much I've played it. I haven't beaten all the modes or 
 even gotten NEAR finishing my time on the Nintendo WIFI mode, but I still love this game and I 
 believe that it deserves a great score.
  
  All in all, Mario Kart DS is a great game, a must-have buy for any DS owner. If you don't have 
 it, get $35 (or however much it is in your currency) immediately and buy it! This is definitely 
 worth it, with the outstanding single player mode, absolutely positive Nintendo WIFI mode, and 
 everything else.
  Mario Kart DS: 9.6 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredBed
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  When i went to get this game, i had to go to 4 stores just to find a copy. yes every copy in the 
 first three stores were sold out. When i got it i played for 5 hours straight (yes i had no dinner 
 that night) .. I made my account and emblem, and started playing. The good thing about wifi is that 
 the difficulty is much more challenging and that people can be better than the games A. I.
  in the end i was amazed at the grafics and how the gameplay was amazing. between the missions and 
 the wifi, id have to say this game is my favorite ds game so far. i hope they make another 1!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukesucks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is so well in production value and fun factor, you might pop a few vains. The first mario 
 kart *super mario kart* was innovative and undoubtedlly the best in the series. Mario kart 64, its 
 predessor didnt add to much, but had memorable courses and really stepped up the series! The gameboy 
 advanced title *mario kart super curciut* in my opinion was a good comeback but suffered from replayability. 
 Mario Kart Double dash added a spice to the series by added 2 characters in a kart. This added challenge 
 and also had the best characters and courses in the series. Yet this title revolutionizes every 
 thing! First off ,now on character per kart and jump is back. Now play 16 new courses but not only 
 that but a classic cup as well with 16 courses from the best of the series. This is really refreshing 
 that i can play all the classic courses. Airship fortress has rockets and jumps every were in a 
 huge pirate ship. Then cheep cheep beach: an amazing couses with tons of jumps, obstacles, crabs, and 
 tidal movement. This is certently rewarding! There is also a new system were not only do you have 
 to come in first but you have to score an A ranking.
  
  Now mission mode has been added which is basicly a set of missions to do. You have to score a 3 
 star on them as well. There are 7 worlds of issions: 8 ones in a world. At the last mission , you 
 face a boss from the previous mario games *example: eyerok from mario 64*. the missions include going 
 through a simple set of tires, collect the coins, chase the item boxes, kill the cheep cheep, ect. They 
 add much more depth and replayability to the game.
  
  There is also multiplayer that sets a bench mark for the series. Online play!!!!!!!!!!!! In order 
 to play online, you need a computer, wireless router, and a usb nintendo wifi connector. It is very 
 easy and makes xbox live look like setting up a mac*sorry mac fans*. Its incredibly fun with up 
 to 8 people online. Vs mode and time trials are online. Sadly only 20 courses are online. But the 
 courses that wernt chosen had cars, flying items, no walls, Ect. No battle mode either sadly. But you 
 can make your own sick decal online and off ! I love having an audioslave logo on my car! Yet for 
 those disapointed of no battle mode online, chill. LAN play for all modes except grand prix and 
 missions. Now bots can be used!!!!! This is so awsome and cant believe it!
  
  Conclusion: the game adds so much depth and utility to the series, That it definitly crosses the 
 line for first!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperknuckles18
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to do things like drive? Race? Throw shells? Eat mushrooms? And slap your opponents 
 silly around the outside of the head with bananas? Then Mario Kart's your game.
  
  From the clever track design, to the wonderful physics engine, Mario Kart DS stands shoulder to 
 shoulder if not surpassing it's predecessors. I always found it a drag that I would have to play 
 the older versions on the tethered cord stuck to the wall, now it's portable, stylish, and better 
 than ever! Graphics surpass anything that the N64 could ever hope to pump out, sound as crisp (well 
 maybe not for me cause I've got a whacked out sound chip that sounds like Chip and Dale on helium) , 
 and vs mode as competitive as ever.
  
  A new approach to the levels, includes brand new cources from Tick-tock-clock, to Waluigi Pinball, 
 and a retro set of tracks from the SNES, N64, GBA and GC games like Sky Garden and Baby Park. CPU 
 I found was extremely cheap. It was always the same racers who was scheduled to come in second 
 and third, so the only way you could think of getting first place is to get first in all races.
 
  
  Noobs will start out at the 50cc class and will probably find that fairly challenging. I found 
 it tough to begin with, but skipping to the higher 100cc and 150cc engines, expect some serious 
 competition.
  
  Online is another great feature, and the reasoning for my buy. Connect via a hotspot (although 
 there aren't alot) , your home's wireless router, or if you don't have a router, purchase a USB 
 adaptor which acts as a mini router specifically for your DS. The thing that really pisses me off 
 is that you HAVE to lower your security layers and Firewalls from WPA-PSK to WEP if you want to 
 play online, which leaves you vulnerable to hackers and people wanting to steal your internet signal. 
 HAD YOU BOTHERED TO THINK OF THAT!?
  
  Overall, Mario Kart fans will be in heaven as soon as they hear the engine revving when the "Game 
 experience may change during onlne play" message flashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AAAGoobie11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is a game that you should own. Its fun, addictive and is perfect for gaming on the 
 go. Nintendo proves once again that they won't go out of business. With hits like Nintendo-gs, 
 Mario Kart DS, Animal Crossing DS and Metriod Prime: Hunters. The Genius's are at work again you 
 won't be dissappointed.
  The gameplay is fantastic! The controls are tweaked to perfection and are top notch. If your used 
 to the old Mario Karts, you know what your in for.
  The graphics are superb for th DS's capabilities. When Zelda, Ocarina of Time DS comes out, I wouldn't 
 ask for any less of a game.
  The sound is great and is regular Nintendo work. It might be a little kiddy but it is always fun!
 
  The value for this game is incredible because even with all of my time playing it, I'm not bored 
 of it and I still love it. The multiplayer is awsome as long as you have a wireless adapter or 
 a compatible McDonald's.
  From what I hear, reviewers and gamers of the like love this game, and if this is any indication 
 into buying it, please, if your in for a good time for long car trips to hockey games or to your 
 snowboarding mountain, pick this up.
  Overall, I give Mario Kart DS, a 9.4, out of 10! Doo doo de doo, doo da doo, whoosh .... (simmer) . Old 
 gamespot theme! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithdestroyer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart DS is the newest to the long series of mario kart games. Basicly you pick a Nintendo 
 character and put him in a kart. The game also lets you pick out of two karts with a third unlockable. Some 
 of the tracks are improved from previous games and some are all new like my faviourite walugis 
 pinball which is basicly a giant pinball machine. If this is your first mario kart game don't stress 
 there is a series of cups called retro grand prix which has a variety of tracks from all of the 
 mario kart games. Another cool feature is mission mode which lets you play a variety of levels each 
 with 8 challenges and a boss. In one word: breathtaking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wulfei
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game is most like: Mario Kart 64 
  
  The addictive mario kart series is out with a new game, Mario Kart DS, for the Nintendo DS. This 
 game had some great things, but there were also some things that were a disappointment.
  
  On the positive side, of course the highly anticipated Online play using Wifi. Don't need to say 
 much about that, because it's playing online, against people in your neighborhood to people across 
 the globe. Very Fun. 
  Multiplayer has a nice variety of things to do, there's the classic Grand Prix, there's the also 
 a slightly modified version of the classic battle mode; and new to Mario Kart is Shine Runners. 
 Each game is unique to play and enjoyable to play with friends.
  One player Grand Prix is still the basic 4 race cup challenges, It works great and usually takes 
 only 20 min. to complete a cup; so it's quick and easy to start up. Versus is pretty much the same 
 thing, except you choose only one place, and the amount of people.
  Time trials is obviously run through the course as fast as you can, and they let you have ghosts 
 and unlock staff ghosts like the N64 version; the great thing about the ghost is that you can trade 
 your ghosts with other people.
  I love the mission modes, it teaches you how to play the game, with out telling you what to do 
 (Press A to accelerate, etc.) . The bosses for each level were a nice touch. 
  The unlockables are great, there's characters that are from other mario games, and there's more 
 karts to use, each with different attributes.
  The best part about the game for me, is the retro cups, because in each cup is a track from the 
 SNES, GBA, N64, and GCN versions of Mario Kart.
  That brought back a lot of good memories.
  
  On the negative side, I was really disappointed that you couldn't have battle mode and shine 
 runners online. You also can't have more then four players in a game, but I guess that's understandable, 
 because I can imagine it lagging a lot after a while. 
  The only part I hated about the online section, was that it took a long time starting an online 
 game. First you have to wait to connect online, then you have to wait in a room for people to join 
 you (which takes up the most time) , then after everyone votes on a course, you start the game. 
 
  The thing I hated about Grand Prix mode, is that the game either favors 2 characters, or is programed 
 so that everyone is randomly equal. What I mean by this is that If i'm playing the Leaf Cup in 
 Grand Prix mode, and Peach is in first, she'll be first in all 4 races; unless I get in first, 
 then she'll be in second in all 4 races. This will only change if you really mess up the computer, 
 like bump them off the track, but even then the computer catches up really easily. This was less 
 noticeable in 50cc, but really noticeable in 150cc. 
  
  Positive
  + Online multiplayer. World-wide races.
  + Fun mission modes.
  + Retro cups; remember the olden 
 days.
  + Pick up and play type of game.
  
  Negative
  - No online battle mode or shine runners.
  - Only up to 4 players online.
  - The AIs race in 
 the same pace every track, unless the Player intervenes.
  
  My suggestion: If you loved the N64 version, then you'll like the DS version just as much. I suggest 
 you don't play online, unless you have time to spare. Replay value is very high, because it's such 
 a fun game and it's a different experience everytime you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualscreenman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:17 am PT
Review:  Where to begin... From the moment I turned on the game, I noticed the graphics. The graphics were 
 better than the Nintendo 64 version of Mario Kart 
  in my opinion. The textures of the road were rich and you could almost smell the asphalt. The graphics 
 were great, but the quality diminished as you got slammed into a tree. (In other words got really 
 close)
  
  Gameplay was superb with the hardness level beign just right. The three difficulty levels give 
 the player a choice of how much a challenge they want; and the hardest mode certainly does give 
 challenge! Another part I liked was the the game also had a retro mode that is a culmination of 
 tracks spanning from the gamecube to the SNES versions of the game. I haven't tested the Wi-Fi 
 or multiplayer parts of the game, but this game is extremely good without them. 
  The battle mode is good, but is better played with freinds. The mission mode gives a nice twist 
 to gameplay offering the user a set of missions with a varying boss at the end. Over all the gameplay 
 is great, and well worth the $35.
  
  The sound was without flaw, being just under gamecube quality. It has rich stereo sound and familiar 
 sound effects. The music is very good, yet doesn't stick in your head. (At least, the new track's 
 music doesn't.) Over all, the music is perfect.
  
  Overall, The gameplay, sound, value, and graphics make this game the best in the Mario Kart series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: way2funny
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  As i said, the best mario kart game so far. You have probably read all the features, so i wont 
 bother stating them.
  
  Gameplay- Flawyless, couldnt have been better. Who knew driving can be so fun!? 
  
  Graphics- 
 Though there are great graphics, i have it an 8 because i thought the kart animation was very plain. 
 You didnt see much movenment or reaction with the wheels of the kart to the track. for example 
 in the banshee boardwalk, you hear that you are riding on wood, but it looks like your going on 
 a flat surface (not because of poor graphics, but the animation of the kart) Everything else was 
 beutiful.
  
  Sound- The sound was awsome, i think they could have added some more old scool mario songs but 
 i enjoyed them. My favorite are coming from the GCN maps in the DS version.
  
  Value- I found the snes and gba courses were very dull, i did not play those much, either the gcn, 
 n4 or the regular DS courses. I think they shoul have added some more N64 and GCN courses, because 
 they are more vibrant than the GBA and SNES, though i found a few GBA courses quite fun. The online 
 i would guess is awsome, i havent played it much because im planning to unlock everything before 
 i go strictly online. I have played it once against 1 person (its hard finding people atleast for 
 me, unless its my firewall ; (. ) 
  
  Overall, this is a definate must have for the DS, if you have a DS, you need to get this game, 
 if you dont, i cant see that you wont. By the way, this is VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY VERYVERY 
 VERY VERY VERYVERY VERY VERY VERYVERY VERY VERY VERYVERY VERY VERY VERYVERY VERY VERY VERYVERY 
 VERY VERY VERYVERY VERY VERY VERYVERY VERY VERY VERYVERY VERY VERY VERYVERY VERY VERY VERYVERY 
 VERY VERY VERY fun with friends, i was playing 8 ppl balloon battle and vs, it was just awsome! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowcake
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  greatest ds game u cant own a ds without owning this game it brings back alot of the old levels 
 from n64 and even snes and also from game cube (double dash) levels and they made them better. 
 u can also play agaist bots so u can practice and get beeter or play wit them when bored. and battle 
 mode whish i always like dis their too wit some of the older levels and wats a cool feature is 
 u blow up the balloons by pressin x or blowin into the mike i thought was cool and the shiners 
 game is also playable and fun. the new characters r sweet and its cool that u can send ppl ur ghost 
 from ur time trails to see if they can beat them. and the online is fun also u can pick rom like 
 30 tracks and u have a freinds list it awsome. well i think that if u own a ds dont pass up on 
 this game its well worth it.
  
  game play-9
  graphics-9
  sound-10
  value-9
  tilt-10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roa33
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in its series and it just takes you to another world of gaming. The unique 
 maping system makes it more easy to see what your opponents are doing. Since it also tells you 
 of the traps like bannanas and fake blocks you don't have to blame the game for cheating when it 
 was really there and didn't appear out of no where. In battle mode the rules and stuff you can 
 set up is awsome. One of the best features I have admired was the team battle or individual battle. 
 That way when you had a bunch of friends over and you start a game with team battle, then you lose, 
 you can still cheer on your team and what not. Another addition to this game that was awsome was 
 the new shine runners game. If you have the least amount of shines after about thirty seconds you 
 get ellinated unless the remaining people are tied then the clock is reset to thirty and the game 
 continues play until someone gets more then the others at the buzzer. Out of the six games I have 
 this is the best one yet not only because of the awsome single player mode, but the even better 
 wifi mode if you can go wifi.
  This lets you challenge your friends and other people all around the world. Just think if you traveled 
 to another country or state and you meet someone there with the game then you could register their 
 friend code and play them when ever they are on wifi by selecting friend play. Of the many Ds games 
 I would recomend this to any one of any age above six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxb0x360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Mario Kart finally makes it debut on the ds and it makes a great one. With all the different modes 
 including the online play this by far the best mario kart and ds game on the merket. For any of 
 you who want to have a great racing, online, or game that i extremely fun to play this one is for 
 you. Thid game has the potential of being the best ds game that will ever go on the market. If 
 you have a ds you are a fool not to add this one to your collection.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  There arent to many things i can say about this game that is bad. The single player could have 
 been a bit better. The graphics, although superb,
  could have been a bit better 2. Another thing that could have been in this game are the rpg type 
 single player like the baseball and golf mario games.
  
  over all this is great tile and must have for all ds owners. IT is another reason to buy a ds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Violent-M
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Needless to say I am a fan of Mario Kart, but I was a bit dissapointed with Mario Kart Double Dash, 
 mostly in the battle mode. It seemed in that game they took a huge leap backwards in the multiplayer. 
 Mario Kart for the DS is everything we could have wanted in a game (minus the online play) . Finally 
 they have moved to 8 players on battle mode and you can have teams, and use bots. The thing that 
 makes this game shine the most (to me) is the inclusion of the classic Block Fort level from the 
 64 version, but the other levels are good in their own rights. Connecting your DS with it's Wi-Fi 
 capabilities is flawless with this game and quite easy (like it was intended to be) . Within seconds 
 I was online at home with my wireless router. And let me just say, I was supprised at the range 
 of the ds and the strong connecton. From well over 100 feet (through walls and whatnot) I had a 
 perfect connection, which is something my laptop with a super g wireless card could not (couldn't 
 even connect) . Also the support with hotspots is great for people without internet and I haven't 
 tried the usb adapter (don't have to now) . Also the sound.. well the sound is Mario Kart, not much 
 to be expected here. Nothing new since the SNES version of Mario Kart so I can't say it's fantastic 
 or anything. It is pretty good, it suites the upbeat style of Mario Kart well, nothing grand or 
 innovative (though the shoulder button power slide sound is quite amusing) The visuals are nice, 
 amazing for the ds, I mean it's mario kart, it doesn't matter if it is 32 bit age graphics or next 
 generation, the visuals of this game do not make it fun. Mario Kart is the cart racing genre and 
 this game is not one to be overlooked. If you have a ds, and enjoy having fun, then this is a definite 
 buy and well worth your $38.20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raheelessa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  Pretty much the same Mario Kart action on the Gameboy Advance but much better graphics (obviously)
 
  its sort of like Crash Team Racing with Mario!! Now thats CLASS!!!
  I really like the fact that you can see the picture of the person on the map and its like playing 
 the game on 2 different consoles together!!
  Once again CLASS!!!
  
  And other than that the gameplay is pretty good considering the fact that there is no analogue 
 on the Nintendo DS except of course the screen..
  Other than that its just a totally fun game to play by yourself or connected via Wireless LAN but 
 you need four players or it starts to get a bit boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siwudog2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2005 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  If I could give it a 9.5, that's what I would give it. Mario Kart DS stays strictly to it's roots 
 which has worked great for the series in the past. The bottom screen is used to show two different 
 types of maps. One shows the map zoomed in and shows objects that are in the maps view, the other 
 is your typical Mario Kart map where it's the basic shape of the map and shows where everyone is. 
 Versus Mode is like all the other Mario Kart games except you can play against computer AI (see 
 Value for more detail) . Battle Mode brought back your old school Balloon Battle which we all know 
 and love, plus you can play against computer AI again (see Value for more detail) . The online play 
 is fantastic with almost no lag. You can either do Versus or Battle, unfortunatley no Grand Prix 
 though. Even online you can play against computer AI if you can't get a full room. The only part 
 of the gameplay that has a little bit of issues is when you attempt at the boost turn; it sometimes 
 takes an extra try to get it going.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pretty much has the same graphics for the Nintendo 64. Maybe right in between N64 and Playstation. 
 The weapons lack a little in the graphics department (shells don't look like they spin) .
  
  Sound:
  
  Typical Mario sound for a game. Nothing too special about it but I think the soundtrack 
 for this game is better, a little more upbeat than the past.
  
  Value:
  
  Where to begin, where to begin. Not only do you have the typical Grand Prix for the new tracks 
 for Mario Kart DS, but you also have old tracks from all the past Mario Kart games. They have an 
 assortment of the tracks in Retro Grand Prix. You have four characters to unlock which isn't too 
 bad so you have a good variety of racers. Mission Mode helps your skills in the game, but is still 
 very, very addictive. Versus Mode and Battle Mode are where, in my view, the greatest change have 
 been made. Now you can race and battle against computer AI controlled characters. Now you don't 
 have to get a huge group of people together to play a game if you don't have time for Grand Prix. 
 Online play is amazing since there's barely any lag. For the most part, the lag is right at the 
 beginning of the race (if any) and then goes away about one or two seconds later.
  
  Final Word:
  
  If you don't have a DS, this game is the greatest reason to get one. If you 
 have a DS, you better get this game now. This is hands down the best Mario Kart game to date. Gameplay 
 is like your typical Mario Kart with really little to no flaws, graphics are like the N64 version, 
 sound is like your typical Mario game but a little more upbeat, and the overall value of the game 
 will keep you playing it even when the next-gen DS comes out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YonSon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  more than good when it comes to graphic! my jaw droped when I saw them. sound still good but if 
 your playing mutiplyer you don't even hear it over all the lauging and screaming! game play is unmatched 
 to most games I've ever played. it's not just replay vaule what you need to do is invent another 
 more for how any times you can play it after you beat it!!! The only reason I say 100 hours or 
 more is because it's unlimted fun to be hade!!! I paid 50 bucks to buy mario kart 64 yet this one 
 comes out at half the price and has more course's than it more replay vaule just more fun in genral. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truewiseblade
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  The mario kart series has a lot to live up to. I personally came to it wanting to be very critical 
 of it, mainly because I thought they didnt use Mushroom City as a retro track. But Baby Park made 
 all the pain go away. Right from the start you love it . The layout of it is really clear and even 
 though it might look a bit barren, it has more to than most racers will ever have. The tracks this 
 time are better than ever, with nintendo drawing from past greatness at every turn. Mario 64 fans 
 will be in heaven. Speaking of Mario 64, this actually manages to look better (In my opinion) than 
 it. tracks like Tick Tock Clock will bring back fond, distant memories of jumping around that level. 
 The nostalgia level is that high in this game. Some may see this as a bad point, as that made the 
 older games appeal more to those who arent usually fans of mario spin-off titles but it helps because 
 its done in a similar way to SSBM in not being too overwhelming while still holding relevance. 
 
  
  Valuewise, this is the longest one in the series. 8 cups, mission mode, a bot-enabled battle mode, 
 and the BIG GUN- free online play. all of these will add up to 3 months play easily.
  
  The sound is great, kicking into that nostalgia factor even more. the only minor problem is that 
 IN MY OPINION the gamecube soundtracks didnt sound quite as crisp, and I was really aware as I 
 was humming down Mushroom Bridge that it didnt sound quite right, but it was probably just my terrible 
 voice.
  
  Mario kart veterans will fell right at home with the controls feeling just as responsive as they 
 should be, perfect for some driftboosts. Which have more of a kick than the did on GC. The item 
 generisity is great but the I dont like the change based on car. I havent been affected by it yet, 
 but I just dont like the idea.
  
  overall, my two minor problems with it dont detract from what is a trully great game. Prepare to 
 eat my dust online!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: senses_fail_492
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  There's always someone out there to play, and there's no way to say really how hard any race will 
 be, it all depends on the person you're playing against. It could be easy, playing against a novice 
 just learning to play, or it could be hard, playing against a person with no life who plays games 
 all day. It takes literally minutes to learn, and once you learn it's addicting! I haven't stopped 
 playing it since i got it. It's a great intro to the new wi-fi system, and it made good use of 
 it. If anyone wants to play me add:
  
  120318
  504853
  
  and look for HaZaRD. Sorry if this review is't great, I'm kinda new to it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_God_90
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Many "gamers" might say that Mario Kart DS is a good game. In fact, some of them might even say 
 that it's no less than perfect. I am a Nintendo lover. And have been for almost 30 years. I have 
 every Mario Kart to date, and sadly, this one changed my mind. I thought I would go and buy it 
 since everybody made such a big deal out of it. But I guess I was wrong in doing so. This game 
 took me a total of 3 hours and 12 minutes to completely beat. I unlocked all characters and the 
 final title screen withing that time. I have to say that I am highly disappointed with this game. 
 Let me now tell you why I feel this way.
  
  GAME PLAY: This game is your typical Mario Kart game with the shell-shooting and what-not. This 
 game got pretty boring after 50 cc was completed because all of the courses are anything but original. 
 There's even a course entitled "Shroom Ridge". (Mushroom Bridge anyone?)
  
  GRAPHICS: I don't even know where to start on this game. It has disgusting graphics that look as 
 if the belong on the PS1. The DS can supposedly handle 128-bit graphics which are the Gamecube's 
 standard graphics. Why don't they make good use of them and put a little effort into this game?
 
  
  SOUND: I have one word for the music of this game: really bad. I know that was two words but come 
 on, be original! Double Dash!! had some of the best Mario Kart music to date. If you are familiar 
 with "DK Mountain" from the GCN, you will notice that "Yoshi Waterfall" had similarly-sounding 
 music. And not to mention the "Mario Circuit" music ...
  
  VALUE: As I have said before, this game definitely does not live up to the Mario Kart title. 
 
  
  Well, there you have it. If you are a poser gamer, the why don't you go out and get it just like 
 all of your other chums? And if you are a respectable Nintendo Trooper, then take an experienced 
 player's word for it and please, save your money for Nintendo Revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoDS_Guy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Truly the best Mario Kart ever People seem to Compare the Online play to x-box live and say it 
 sucks But once you play you under stand how cool it is the only proplem is you can only play 20 
 of 32 tracks All the other aspects are AWSOME And for the Future this is the first Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 game In the Im shure others will be so Awsome (can you say METROID PRIME :HUNTERS) you wont belive 
 its free Well thats my first crappy Review But her is my rating
  Game Play :10
  Graphics :9.5
  Sound :9.5
  Re-play value :10
  Longitivity :10
  Online :9.0
  Over all 
 :10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  What have we been waiting for on the DS? The much antcipated online feature, and mario kart DS 
 is what. And to tell the completey truth, Mario Kart Ds does not dissapoint. With Alot of maps 
 to choose from, diffrent karts, many characters, bots finally in the game, a mission mode, and 
 online connectivity, Mario Kart DS is most likely the best mario kart to date.
  
  Gameplay
  The mario kart franchise has lives, and dies from its gameplay, and the new installment 
 gets it perfect. The game is great, there are many characters, maps, and karts to choose from, 
 which leaves alot of variety in the game. The "weight" system from mario kart Double dash!! returns 
 also. The game also features a new mission mode, and FINALLY features bots in the game to practice 
 against in battle mode. The game is truly just amazing, no matter what way you look at it.
  
  Graphics
  The enviorments, characters, and karts all come out with superb textures, and eveything. 
 The game also has a smooth frame rate; both offline and off. Everything is great here, and in terms 
 of DS, the graphics are really top notch.
  
  Sound
  The sound holds everything dear from the mario kart series (traditional sounds and such) , and they 
 work just great on the DS. Evrything sounds just clear, along with the famous voices of each of 
 the characters.
  
  Value
  Well, you never have to look for freinds now. The DS offers a great online mode to play against 
 anyone in the world, and truly, this online works awesome. The only problem i can see, is that 
 you dont have your own id; you are a number, but all in all, its still fun to play online. The 
 game now has bots in single player battles, so you can practice there now. But with the great maps, 
 all the characters, the many karts, the Grand prix, the mission mode, and the online, Mario Kart 
 DS should stay in your DS system for a long time to come.
  
  Overall
  Mario Kart DS is a amazing game. If your looking for perfection in the mario kart series, this 
 is just where you'll find it. The game is so fun, you just wont be able to put it down. So if you 
 have a DS, and are a fan of racing games go pick it up. Or even if you just like the fact of having 
 fun, i suggest you go get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duerdest
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest racing games of all time. Forget "driving sims" Mario kart brings us 
 what we want from a racing game, no nonsense driving with weapons thrown in for good measure.
 
  The usual gameplay is here, you choose your racer from a list of famous Mario names and whip round 
 famous locations from previous games. The carts handle beautifully and the weapons add a new dimension 
 to the game instead of swamping the driving like it did in Super Circuit and Double Dash. This 
 game is very focused on the pureer Karting joy, weapons are stingier so it is harder to win by 
 simply firing your way to the top, the carts are more classic and the famous jump has returned. 
 If you loved the original and the N64 version but the focus on weapons in Super Circuit and the 
 alterations to gameplay in Double Dash put you off then this will take you back to heaven once 
 more.
  It doesn't hurt that the graphics are amazing either. Lots of people criticise the DS graphical 
 capabilities just becasue the PSPs are better. This game shows you that the console is capable 
 of sweet 3D and it looks about twice as good as the N64 game. One of the best thing about the graphics 
 is the draw distances, you can literaly see all the course while driving so there is little to 
 no pop-up at all.
  Soud wise this game rarely fails to dissapoint, classics return and some sweet new melodies have 
 been put in, these too will go down as classics in time.
  In terms of value this game is the deepest and richest Mario Kart ot date. There are DOUBLE the 
 normal amount of tracks, half are remakes but they are no worse for it. Missions and bosses help 
 to mix up the gameplay and the multiplayer will literally own your life. 
  In multiplayer you can race 7 of your friends at once with only one cart but your options are limited. 
 If everyone has a cart then this game is in a league of its own, I drained my battery from a full 
 charge with one session of multiplayer. Battle mode returns with some brilliant lands for you to 
 fight in. A new mode called Shine Run sees you collecting Shines and when the timer runs out the 
 player with the least will be booted. It makes for some hectic gameplay as you frantically attack 
 your friends for their shines before the timer hits zero.
  This game makes progress in some ways but also regresses. An online feature and a more comprehensive 
 single player experience take the series forward but the gameplay elements from Double Dash are 
 gone. This could be considered regression but it is more of a good thing.
  In terms of the genre Mario Kart DS shows the others what a real kart game should be like.
  On 
 the side of innovation this game can't be faltured. The second screen is used as a map and the 
 touch functions let you zoom in and out. This isn't particulaly big but racing games aren't designed 
 around a touch screen but the map is invaluble and after a few hours of gameplay you will be using 
 it instinctivly. The mic is used to blow up you balloons in battle which just adds more fun. The 
 real innovation comes in the multiplayer. Even with one cart the multiplayer is un matched and 
 the addiction of online (the first for Nintendo not just Mario Kart) makes this game one of the 
 most pioneering on the machine.
  This is the best DS game available and brilliant for both novices and veterans. 
  
  Overview
 
  
  Gameplay - Takes MK back to its roots, great driving with the weapons adding to the fun (not taking 
 away from the driving)
  10
  
  Graphics - The best on the DS, looks sweet with great draw distances and only the slightest hint 
 of lag online
  10
  
  Sound - What you would expect, hum along tunes that complement the gameplay
  10
  
  Value 
 - The deepest Mario Kart game to date although the missions get a bit dull. If you have friends/online 
 this could lasts a YEAR easy, if not then a month
  at most
  9
  Innovation - great use of the lower screen, not much touching or mic but online shows just what 
 this machine is capable of doing.
  9
  Progress - More of a regression than a progression but in no bad way. It seems more pure than Double 
 Dash and the gameplay is definitely more focused for it. The online takes the series forward better 
 than Double Dash did. In terms of the genre this shows the wannabe kart racers what they should 
 be like.
  9
  
  Overall a brilliant experience and worth getting a DS for 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
