-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/marvelvsea/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 18 playable characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad gameplay.
 Poor graphics.
 Bad value.
 Buggy as hell.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.1
Critic Score: 3.2, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 358 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Oct 11, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The unfortunates who decide to rent or buy this game will be stuck with nothing more than a filthy, 
 horribly buggy port of an already middling game. 

  Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects, Electronic Arts' new fighting game, has already appeared 
 on the Xbox, PS2, GameCube, and PSP. Next up for the Nemesis treatment is the Nintendo DS, a portable 
 system with very different capabilities from those other four platforms. The DS's touch screen 
 and voice-recognition features present a lot of interesting gameplay opportunities, which, if used 
 correctly, can more than make up for the portable's lack of graphical horsepower and analog control. 
 Alas, that isn't at all the case here. Instead, Marvel Nemesis on the DS makes very poor use of 
 the unique abilities of the hardware, and the unfortunates who decide to rent or buy this game 
 will be stuck with nothing more than a filthy, horribly buggy version of an already middling game. 

          How many battle points does $35 buy?     

  On the DS, Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects' story goes from heavily garbled to completely 
 incomprehensible. There are a few cartoon panels between each mission, but they never consist of 
 more than two sentences of grammatically incorrect text. The basic facts are that The Imperfects, 
 six superpowered thugs in the employ of evil genius Niles Van Roekel, are out to cause trouble 
 in New York City so the boss can get his hands on a heavily guarded suit of alien armor... or something 
 along those lines. In any case, there's ample excuse for Marvel's superheroes, led by crowd favorites 
 Spider-Man, Iron Man, Elektra, and The Thing, to go up against the nasty ol' Imperfects in a series 
 of one-on-one battles. The battles take place in fully destructible environments that are heavily 
 seeded with objects you can turn into convenient missiles or bludgeons, all at the touch of a button. 

  It's a chore to wring any kind of entertainment out of Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects. 
 This is partly because you must play through the game's arcade mode endlessly to unlock content. 
 You only start with two playable characters: Wolverine and The Human Torch. All other content -- including 
 characters, concept art, arenas, and alternate costumes -- cost "battle points," which you earn by 
 trashing one CPU-controlled opponent after another as fast as you can. Occasionally the game will 
 offer you a chance to wager battle points on an upcoming fight, but you never know when you'll 
 get this opportunity, and you can only bet a maximum of 500 points on a battle, which is a fairly 
 trivial amount. Unlocking Daredevil, for instance, costs 8,000 battle points. It's also possible 
 to wager points during a multiplayer battle.  

  Marvel Nemesis' gameplay doesn't compare favorably to any of the other versions of the game, let 
 alone any competing games on the Nintendo DS. The controls have gone from simplistic to cretinous. 
 You can toggle auto-aim using the left shoulder button, but there's no reason to ever take it off, 
 because there's no point to free-running around the level to pick up and throw objects. Furthermore, 
 the game's environmental attacks have gone from somewhat overpowered to completely useless. Furthermore, 
 your lock-on function reacts far too slowly to your opponent's movement. If you're in the middle 
 of an attack and your enemy shifts to your left or right, your character won't adjust accordingly, 
 as it takes a heavy fraction of a second for him or her to awkwardly pivot in place to face the 
 right direction again.  

  The touch screen's primary use is to activate your character's motion and flight powers, which 
 have no real use in this game, even on the multitiered levels. This is because you can fall any 
 distance without suffering any damage, and your opponent will follow you wherever you go. Sometimes 
 one of the characters will fall off a tall building, causing the game to pause for a few seconds 
 before simply resetting the battle on the roof. Usually, all you need to do to win is maneuver 
 the bad guy in to a corner so you can beat him to a pulp using your regular combo attack. You can 
 also use the touch screen to perform your character's single finishing move by tapping in an elementary 
 combo at the end of a match.  

  It's quite obvious that Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects didn't receive adequate play testing 
 before its release. It's simply riddled with graphical, artificial-intelligence, and hit-detection 
 glitches. Yes, most of the walls and floors are destructible, but they also have a nasty habit 
 of disappearing at odd times so that your character appears to be standing on thin air. The CPU 
 isn't much good at attacking you in any fashion, but every once in a while, CPU opponents will 
 just start attacking a corner of the screen, even if you're standing in the middle of it. At a 
 few points, we were even able to toss an enemy through a solid wall, or out of the screen entirely 
 (the match went another 50 seconds before we won by default) .  

          Stay away from this game.     

  Marvel Nemesis is not a good-looking game by the standards 
 of the Nintendo DS. Most of the neat lighting tricks from the other versions have been dispensed 
 with, as have a large portion of the character animations. What's left is a blurry hash of strange-looking 
 combat, weak explosions, smoke and particle effects, and bland skeletal environments. Whatever 
 visual lan and comic-book styling this game possessed on other platforms is gone. The sound is 
 very mediocre for this type of game, and the effects are perhaps even a little understated. In 
 any case, they're a pretty quotidian collection of beat-'em-up thumps, bashes, and breaking glass. 

  Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects shouldn't have been made for the Nintendo DS. The system 
 doesn't have the capabilities to display the other versions' main strengths, which lie in their 
 graphics and online multiplayer modes. Add this to the fact that this game is clearly an unfinished 
 product (that still costs $35) , and you've got a real lemon on your hands. Don't buy, rent, or 
 otherwise play this game. You'll regret it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (49 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RoaringBlaze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:03 am PT
Review:  I played this game before (bought it) in '06 and loved it. Sadly, I lost it. But now, in '09, I 
 bought it again and still loved it. I don't know what other people expected, but it's a DS game, 
 so I expected something fun with decent or better graphics, not so hard difficulty, and maybe some 
 funny glitches. That's what I got.
  
  GRAPHICS: In all the reviews I read on this game, they hated the graphics. What I have to say about 
 that is "why?" I believe the graphics are one of the best things about this game. The graphics 
 are smooth most of the time and are quite detailed. I mean, look at Spider-Man in the game. He 
 was probably the best designed character in the game. He looked incredible 3D and is very detailed. 
 Most of the characters have the same situation.
  
  CONTROLS: The controls in this game are pretty good, except for those annoying two things on the 
 Touch Screen. They should only be there for the finishers. I would have changed all mobility to 
 the L button, which controls the unnecessary lock-on/lock-off mode. GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is also 
 pretty good, except for the bearable glitches. The environments are big and free, another one of 
 the best things about this game. The finishers are another of the best things (especially when 
 they look good) . The glitches range from the bearable appear in another place to the aggravating 
 fall into an endless hole when there is none and start over again (actually, you'll find yourself 
 at the level where the glitch happened because this game auto-saves after each battle you have) . 
 Also, in the VS. mode, your enemies are always green unless you're green.
  
  UNLOCKABLES: Also one of the best things about this game, you can unlock concept art, arenas, characters, 
 and costumes and you can just do it by paying at the Comic Shop. You don't have to play VS. matches 
 to unlock characters or beat levels you're eternally stuck on to get rewards, like you had to on 
 the console version. Characters have three costumes: regular (what you start with) , green/possessed/Van 
 Roekel's minion (you have to unlock) , and a special costume. For example, Spider-Man's special 
 costume is Symbiote Spider-Man (it really is) and Wolverine's is his yellow X-Men costume (it really 
 is) .
  
  COMBAT: OK. This was pretty disappointing, even to me. The console version had the same problem: 
 although there are grabs, finishers, etc, there were no combos In all the fighting games I've played, 
 I've never seen one without combos (the combos are just a repeating punch, punch kick or something 
 like that) . DIFFICULTY: The AI is an idiot, it's true, but I like that. I try to stay with no health 
 lost. Also, you get unlockables faster.
  
  Overall, this game is not nearly as bad as everyone thinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGEORG3
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  this game is a mix of super smash brothers and marvel. it sounds good but is the exact opposite 
 of good. gameplay: lunge around a screen blowing up your opponent and random items
  
  graphics: they would be decent if there were not so many glitches value: you get lots of characters 
 and modes. this is the only good part of the game
  
  difficulty: the villains hardly attack you, so you can defeat them without trying
  
  so overall 
 this game is very bland but offers a lot of playable characters and multiple story lines.
  but the main fault lies with the dodgy sound, busted graphics, loads of glitches and the fact to 
 combat is to slow.
  you should definitely get something better. 
  if you want a decent marvel game for DS and PS3 look below.
  
  PS3, PS2, X360, PSP: marvel 
 ultimate alliance
  PS2, Xbox, DS: ultimate spiderman
  PS2, PSP, GC, Xbox: rise of the imperfects
  PSP, DS, CPU: marvel trading card game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tim_aka_link
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  So I know that this game has been out for awhile but I just got it and saw how so many people hate 
 it so I decided to write a review. First off, I found this game on the corner of the street by 
 the sewer... someone must have really hated it if they were gonna throw it down there but I saw 
 it walking home from school so I picked it up. I came home and played it and noticed there were 
 some glitches, I thought that's because I found it on the street but I guess that's not the case 
 since everyone thinks so.
  
  Anyways, this game definately has it's downsides but it IS NOT as bad as they say. Sure there is 
 only really two ways to attack and I don't know if it's just me but I find it extremely difficult 
 to pull off the finisher. BUT, crashing and bashing your enemies through walls can be alot of fun. 
 Sometimes they'll freeze for a second or two and reappear in a random place. That can get annoying 
 but it's bearable. It's really easy to kill your enemies by repeatedly hitting the same buttons 
 over and over again but if you want more fun you could use a combination of attacks like throws 
 and using your specials. 
  
  Some things in the game are completely pointless like climbing, unless you REALLY want to climb 
 a wall, you won't. It's also pretty hard to do that anyways. It's pointless to swing or block attacks 
 or even do a finisher, but at least it looks cool. Flying can be used occasionally but you definately 
 don't have to.
  
  The characters play very similarly, but wolverine is pretty cool. Many people have said that the 
 graphics are crap and look like they have just been slapped together and called a game. But that's 
 not the case, I found the characters to be quite detailed and they looked pretty good considering 
 it's DS.
  
  Arcade mode is ok, it gets really repetative after awhile and you must first play the first mode 
 which is short to aquire medium, which then lets you aquire long. You will get bored of the game 
 before you reach long but if you do actually play it there are alot of things to buy with the points 
 you get from each battle.
  
  All in all, this game is not the best or worst game I've tried on DS. I wouldn't buy it with my 
 own money so thank God I found it. I would suggest to rent it but there are better things to buy. 
 Unless you are a die-hard marvel fan, don't pick this up unless you can borrow it from a friend. 
 ( If you can find one who actually bought it.) I think it's definately worthy of a 7.5 but don't 
 believe me, believe all the other people who rated it between 3 and s**t.
  
  =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death2Sports
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Please, save youself from boredom, and dont buy this game. This game is just killed the classic 
 super hero game, buy turning it into a fighting game, with entirely new characters. The game starts 
 off with a comic book-like menu, which is pretty cool, you think the game will be awsome, and when 
 you go and start the game, you will find some thing out. It sucks. And then you wish you could 
 return it but you cant.... This is my opinion and i think that without a doubt, you thought this 
 game was pretty boring too. After you get everything in the game, there really isn't a point in 
 playing the game anymore, it's becomes..... really stupid. I brought this game on the trip to disneyland 
 from canada!!!! (not knowing it wouldnt be as fun as i thought) The combat is very repetitive and 
 the fighting moves are very limited limited. A fast punch, which could create a flurry of punches, 
 a kick, a grab and through move, and a special move (depending on the character you have) And the 
 graphics are sucky as hell. The idea of a finisher (like a fatality from Mortal Kombat) was infact 
 pretty cool. It was the only part that included the use of the stylus. The good thing was that 
 there were 18 playable characters, which made the game worth playing for about 20 minutes. The 
 game difficulty was no challenge, not even on the hardest difficulty. (im exaggerating) The new 
 character designs were ok, but the storyline they were put in did not relate to them at all. The 
 comic store where you unlock things, was a good factor of the game too, it makes you want to play 
 a bit more of the game to unlock everything. But the content in the comic store is put to the minimum 
 amount, the alternate costumes were rushed, only 1 alternate costume and a green suit, wtfff!!??!? 
 What super hero wheres a green suit!! Another part of the game was the interactive environment, 
 walls were smashable, and fences, poles, and just about anything in the area was breakable, fun for 
 a while) 
  To sum up my review (more like a rant) I would like to say that if you are planning on buying this 
 game....... DONT!!!!!! and remember please, this is my opinion, if you liked the game then you have 
 cerebral polsy..................... LOL im just kidding, but if you do like this game then whatever 
 man! Dont come up to me and say it was the best game ever, im not changing my mind, it lowers your 
 expectations for Marvel games i guess...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the worst games out there and Electronic arts did a lazy Job with this 
 one I'll exlpain below on why this game is not good and this is the first game where i broke down 
 a door to my cuboard. inb4thisguyneedstocalmdown.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This area instant fail written all over it this is so broken I will never play this game again 
 I know EA good have done better I tried liking the controlls but couldn't I wanted to like this 
 game this is the major downfall of the game. You get punch then the continues to attack you can 
 not move it will be difficult to progress through the game even on the harder difficult although 
 there were some characters that I atcuall liked that played better than other but it just gets 
 annoying and boring later.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is broken so turn the sound off the DS you might not be liking it I will give the game 
 some credit though that the menu music is nice but other that no.
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics aren't to bad actually which will probably save this game from destruction other than 
 this I'll will give the game credit for half-decsent graphics.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall the game is fails miserabley although I'm planning on getting the consoles version of the 
 game and hope it is better the only reason why I got this garbage because it wa the only ds fighting 
 game around at the time and was only twenty dollars. I wait until this game is one dallar before 
 you get it. The only good thing about it is the good character selection but it would have been 
 better if the character played half descent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graphicartist21
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  This game had more hype than anything else. For a fighting game I would have to give very low standards 
 indeed. The controls are sticky and hard to define, it is more of a one but mashing game. The enemies 
 are extremely easy no matter the level and there is not alot of special moves its basically jump 
 and punch alot and they are dead, normally you dont even take damage. The fact that you can buy 
 more costumes, levels and art work are the only bonuses to the game. Granted you can move through 
 out the area while fighting but it is very choppy and there is really no reason to escape where 
 as the enemy is so easy to beat with a full on frontal attack. So I would rank this as a new low 
 for fighting games but has potential. A sequel with quite a few tweaks to the game play as well 
 as the difficulty may be an interesting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piraka93
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Not that good. Rent it first if u don't believe me. But trust me don't waist your money. there 
 are better games out there. If u really want this game get it for X-Box. It way better. Better 
 graphics and cooler moves. And moves on there that isn't on the ds version. But there is still 
 good moves on the ds version. Trust me rent it first!!!!!!!!!!!! Please. But I cant tell u what 
 to do. Do whatever u please. Its not my business how you spend your money. I'm just writing a text 
 review:) Well just pick up your handheld and keep on playing:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chautauquan
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 7, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  so while i do not actually own this game a have played-seen it (my friends have it) they all like 
 it other than logging on to gamespot i have never herd anything bad about this game. I am going 
 to go around try to find it used because thats how you need to get it cheep. It can get boring 
 fairly fast but the multiplayer is good. its easy to learn, tip: R+A is a great combo move for 
 spiderman almost unbeatable but anyway if you pace yourself play it like whenever your gettin bored 
 of your other DS games. When you start you will think this is fun i wan tto beat it all right now 
 DONT you will get bored of it very easily so... im done with my rant and always be shure to check 
 to see if i have revewed a game and you will always get the best review (well in my oppinion of 
 course) bye-bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N64rox
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 22, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  . Bottom line game sucks sooooooooooo badly. Horrible graphics, absolutely garbled storyline, no 
 character development whatsoever. messed up gameplay touch screen controls underwhelming beat very 
 person in 10 minutes. Exceedingly boring fighting one character after the other with no strategy 
 can't even access special powers half the time point is even if you rent it you will wish you spent 
 7 bucks on something else. The sound sucks too, like if you punch someone it's only after 7 seconds 
 they say argh! and they say it with some kind of glitched movement. I am sorry I ever wasted 30 
 bucks on this game, this is probably the only game I have that doesn't meet my standards, and they're 
 pretty low. How many battle points does 35 dollars buy? Good Question. None. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_ballin_cory
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  By far the worst ds game ive ever played, and thats saying something. This game is so bad and so 
 easy. If you can't beat the opponents every single time without being hit once then your blind 
 and don't have any hands, or anything else to hit the same button over and over again. This game 
 tried a new idea towards artificial intelligence, and that was to not use it. If you hide behind 
 a wall the computers will try and hit you as if there was nothing between you. My God this game 
 is bad, do not buy it do not take it for free, do not play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Nemesis looked like a cool game to buy. It features a ton of marvel characters and previews 
 looked promising. The final game is probably the worst fighter I have played yet.
  
  The graphics are rather bland and poorly done. There is little texture to anything, constant clipping 
 problems as well as people getting stuck in walls, poor character animations ... the list goes 
 on. Very poorly done graphics when they could have been so much more.
  
  The sound is adequate. It is most likely the best part of the game. Sound effects are decent, but 
 the music isn't memorable.
  
  The gameplay is where the developers really blew it. You use ONE button to attack. ONE! Yes there 
 is your special move and jump buttons, but all other attacks are mapped to the A button. It is 
 impossible to pull of any good combos. Just hit the attack button over and over and over and over 
 ....
  
  All in all, avoid this game. If you don't believe me, read some of the other reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBshadow_89
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Nemesis is a VERY under appreciated game. I got it this Christmas with a DS lite, but was 
 disappointed when I saw the review. After about 15 minutes of playing, the reviewer seemed to be 
 right. There were several gliches, the graphics and AI weren't very good, and the game wasn't that 
 great overall. Somehow, after awhile of thinking, I started noticing that things really weren't 
 as bad as I thought at first. Even if this game isn't totally amazing, it does stand it's own as 
 a fun game. The only thing I would recommend, though, is that you try to get the console versions 
 before this one, because their even better.
  
  Graphics: I'll tell you now, the graphics aren't that amazing. If graphics are your thing, this 
 might not be for you. Nevertheless, they really are not too bad. My cousin has this game for the 
 Xbox, and the graphics are better there, but this isn't horrible. The levels are pretty cool, because 
 you can destroy or manipulate just about everything. In one level, you are outside on the roof, 
 halfway up some tall buildings, but you can punch a hole through one of the buildings that leads 
 to a room. This is always fun, and it is just like what super heroes do in those TV shows or movies. 
 The characters and environment look okay, and the menu screens look good.
  
  Sound: The sound for the game is the same. It's not great, but it's perfectly fine, and I don't 
 see why people are bashing the game. the music is good, and the sound effects are basic but pretty 
 effective. The only thing I thought was dumb was the sounds the characters make when they get punched. 
 When you beat up the AI, you'll notice that their character will keep making the same three sounds 
 over and over again. This is a little annoying, but not too bad.
  
  Gameplay: This is the most important part, but I think that the gameplay is solid. I did have a 
 little problem with the controls, though. on the left side is the control pad to move and L to 
 auto lock, on the right, buttons to throw, attack, jump, block, and R to use more powerful versions 
 of these moves, and in the center is the touch screen to fly or use Spiderman's web swinging, etc. 
 What this basically does is make a button configuration that was meant for three hands. This is 
 a little harder than it should be, but isn't unusable. The overall moves and powers are (in my 
 opinion) almost perfectly balanced. I'd find myself using boxes and throwing them at the enemy 
 at times, but not completely relying on it. The punches and throws are useful, and the jump is 
 used to get out of a corner. Blocking also stops the AI attacks and makes them stagger so you have 
 the upper hand. Every move is used, but not too often. Many people also complain about the AI. 
 I also noticed that when you're a little far from the AI in easy mode the don't make any move to 
 go towards you at all. All they do is jump around. This seems ridiculous at first glance, but after 
 I realized that the developer was making the AI do this to dodge projectiles. It is hard to hit 
 them with a ranged attack this way, so this is actually called for. Another problem people had 
 was the auto lock feature. People complained about this because it didn't always lock on to people. 
 When doing a combo, the AI could walk to the side and dodge it all; without your character shifting 
 his/her attack direction. I thought that this was also called for because keeping the lock perfect 
 all the time would make it impossible to dodge anything. People also argued that the game is glitchy. 
 Here, they are correct. Sometimes after I KO the computer player, they somehow end up standing 
 up in midair until I punch them out of the sky. As well, once both me and the computer ended up 
 falling out of the level. I will admit that this is a problem, but the gliches mostly don't effect 
 gameplay. The out of the ring glitch doesn't happen too often, and the standing in midair when 
 KO ed glitch is only a small cosmetic nuisance, and in my opinion, not too much of a problem. The 
 story is actually a bit pointless. Basically, Niles Van Roekel (did i spell that right?) is attacking 
 New York with his imperfects, and is somehow able to mind control the heroes, so you have to stop 
 him. That's it. That is basically the whole story. That was dissapointing, because they could have 
 thought of something so much better. One dissapoointment about the game was the multiplayer. It 
 is compatible with multi cartridge playing (if you and someone else have the game) but not single 
 cartridge play. One of my favorite parts of the Xbox version of this game was the multiplayer, 
 and it's deppressing that I can't play with my friend, that also has a DS, but not the game.
  
  Value: The value in this game is actually quite a lot. there are lots of things to unlock, 
 and although the reviewer complains that it takes forever to unlock anything, it doesn't. You can 
 get battle points fast enough, and it's also fine that you don't get everything that fast, so that 
 you actually get time to appreciate the things that you get. All in all, I truly did enjoy playing 
 Marvel Nemesis. I has an enjoyable time, and still am having one. I still think that you need to 
 try getting the console versions, because they're great; especially when playing multiplayer. The 
 DS version is still a good game though, and I don't regret getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newbie_user
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Now in an attempt to not bash Gamespots review of this game, I must say I got my DS Lite and this 
 game with it and I had so much fun with it. It has some repetative moments where you fight the 
 same people over and over again but as soon as you get used to the controls you will find this 
 game so fun it won't matter. There are a variety of unlockables such as Characters, Costumes and 
 artwork. Also there is a ''Play Now'' mode that allows you to get up and go with a fight. I say 
 that if you are a fan of Marvel comics you should pick this game up for an enjoyable time but there 
 are much more better games but in that context I think this is one of the best fighters on the 
 DS right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 1.9
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  For many years now I have been a devoted fan of fighting games. From Street Fighter, to Mortal 
 Kombat, to King of Fighters, to Guilty Gear and Tekken, Ive played and loved them all. Ive also 
 been a fan of comic based games and movie based games, and have often felt that they get a bad 
 rap from reviewers. This being said, even I hated Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects for the 
 Nintendo DS. Every awful thing you may have heard about this game is true. Reviews who said anything 
 positive about this title were being too kind. Normally, I go into a lot of depth about numerous 
 aspects of the games I review. In this case, its just not worth it to give too many details. I 
 probably shouldnt even review this game, because Ive always felt that if you cant say anything 
 nice you shouldnt say anything at all. The graphics and sound are horrible considering that its 
 2006. They wouldnt have even been good on the SNES. The bland characters often disappear behind 
 objects during gameplay, and cant be seen at all. Sadly, this has absolutely no effect on the 
 outcome of the fights. Trying to describe the controls in this game is actually fairly difficult. 
 Picture the most awkward and incomprehensible control scheme of any title you have ever played, 
 and add a touch screen to the mix. There appears to be a decent selection of characters when players 
 start the game. The excitement over character selection quickly fades when players learn that almost 
 all of the characters have to be unlocked through hours of tedious gameplay. This game can be purchased 
 for $9.88 at any Circuit City. Avoid the temptation and pass on this one. Fans of fighting games 
 or Marvel comics who opt to experience this title need to completely ignore the DS version and 
 pick up either the console or PSP version if they want to seek any type of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I thought I would buy any game for just 5$. Apparently not. Now Im really going to lay into this 
 game because I don't care for fighting games. This was awful and disappointed me in so many ways 
 its not even funny. I mean i have not even played this game 30 minutes and I can already tell this 
 game blows. True there were a multitude of characters to choose from, the button layout was just 
 terrible. I mean there were only like 4 different attacks for each character and there are no combos. 
 In a fighting game, there has to be combos. Please just stay away from this game and don't make 
 the same mistake that I did. I should have listened to my friend... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan06
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Even though I've seen plenty of bad reviews on this game, curiousity got the better of me and I 
 rented it. My first reaction to the game was pretty much the same as the guy in the main review. 
 But after playing it for a few hours, I like this game. You know how in the main review the guy 
 complains about big glitches and horrid AI? That's quite exaggerated. Sure i've noticed the floor 
 dissapear a couple times in one level, and the AI does have a habit of attacking thin air now and 
 then, but when they decide to fight (which they usually do) things get fun. The main review says 
 you can only gain spendable points by playing the arcade mode, and actually makes it out to be 
 a BAD thing! Think about it: how else do you earn points in a fighting game!? Was he expecting 
 some form of mini-game to get points? It's a fighting game, it's only natural to earn points by 
 fighting. Besides, you can still earn points in quick one on one matches too (though I admit not 
 as much) .
  
  Don't get me totally wrong, there are still downsides to the game. The graphics themselves are 
 ok, but the character animations are indeed quite bad. The sound isn't very great either, but it's 
 not horrible. Despite what the main review says, I think this game feels more like a comic then 
 the console versions. The menu's look like a comic, it has more marvel locations, comic-style cut 
 scenes (more along the lines of gum-wrapper comic panel in those, however) , and alternate costumes 
 from the comic. In the end, Marvel Nemesis for DS is rather enjoyable . However, I still suggest 
 renting first if possible, or making sure you can trade it in for a different game, because this 
 game isn't quite for everyone apparently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap_divvy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I bought this on tuesday and have been playing it none stop since. I've mostlly been playing arcade 
 unlocking arenas, charectors, graphics and costumes. The game comprises of the charectors from 
 the original console version with a shortened version of the story. Where a alien scientist has 
 come to earth to get the perfect warrior / army of super heros to fight for his alien planet. But 
 he is possing on earth as a scientist. He has enlisted the help of some troubled people who he 
 genetically modifies to make them into the imperfects. The story isnt as well built in the ds version 
 as the xbox or ps2 version but its basically there. But the princaples of the game is there which 
 is to beat the crap outta your oponent and have the chance to do a finishing move is quite well 
 placed despite the fact it can be tricky to work out. The graphics are quite good and the sound 
 is ok. The controls are easy to get used to and value wasnt to bad. 16.99 preowned from gamestation 
 was quite a satisfatory price for me. This game is mostlly a game for marvel fans but would be 
 quite enjoyable to beat em up fans. This Rent before you buy game with some play back qualities 
 and the multiplayer is fun despite the lack of wi fi.
  Over all i give marvel nemises DS 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deftones00
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  When i bought my DS this game came free with it, at the time i hadn't read any reviews on it or 
 knew what it was about.
  As soon as i started playing the game i thought it was great. The graphics are good for the DS, 
 the gameplay is fun and gets increasingly difficult as you play through the game and there is a 
 lot of motivation for you to continue playing the game. Everyone says that it is annoying that 
 you can't play all the characters straight away but i thought this was a clever way of wanting 
 the gamer to keep playing so they can carry on and unlock their favourite characters and also be 
 forced to get a taste of what every character is like and how they fight. This feature makes you 
 get your money's worth out of the game and ensures hours of gameplay.
  Another great feature is that you can unlock arenas for quick fights (which also gives you money 
 to purchase more, which i thought was another very good feature) you can also unlock cool comic 
 style art and my favourite was the option to buy alternative costumes for all of the characters 
 (excluding one or two of the imperfects which didn't bother me that much) . These alternative costumes 
 are great including wolverines original yellow and blue stripes, spiderman in his venom suit and 
 daredevil in his orignal yellow and red. 
  Overall, this game is a great pick up game that you can play for a quick ten minute burst or spend 
 a couple of hours battling at a time. Unfortunately i didn't get the chance to play multiplayer 
 but the game comes with game sharing feature which is a big bonus for anyone who knows people who 
 don't have the game and want to kick their ass as your favourite web slinger.
  My one critism would be that, although the original marvel characters are great and each have a 
 sense of different fighting styles which you can master, this aside the "imperfects" as a whole 
 don't really look cool or fight great but considering there is 18 characters to choose from you 
 can just spend your time playing as your favourites if you like and this didn't take the shine 
 off the game for me too much.
  I would definitely recommend this game to anyone, it's a great game to play and keep you coming 
 back for more, especially as it now only around 20 to buy. Make this your next purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JorgeCarrillo
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I was at my cousins house, he has the game for the gamecube, and it was alright... but then my 
 little brother decided to buy it for our DS, i was mad at him... but then i say that i coud give 
 it a chance but nooooes!!!!! The game sucks with every word of its name... the sound is boring, 
 and the game really needs an analog stick and better graphics.
  I told my broter that it was a really bad game, so we decided to exchange it for WarioWare: Touched... which 
 is a waaaaay better game than it.
  
  If u read this review, trust me, DONT BUY IT!!!, even if u are a hardcore marvel fan, DONT BUY 
 IT!!!! IT SUUUUUCKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3last
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the game for my 7yr old son, and have regretted it ever since. to call the game "buggy," 
 is an understatement. The controls are horrible and repetitive. The music and sound are so mundane 
 you wonder if you are actually playing something from the 8bit generation. 
  
  The frustration in the controls is worsened byt hte fact that you can never really figure out where 
 your opponent is, and if you can locate them attacking them is a feat in and of itself. You chase 
 a villain over various terrain only to be hit into a wall and stuck in an endless attack loop where 
 you are pummeled and no combination of button presses can free you until your character is done 
 for. 
  
  The set of moves for each character is boring and uninspired as are the "extras," you earn through 
 gameplay. to have to play through three campaigns for certain characters to unlock others was enough 
 to frustrate my son to the point of asking if we can trade this game foe something else after only 
 playing it for 3 days. 
  
  Save yourself the frustration and disappointment and skip this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  This game is great, Im not gonna write about its gameplay, you can read it in the main review.
 
  
  I didnt know whether to buy it or not cause the reviews on this one are bad, but i bought it anyway, 
 cause i like marvel and i like fighting games, and you know what, im not sorry about it.
  
  The game looks great, the comic look and feel is great, i loved the menues of the game and the 
 graphics are great.
  There are two things that are not too good, first all the characters story line is basically the 
 same, and the second is sometimes the enemies AI is bad, but besides that the game is great, its 
 so addictive you cant stop playing it, there are a lot of unlockables, the graphics are great, 
 the fighting environment is fully interactive.
  I know the reviews are bad, but if you like marvel and fighting games i recommend this game.
 
  
  I cant stop playing it. This is the first time my review rank is much higher then the main one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power_of_2
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  true enough, this game is a bust. at first, it's ok as far as attacks go but the story mode is 
 extremely repetitive as every character has the exact same story line pretty much. u can only choose 
 between wolverine, human torch, and spiderman in the beginning and once u go through one time with 
 one character, u have to go and do medium and hard in order to unlock the other playable characters. 
 one thing i do like however is elektra's finisher. it's pretty good, but don't go and buy or rent 
 this game for that sole purpose. trust me, it loses interest REAL fast... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze1daplayer
Rating: 6
Date: May 24, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game isnt that bad. The Graphics are good, it's fun to smack every body, and its all fun to 
 gain new suits and the art and everything. You people suck. It wasnt that bad. I'm not saying its 
 a great game but it deserves more than this. All I didnt like was that you cant constantly fly 
 and they have they're buttons all jacked up but mabe you can change the button things. I didnt 
 think it was the worst.
  jas fhkjfh gf djfhkdf gdhfg dfh kdfj hkdjfhg jfh jf g djfh gd hfgjdhfj fj hdkfj jjdf gjf jhdfjg 
 djhjfhgjd j djjdfhjdf jdf df dfjgh djfhgjdfhgjf gj djf gjd fhdj gd dfj g h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxapollo
Rating: 1
Date: May 23, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I have never played such a horribly made game in my life. The gameplay is horrible, buggy and just 
 irritating. There is so much slag you must wade through just to UNLOCK most of the characters that 
 you might want to play as, it ruins any possibility of fun this game might have had. The characters 
 are all carbon copies of one another in terms of their fighting abilities, with some VERY minor 
 changes made to make them look more in character. I don't understand how a big company like EA 
 could in good conscience put this up for sale. Wait, that's being waaaay to nice to EA. The reality 
 is this: EA is one of the worst video game manufacturers on the planet, and they constantly churn 
 out crappy games just like this one. Don't buy or rent this. You will regret it, and you won't 
 even be able to trade it in for a fair amount of cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdriverz
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  WORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST 
 GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME 
 EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST 
 GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME 
 EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST 
 GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME 
 EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST 
 GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME 
 EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST 
 GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME 
 EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST 
 GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME 
 EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST 
 GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME 
 EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERWORST 
 GAME EVERWORST GAME EVERv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzzxx
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  According to many video game sites, this is supposed to be one of the worst games on the DS. I 
 disagree. Sure, there are definately better games, but there are also worse.
  
  Gameplay: This is a fighting game where you use Marvel characters to defeat your opponents. It 
 is a 3D fighting game. It's a standard one at that. You have a regular attack, a powerful attack, 
 throws, block, lock-on, and turbo. When you use turbo and press an attack button, you will do a 
 ranged attack. Blocking is useless, and lock-on doesn't even work. You are better off just hammering 
 on the powerful attack button. While the core game is good, there are many different glitches that 
 will get on your nerves. Hit detection isn't always good, and clipping is a pretty big problem. 
 You can also catch the enemy in an endless attack pattern, and this makes the game far easier than 
 it should be. Some characters have special abilities, like flying or web-slinging. You activate 
 these by pressing an area on the touch screen. But they aren't very useful. Web-slinging is pointless, 
 and flying is only useful if you don't want to fall off of the side of a level down to the next 
 area. You can attack while in the air, but they are impossible to aim. You can pick up objects, 
 but all you can do is throw them at your opponent, but it doesn't do much damage. There are pick 
 ups in the levels but they are extremely rare. The AI is pretty stupid, and usually doesn't do 
 anything until the later levels. Each character has a finishing move (Basically complete rip-offs 
 of MK's Fatalities.) that you can do at the end of a fight, and all you have to do is press a certain 
 sequence on the touch screen. Many of them are really stupid, but some of them, like Elektra's, 
 are pretty cool. The enviroments are destructible, and to a suprising level. If you manage to throw 
 your opponent into something, chances are it will be destroyed. Its pretty cool when you toss your 
 opponent right through a wall. You can also use your throws as counters. If you anticipate an enemy's 
 attack, if you time a throw right, you can catch them and toss them away. 
  The game is fun, but not for everyone. I seem to be one of the few people who find this to be fun, 
 but not for long.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are surprisingly good. The characters look good, and the enviroments look 
 very nice. And most of them are multi-leveled, so if you go off the side, you fall into another 
 area. On the bridge level, for instance, if you happen to get knocked off, you will fall to the 
 freeway below, with moving cars. The character models look impressive, and are quite detailed. 
 The animations are good, but sometimes they skip a little. The framerate never drops, and does 
 a good job keeping up. There are moving cars, moving water, and a lot of destruction, and a lot 
 of it is surprising to see on the DS. The menus aren't very special, and are plain. There are a 
 few different levels, and all of them are very different. Overall, the graphics are really good. 
 Especially for the DS.
  
  Sound: Oh no. I don't think you want to know how bad the sound is. It's terrible. There really 
 isn't much sound except for the one song that plays over and over. There are a few moans and grunts, 
 but nothing much else. When you destroy something in the enviroment, it makes a sound. But it is 
 the same sound for everything you destroy. Breaking a wall sounds just like breaking a tree. Not 
 good. There aren't any voice overs, so don't expect your characters to say anything. There really 
 isn't any sound other than that. Just terrible.
  
  Value: The main mode here is arcade mode. Arcade mode is the story mode, if you can call it that. 
 There really isn't any story. You just fight enemy after enemy until it is over. You earn money 
 after every fight, and sometimes you can place wagers on certain fights. You might as well bet 
 the max everytime, because you aren't going to lose. There is a play now mode, which is basically 
 a fight where you pick the characters. There is a big problem with the arcade mode. Every character 
 has a short, medium, and long story. You mostly only unlock things by playing through the long 
 story. But you start out with only the short story for each person at the beginning. You have to 
 beat each individual character's short story to unlock the medium, then beat that to unlock the 
 long story. So, were talking around 50 fights before you actually unlock something. 50 fights per 
 person. And trust me, you won't want to play it that long. I did, with several characters for the 
 sake of this review. You can spend your easily earned money in the comic shop, which is where you 
 buy everything. Arenas, concept art, characters, and extra costumes await you. The only one you 
 will be interested in is the characters. There is an impressive roster, totaling somewhere around 
 18 characters. You start out with maybe 5. Some of the characters in the game are: Spiderman, Iron 
 Man, Venom, Wolverine, Storm, The Thing, Daredevil, Elektra, and so on. But many characters play 
 almost exactly the same. Lets take Daredevil and Spidey for example. Both are almost exactly the 
 same. The same for Venom and Spidey. Hardly any of the characters are really individual. There 
 is a lot of stuff to unlock, but you will stop playing by the time you unlock half of it.
  
  Overall: It isn't as bad as some sites make it out to be. However, it isn't that good either. 
 If your lucky like me, you can just borrow it from a friend, and not have to spend $20 on something 
 you don't like. I'm just saying give this one a chance. Thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernintendo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  this game. just got it today and i loved it right away. it isso awesome. not any better than psp 
 version i give em the same rating. get it if you want a good fighting game. its fun and dont believe 
 the horrible rumors or scores that it got because iot is addictive. it may seem easy to some people 
 because maybe they have the setting on easy. it is totally worth it!!! graphics are good even though 
 that it's background is 2D the people and the objects are 3d which makes it awesome. dont worry 
 about the reviews if you like marvel and fihting gams it is a perfect match up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thombo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun to me. I had a blast getting the charaters and playing with them. The levels 
 are pretty cool too. Human torch is the best to me but anyway back to the point. I think Gamespot 
 really screwed up on this game score. The graphics are pretty good to me though. My best friend 
 said this game sucked really bad but hes never played it. I think the only reson people hate this 
 game is because that gamespot blew it out of perportion. This is the first fighting game for the 
 ds. This game is cool to me and it SHOULD be to you Too!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendrix_jr08
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is so bad, it's fun for a little while but after that is is pure crap, horrable replay 
 value repedative and so incredably bad.... it's buggy and easy to trick the enemys AI, the game 
 by no means is finished and could still use plenty of work, i have no played the console version 
 but if it is a better version of this it could be okay but i don't want to waste any more money... 
 it lacks story or any thing that would hold intrest besides its unlockables.... they kept my intrest 
 for a few days but there realy not that good so don't buy this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berenonehanded
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Hey I found this was an extremely well made game. The graphics were great and the music was cool. 
 However there is also a down side, being the grunting can get EXTREMELY ANNOYING ! ! ! ! ! However 
 having said that you can always turn the sfx off. I loved the game and found I couldn't put it 
 down. I had a great time playing this game and I am having a great time playing it again. I would 
 completely recommend this game if you like the original street fighter games, and Marvel characters. 
 Once again let me say if you see this game I would buy it! I am sorry that some people including 
 the people on this site, don't like or prefer this game or whatever but all I know is that I like 
 it and recommend it to anyone. Thanks Berenonehanded 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattdatc
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Well it's definitely not the best game I have ever played but, it's not the worst either. Gameplay 
 is easy with quick to learn controls. Wide variety of characters, 18 in all, with different special 
 abilities. Use of the touch screen adds 2 more "buttons" to interact with the game. Each character 
 has their own finisher which have average graphics. Unlockable artwork is pretty good. As a long 
 time Marvel fan new artwork is always a plus.
  
  Storyline is very repetitive. It get's very annoying seeing the same little comic book text bubbles 
 over and over again. Easy quick victories by trapping enemy in corner and kicking or punching quickly. 
 Lack of game dimension really ruins what could be a great game. I honestly only use the d-pad and 
 y until it is time to do the finisher when I use the touch screen. If you are looking for an easy 
 game this is the game for you but, if not I would stay away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BJSwagz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I originally read the reviews of this game and decided I would not spend $39 on it. Months later, 
 my roommate bought me it for Christmas and I was compelled to give it a chance. I have to admit, 
 my faith in Gamspot's reviews was shaken by the experience. Nemesis is a very good looking game. 
 The graphics are not chunky, the menus are well animated and overall, the art direction is great. 
 The music is exciting and even makes battles seem more dramatic than they really are.
  
  However, the game is as buggy as people say it is. You can literally win most matches by punching 
 over and over. The buttons sometimes do the wrong move for a match for no reason at all and the 
 enemies are dumb. I've only lost 15 battles out of 178 so far. 9 of those battles were lost to 
 Magneto on hard mode, as he is the only guy I've got stuck on so far.
  
  Lots ot unlock, which is tedious, but due to the low difficulty level it's not such a dautning 
 task. Many of the characters are very well implemented, but you'd never know they were when facing 
 them in single player mode.
  
  Bottom line, I like Marvel characters and that's why I gave the game a chance. If this were not 
 a Marvel game, I wouldn't have stuck with it. The gameplay takes what could have been a must-have 
 game and turned it into a good $19 value for Marvel fans only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuBbLeZmAtT
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm really disapoointed with Gamespot on their opinion of this game! This game is prolly my fav. 
 game from the marvel series and I've played just about all of them!! this game is soo great. 
 
  
  my favorite caracter on the game is the Thing!! hez soo cool !! him and wolverine! 
  but ya this game is an instant classic hope y'all buy it worth every pennie ! ! !
  ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! TTYL BUH BYE !!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! 
 ! ! ! ! ! !!! ! !! ! ! ! ! 
  also buy an XBOX if u dont have one and if u do buy HALO and HALO 2 best game of the Xbox !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguyryan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I got this game wen it first came out. I saw wat it was like on the big consoles so i thot i'd 
 try it out. On first glance it looked pretty good but it wasnt really worth the 30 bucks. it really 
 didnt have a story at all. it was a bit adicting a first but got alittle old. I liked the graphics 
 a lot but the enviroment wasnt that interactive. and then it took me forever to get all the characters. 
 i havent played multi-player yet but im hopin its better than the game itself. if i had known about 
 the game more i wouldve waited for the price to go to like 15 bucks. Its not wat i thot id be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  im a fan of comics, and heroclix, so seeing the ad for this in a hulk comic convinced me to get 
 it. all i can say is, oops... if youre fortunate enough to read this, dont buy this game. it is 
 SO FREAKIN BUGGY!!!! you start out with 3 characters, with like 15 to unlock, but you wont withstand 
 that torture long enough to do it. the superpowers are basicly the same for all the characters, 
 you hold R and punch "with glowing fists!" or do some kind of long ranged attack, depending on 
 your character. they tried to spice it up with finishing moves, but they are so lame! wolverines 
 is: walk up, hit a few times, stab and throw over head, then turn around and jump down stabing 
 repeatedly..... thats it. if you like marvel, stick with comics, this is not one you want to waste 
 ANY money on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acekicka
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Wow, thats all I can say after playing this sorry POS. It has plenty of characters and some special 
 moves for each character, but the characters are so simplistic and boring that you probably wont 
 want to keep playing to unlock all the characters in the game. The difficulty is horrible, you 
 can just button mash your way through the campaign mode, without any thought or reason to the combination 
 of buttons your pressing. I love the Marvel Universe but this game does it a serious disservice. 
 Unless you are the most devout diehard Marvel fan then you would be doing yourself a favor by avoiding 
 this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuji12345678
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  It's not that bad. The game is pretty fun and I spent a while playing it. After a while the AI 
 really starts to get easy even on hard. I do wish they had given the AI the smarts to move from 
 corners. But OH WElL!!! It's worth playing. I'd just wait for it to get cheaper later on though, 
 that's probably the smartest thing to do. Anyway they're making me give 100 words before I can 
 submit which is gay cause I said all I can say really I'm not a professional or anything. I guess 
 I'll just say that I wish gamespot was better at being fair. Used to Good games got good ratings 
 and bad games got bad ratings. But Guild Wars gets and 8 and Perfect Dark Zero got a 9... Niether 
 of those were deserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjfoku1
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks ass bad but why do you say its good. it sucksssss s s s s ss s s s s s s ss s s 
 ss s s s s s s s ss s s s s s ss s s es s ss s s s s ss s s ss s s ss s s s ss s s ss s s s ss 
 s s s sssssss ssssssssssssssssssssssss ssss ss s s ss s s s ss s s s ss sz sss s s s s ss s s s 
 s s ss s s s ss s s ss s s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rathmir
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:09 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for my son and ended up playing it more and more often. It is a great game for 
 anyone who loves the comics. Unlocking all the extras was fun, and even after all is unlocked it 
 is fun to have various versus matches that would never happen. If only the SIlver Surfer was added 
 all would be well. The levels look great and the ability to effect most of the objects is fun. 
 There is nothing like throwing objects from the environment at Spiderman to knock that web singer 
 around. The extra artwork from the Comic Shop is wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nlatimer
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The only fighter I've played worse than this was Dragonball Z: Taiketsu and it was pretty bad.
 
  
  All the graphics in the world don't mean a thing if the gameplay is more of a chore than it is 
 fun, and that is exactly the problem with this game.
  
  Piss poor controls should not be a replacement for difficulty.
  
  Even for $20 (and I received 
 the game as a gift) this is a poor value.
  
  Includes a few of the best Marvel heros and villians, and unfortunately what seem to be invented 
 EA villians. Just more proof that EA is going down the drain and releasing a game thats either 
 not done, or despite that it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradfordbulls
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:26 am PT
Review:  a very good fighting gme with great graphics and brilliant sound and all your favourite marvel 
 heroes and badies it is fun you will never get bored of it its not to hard but not to easy it just 
 a cracking game witch any gender or age will love to play on it will put a smile on your face it 
 is the best fighting game out for the ds and for any console its also good for any aged kids you'll 
 never get bored if you have this game so i'd advice you to buy this gameand you'll love it just 
 like me so buy it now and have that fun you deserve its a cracker. YOU'LL LOVE IT ITS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 2.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I now relized hoe bad this game truley is (i traded mine in a long time ago) so many things went 
 wrong here. The AI, cammra, fighting its self, and it's so so bugey. Lets go down the list, AI 
 it will either stand there take the beating, just run away, or the most angering just use the same 
 attack over and over. Cammra will foucos on you mostley and nothing else. It's not smooth to change 
 and it's fixed. So if you want to move about that stage expect the jerky cammra. Bugs? like falling 
 though the floor, things disapear, you enamey will fall though the floor as well, it dose not crash. 
 Fighting is basic and clunkey you have like 3 moves punch, biger punch, thorw, now some will throw 
 like a fier ball instead of a biger punch and you can make it super if you want. But whats the 
 point all you have to do is press X over and over. Its like you and your oppenit are magnits and 
 you cant move away from each other its a chore just to move about the stage WTF?! Good? lots of 
 things to unlock like more genaric chariters that fell the same, more stages that are bland, and 
 rejectid comics and art not fit for consols. Oh boy thats content. i wasted $40 on this last year 
 dont wast your $20 on it this year. Oh yeah what fun is it wasting houers and houers unlocking 
 more chariters just for them to fell the same. start off with two bore your self to 18. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryboy_dragon
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I've been playing this for a while now and, over all, my feelings are positive. I'll keep 
 it short and sweet:
  
  Facts:
  * 18 Unlockable Fighters
  * Unlockable alternate costumes
  * 3 Modes of play (1 on 1, story and multiplayer)
  * DS has 
 it's own unlock system. You must unlock a charater AND have enough points to enable it.
  
  Bad:
  * Buggy (sometime the computer fighter will attack the air)
  * Some of the fighters seem 
 like clones.
  * You can throw stuff about, but it doesn't hurt the other guy.
  * Multiplay requires on card per player (LAME! You could have allowed download play, but only allowed 
 one or two fighters.)
  * Next time they should half the number of made-up heros and double the number of 'real' heros.
 
  * The story is incomprehencable gibberish.
  * The story has very poor grammar and makes the whole thing feel unpolished.
  
  Good:
  * 
 Fun! :-)
  * Best graphics I've seen on the DS.
  * Good number of well known fighters
  * You can smash the surroundings.
  * Each location has a number of areas.
  * Muliplayer is 
 neat.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Good for the DS. The only 3D games that I can think of that are better would be Mario 64 and *shudder* 
 Nintedogs. Of all these games, Marvel Nemesis is the most detailed. 
  
  Sound: 6/10
  Lame sound effects and speech is reduced to grunts. But the music is good.
  
  Value: 7/10 
 
  There is a crap-load of stuff to unlock, but I'm guessing that most people will never unlock it 
 all. Most will unlock the heros they know and then stick to one-on-one battles.
  
  Story: 1/10
  The story mode is the WOST THING EVER. Uggh! The story is incomprehencable gibberish 
 and has very poor grammar (has to be bad for ME to notice it) that makes the whole thing feel unpolished. 
 
  
  Fun: 7/10
  Despite the story (or lack thereof) the fighting is fast and fun. The bugs can sometimes make the 
 game too easy, and the computer controled players sometimes look as though they don't know what 
 they are supposed to be doing. This does become less of a problem on hard levels, but on easy the 
 computer will often just sit there.
  Multiplay is fun and it'll be great if your friends are willing to buy a copy.
  
  OVERALL: 
 7/10
  Not the best game for the DS, but fun anyway. Worth the time if you have finished castlevania, 
 Advance Wars, Mario and Kirby; and you have nothing else to do until Mario Kart comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morph5690
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games out there for the ds i love the artwork the artwork makes the 
 game worth going to target and gettin this great game. the combat is vary vary easy to lern and 
 vary simple but it takes a lot of skill to master this game. and who doesnt like marvel i mean 
 comon people if you don't love marvel then you can jest bern!!!. but this is still a great game 
 and you all shood go to target or GAMESPOT and get this great game. so go right now to GAMESPOT 
 AND BUY THIS FREAKIN SWEET GAME, my god this game is freakin sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strifex33
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I am sorry but this game is so crapy i cant take it. Even if you are a hardcore marvel fan dont 
 but this game. Rent it, you will be glad you did. 
  
  the only good thing about this game is the fact that Ironman is in it. and thats it. I think that 
 EA was just useing the marvel name to make money, and didnt care if it sucked big you no whats. 
 
  
  It is a 3d game but when it sucks like this who cares. If you do get this game (you are a dee dee 
 dee) dont open it take it back right away or you will cry like a little baby. Why cant they make 
 a good 3d ds game for craps sake, all the games on this system are 2d (get with the program people 
 its 2005 not 1990) . 
  
  anyway dont bother. your better of with Ultimate Spiderman (and its 2d so be careful) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagarwal
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 16, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  Dude do not make a mistake and listen to the Game spot Review for this game. I am telling you, 
 this is a must for anyone who loves fighting games. This has quite good graphics with new sound 
 effects and new ideas. Best of all, it has a HUGE lifespan since you can buy and unlock new characters 
 and items. I simply loved the simplicity of this game and the art put into it. To tell you the 
 truth I was quite shocked at the Game spot review since they onl gave it 3.1. Even if your not 
 into fighting type games, still give it a rents atleast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xplics
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 15, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Playing Marvel Nemesis DS, you dont get the feeling that youre playing any of the comic characters. 
 Its more of the sense that youre playing the same character with slight differences. Each character 
 basically has two special moves. One is a glorified throw move, and the other is supposed to 
 be a signature move, but its very bland and no fun at all to execute. On top of the limited moves, 
 you run out of your special move meter pretty quickly. (Since when does Wolverine run out of 
 energy to use his claws?!) The gameplay is slow except when a move has FINALLY executed, and then 
 the gameplay skipsA LOTand an unnecessary amount of time is spent waiting for the game to auto 
 save and load.
  So, friends, this is a fair warning to NOT buy Marvel Nemesis DS. You wont get the feeling that 
 youre playing your beloved comic characters, and you wont get your moneys worth. Im very disappointed 
 in Marvel for allowing this highly anticipated game to be released AS IS, and I wont be getting 
 the PSP version now either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Backoffbitch
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review therefor I do not know where to start...
  
  Anyway, I bought this game the other day for my DS since I am a big Marvel Comics fan. I got it, 
 started playing it and liked it a lot! Everything was solid other than a few glitches here and 
 there. 
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Not the best graphics for Nintendo DS but not bad at all. A little blocky but the characters are 
 viewed big most of the time as opposed to little dots. The backgrounds are very detailed and there 
 is stuff going on such as cars riding by, etc... Very good.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Good paced gameplay. Able to hit people quickly, run, teleport (with certain people) and web-sling 
 (Spider-man & Venom) . You can through people with average throws or super throws (Ex: Wolverine 
 turns you around, stabs you in the back and spins you 360 and lets you go) When thrown into stuff 
 hard enough, you can smash right through it, break it or crack it. There is flying available and 
 everything. 
  
  Sound - 8/10
  Sounds is okay. There is no voice acting, hence the 6/10. But the sound effects such as punching, 
 making lightning, shoot fireballs, scratching people with your claws is great. A little static 
 when too much is going on but still does its job well.
  
  Value - 8/10
  Let's see... Value wise this game is good, it has tons of unlockables which will take hours and 
 hours and hours to get everything. You start out with 3 characters and have to beat the game with 
 each character and everytime you do so it unlocks one item (Either a new characters, new costumes, 
 artwork from comic books or a new arena) but it doesn't stop there, everytime you beat an enemy 
 you get rewarded coins to buy the stuff, so not only do you have to unlock it, you have to pay 
 for it. So, that should keep you going for quite a while. I haven't finished yet, I am almost 60% 
 through and as the MacDonald's commercials say "I'm lovin' it"
  
  Tilt - 10/10
  I frankly love this game, I will be playing it for a while, even after I have unlocked everything, 
 I don't know if you will feel the same way, I doubt it actually seeing the overall score it got. 
 If you're a Marvel Comics fan and want a game to go or don't want to be sitting in from of your 
 TV all day long, then this game is good for you. My favorite DS game tied with Ultimate Spider-man.
 
  
  This game is highly underrated, don't be discouraged about buying this game because of the horrendous 
 Gamespot score... Rent it first, play a little to see if you like it, then buy it if you are looking 
 forward to unlocking all the secrets, etc... A must-have for Marvel Comic fans!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:56 am PT
Review:  I can only say this is a definate non-buy. I have wrote this review 2 times now. The first time 
 was after playing it for about 3 hours which, after some time to get used to it seemed to be ok. 
 But as I played it more & more, I saw the things that were wrong with it and have decided to redo 
 my review.
  
  Gameplay- 4- Thrown items do no damage, powerups dont seem to do anything, chains just go straight, 
 the lock on system has the response time of a drunk, among other things. The more I have played, 
 the more these things have popped out to me.
  
  Graphics- 7- Almost couldn't ask for better... if it wasn't for all the missing elements. No shadows, 
 lighting, and a few other effects are just not there. But what is there is done really well.
  
  Sound- 8- The voices are nothing more than grunts from hitting & such, which is disappointing, 
 but the other sound makes up for it.
  
  Value- 8- Lots to unlock, if you even bother to. I actually am, because even as broken as this 
 game is, I still like it for some reason a bit. But I'll admit, junk game.
  
  Tilt- 1- Shouldnt have been put out like this.
  
  *This is the second revision to this review* 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
