-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Master of Illusion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/magictaizen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Teaches you magic.
 Tricks are easy to learn thanks to detailed, but easy-to-follow tutorials.
 It's a totally unique experience that could only be done on the DS.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Points system limits how much you can unlock in a day.
 Some of the tricks aren't very good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 80 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Tenyo
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Nov 26, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Master of Illusion is a neat way for kids to learn how to perform simple magic tricks. 

  The Nintendo DS has seen its fair share of bizarre and original concepts -- the latest of which is 
 Master of Illusion. Less of a game and more an interactive way to participate in and learn magic 
 tricks, Master of Illusion won't interest everyone. But like a simple magic kit from a toy store, 
 it's a really cool and effective way to introduce the world of magic to children.  

           Only the Nintendo DS knows what it is you desire most.      

  The first thing you'll 
 notice when you start Master of Illusion is the host; this creepy, busty, part-human and part-animal 
 ladything. An odd choice because the game seems to be mostly geared toward the younger crowd. 
 Once you've given her a bit of information, she explains the three facets of the game. The first 
 is solo magic. Here, the DS is the magician and you can choose from eight different tricks. These 
 tricks include having the DS guess the hand gesture you're making, figure out what card you picked 
 (the game comes with a deck of cards) by you tapping it against the screen, and a few others that 
 range from uninteresting to neat.  

  The next group of tricks is found in magic show. This is where you learn, practice, and then perform 
 14 real tricks. Some of them are really pretty impressive. One trick has a person pick a card, 
 then you draw a face on the touch screen that animates and says the card out loud. Another will 
 have someone pick a card, put it back in the deck, and then tap an egg that is displayed on the 
 lower screen. The egg will slowly crack with each card tapped, finally breaking open when the person's 
 card is tapped. There are tricks that don't involve cards, too, such as ones where you guess someone's 
 birthday or where someone might want to go for his or her next vacation. Some of the tricks, like 
 the one where the DS guesses what candle you want to blow out, aren't all that interesting for 
 older children, but they're simple enough for younger kids to enjoy. Overall, the quality of tricks 
 is high, and they're all easy to learn by watching brief but well-done tutorials.  

  You'd think that the third option, magic training, would be where you learn tricks. Instead, this 
 mode offers up a selection of minigames, the quality of which is all over the map. A few of them -- particularly 
 the card-based corner kittens and Monte Carlo -- are fun enough that you'll want to come back and 
 play them from time to time. Others, such as the ones where you have to accurately count 10, 30, 
 or 60 seconds by tapping the screen with the stylus while you keep time in your head, are just 
 as boring as they sound.  

  Master of Illusion is designed to be played daily in small doses. You'll earn points for practicing, 
 performing, and playing minigames. When you accumulate enough points, you'll unlock new tricks 
 and games. Unfortunately, it's possible to earn all of a day's points in a matter of minutes, leaving 
 you with nothing new to do unless you start fiddling with the system's internal clock. Another 
 small issue has to do with the menus: While you're encouraged to perform shows for people, there's 
 no way to put together a routine beforehand, so you can't really get into any sort of flow because 
 you must constantly navigate menus between tricks.  

           Even young kids will be able to perform some of the less complicated tricks.      

 
  Minor quibbles aside, if you or someone you know has always wanted to get into magic, Master of 
 Illusion is a good way to get started. It's not going to get you a gig headlining your own Vegas 
 show, but you'll be mystifying your friends in no time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:10 pm PT
Review:  First off I should say that I do not own Master of Illusion. It's my brother's. So only he knows 
 how the tricks are done. I've only been wildly amazed by these tricks and i want to explain a couple 
 of them and I can assure you that these tricks work and are all true and if you don't believe me 
 you can buy the game and see for yourself.
  
  The first trick my brother showed me was MYSTIC HAND. What my brother asked me to do was with the 
 stylus draw a hand on the touch screen. Then, on the top screen it came up with 3 cymbals. WEALTH, 
 LOVE AND DREAM. My brother then asked me to whisper it into his ear. Then he said touch the hand 
 I drew. So I did and the hand rose to the top screen and dragged down one of the cymbals. IT WAS 
 WEALTH. THE ONE I HAD WHISPERED IN HIS EAR. I then tried it ten times after that and tried to get 
 it not to work. I made sure my brother wasn't touching the DS, I put my finger on the MIC but it 
 still got it. I AM FREAKED OUT.
  
  Another one is called VANISHING CARD. If you buy the game you will see it comes with a pack on 
 cards. In VANISHING CARDS my brother told me to pick a card out of the ones on the screen. So I 
 did. Then the cards o9n the screen shuffled themselves and then one of the cards disappeared. IT 
 WAS MY CARD. My brother didn't even know what my card was! AAAAAAAAAH!
  
  Anyway, Master of Illusion is a great game. But only get it if you have friends to try it out on. 
 If you're on your won and you know the secret it won't be fun. But this game is absolutely amazing!
 
  
  
  GAMEPLAY...............8.9
  GRAPHICS................6.0
  SOUND......................6.5
  OVERALL..................8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampireFaith
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Master of Illusion for the DS was a surprising title. I picked it up for cheap one day and was 
 satisfied with it, basically because I got a cool set of magic cards for next to nothing.
  
  The game starts with a creepy, large chested woman who claims to own the magic shop. It through 
 me off a bit but keep playing. This game runs like most of the newer Nintendo games are lately, 
 the more you play the more you unlock. You only get to play a couple very simple magic tricks in 
 the beginning but you will eventually unlock some very complex magic tricks, majority of which 
 use the magic cards the game comes with. 
  
  The tricks themselves are fun for a little while but it's definatly directed towards a younger 
 audience. The only flaw really is that you can only unlock a few magic tricks per day. The best 
 way to get around it is to go into your DS settings and set the day ahead one day to continue playing.
 
  
  There are three different modes in which to play in, One in which you have magic tricks performed 
 to you, one where you perform to others, and a mode to "hone your magician skills". Most of the 
 ones you do by yourself are pretty simple to figure out after you play it a couple times. The tricks 
 you show to others are almost always using the DS, so you constantly have to have it with you to 
 show anyone. There are really no tricks to learn that use only the cards so you can show anyone, 
 anytime. The games in the Training section are hard to get used to, but become pretty fun after 
 you've learned what to do, especially Kitty Corners. 
  
  After you've unlocked all of the magic tricks in the game, this game looses a bit of its replay 
 value. Once you've figured out how all of the One Player tricks work, there's no reason to play 
 them anymore. While the Magic tricks are always fun to show people, you always need your DS and 
 some of the more complex tricks are difficult to remember all the rules for. 
  
  Summary: It's a fun game directed at a younger audience. The Magic cards you get are pretty awesome 
 once you figure out their secret. You can only learn a couple magic tricks a day, so you have change 
 your DS Settings to continue playing. Once you've unlocked all of the magic tricks, this game gets 
 pretty boring. Some of the magic tricks are hard to remember all the rules are.
  
  Graphics: 8 (They arn't really an issue with this game)
  Replay Value: 8 (You can show others 
 the magic tricks, but it's seriously boring One Player)
  Audio: 6 (Not really much to listen to)
  Controls: 9 (The Magic cards are cool, the intructions 
 are pretty straight forward but difficult to remember them all) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta3champion
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Master of Illusion isn't a game in the normal sense of the word. It is an educational foray into 
 the world of magic. It gives the DS owner a chance to learn some pretty neat magic tricks and perform 
 them for family and friends or their own entertainment. The special deck of cards that come with 
 the game add an extra element to the magical atmosphere. The game is broken down into Magic Training, 
 Solo Magic, and Magic Show. Magic Training is where you train and get rated in the world of magic. 
 Solo Magic is where you learn individual tricks and practice them. Magic Show is where you perform 
 for an audience. In every level you are being ranked in your magic abilities. There is ample opportunity 
 to practice and rehearse every trick and there are many tricks included. This game could keep you 
 busy for hours. My first time out (intended to be 15 minutes) lasted 3 hours! To say this game 
 is addictive is an understatement! This has got to be the best investment since I bought the DS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornel_72
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Master of Illusion is: this generation's magic kit. But instead of the trick hankies, cup and balls, 
 and collapsible wands, you use the Nintendo DS as the tricks' "prop." Master of Illusion is easily 
 one of the most unexpected products on the Nintendo DS. Use your Nintendo DS to perform magic tricks? 
 All right! It's certainly unique, and there's entertainment value in Master of Illusion, but keep 
 in mind it's not a game; most of what you get out of this product is what you put into it. If you're 
 not willing to show off your skills to wow an unsuspecting audience, the whole idea will be pretty 
 much lost. 
  
  Master of Illusion is also a tough product to review. It's less of a game in the traditional sense 
 than most of Nintendo's other Touch Generation products. This is a tutorial on how to perform magic 
 tricks, and to review the game means to talk about the tricks, ruining the enjoyment and idea of 
 the product. There's a general "magician's code" and the problem of revealing what the tricks are 
 and how they're done. So to honor the code (and to not spoil the enjoyment for others) you won't 
 find any secrets revealed nor will you find any allusions to how the illusions are performed.
 
  
  The package is divided into three sections: Solo Magic, Performance, and Practice. Solo magic is 
 tricks that the system performs on anyone that picks up the system; the Nintendo DS becomes the 
 master illusionist. These are tricks in the "mathematical" design or in visual illusions that might 
 take one or two attempts to see the "trick" behind the trick. These are meant for the critical 
 mass  once you've performed the Solo Magic on yourself or someone else, you need to move onto 
 the next rube or it's a wasted effort.
  
  In the performance section, these are tricks that you perform on other people using the Nintendo 
 DS. Some require touch screen interactivity by the person you're performing to, but mostly you 
 have to remain in control or the tricks will never work. In the Master of Illusion pack you get 
 a set of playing cards that are used in many of the performance tricks. Clearly there's a reason 
 why the game gives away a deck of cardsand it's a damn fine deck of cards to use, and works well 
 with the Master of Illusion tricks. The tricks are pretty amateurish, naturally. These aren't David 
 Blaine spectaclesthese are barely even Harry Blackstone or Doug Henning performances. But they're 
 perfect for the younger crowd to wow their friends or parents with their skills of illusion. 
 
  The way the tricks are explained is through still screens and artwork. You get the basic idea 
 of the performance, but the whole idea of finesse and showmanship has to come from the player. 
 Any poor performance can easily reveal how the tricks are done, so a lot of the "issues" of Master 
 of Illusion isn't so much the package's problems, but of who does the tricks. But the game could 
 have certainly done a better job demonstrating how the tricks could be performedmaybe through 
 short video clips of someone who knows what they're doing.
  
  The "practice" portion to strengthen your magic skills is as much of a stretch as the claim that 
 Vision Training makes your eyeballs stronger. But these "practices" are cool Brain Age-style tasks, 
 like trying to write a letter of the alphabet in a mirror image on the lower screen. 
  
  Actually, a lot of Master of Illusion is based around the Brain Age mentality: you can only open 
 up so many portions of the product each day, based on the system clock. So unless you do the time 
 travel thing and advance the internal date of the Nintendo DS, you'll spend quite a few days opening 
 up all the tricks and treats of the package. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
