-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MechAssault: Phantom War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/mechassaultshadowwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plays the same as the Xbox games.
 Plenty of mechs and vehicles to control.
 Hijacking mechs is wicked fun.
 Multiplayer is great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player campaign is short.
 Multiplayer requires multiple cartridges and isn't online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.5, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 203 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Backbone
Genre: Mech Sim
Date: Sep 12, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Apart from the lack of online play, MechAssault: Phantom War brings all of the mech combat action 
 from the Xbox to the Nintendo DS without losing much in translation. 

  People had reason to worry when Majesco announced it was bringing Microsoft's MechAssault franchise 
 to the Nintendo DS. Could an Xbox-centric franchise work on the DS without being compromised to 
 the point of being unplayable? Fortunately, Majesco wisely handed development off to Backbone Entertainment, 
 the developer responsible for the highly-regarded Nintendo DS version of Age of Empires. Apart 
 from the expected audio-visual downgrades, MechAssault: Phantom War brings all of the nuts and 
 bolts of the Xbox MechAssault games to the Nintendo DS. Combat is fast-paced and explosive, there 
 are plenty of mechs to pick from, and the single player campaign is a slickly produced narrative 
 complete with spoken radio dialogue and full-motion video scenes. Four-person multiplayer play 
 even made it in, although not in the online-enabled way that most players would obviously have 
 preferred. Still, this is MechAssault on the Nintendo DS, and it basically looks and feels like 
 MechAssault should.  

          Phantom War brings mech combat to the Nintendo DS.     

  In this third-person shooter, you can control any of 18 different lumbering mechs from FASA's BattleTech 
 universe, as well as battle armor, tanks, and gun turrets. There's a story-based campaign, spanning 
 24 missions, along with a multiplayer mode, which lets as many as four players slug it out in various 
 game types on any of eight different battlefields.  

  Controlling the different mechs and watching them lumber around the battlefield is extremely satisfying. 
 Each mech has its own particular speed and armor characteristics, as well as weapons payload. Generally 
 speaking, each carries an energy weapon, a projectile weapon, and a missile weapon, which can all 
 be upgraded temporarily by picking up power-ups on the battlefield. Some models have jump jets 
 that allow you to hover for short periods. The mechs walk sluggishly, and you won't be able to 
 fire for a few seconds if you overheat, but these are the only restrictions placed on a process 
 that otherwise involves aiming, locking on, and shooting. CPU opponents are slow to react, but 
 you can't take that for granted because the campaign has a habit of keeping you outnumbered.  

 
  You can use various control schemes to control the mechs. The default setup employs the directional 
 pad for movement, the face buttons for aiming, and the shoulder triggers for jump jets and shooting. 
 The upper screen shows the view from outside the mech, while the lower screen displays the radar 
 and provides touch-sensitive buttons that allow players to switch weapons, activate jamming devices, 
 and initiate the hacking ability. Using the touch-screen to activate jammers and swap weapons takes 
 some getting used to, but the default controls are otherwise comfortable and intuitive. If the 
 default controls aren't to your liking, you can opt for one of the three other control schemes. 
 One simply swaps the aiming and movement controls. The other two let you aim by sliding the stylus 
 over the touch-screen, similar to the controls in Nintendos Metroid Prime: Hunters. You have to 
 be careful to restrict the stylus to the inner area between the touch-screen buttons, which can 
 prove mildly annoying in the heat of battle. After a while, picking up and resituating the stylus 
 becomes second nature, just as the case is with becoming comfortable with the touch-sensitive buttons 
 on the lower screen.  

  Despite the obvious downgrade in technology, Phantom War manages to capture the basic visual qualities 
 of the Xbox MechAssault games. The fully 3D graphics displayed on the upper screen provide a clear 
 third-person view of your mech, the surrounding environment, and whatever enemy tanks and mechs 
 happen to be nearby. A good number of polygons and textures were put into all of the different 
 tanks and mechs, such that their individual moving parts and paint schemes are easy to make out. 
 Weapons have their own accompanying visual effects, such as laser bursts, ejected shell casings, 
 and smoke trails, which lead to nicely animated explosions that range in size depending on the 
 dimensions of the target. The ground and mountains in the surrounding environment aren't nearly 
 as detailed, probably because the developer wanted to devote the majority of the system's resources 
 to the mechs themselves, but, even so, there are plenty of trees, buildings, and geological features 
 visible in each location. All along, the system manages to display everything without slowing down 
 and maintains a sufficient draw distance such that only very distant objects ever pop in and out 
 of view.  

          In addition to mechs, you can control tanks, gun turrets, and battle armor in the campaign 
 mode.     

  The audio is just as rich in atmosphere. Although your own footsteps and weapon fire are the most 
 prevalent sounds in the environment, each vehicle and mech contributes its own share of tank treads, 
 plodding footsteps, and gun reports to the surrounding field of noise. Different rock-inspired 
 music tracks add a good beat to the action without overshadowing the footsteps and gunfire that 
 do so much to give the game its high-tech flavor. Most of all, weapon bursts and explosions are 
 sufficiently loud. The single-player campaign also features quite a bit of spoken radio chatter, 
 as well as a few full-motion video scenes. Anyone who has previously played either of the two Xbox 
 MechAssault games will certainly feel right at home.  

  While mech combat is by and large what the game is about, the single-player campaign routinely 
 has you leaving the safety of your robot shells to access enemy computers and to hijack tanks, 
 gun turrets, and other mechs. From the sharply produced narrative, you'll discover that your role 
 in the story is that of a tech warrant, which is a fancy term for a MechWarrior that knows how 
 to neurohack. As such, in addition to blowing up mechs and stepping on hapless soldiers, you'll 
 be challenged to hack into terminals and steal vehicles whenever the need arises. These hacking 
 opportunities take the form of basic pattern-matching minigames that are solved by dragging and 
 dropping symbols using the touch screen. You have only a small amount of time to finish each hack, 
 but there isn't any penalty for failure aside from having to start the hack process over again. 
 The main wrinkle to hacking is that you have to leave your mech to do it, which makes you a ripe 
 target clad only in battle armor. Thankfully, the game rarely leaves you mechless for long. The 
 primary purpose of the hacking bits seems to be to give you the chance to pilot a variety of vehicles 
 and mechs during each mission.  

  Much like the Xbox games, this rendition of MechAssault will be most enjoyed by players who can 
 take advantage of its multiplayer offerings. Despite everything there is to do, the single-player 
 campaign takes only about four hours to complete. Certain missions lend themselves to replay, but 
 the prevailing point of the campaign is to serve as a tutorial to familiarize you with the strengths 
 of each mech and the control mechanics specific to the DS game. Also, skirmishing with friends 
 is much more satisfying than fighting dim-witted CPU mechs. The multiplayer mode provides a good 
 mix of game types and arenas. Game types include deathmatch, deathmatch in dense fog, team deathmatch, 
 and two variations of king of the hill. Variables such as kill count, time limit, and number of 
 rounds can be set, and you can restrict matches to specific classes of mechs should you feel the 
 need to. Each of the eight arenas differs in terms of size, terrain features, and weather. They 
 all seem to be just about the right size for matches involving two to four players. There are also 
 plenty of trees and buildings to hide behind and destroy.  

          To get the most out of the game, you have to take advantage of its multiplayer mode.   
   

  If there are complaints to levy against the multiplayer mode, it's that not only is there no download 
 play, there's also no means to play against people online. One of the things that made the MechAssault 
 franchise so successful on the Xbox was that you could go online, play against strangers, and form 
 groups dedicated to playing the game on a regular basis. The lack of online play in the DS game 
 is pretty glaring, especially since recent games like Metroid Prime: Hunters and Star Fox Command 
 offer the capability.  

  As a single-player game, MechAssault: Phantom War is a solid third-person shooter that will keep 
 mech combat fans hooked from start to finish, for as brief as that time frame happens to be. However, 
 the game really comes into its own as a multiplayer affair, and if you can convince a couple of 
 friends to buy it along with you, you'll all have more fun and get more out of the game. It's just 
 too bad everybody has to be in the same room to take advantage of the game's multiplayer features. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: njfire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game uses the touch screen real well and has great graphics for the Ds. Whenever you can do 
 that with a Ds it's gonna be a good and this game is above average. Once you beat it you won't want 
 to play it again. There are many characters to choose from and a good amount of weapons to choose 
 from. Getting in and out of vehicles is fun and you can pritty much pick what mech you want. Like 
 if you kill a mech you can get out of yours and get into the one you killed. That makes the game 
 a lot of fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are above-average for the Ds and everything thing seems clear.
  
  Playability: Good 
 controls and easy to use, pritty smooth but still can get annoying.
  
  Replay value: moderately low
  
  Bottom-line: This can be a great game if you play on-line. Otherwise 
 the campaign mode is a little too short. It should have Ds download play but it's a good game worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fellclaw01
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is uterly destryed by the hacking mini game which makes this game abosutely unplayable. 
 Do not bother with unless you can find a cheat to disable this mini game or if you like torture. 
 The rest of the game was fun but the minigame which rears its head in the 2 nd level kills everything. 
 I was so incensed I actually emailed the developer to remind them that games are meant to be fun. 
 The actual mech game is fun but as I said above the game is unplayable due to this minigame
  
  All in all a sad waste of a good licence and without this I would rate this game around 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexeyValentine
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  MechAssault: Phantom War is a third person mechwarrior game with plenty of shooting and hacking.
 
  
  The year is 3134 and after 60 years of peace and prosperity, the Republic of the Sphere is now 
 living in a dark age of ex-communication. Nearly all Hyperpulse Generators (HPGs) , the pinnacles 
 of interstellar communication, have been struck by a virus leaving worlds cut off from all information. 
 With involuntary blinders on, no one in the Republic knows when, or where, the next attack could 
 be coming from. Their only hope is to turn the HPG into an instrument of war. (majesco introduction 
 of the game) .
  
  The player can control various mechs up to eighteen, ranging from a light mech to a super heavyweight 
 mech.
  A light one can fly but is more vulnerable to attacks while a heavy mech can't fly but has the 
 abillity to blow to ashes almost any mech.
  Every mech has a set of traits:
  it has 3 different weapons which vary from mech to mech.
  a special hability like for example 
 being invisible.
  it can fly or not.
  
  There are various weapons like the machine gun, the missile and the laser weapon. You also control 
 a battlearmor which can be used to hack mechs giving you access to them and a battletank with a 
 sort of sniper vision has an option.
  
  The gameplay is very good the controls very intuitive, using the y, a, x, b, controls to look around 
 and the upper buttons to shoot and fly.
  The upper screen is where all the action happens where you see your mech, your enemies and so forth 
 while the screen below is used to hack into enemie locations, to hack mechs to modifie your hud, 
 and activate special mech abilities.
  It is also used has a radar to see where the enemies are located, cause you might thank heavens 
 for that when your getting shot off from nowhere.
  
  There are 24 single player campaigns across four planets and three multiplayer game types.
  
 
  After you finish the game you can play any mission of your choosing, which is very cool, the only 
 downside to the game is that you can't choose the mech in the campaign.
  The Stylus unfortunatly doesn't have a very good use besides hacking.
  
  It's a good game for 
 a mech game and if you like shooting and trampling people it's very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yellowdart42
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, this game was extremely poor.
  The sound was so bad I thought my speakers had blown out. There was no variety in the mechs, they 
 were all the same. Theres three or four control schemes that all stink. The stylus control was 
 no good, (the only game that ever got that right was Hunters) the scheme I chose was the one where 
 you walk with the d-pad and aim with the four buttons on the opposite side. Even after the 9-10 
 hours that I spent playing it I still felt that I couldn't control the game right. The graphics 
 weren't that spectacular. Sure it was 3d, but everything was way too pixelated. There were these 
 little games you'd have to do on the touch screen to break into other mechs, or doors. But they 
 seemed more like chores to me. The game in itself was pretty hard, I had to keep switching suits/mechs 
 while under fire and when you're not in a suit/mech you die in one hit. That was another aspect 
 of the game that got me all confuzed the health bar. It isnt really a bar, its a column of dots 
 on the side of the screen thats green at first but goes red when you get shot at. It didnt make 
 any sense at all to me?!? Xbox games shouldn't be crammed into a DS cart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbah91
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Mech Assault: Phantom War is actually a pretty good game. Of course, any game's level of fun is 
 objective, but I think anyone looking for a decent, solid action game will find it in here.
  
  It was originally bashed a lot for its blocky, sloppy, and overall bland and ugly graphics. 
 However, I think they fit the game. The appear somewhat gritty, and when you're out on the battlefield, 
 what would you expect? It just fits. The bland, barren ground and sides of mountains adds to the 
 experience, I think. It makes everything look the same, and maybe I'm just crazy, but I think it 
 goes well. I wouldn't use that as an excuse for poor graphics for other games, and honestly, if 
 I were making this game, I wouldn't have gone for this style graphics. But as a result, it just 
 seems to fit.
  
  The controls were another big problem among critics. You use the DS face buttons to look around, 
 the D-Pad to move, and the right trigger to shoot. The left trigger will use your jetpack, among 
 other things. You use the touch-screen to exit/enter different tanks and mechs, and switch weapons 
 on the fly. This, of course, is merely the default controls, and you CAN change them in favor of 
 a different scheme, but it works for me. It does take some getting used to, but you're not going 
 to go through the whole game thinking I can't figure out these controls . Occasionally, though, 
 I did mess up by trying to look up, and in reality ended up looking down, but that's more of a 
 blunder on my part.
  
  The action, however, didn't receive as much damage from the big boys. The game is relatively easy 
 (although frustrating for all the wrong reasons - cheap deaths, lame minigames, etc.) , and you 
 shouldn't have to try any level more than a few times. Once you go through the level a few times, 
 you'll get a picture of where the enemies are and it shouldn't be too tough from there. The fighting 
 is simple and straightforward: shoot them before they can shoot you. There's really no strategy 
 involved, other than deciding if you should use your jetpack and shoot or just stay on the ground. 
 It gets repetitive after a bit, and that can be a bummer, so the game is probably best played in 
 short spurts.
  
  The sound, although not that noticeable, was decent. There was voice acting (really corny voice 
 acting, but it was there, and there was quite a bit of it) , and the sound effects aren't bad. It's 
 a pretty self-explanatory game, and it doesn't do anything out of the ordinary, so the sound shouldn't 
 be a big problem. Half the time, I play with my DS's sound turned off (or way down) , so I'm not 
 big on the sound capabilities of the system.
  
  There was a slight letdown in the multiplayer, though. It's basically just multi-cart play between 
 you and your friends, but I'd doubt it if 3 of your friends had the game. It would have been a 
 lot better if there was online multiplayer, but it wasn't really needed. It might also do you well 
 to check out the actually helpful help file ingame. There's a lot of content and it was nice to 
 have when I forgot how something worked or just wanted to look things over so I was prepared. It 
 was most certainly a pleasant surprise.
  
  Unfortunately, in general, I can't say the same thing for the actual game. It's decent, pretty 
 straight-forward, and it's all been done before (then again, a lot of the DS's games have been 
 done before) . It didn't really do much that was horrible or completely awful, but a few issues 
 made this game worse than it should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSORngr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I personally enjoyed this game while the single-player lasted. It had a decent length, about 10 
 or so hours. There are two control types, with left and right handed variants. One control type 
 uses the stylus to look around in a similar fashion to Metroid Prime Hunters but in a limited area, 
 I personally did not like this mode even though I do use stylus control in MPH. The other mode 
 uses the buttons, again just like one of the MPH modes, I personally preferred like mode, it felt 
 more accurate and was easier to handle. There were a few bugs in the gameplay, mainly passing partiallythrough 
 a mountain side or having the mechs make a runnung motion after flying along a cliff. Some of the 
 missions took leaps n difficulty but were never too difficult. The one mission that I had a pretty 
 big problem with was one in which you fail a mini-game, I believed that there would be another 
 branch in the missions if you completed the mini-game, when in fact it was an automatic fail. Of 
 course I had tried this mission close to ten times before I decided to just continue and look in 
 the boards where I learned that it was impossible to beat the mission. The graphics are good, they 
 are comparable to Mario Kart DS'. The sound is good, but nothing memorable. The voice-acting is 
 very nice though and this is the only DS game that I have seen with complete voice-overs on the 
 dialog. Unfortumately the multiplayer is only multicard and I have no friends that own the game 
 so I did not get to enjoy what I believe was the major focus by the developers on this game. If 
 you know someone else that owns this game I would recommend it, but as a single player experience 
 I would say to hold off and spend your money on a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrecastillo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Ok, so it's not a serious intense in your face use the entire keyboard and rotating pc joystick 
 Mechwarrior game you might be used to, but it's great if you're on the road or if you need a mech 
 fix. It switches up with allowing you to use the Elemental mechs now and then and it does have 
 some interesting challenges. You even have to exit and reenter your mechs to, get this, hack into 
 enemy computers. Yeah pretty cool right. Check this game out for your DS if you want to ditch the 
 pikachu and punish the dogs. So stop playing Mario Kart 24/7 and pick up Mechassault, you won't 
 be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterFun
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Don't kill me, this is my first review...
  
  Gameplay What can I say, the game plays great. You have the standard Mech Assault game where you 
 go around in a giant robot that shoots anything that moves (and a bit more) , pick up powerups, 
 and neurohack things. But, on the box it says that you can pilot over 20 vehicles, turrets, and 
 mechs, which is really a inflated figure. There is a total 18 mechs in the game, which by itself, 
 dosen't sound as bad as it is. What hurts is that each mech has an alternate version of itself, 
 which really brings the mech count to a whopping.... 9 mechs. That and there is one tank to drive, 
 whoop-de-do, along with one turret that you get to use in two missions, which , both times, you 
 just fire one missle to destroy a bridge. And then you have the battlearmor which you use to neurohack, 
 a very fun thing with the DS stylus by the way. I'm still annoyed that mechs don't move anywhere 
 fast.
  
  Graphics Great graphics for the DS, they all capture the main things that make Mech Assault what 
 it is. But there is a couple of spots where the frame rate slows. Other than that not much to say.
 
  
  Sound Same great sounds that all fit into the game very well, the only thing that any Battletech 
 game will ever get right.
  
  Value Extreme lack of value in this purchase is what hurts this game the most. For $30 dollars 
 you recive great core gameplay that lasts for 4 hours, the lenght of the campaign. You could go 
 around the game a second time with cheats, but I didn't feel any need to. If you wanted to play 
 multiplayer, you would have to practially buy a copy for your DS-armed friend, cause you have already 
 let him borrow it after you had it for a week. That and the lack of a online multiplayer, and even 
 a single-card multiplayer, or even a skirmish mode, destroys every shred of replay value after 
 those fun 4 hours with the campaign.
  
  Tilt BATTLETECH FAN BEWARE! You are in for a large dissapointment. These people can make good looking 
 models, but cannot (for some crazy reason) make an acurate one. The worst butchering of a model 
 was the one of the Cougar, my favorite light mech, they put missle pods on the arms and laser mounts 
 on the torso. The Uller just looks weird, so does the Atlas. But All the other models look good 
 and are all great representations of the 'Mechs. The lack of mechs mentioned in the gameplay section 
 comes out more if you are a battletech fan, as there are so many wonderful mechs that the delevopers 
 could have used. I guess there is a reason that there wasn't the battletech seal on the back of 
 the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PharaohsVizier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have played Mechassault on the XBox, who hasn't? It is an amazing game, and when I heard 
 that one is coming out for the DS, I had high hopes. I was kind of picturing it as, well, a Metroid: 
 Prime Hunters - like game, basically using the touch screen for aiming, and of course, instead 
 of the Hunters, we have giant mechs.
  
  Let me start this off by saying how the storyline, and the cut scenes are. They are amazing in 
 a way, using the game's own engine, and a few cut scenes, they make a very nice story, that jumps 
 into action right away, kind of like the Mechassault games on XBox. I enjoyed the storyline, it 
 didn't say much, except these are the bad guys, they are doing this, you have to shoot them down. 
 Which really just put aside the story and made you play the game instead of reading, however, I 
 felt a lack of introduction, it didn't give enough background information, it just told me to jump 
 into battle, here is how to use the weapons, which is good in a way, and bad in another way.
  
  The game uses the D-Pad, the ABXY, and L and R buttons to control the mechs. Yes, that is right, 
 no touch screen support for aiming. The touch screen is used to move in and out of mechs, scroll 
 around some weapons, and the menu. I didn't like how they used the touch screen at all, I have 
 a hard time using both the DPad / ABXY buttons and the touch screen at once, you have to use your 
 fingers and tap the screen really quick and reorganize yourself. But that is only a few times that 
 you need to move in and out of a mech. Throughout most of the game, you don't really need to use 
 the touchscreen except once or twice in a mission. The controls were like playing on the Xbox, 
 although no analog, the buttons and DPad combo were strikingly similar. It did way better than 
 I expected, but I really rather have the touch screen to aim, it would have worked so much better.
 
  
  During missions, you need to hack into mainframes, other mechs, doors, and so on. And you use the 
 touch screen to drag dropping runes or figures into their slots in the corners. I thought this 
 was very fun, and a very nice way to use the touch screen.
  
  The graphics for this game are really nice. For the large maps, and lots of units, it pulled off 
 very beautiful graphics, they do not match that of Metroid, but the maps are larger, and there 
 are more things in the map. I think it looks brilliant, the mechs are very detailed, the little 
 guy that comes out of your mech looks nice, although the animation for that little guy looked a 
 little odd, overall the graphics are top notch.
  
  So overall, this game is a great game, definately worth checking out, I'd probably rent it or borrow 
 it first before commiting $40 to this game, but if you like this kind of game, you won't be disappointed. 
 Two things that bother me are lack of wifi, and lack of touch screen support, which makes me a 
 little disappointed, but it is still a very nice game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepper8
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Mech assault phantom war is great great game to blow up and destroy things. It's destructable enviroments 
 are fun to stomp om and blast with all your weapons. Single player is a little short but is still 
 fun to play. There is a good number of vehicles, mechs, tanks, and turrets to use and destroy. 
 Each mech has it's advantages and disadvantages. One of the funnest parts of this game is the neuro 
 hacking. The hacking mini games are awsome and they get harder and faster through out the game. 
 the story line of this game is pretty cool aswell. From what iheard the graphics were going to 
 be horrible but they aren't so bad. They are a little boxy but other then that i'm pretty happy 
 with them. The next thing i'm gonna talk about is the awsome multiplayer. Although it isn't single 
 card or online it is still really good. If a few of your friends get it aswell your stylin and 
 your gonna have a real blast with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cassidar13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The game is what you expect for a DS title, the graphics may be dumbed down some, but hey it is 
 not an xbox. I have not been able to try the multiplayer buty i assume it will be as entertaining 
 as the single player. Personaly it took me about 15 min to get the controls down, it may vary depending 
 on if you want to try to learn the stylis/ virtual annalog stick technique. The Single player campaign 
 was short to medium in lenght. the first few missions are short, i failed on quite a few occasions 
 because i needed to adapt and learn a new way to play. each mech has its own weekness and strenghts 
 and learning how to take on a 120 ton mech with a 22 ton was interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: island_monster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  I am not hearing much about this game on the 'net. It should not be overlooked. The single player 
 is enjoyable. It won't take forever to complete, but I'd say it's enough to justify the asking 
 price. This game is compared to MechAssault 2 for the XBOX. There are many similarities. You can 
 neurohack 'mechs. You can get into and out of 'mechs and battle armor. Some of the equipment provides 
 jump jets. The controls are intuitive. You can play without the stylus, even though the touch screen 
 is employed to switch weapons, enter/exit, and use the claw. It's pretty easy to execute the maneuvers 
 necessary for success. Graphically, I'm very pleased with what this game displays. Considering 
 it's running on the DS, it looks pretty darn good. The explosions for smaller vehicles are fairly 
 simple. When a 'mech goes down, the result is an impressive feeling similar to what you got on 
 the XBOX, in a scaled-down way. There are some mini-games for hacking into computers or 'mechs. 
 They actually feel appropriate for the situation.
  I heartily recommend this game to shooter and 'mech fans of any kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slyemu
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  Ever since the release of the DS, I've been waiting for the release of a Mech game, and Mechassault: 
 Phantom War is what I've been waiting for. Many people, including myself, were sceptical about 
 an Xbox-exclusive series debuting on a Nintendo system. After reading about it and seeing the photos, 
 though, I went out and bought the darn thing, and I'm not at all disappointed. The graphics, sound, 
 and voice dialogue are all nicely mastered. The campaign mode is quite short, not taking more than 
 a few hours to complete, but is satisfying. The selection of Mechs to choose from is broad, and 
 each one has its own stats (movement speed, cooling system, weapons, etc.) . The weapons are upgradable, 
 and once you upgrade all of your weapons to their max level, a super-weapon is enabled, obliterating 
 everything it hits. Just watching the enemies blow to bits... it makes me feel so good. Unfortunately, 
 the multiplayer is multicard play, and none of my friends own the game... and there is no Wifi play, 
 which would have been really sweet... but other than that, this game is worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kboy23
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  when i first went to pick it up at eb games i though is this really worth my money , but i bought 
 it without dwelling on this . When i first put my copy in the gameplay was fun , but the low textured 
 backgrounds were a drag but didn't bum the game play , i was suprised at all the different mechs 
 and even a battle armor , allthough hacking is a bit of a pain , i didn't mind it at times. The 
 mech models are very nice and smooth , and very nice explosions.
  
  The voice overs were really good and almost realistic if i may say so and the background music 
 had a theme and gave me some rythem.
  
  the value of the game isnt bad , so buy one and get a friend to buy one because the multiplayer 
 is great . Dissopointing theres no wi-fi though.
  
  I suggest you pick up a copy at your local store and bring a friend to buy one with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is certainly a little bundle of mixed blessings. Fortunately, it requires no backstory from 
 the XBOX games, so those of you who have not played them wont need to worry about that. The story 
 is that you are a mech warrior named Val, who is assigned to a group; a commander and a tech man 
 named Vern, who is quite adept at combat. You group is sent to turn communications devices into 
 weapons to be used in a war. If you were unhappy with the more recent installments inclusion of 
 long, drawn out cutscenes, fear not; they are not present (all cutscenes are short and well done, 
 and used to advance plot or characters) . And, as far as sound goes, a few things had to be downgraded, 
 but this is because we're working with the DS. It sounds great with the voice overs; everything 
 else sounds canned. Still, this is forgivable, as the music is right for the game, and the sound 
 effects still go boom at appropriate moments.
  Now, no matter what rumors you've heard, the game still has action out the wazoo, and (once you 
 find your control scheme) it works great. For those of you who use the stylus, take heed that you 
 might need to lift it up every now and then to recallibrate the screen. The game includes tank 
 combat, the battle armor (now in smaller doses) , pilot form (kind of cool, although this game still 
 lacks any weapon for it except for the pilot bomb) , and the series base of mech combat. All of 
 it is fast paced, and while it is challenging, you will better your adversaries through perseverance. 
 The only complaint is that the graphics aren't pleasing. They are reminiscent of the PS1 games, 
 but since this is the DS, they are accepatable. The characters and mechs look impressive, and the 
 tanks look ok. As for game length, this will last you for a while.
  For a departure from traditional platforms onto the DS, these guys took a risk. Now, is it worth 
 it? That's for you to decide, but I think it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was sketchy for me throughout development. Not a lot of coverage, not a lot of interest.... 
 And it had a lot of things brining it down: lack of online multiplayer, classic Battletech Mechs 
 being rebuilt for 'arcade' style comabt.... overall the complexity of the 'Mechwarrior' series disolved...
 
  
  In fact, really all it is is a 3rd person shooter set in the Battletech universe, with giant mechs, 
 tanks, etc. Most (if not all) of the 'technology' that goes on in the 'Mech Assault' line is not 
 following the original (or current) cannon of the series. Which is a hard hit against players like 
 me who have followed the Battletech franchise for over a decade....
  
  Anyways, it's a really solid 3rd person 3d shooter! The gameplay is well done, the action is fast 
 and furious, tricky in places, but always entertaining. The control style is a lot better than 
 I ever thought, and while it's not the perfered mouse/keyboard control I'm used to when playing 
 Mech games, the system they came up with is very usable. I ended up staying with the default settings.
 
  
  The graphics are better than expected, some mechs look a lil cheasy (Cougar I'm looking at you!) 
 In fact some are even far departures from their original designs (Atlas?) The full motion cutscenes 
 are very cool, and add a nice element to the game. However, the graphics in set cutscenes are VERY 
 bad... mostly the human animations. The mechs also don't move as fluid as they even do within the 
 game, let alone previous games in any Battletech francise.
  
  The voice acting is very well done (better than previous games) and the story is quite good. Which 
 is a nice touch from the emotionless voices in Mechwarrior games, and the often lame story lines.
 
  
  The hacking games get annoying REALLY fast. The really bad ones are when you need to match four 
 icons in each corner of the bottom screen... and the icons you need to 'drag and drop' are falling 
 down faster than you can 'click' on them. Very frustraing.... especially when you do one over and 
 over and over again because the stylus isn't being registered fast enough!
  
  Overall a great game. And for what it's trying to do, it does it very well, and I couldn't expect 
 more from a 'MechAssault' title. I would perfer a 'Mechwarrior' game, but I doubt the DS can handle 
 that much information or commands.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Dont know about you all but I have been playin these series since it was called battletech
  and for a fan like me. It works. Granted it snot the Mechwarriors on the PC as fair custimization 
 and so forth but it is one hell of a ride! Being able to get out of the Mech is a big Plus. The 
 mission as getting harder as you go and the Hack feature is awesome. I have nto finished it, just 
 picked it up yesterday, so far so good. I cant complain one bit. I would say something about the 
 graphics, but do I have to? Its the DS we know its not as powerful as a console..
  Be that as it may, a great game, if your a Batteltech fan, this is for you, if not pick it up anyway, 
 you will have fun trust me. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
