-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mega Man Star Force 2: Zerker x Saurian
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/megamansf2dinosaur/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lengthy main story.
 Online battle and card-trading.
 Battle mechanics are engaging and encourage multiple strategies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Inane story and unskippable dialogue.
 Incessant random battles and fetch quests.
 GBA quality graphics and audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.7, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bad graphics and repetitive play make Mega Man's latest adventure a dull one. 

  Mega Man Star Force 2 is the eighth game in the Battle Network series, which began on the Game 
 Boy Advance. When Capcom moved Mega Man to the Nintendo DS, the Star Force series introduced new 
 characters, storylines, and an over-the-shoulder battle perspective. However, little else changed. 
 The gameplay mechanics, graphics, and audio design in Mega Man Star Force 2 are essentially the 
 same as those of its predecessors. Nevertheless, if you enjoyed previous entries in the series 
 or are an avid fan of dungeon-crawling role-playing games, then you'll probably find a number of 
 redeeming qualities.  

           Refined battle mechanics are great. Recycled boss battles are not.      

  This time 
 around, you play as Geo Stelar, a typical kid living in the year 20XX. Flipping on your activator 
 goggles lets you see the Wave World, an electromagnetic dimension that exists parallel to our own 
 and powers all of our electronic devices. By merging with an alien being named Omega-Xis, Geo Stelar 
 becomes Mega Man and is able to interact with both worlds. In Star Force 2, Geo takes on a group 
 of criminals who are attempting to resurrect the ancient civilization of Mu. The plot is laughable 
 and serves only as an excuse to travel from one environment to the next. It's worth noting that 
 Capcom's localization team has done a better job translating the insurmountable text than in the 
 past, but the game's inane story is made all the more excruciating by the seemingly endless stream 
 of corny filler dialogue.  

  Battles in Star Force 2 take place on a 3-by-6 grid. The camera is restricted to the back of Mega 
 Man's head, and his movement is generally limited to sidestepping left or right. Enemies can move 
 around the entire battlefield and attack in any direction, which puts more emphasis on the timing 
 of your attacks, evasions, and blocks than in previous games. Unfortunately, the frequency of these 
 random battles is so ridiculously high that at times you'll barely take four steps without another 
 encounter popping up. The relationships that you forge with friends throughout the game are given 
 numerical values that can be converted into new abilities such as barrier shields, more powerful 
 weapons, and increased hit points. Rather than gaining experience points and leveling up, you improve 
 Mega Man's skills by building a balanced repertoire of battle cards from defeated enemies. Assembling 
 your deck of 34 cards is a fun, addictive endeavor, but once you've established your favorite combinations 
 there's little reason to change things up.  

  Mega Man Star Force 2 follows the Pokemon marketing strategy and comes in two absurdly named versions: 
 Zerker X Saurian and Zerker X Ninja. The subtitles refer to three warring tribes from the Mu civilization. 
 After consuming the OOPArt several hours into the game, Mega Man can transform into a Zerker, a 
 Saurian, or a Ninja and gain elemental abilities from electricity, fire, or wood, respectively. 
 The Zerker tribe is available in both versions, whereas Saurian and Ninja are exclusive to each 
 particular game. There's no need to purchase both versions, given that you'll gain access to abilities 
 from each tribe throughout the game. Alternately, you can hook up with friends locally or via the 
 Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection to trade abilities, battle cards, and status upgrades. You can also compete 
 in battles with up to seven players, as long as everyone owns a copy of either the Saurian or Ninja 
 versions. The online functionality in Star Force 2 is a long-overdue feature that really enhances 
 your enjoyment of the game, especially if a friend can help you out with that last, elusive battle 
 card that you need.  

           Star Force 2 would look amazing... on the Game Boy Advance.      

  If you've played 
 any of the Battle Network games on the Game Boy Advance, you'll know what to expect from the presentation 
 here. The graphics do little to take advantage of the DS hardware. In fact, the only indication 
 you'll get that you're not playing a GBA game is during battle sequences. Considering that a lot 
 of the battle screen is taken up by the back of Mega Man's head, even these superior animations 
 are obscured. Music, sound effects, visual assets, and even major boss battles are all recycled 
 from previous games. It's a shame that a series that was once known for its high audio quality 
 has been reduced to these ever-so-slightly remixed samples of tired tracks.  

  Besides a few minor tweaks to the battle mechanics, a new story and characters, and the addition 
 of online multiplayer, this is essentially the same game as previous entries in the series. If 
 you were a fan of those games, you'll find 30 to 40 more hours of the same here. If you werent, 
 the random battles, fetch quests, and endless bloat wont change your mind.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: megaman_man
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  the first starforce game was not hard enough but this one gets rid of that. it starts off easy 
 but can get very hard that you will retry many times before winning. i recommend getting tribe 
 king a. s. a. p. for the number of hours you spend you can spend 30 hours on the story and the after 
 the game story and can spend anywhere from 10 to 20 hours to try and get all the battle cards. 
 the bosses are fun and they become very hard it is even better when you beat there DX forms it 
 gives you a real feel of accomplishment. another thing i like is the best combos you can spend 
 a lot of time trying to get an amazing legend card for you and your brothers, eventually you will 
 have one that can demolish SP forms of bosses. the only complaint about this game is the stupid 
 prez she is a character the game doesn't need and the boys are sissys who are afraid of her. overall 
 a good game with addictive gameplay and you can spend much time on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Megaman Starforce Zerker X Saurian kinda brings out more of the old characters from the old Megaman 
 games. More than the first one. Luna Platz (known as Prez) kinda brings out a combination of Yai 
 and Mayl (more of Yai, though) . Zach kinda acts like a combination of a new person in the game 
 and a male form of Yai. Dex acts like the hungrier version of Dex, Geo acts like a nerdier Lan 
 Hikari, and Sonia acts like Mayl. A new character, Solo, acts more like a ruder version of Chaud 
 and Protoman. The game has Gameboy Advance graphics, which is kinda bad and kinda good. Its kinda 
 good because peope would like to see GBA graphics again after seeing DS graphics for so long. Its 
 bad because some people want to stick to DS graphics. Also, when Megaman flinches after being hit, 
 it takes him a while to get back up, which is bad. Something good about this game is that the EX 
 version of a boss is easier to find than in the previous games. Something bad though is that like 
 every 20 steps, a virus occurs, and 20 steps is very short in this game. Some of the bosses from 
 the last game are reused which sucks because you have already beaten them. A new feature in this 
 game, though, are that there are 2 save files. Thhey are both different, but not by much. The story 
 plot is still the same. Still, it is pretty fun, and I completly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagle359
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Mega man Star Force 2 Zerker X Saurian is the continuation to the first Mega man Star Force game...
 
  
  There are a lot of good features in this game, but there are also some bad ones...
  
  First of all, the Online Battling is a nice addition to this series!!! You connect to Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi, then the game pairs you up with someone else who could be anywhere in the world!!! The game 
 also keeps track of your online record, which is pretty cool! I'm still not sure if you can trade 
 over Nintendo Wi-Fi or not, but I sure hope you can! The Brother Band feature is awesome too!!! 
 You can get an Auto Brother which is an NPC that you can set up at the beginning of the game, and 
 you can get real life brothers by entering their friend codes!!! You can have up to 6 brothers 
 in total.
  
  
  For the storyline... It's a good story, and it's long enough. It took me 21 hours to beat, and 
 that's not counting the Epilogue, that I'm still working on.
  
  And there's also this place called the Sky High Colisseum, in which you can battle and do different 
 stuff with friends nearby.
  
  As for the graphics, they're okay... The battling graphics are nice and they're in 3D. But when 
 you're walking around, it's like GBA graphics...
  
  And also, in this game you can "Tribe On" which is when you transform into another version of megaman, 
 and you can tribe on into the versions written on the box. You can transform into more versions 
 by creating brother bands with other players.
  
  
  On average, this game is pretty good. I give it a 9 out of 10. I do definitely recommend this game 
 though, especially to all those megaman fans out there!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain-D
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force 2 is an enjoyable game. I don't get why Gamespot reviews it so harshly.
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good. There were a few moments in the overworld where I had wished 
 the sprite artists had taken a little bit more time with the animation, especially in the emotionless 
 mugshots. I don't get how the game could be faulted for GBA style graphics when there are plenty 
 of other good games that use graphics that are more or less on par with the graphics here but aren't 
 faulted for it. I do, however, understand how the in-battle graphics could be faulted, as I've 
 found that Megaman blocks the view a bit when he's in some of his bulkier forms.
  
  Gaemplay: The story is, like gamespot says, a little on the stupid side. Especially when you find 
 yourself actually traveling to a country called "Whazzap", where people greet each other by saying 
 WHAZZAP! THe game isn't too chore heavy, and the minigames involved in certain parts of the story 
 are almost fun, while others can be tedious. The battles are the redeeming part of the gameplay, 
 however. The battles are fast-paced and fun, especially with the addition of the double-tribe and 
 triple-tribe systems, allowing you to power up Megaman through a total of ten different forms, 
 each with their own special strengths and weaknesses. Battles really come alive in multiplayer 
 mode, though. My only issue with the random online battle is that there's no way to match up with 
 someone who's in the same skill level as you, so you may often encounter someone who's used the 
 wave command cards to beef themselves up to near-invinicbility.
  
  Sound: I thought the music was fitting usually. It was enjoyable to listen to, but at times was 
 out of place with the situation at hand. The sound effects in battle work well, but I'm honestly 
 a little dissapointed at the lack of english voice acting. 
  
  In conclusion, Megaman Starforce 2 is an enjoyable game but is in no way perfect. If you're into 
 unique RPGs, you may find this game to be fun. Although you may find that buying this game used 
 is a bit of a better idea than buying it new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoobledude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  After the end of Star Force with the destruction of Andromeda and the stopping of the FM-ian king, 
 there didn't seem to be much more you can do with the series, seeing as EM beings were meant to 
 be aliens from two planets: AM and FM.
  
  This game proved that apparently that wasn't the whole truth. That apparently EM beings also existed 
 elsewhere and that a group of humans were using them as weapons (the opposite of the first game) . 
 It's a fun game, but I find the story is not as well developed as the first, and the tribe system 
 is a bit... annoying, to be honest. I'll discuss these two thing separately.
  
  Tribe On!: Similar to the Star Force powers that were the basis of the name in the first game, 
 this is an elemental transformation system. However, the means of transforming is rather obnoxious. 
 You can only transform into your element as a single form, but you can double tribe and triple 
 tribe with the others. You go into your tribe form by selecting a brother card and choosing the 
 tribe ability instead of the roulette function, or you can start out in your tribe form for each 
 battle by putting in an ability into your Mega Abilities section. This is not always a good idea 
 though, because you might be fighting a bunch of viruses of the element that will deal 2x damage 
 on you.
  
  The story line is not as dramatic feeling and in the beginning it is rather boring. The beginning 
 of the game is trying to summarize the first game for anyone new. A blessing for new players, an 
 extreme annoyance for those who have played it. 
  
  Battling: Another point I want to make is that if you have played the first game, the battle system 
 is so easy that anyone who has gotten used to it can win almost every battle without dying, making 
 the game no challenge at all.
  
  Over all I was not entirely satisfied with this game, but it was still fairly fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeGaMaN_9391
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  First of all, i chose saurian because i love fire element more than the wood element. This megaman 
 starforce game is way better than the previous one. The better online and story make it like that. 
 The story is a bit longer. The online is now better because of online battles. The game is also 
 highly addictive (maybe only for megaman fans like me.) There are two files in this game. Each 
 with a different transformation. They are tribe transformations. There is the ZERKER, SAURIAN, AND 
 NINJA tribes. Ninja doesn't include in this version. The brother band system is pretty good. It 
 is connecting with other people playing this game. This unlocks more abilities and tribe transformations. 
 I recommend this game for megaman battle network and starforce series. GO BUY IT!
  
  I put time spent playing 100 or more hours but i just got the game. in time it will be 100 or more 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesiz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing with the 3d graphics and the transformations are great over 10 transformations 
 how cool is that like double tribe 6 transformations is pretty cool and the special attacks you 
 will always want to use them again the tribe king is the best form in the game and is very fun 
 wi-fi is very awesome even after you complete the entire game you will still have pretty much fun 
 battleing other players and the new brother band system not half bad even if the favorites are 
 now 4 its pretty cool now that you can have npc brothers and 6 real brothers sky colliseum is nice 
 being able to fight with much more players is entertaining the story is entertaining and the new 
 rival pretty cool and challenging expecially with the wave command codes when you face them in 
 dx form good challenges great story i reccomend this game for anyone having more than one file 
 keeps you entertained and twice the fun its like two games in one instead of three versions in 
 seperate games two games with one game in each of them the wave command codes are cool too if you 
 don't want to wait to get the tribe king use the wave command codes with the help of your friends 
 in the brother band you will get passed the game in no time i think ninja is better but this is 
 the same game only with the exclusive saurian tribe on each artifact you choose changes story a 
 little but even if its different version its still the same great game 
  
  Well thats all i have to say. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
