-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mega Man Star Force: Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/megamanstarforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New characters and some minor formula upgrades.
 Friends-list system makes it easy to trade cards and gain status boosts.
 Story will last you 30 to 40 hours, and there's still stuff to do after.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't fix the complaints people had about the Battle Network games.
 The constant dungeon crawling and random encounters may wear you out.
 Story takes forever to unfold thanks to fetch quests and filler dialogue.
 New battle perspective is more restrictive than old setup.
 Graphics and audio aren't much better than they were on the GBA.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.2, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 410 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Aug 7, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite various minor improvements, Mega Man Star Force isn't significantly different than the GBA 
 Battle Network games. 

  For all intents and purposes, Mega Man Star Force is the seventh entry in Capcom's Mega Man Battle 
 Network franchise. There's a new story featuring a brand-new pair of heroes, tweaks have been made 
 to some aspects of the battle system, and now it's easier for you to trade and share attacks with 
 your friends. However, the core structure and gameplay are largely the same as they were in previous 
 installments. As such, this game, like its predecessors on the Game Boy Advance, is a role-playing 
 game geared toward people who will tolerate pouring dozens of hours into fetch quests and random 
 battles, as well as the obsessive pursuit of putting together a customized repertoire of attacks 
 to unleash in offline battles against friends.  

  Structurally speaking, Mega Man Star Force doesn't stray from the formula established by earlier 
 Mega Man Battle Network games. As a young boy named Geo Stelar, you walk in the physical world. 
 However, by putting on your activator goggles and merging with an energy being named Omega-Xis, 
 you become Mega Man and gain the ability to explore the electromagnetic world that exists parallel 
 to our own -- and do battle against the energy creatures that dwell there. For the roughly 30 hours 
 or so it'll take you to finish the main quest, you'll find yourself constantly alternating between 
 the two worlds in search of the bosses you need to defeat and the items you need to collect in 
 order to advance the story along. The only difference in pacing in Mega Man Star Force that distinguishes 
 it from its predecessors is that it offers a wider selection of optional fetch quests. Indeed, 
 if you choose to, you can run an errand for literally every character you meet to stretch the story 
 out for a good 40 hours.  

           While the new third-person battle perspective limits your movement, the homing function 
 allows you to hop forward if need be.      

  When you're walking in the electromagnetic world, battles occur at frequent random intervals. These 
 encounters still take place in real time on a 3-by-6 grid. However, for this game, they've rotated 
 the viewpoint so that you see the battle from behind Mega Man's back, with the enemies facing you. 
 Enemies have free run over the entire combat surface, but your own movement is primarily restricted 
 to sidestepping left or right at the back of the grid. It is possible to move forward, however 
 briefly, by first locking onto an enemy. If you tap down on the control pad before pressing the 
 attack button, Mega Man will leap onto the combat field and unleash the attack right in the enemy's 
 face, effectively giving you the option of wasting an attack card when you want to jump over an 
 incoming attack. This new third-person perspective isn't necessarily any better or worse than the 
 old way. On the one hand, movement is certainly more restricted. On the other hand, timing plays 
 a greater role in your ability to dodge an attack or nail a shifty opponent.  

  For the most part, battles unfold just like they did in previous Mega Man Battle Network games. 
 You still need to deplete your opponent's health meter before he or she obliterates yours, and 
 the best way to do that is still by using the attack cards that are randomly selected for you when 
 the confrontation begins. Each card depicts a hero, minion, or boss performing an attack from one 
 of Capcom's numerous Mega Man games. When you play one of these cards, you'll perform the attack 
 that's shown, hopefully deducting the indicated health from your opponent in the process. Cards 
 vary in terms of damage doled out, blast radius, and elemental attributes. You can only bring 30 
 cards into battle with you, so that's where most of the game's strategy comes from: collecting 
 and organizing useful battle cards in the folders you've set up. In all, there are more than 150 
 unique cards to find and collect. Capcom has simplified the rules underpinning the use of cards 
 in Mega Man Star Force, generally for the better. Without giving you an entire essay on the subject, 
 all you need to know is that six cards are now drawn instead of five, and you can play cards situated 
 in the same column or that have the same name or border color. The end result is that you have 
 a better chance of pulling the card you need, and you can unleash multi-card chains more readily. 

  Another way to bulk up is by adding people to your friends list, also known as a brother band. 
 When you add another person to your brother band, you can use his or her cards and combos in battle. 
 You also gain various health and ability boosts that you otherwise wouldn't get with an empty brother-band 
 list. Becoming brothers with someone is easy. All you need to do is wirelessly link your two systems 
 together offline or exchange friend codes to establish the link through Nintendo's WFC service. 
 Once that's done, you can send messages to each other, trade cards, and enjoy the automatic bonuses 
 that the brotherly bond entails. The lone downside to the brother-band list is that you can only 
 have six people on your list at any given time.  

  Confirming that we still live in an age where players "gotta catch 'em all," Capcom has published 
 three different flavors of Mega Man Star Force. The subtitles are Dragon, Leo, and Pegasus, and 
 they refer to the specific transformation that Mega Man can undergo in each particular version. 
 In the Dragon version, he's aligned with the wood element. In the Leo and Pegasus versions, he's 
 aligned with fire and ice, respectively. Each version also offers a different status bonus to the 
 friends in your brother-band group. Otherwise, all three flavors of the game share the same story, 
 characters, and major assortment of battle cards. You can acquire the star-force transformations 
 you don't have by forming a brother band with someone playing another version, so there's really 
 no reason to go out and buy all three versions of the game.  

  While the various gameplay tweaks and friends-list improvements are nice, they don't do much to 
 fix the problems that have been with the Mega Man Battle Network series since its inception. The 
 constant back-and-forth travel and random encounters in the story mode get old fast, and the story 
 itself unfolds at a snail's pace. Capcom's writers came up with charming tale, and the localization 
 people did an excellent job of transforming the original Japanese script into peppy English dialogue, 
 but quite a bit of the dialogue is filler. It already takes an hour or so to move from one plot 
 point to the next thanks to the dungeon crawling, so the superfluous chatter doesn't help speed 
 things along. Furthermore, Capcom has once again neglected to implement online battles. You can 
 duel against other players in the same room, but the WFC link is limited to the trading of messages 
 and cards. Last, but certainly not least, the battle system tends to wear thin after a period of 
 time. Early on, you'll enjoy customizing your decks and doing battle against CPU or human opponents. 
 At some point, though, sometime after you've built the deck of your dreams, you'll realize that 
 you're just performing the same attacks over and over. Your interest level will plummet as a result. 

           Despite a few snazzy visual effects, the graphics haven't improved a whole lot since the 
 GBA Battle Network games.      

  Capcom is guilty of phoning in the graphics and audio as well. The three-quarter-view environments 
 and tiny, big-headed characters in the traveling view are holdovers from the GBA. In the battle 
 viewpoint, the cel-shaded 3D characters look snazzy, but the quality and fluidity of the animation 
 is inconsistent. Some enemies move their feet and flap their wings. Some hardly move at all as 
 they travel from square to square. By the same token, some attacks are seamless and accompanied 
 by jarring visual effects. Others are choppy and/or matter-of-fact. As for the audio, the music 
 rules and the sound effects drool. You'll hear some familiar Mega Man themes, as well as a gaggle 
 of new compositions, all of which are melodic and rich. However, the lasers and explosions are 
 crude and sound like they were lifted directly from the GBA games. To add insult to injury, Capcom 
 recorded a few speech samples to accompany menu selections, but none for attacks or any of the 
 story dialogue.  

  Ultimately, it comes down to how burned out you are from playing previous games in the series. 
 If you're a newcomer and don't mind a drawn-out story or a gajilliondy random battles, you'll probably 
 get a good amount of enjoyment from jumping between the two worlds, building your card decks, and 
 watching your attacks manhandle CPU and human opponents. If you have one or two Mega Man Battle 
 Network games under your belt and still have the itch, you'll appreciate the minor improvements 
 that this new game brings to the table, especially if you plan to set up an active friends list. 
 If you didn't like the previous games, or if the last one you played was enough, then Mega Man 
 Star Force probably isn't for you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: oblivionownn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The follow up to Megaman Battle network 6, Megaman Starforce: Dragon, Pegasus and Leo. NOTE: This 
 rveview is for all three games.
  
  
  The game has many new features. The first is the fact that the battle system only has three squares 
 of battle. For those unfamiliar to the battle system, watch the Gamespot videos for it.
  
  There is a decent amount of gameplay for a satisfying adventure.
  The story is quite impressive 
 also, with some unique characters, this wont be an adventure you'll forget for a while.
  
  The game has the return of battle chips, but in Starforce there called Cards.
  With over 150 
 card to collect "SPOILER" and a secret boss for collecting them all.
  
  The game has plenty of bosses and enemy types, so dont worry about that aspect of the game.
  
 
  So if you want to have a fun expierience, rent the game, and you might be surprised after hearing 
 what others are saying.
  
  THANK YOU FOR READING MY REVIEW FOR: MEGAMAN STARFORCE
  PM ME IF YOU THINK IT WAS A GOOD REVIEW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meiaman
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Because this game is somewhat like the megaman battle network games, people say that they are the 
 same series and because some found out that megaman battle network later games was quite repetitive, 
 then they say that this game is bad because is nothing innovated from his "predecessor", this concept 
 is wrong, just because they follow the same storyline and most of concept are the same, doesnt 
 mean they are the same series as megaman battle network.
  
  Well, the first thing that called my attention was the battle system, you could only move left 
 and right, that actually is lame and made me not want to play the game at first look, but then 
 if you try it a bit you gonna see that is better than it seems, basically the commands are easy 
 and if you cant avoid, well defend it with your shield (Y button) . The special attacks are used 
 through cards in a deck and you can set favorite cards to be used anytime when they appear during 
 battles.
  
  The bosses are kinda interesting, well their name specially is a constelation name along with something 
 else, like taurusfire, this boss is basically a cow with fire elemental attacks, pretty simple 
 eh? but it gets off the same (insert name here) + man names.
  
  The sound itself well, its nothing special, really, nothing that makes you want to hear it loud, 
 but yet is not quite bad.
  
  The bro system is actually a quite handsome idea, basically you can have your own brothers (people 
 that form a brotherband with you) , you can exchange email through the game (needs wifi connection) 
 and brothers can give you bonuses and a special brother power in battle, basically the brother 
 power will randomly turn into any of your brother favorite cards during battle.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacritic814
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I'm a Megaman fan, and I was surprised that a new series was coming out, and decided 
 to play it myself. It's a nice, decent game actually, but there are a few stuff that don't make 
 it just as special as Battle Network.
  
  New Characters!
  A new battling system, with all new Battle Cards!
  Link up and battle or trade cards to become 
 more powerful!
  Unlock the powers of Star Force!
  Fight new enemies, aliens, and new quests!
  
  I was amazed, upset, and bewildered at the same 
 time after playing this game. Pretty much, it's very similar to Battle Network, but the battling 
 system is disappointing. Your area is limited to the back row and you can only move left and right, 
 making your enemies moving in the rest of the field. The only thing that turns the odds around 
 are the lock-on system which allows you to teleport in front of a threat and use a battle card 
 on them, especially if you can't reach them. Plus, you have a shield, but some attacks can penetrate 
 it.
  
  The aliens that surprise attack you frequently gets really annoying, and it's tough to avoid a 
 whole battle, without fighting!
  
  I give Megaman Star Force an 8/10. It's good to buy if you like to collect Megaman, but I don't 
 think you'll be too glad about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lisalover1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  Compared to the battle network series [Especially the awesome MMBN5] , this game is an embarrassment. 
 Sure, the battles are in 3-D, but I'll get into that later. 
  
  
  The graphics outside of battle are just like Battle network; no changes there. The battles are 
 in 3-D, and there is where the graphics actually look pretty good. Actually a bit better than an 
 N64's graphics. But, that's about all the battle system has going for it.
  
  The gameplay is exactly like Battle Network, except for a few touch screen add-ons, and the battle 
 system. Now, the battle system is what I really want to address here, because one thing about it 
 really, really made me mad. In the original MMBN, you could move all around the 9-square grid, 
 dodging attacks and setting up ones for yourself; you could even chase enemies around the board 
 to attack them! Well, that's not in this game. YOU CAN ONLY MOVE HORIZONTALLY BETWEEN 3 PANELS! 
 That's right you hear me. No more moving around the board for the sake of strategy, no more dodging 
 attacks, you can only move left and right. And the worst part is, the rest of the 9-panel grid 
 is still there, mocking you! I hate it.
  
  The sound is okay, but don't expect anything too good.
  
  To sum it up, this game is a total 
 joke compared to the other Megaman games, and I have one question left: Capcom, why couldn't you 
 just give us Battle Network 7? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callofdutyzzz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  You start off as a character you choose to name. You soon meet a FM named *Mega*. He goes into 
 your transfer system and gives you advice. You then can go into these *black hole* fields and transform 
 into mega man and defeat the evil FMs. The only way for FMs to become powerful, is to team up with 
 a human. Although, they are powerful on their own planet, not earth. The FMs are attracted to loneliness, 
 and there seems to be a lot of lonely people in the game. You progress by defeating the evil FMs 
 and helping people out. There are some touch screen controls involved too. Such as shooting the 
 rocket and moving the RC Helicopter. The bad part about the game though, it is pretty easy, because 
 they give you too many hints. Well other than that its a great game, and worthy to be in someones 
 collection. The game also lasts quite a while for a DS game. Well overall, a real great game. I 
 am starting to love my DS all over again. Trust me, Buy It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Okay so there i was on ebay wondering if i should buy it at about 30-40$ Dicided not too and waited 
 and got it cheaper in another place due to a discount. I started the game up thinking it was gonna 
 be better then battle network maybe ( Boy was i ever wrong ) and when i loaded it ( I Admit i did 
 get stuck thanks to some of the horrible walkthrough ( Not too bad though ) after beating the first 
 mini-boss which before i fought him ( called a jammer ) i was scared kinda. Took me only a few 
 seconds to beat him and i was dissapointed.... Later i moved on which was fun bull riding shooting 
 ducks running from stars but the bosses really sucked.... I mean really in Mega Man Battle Network 
 you really had to try hard but in this it's easy enough for my 6 year old friends to play.... Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Libra 
 a few from the Zodiac which made it a little interesting.. The bosses were wayy to predicatable 
 you can beat them blind folded if you've practiced enough ( Or using a ds with a broken top screen 
 like meh. ) There was a few cool areas the music was pretty nice for the town areas and moment (s) 
 of dispear (s) . But the boss battle music compared to any of the other ones it was horrible, i'd 
 pick other musics that could be there instead.,. Your Geo Stellar, With the story of your dad dying 
 ( Kelvin Stellar) Trying to bring peace unsing brother bands ( exp later ) but dies and one year 
 later your in your house. A guy named Aaron comes and gives you a transer which makes you see EM 
 waves which later you form with Omega-Xis ( Mega ) to become Mega Man. Brother bands are used when 
 you become friends with either:
  A) CPU by going through story line ( Which can be deleted and accepted back after beating game) 
 
  Or
  B) Human player with Dragon, Leo or Pegasus by trading Wi-Fi codes or fighting DS-DS.
  The Wi-Fi's 
 probably one of the better things about this game, You can send E-mail, Cards, Combos, Faces & Secrets 
 to each other. Sadly no Wi-Fi Arena yet..
  What ever version you get you have 3 mega chip version only & 5 Gigas too use at your own advantage 
 ( 5 megas in folder at once & 1 giga ) ( Such as pegasus EX for pegasus users and Dragon EX for 
 Dragon users, ect. )
  The game itself is veryyyy short and probably will only last you 35 - 50 hrs normally. I Highly 
 suggest a MMBN game or Mega Man Star Force 2 ( RnR2) . 
  
  This was brought to you by another Ccooldudecool review taking opinions of others. To make a request 
 go to Ccooldudecool's blog and post what game you want to be reviewed or if you have a comment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Conker
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  FIrst of all... the battlenetwork games were a big part of my child hood... i remember playing 
 the second one in 4th grade and every year a new one would come out and i would play it during 
 the summer and it would make my summer awsome. IT ended as i went into highschool... no more.. after 
 Lan got married i knew it was over...
  
  This game is a disgrace, even if it was a spinoff... it just didnt have the charm, puzzles, or 
 challenge of the others... just a way to milk the series.
  
  everything was recycled except the third person view, which didnt even work well... The story was 
 laughable and villains didnt actually seem insane like they used to...
  very passable and will only appeal to those who are not veterans of battle network 
  
  In closing 
 i played for a good 10 hours and was at awe that they would make three full versions, and how can 
 u call it megaman if he wasnt even in the damn game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoBound
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  . Fun Mini Games
  . Good Development of Main Character
  . Story is 15-20 hours
  . Lots to do After the Story
  
  The Bad
  
  . Graphics are very 
 Itchy
  . The fact that you can only move L&amp; R Sucks
  . Not much of an improvement from the Network Series
  . Constant Cut-Scenes are extremely boring
 
  . Lot's of things are not Fixed
  
  Graphics 6/10
  The graphics in this game are alright. The 3D doesn't really work because they look very Itchy 
 and it's probably what a 3D version of this game would look like for the GBA. The game apart from 
 battling doesn't really take advantage of the Capabilties of the DS.
  
  Story 8.5/10
  The Story is an actual improvement from the other things that I will be rating. The story gives 
 the Main character great Development. The back-up characters also play a decent role because they 
 are turned into your enemies at one point in the game. There is also a Love Triangle thing going 
 on with Sonia, Geo, and Luna which is good but the fact that they are only in elementary school 
 -Grade 5- gives them limited Love as I would say.
  
  Sound 7/10
  The Music in this game isn't what I would call bad but it -Like most aspects in this game- have 
 not been improved from the Network Series. The SE are ok too. They are a little more louder than 
 before and fit the weapon you are using but it's not worthy of an applaud.
  
  Replay Value 9/10
  The replay value in this game is the only thing I can really appluad. The 
 variety of battle cards gives you the opportunity to play this game about 5-7 more times.
  
  Gameplay 6.5/10
  Alot has changed. Not many that are good. In battles, you are viewing the 
 battlefield from Megamans backside and that's the main reason its in 3D. The fact that you can 
 only move Left and Right plain old Sucks. Sucks. It gives you limited moving area and you can't 
 capture a section of the opponents battle field to move unlike before. I actaully like the fact 
 that the Buster charges when you aren't holding the B button becuase you don't have to manually 
 keep pressing the button to do Rapid Fire. apart from this, Everything else is the same...
  
  Verdict 7/10
  Unless you are a Megaman fan, Don't buy this game. Borrow it from a friend, 
 give it a try, If you like it, By all means go buy it but for anyone who hasn't tried it, Don't 
 buy it without any Prior Knowledge about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakx102
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  First off i bought the game from Japan 6 months b4 it came out and just beat it two minutes ago 
 if i were you i would buy it off www. play asia. com
  and just work with the stratagy gudie plus its only $10 in Japan but in japanese The GOOD: Three 
 new styles ,New card system ,New charactars, New plot, touch screen power The Bad: the card system, 
 the new battle screen, too short, waiting for the dragon, pegasus, leo card stinks overall its 
 a great game but follows the BN series to much. and has great new charachtars but to much like 
 the BN series i personally think that they shouldve kept the BN games comming the best boss fight 
 is definatly. when i got the dragon card half way done the game it took me 10 minutes to finally 
 get to use the dragon card. i love this game but i cant under stand it i recommend it from playasia 
 in japanese langues P. S. io put hard because mine was in Japanese and couldnt understand it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_man123
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The worst of them the series. The whole not moving up and down should not have been in there. Since 
 you can only move left and right over 3 spaces, there isnt much room to dodge. And the way you 
 lock on to enemies takes away the difficulty of the game. One of the hard but nessicary things 
 about the battle network games was having to wait for an attack. Also, why did they change it so 
 that the buster shot charges automatically. I dont think there is anything more to say about this 
 game.
  *The rest of this review is just to fill up the 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowTheHHFan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  Like most BN fans. I was a little leery about this game at first. But It really isn't that bad 
 of a game.
  
  Let me first start off with the main story. The Story takes place 200 years after Battle network. 
 The world is surrounded by roads called EM Roads .
  In the game you're a 5th grader named Geo Stelar ( Which can be changed) Who's lost his dad. But 
 one night a alien named Mega shoots down into Geo's transer ( The new PET type devise) . And allows 
 him to fuse with Mega turning him into. Dadada DAAAAA! MEGAMAN!.... And run along the Em roads.
 
  
  Anyway. The Map running around is pretty much the same. There's no voices unlike MMBN 5 Twin leaders. ( 
 But thats suppose to change in Star force 2) .
  The battles are fairly interesting because in this game. You look at it in 3D from Behind megaman. 
 And you can't move freely either. The grid is a 3x5 grid and you can only be in the back. There 
 are many Viruses which pretty much take the place of past Viruses. If you've played the past games 
 you'll notice them. This has its pros and cons. This actually makes the battles easier. even though 
 it may not seem like it. Thus viruses battles don't seem impulsive. But it makes the boss battles 
 to easy. Thus making it eventually seem like the game is going fast.
  
  Capcom ( Even though Gamespot denies it) Got rid of most of the meaningless dungen crawling. Like 
 ' Go to this net, Then turn around and go back, then jack out and jack back in to go to another 
 net to finally advance in the story!! . But this has a con as well. It makes the game seem shorter.
 
  
  Even though the game seems shorter. Its still pretty good.
  
  They got rid of chips in this game and got something new (With no Alphabet soup!!! ) called cards. 
 These are pretty much the same but no letters. ( Its more confusing then that, But you'd have to 
 get the game to understand so I wont really say anything more about it) .
  
  The games Wi-fi is cool, You can send mail back and forth to you're brothas. But it seems empty 
 without Online battling. So you wont use it much.
  
  This game usually takes about 35 - 45 hours to complete completely. The main story took maybe 25 
 - 30. Anyway its really a ok game. Even though it seems odd, ( mainly talking to BN fans here) , 
 Its still pretty good.
  
  As for which version to get. Its all opinion. There really isn't MUCH difference between them. 
 I got Leo because Leo looked cool. ( I'm reviewing dragon because its basically the same game and 
 will get noticed the most here)
  
  If you're new to the series. I suggest this isn't the best game for you to start on. I suggest 
 Megaman Battle network 3 :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChronoTwrigger
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Although having the same gameplay and feel as the Megaman battle network series. This game has 
 indeed improved. Pros are:
  +New 3d graphics in battle.
  +Deep storyline
  +New characters and bosses.
  +Online feature allows to send e-mails as well as other star forces 
 from other versions.
  The cons are:
  -Same gameplay.
  -Those hating the Megaman Battle Network will hate this.
  -Wi-Fi does not let you battle online, 
 nor trade cards.
  -Graphics are GBA-ish. (other then the battle sequences)
  
  Personal Comment:
  Although many people might find this game to be bad. I personally, loved it. 
 The storyline was great. And I could play through over 30 hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  I'll open this review by saying that Mega Man Star Force is a lot like Mega Man Battle Network. 
 If you liked Battle Network and want more, Mega Man Star Force is the game for you. If you didn't 
 like Battle Network, you're unlikely to find anything in here that will win you over.
  
  The general gist of Mega Man Star Force is that you are a young boy named Geo Stelar (or whatever 
 you wish to name him - you're not stuck with the given name for a change) . Geo is the son of an 
 employee at NAZA, an space exploration institution much like our NASA. After his father becomes 
 presumed dead following an unknown incident aboard a space station, Geo becomes immensely reclusive 
 and obsessive about space, hoping to one day hear something from his dad, unable to accept the 
 idea his dad is dead.
  
  Following this event, Geo doesn't attend school, and he has no friends until a chance encounter 
 while stargazing introduces him with an alien being named Omega-Xis, or Mega for short. Mega is 
 a creature composed of electromagnetic (EM) waves from the planet FM, visible to Geo thanks to 
 his father's visualizer glasses. He learns shortly thereafter that he can fuse with Mega and, in 
 doing so, transform his own body into EM waves, enabling him to walk on EM paths wherever they 
 are located, as well as enabling him to transmit himself into electronic devices.
  
  If this sounds familiar to Mega Man Battle Network, that's because it is. The viruses that were 
 your main enemy are back, although your main boss enemies are no longer Navis, but instead FM-ians 
 like Mega. The transmission of an entity into electronics is also back, although in this case your 
 character is transmitting himself into them instead of his Navi. The method by which this is done 
 has also been changed: you now must first transform into your EM wave self through wormholes , 
 found scattered throughout the land, and then make your way to the electronics on the EM paths.
 
  
  If there's one main reason I could give for why I like this game, it's because the game is just 
 good clean fun. Gore and violence is all well and good, but no matter how old I get, I'll always 
 hold a soft spot in my heart for a story, script, and art style that one might expect from one 
 of the higher-brow Saturday morning cartoons. There's something that is simply fulfilling and satisfying 
 for me about playing a game where nobody dies and where everything turns out right in the end. 
 If you disagree and would prefer all your games to be dark and gritty, Mega Man Star Force definitely 
 isn't for you. But for me, Mega Man Star Force's enduring innocence and playfulness is something 
 I can't help but find endearing.
  
  That isn't to say that there isn't anything here for people over the age of twelve, however. As 
 might be inferred from the above, the story is not exactly the game's strong point, but it doesn't 
 make you want to go kill yourself, either. And its diabetes-inducing happy moments and morals conveyed 
 can't help but put a smile on your face, even if they do simultaneously seem rather corny and unrealistic.
 
  
  The battle mechanics also play well, although, again, it's fairly similar to that of Mega Man Battle 
 Network. The major changes are four points: the 2D sprites have been replaced with 3D cel-shaded 
 models, the camera is now behind Geo instead of in the middle, you can't move outside of the back 
 three panels anymore, and, to make up for the last point, you can now perform a lock-on to enemies 
 which will result in you running up to them and smoking them in the face with whatever weapon is 
 currently up for use.
  
  While the rest of the battle is identical to Mega Man Battle Network, the changes feel just fundamental 
 enough to make it seem like a new experience, and the last two points work to solve one of the 
 biggest gripes people had in Mega Man Battle Network, which was that weapons were entirely useless 
 if an enemy wouldn't come within range.
  
  So here's the bottom line: should you get Mega Man Star Force? If you want all of your games to 
 have violence and deep stories with twists and turns, then no, Mega Man Star Force is not for you. 
 If you have a very distinct inner child who just won't go away, however, then Mega Man Star Force 
 has plenty to offer you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubaballoonz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  I never got into the Battle Network series until Gregar/Falzar, so I'm not what you'd call an expert. 
 Although, i played thos two games very much and i know a lot about the game and how it works. Starforce 
 is basically a Battle Network game with improved visuals, new characters, and a somewhat new battle 
 system. The story is a tad too short, so that is a downfall to the game, but it is still very addictive. 
 I honestly couldnt put it down. I had to take a break because i wasn't getting enough sleep. Some 
 of the characters are fun and interesting, but then there are a few that kind of look like the 
 adults on the kids show Arthur. That kinda creeped me out... But just like in Gregar/Falzar, you 
 can go around and do jobs for all the people around town. The difference is that there isn't a 
 bulletin board thing. You have to pulse in to the waveroad and work your way towards the person, 
 then jump into their transer, which is basically a P. E. T., but everyone has one and no one has 
 a navi or anything. then you have to pulse out and go talk to them. it can be very tedious and 
 boring, but it's usually worth it in the end. The story isn't bad, but it isn't super deep either. 
 Basically, an alien bear looking guy comes down from space and jumps into your transer. You then 
 have the ability to pulse in to the waveworld which runs above the real world. That's where you 
 become Mega Man. Then it's just a Battle Network game a few hundred years in the future. I liked 
 it because i liked the Battle Network games. And the Starforce ability that you eventually unlock 
 can be pretty entertaining. The one weird addition is the BrotherBand system. You form a BrotherBand 
 with people you really trust and you then have access to their favorite cards and you get some 
 kind of HP boost and a special ability, like float. It can be pretty useful after a while. The 
 HP boosts can save your life. And of course, after you take on the final boss and beat his sorry 
 butt, there's the true ending that you can get after that. But you have to go around and take on 
 the SP forms of the bosses you've defeated before. They're hiding out on the wwave road in random 
 dead ends in certain areas. Then you need all the standard cards (chips) to get past through the 
 final laser door. That's all I'm going to say. Hope this review helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fabled_Emblem
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very obvious knock off of the Battle Network series, if you have'nt played one of 
 those let me sum up the entire game. In a world where they connected almost every thing to the 
 Internet (Any machine some TREES too) people rely on programs called netnavis to help them. These 
 programs can surf the web and get info from the net. Story specifics aside MegaMan was a program. 
 Battles took place on a 3x6 grid with the battle field split in two (you on 1 side, enemies on the 
 other) . You used chips to obliterate your opponents. Chips are weapons that do various attacks 
 (ex: Sword chip= SLASHING) Mega Man Starforce is slightly different. People now DO NOT use Navis, 
 and instead of the web they use EM Waves . Now only you can travel through the Wave instead of 
 every body being able. The battles now take place on a 3x5 grid with you on the bottom 3 panels, 
 camera view in back of you also, you can't move foward. Instead of chips they use Cards (same thing) . 
 Although you can't move forward, you can lock on and give a point blank shot INTO THEIR FACES. 
 Other than that the game is pretty much the same. Fun (at least for me) but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemy111
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is good but not great. The battle system is way different from the other megaman games. 
 The battles in this game can be very easy and very hard. Boss' can be more annoying then hard but 
 sometimes too easy. I like the brotherhood system it allows you to use chips you dont have. My 
 main issue with this is the battle system because you cant move back and forth making you limited 
 to one row of three it makes some attacks unavoidable but the addition of a shield does help but 
 does not make up for the highly limited movement. I still love this game and other megaman games, 
 it needs work but is still fun. I say if you are a fan of the series buy it, the new transformations 
 make this game even better, and they provide new powers and a powerful attack when you counter 
 enemies. Overall i like it. if you like the series buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: planetsims
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  Final Chapter doesn't have the stupid emergency music after you beat the game.
  The cards system is slightly better than the battle chip system.
  Tons of side-quests to keep 
 you busy.
  Brotherband and mega-weapons system.
  Mega attacks/lock on.
  
  Bad:
  Kind of short.
  Not enough of the star forces, unlike crosses/souls.
  Limit to back row.
 
  Mobs of enemies.
  MMBN in the future.
  
  Overall the game is fun, collecting cards, making awesome combos, killing bosses without taking 
 damage. It does get tiring fighting virus after virus. Brotherband works out well, but you can't 
 battle brothers on Wi-Fi? Why. The story is slightly more interesting than the Battle Network series 
 of a new criminal organization appearing every time. Wrap-up:
  Looking forward to see the next in the series and to see the improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosa30
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Its a great game that shouldnt be overlooked if your a fan of previous Megaman games 
 such as Battle Network you would enjoy this game if not you probobly will still enjoy this great 
 game. it should not be missed
  
  Story: the story itself is A+ one of the greatest in the megaman universe IMO (in my opinion) but 
 it is hard to follow in the beginning but later in the game you will realize what is going on in 
 the story
  
  Gameplay: It is about medium difficulty but if you have played Battle network games it would probably 
 seem easy, their is a total of 7 bosses and a total of 4 optional bosses so it should keep you 
 playing for a while, and also their is also 3 versions of each boss  
 also one thing you might notice if youve played the Battle Network games is that you can no longer 
 move up and down, but you can lock on! which is great for all of you sword lovers. Graphics: I 
 must say Great graphics for a Hand held especially for the Nintendo DS!! The 3d graphics are some 
 of the best graphics i have seen in awhile. The 3d battlefield is a great addition to the megaman 
 series. Every chip has it's unique portrait and it's own animation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldjango
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force is the successor to Megaman Battle Network in the same way X was to the originals. 
 You take control of a human, and go into another world as Megaman (The wave world as opposed 
 to the net) . Its an action-rpg that doesnt do anything too innovative, but doesnt follow the 
 norm.
  
  The story is pretty good. The set-up is that you are a 5th-grader named Geo Stelar (Subaru Hoshikawa 
 in Japan. Thats how Im going to refer to him from now on) you can rename him if you so wishin 
 the far flung future who hasnt gone to school in 3 years because his father was lost on a space 
 colony during an experiment to Brother Band (The games equivalent to registering friends on Xbox 
 Live or something) with the FM Planet. The FM king mistook the request for an invasion and kicked 
 the crap out of the space station. One of the FM aliens Omega-Xis (referring to him as War-Rock 
 because thats his Japanese name) went traitor and ran to Earth with a precious artifact called 
 the Andromeda key. One night while star gazing, Subaru puts on his Visualizer --which is a pair 
 of tricked out sunglasses made by his dad, which allows the wearer to see the wave roads, that 
 are formed by the radio waves used in everyday lifeand sees War-Rock as he crashes into Subaru. 
 They accidentally merge to become Megaman! After fighting some viruses, War-Rock decides to hide 
 out in Subarus transer (a mini, wrist-worn computer that serves as Star Forces equivalent to 
 the PET of Battle Network) . Soon, the other FM aliens following War-Rock get to Earth and crazy 
 crap happens.
  
  Most of the game uses 2d sprites. These are used for everything but battles, and are slightly crisper, 
 and more smoothly animated than Battle Networks sprites. During battle, everything is a 3d model, 
 that doesnt look too good. They have a lot of jagged edges and look blocky, but its the DS so 
 its forgivable.
  
  The sound in this game feels like the sound in the Battle Network games on the GBA. It's all tecno, 
 but the music for this game belongs to 1/3 DS games that I can stand to hear because it doesn't 
 grate your ears. Overall, it does a good job of setting a mood, but some tracks are pulled straight 
 from the Battle Network games, like the crisis track, which is unfortunate.
  
  The game play feels like a traditional action-rpg, but at the same time, doesnt. While running 
 around either as the 2 worlds (normal world that the humans live their daily lives (and you play 
 as Subaru) , and the wave world where EM wave beings /FM aliens and humans merged with FM aliens 
 live, and carry out their lives (You play as Megaman. A merging of Subaru and War-Rock) . The wave 
 world is basically the new version of the internet) , you can talk to people, advance the storyline, 
 check stats ect. But the battles are where the game differs from other action-rpgs. If youve played 
 a Battle Network game before, you have an inkling of what to suspect. This time, you have a behind-the-back 
 view of the action. At the start of each turn, you pick battle cards cards that hold weapons, 
 support features, and other attacksfrom 2 rows of 3. The limitations are that you can only pick 
 cards in the same column. Exceptions to that are that you can pick more than 1 card anywhere on 
 the screen if they are the same (2 swords for example) , and white cards. White cards are 1 of 6 
 favorited cards that can be picked no matter what. An example is: I just picked a Heal 50 card 
 on the top-right. A Barrier card on the bottom-middle is a white card, and therefore I can also 
 select that. If you use your Star Force (transformation with the creature of your version. Pegasus, 
 Leo or Dragon, although through adding friends (Called Brothering) you can get the other versions 
 transformations) you can also pick every card in the same row.
  Once you pick your cards, you can start the battle. The battle takes place on a 3x5 grid which 
 to you are constrained to the back 3 panels. You can move side to side on your 3 panels with the 
 D-pad, and unleash the cards youve selected with the A button or use your mega buster (arm-mounted 
 energy blaster for the 2 people who dont know) with the B button for a machine-gun effect, or 
 use your shield to block most attacks (not bodily attacks. Fists and tackles for example) with 
 the Y button. Because you are constrained to the back row, it makes it hard for your sword cards 
 to be effective; this is where the lock on feature comes into play. You press down on the D-pad 
 and War-Rock changes to lock-on mode where he locks on to an enemy in the same column or diagonal 
 from Megaman. You can then use the card (any attacking card will work. It doesnt have to be swords) 
 and Megaman will get all into the enemys face and attack. Your enemies will move around and unleash 
 attacks of their own in an attempt to kill you (duh -.-) . If youve used up all your selected cards, 
 but the battle isnt over, dont fret because a bar on the right hand side is filling up while 
 you fight. When its full, you can press L or R and go to the card selection screen again. When 
 youve killed your foes, you win money, new cards, or sometimes an hp refill. Leveling up is done 
 through the gathering of HP memories, which increase your max health. Leveling up doesnt not affect 
 your other stats though; instead, the weapons you equip on your buster (evidently War-Rocks head) 
 affect your attack rating (how much damage you do per shot with your buster) , rapid rating (how 
 fast you shoot) , and your charge rating (how fast you charge up a charge shot for more damage) .
 
  The game supports both online and local multiplayer, although PvP is only possible through local 
 multiplayer. Online, you can send e-mails to your brothers (friends) , trade cards, and make brothers. 
 The advantage to brothering is that you get a bonus (such as increased max health or first barrier 
 which gives you a one-hit protection at the start of every battle) plus if you brother with a version 
 different from your own, you get their Star Force.
  
  No matter which version of Megaman Star Force you get (Pegasus, Leo or Dragon. The only differences 
 are your star force transformation, menu colour, and giga (ultimate awesomeness) chips.) , it is 
 a great game, weighing in at around 17-20 hours depending on how you play/how fast you play. The 
 battles are exciting, and whenever the battles get a little dull due to weak/same enemies, when 
 you get to the next area in the storyline, the enemies ramp up in difficulty and keep you on your 
 toes. The game differs in difficulty depending on your skill, both with this game, and your skill 
 with the Battle Network games as the game really just puts a slight twist on the Battle Network 
 series formula. Personally, Im a veteran BN player and felt this game to be slightly above-average 
 in difficulty. No matter how hard the game is at first, the streamlined game play makes it easy 
 for you to get used to it and get better quicker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPB755
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  My very first megaman battle network game was bn3. i actually went in the order 3, 1, 2, 4, 5, 
 6. and after beating the 6th game, i cried. i admit it, i cried. i had fallen to the battle network 
 games that i couldn't believe that was the end. but one day, searching on gamespot. com i had come 
 across something that caught my eye, something by the name of Megaman Star Force. it was like happiness 
 brightened up my eyes, and got me interested in megaman again.
  
  THIS DOES CONTAIN MINOR PRE-GAME SPOILERS
  This game, is very different from the battle network 
 games, yet at the same time, is very similar. the battle field looks different, it's a new character, 
 and replacing the PET is the Transer. In this game, the main character named Geo Stelar (though 
 you can change his name if you wish) is depressed over his fathers loss in outer space, so every 
 night he goes out to what is called Vista Point to stare out into space, when an alien, Omega-Xis 
 lands right in front of him, and decides to spend some time in Geo's transer. other aliens are 
 after Omega-Xis (named Mega) because of what he has (called a andromeda key.) when Geo puts on 
 his visualizer (which is kinda like sunglasses) that can see the wave world, he fuses with Omega-Xis 
 to become Megaman. Whether you choose between Dragon, Pegasus, or Leo is all on pure desire. their 
 is no major difference, although Dragon is only purchasable at Gamestop or EB Games. I would judge 
 it based on which box you think looks the coolest, and your favorite color. if one of your friends 
 has Dragon, and another friend has Pegasus, then get Leo. You can brotherband with each other and 
 get all the differences through brotherbanding, which is kinda like trading, and helping your friend 
 out in a time of trouble. (it's hard to explain, i don't even know brotherbanding entirely. just 
 look it up in the manual with comes with the game, or ask someone of the forums.)
  
  Overall, this game is great. it's a lot of fun, especially for those who have fallen in love with 
 the battle network series like i did. buy it if you love megaman, it's worth the 30 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_hero_riku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Now I'm a big Megaman fan, and played alot of the games, and Megaman BN has got to be one of the 
 most diffrent ones out of all of them. Megaman BN took away the side scrolling action, and added 
 a new battle system. This new system had you stand on a 3x6 grid. Your mean's of attack were your 
 trusty old megabuster, and battle chips. Battle chips were like add on weapons. The BN style of 
 play has carry over to Megaman Star force, and while there has been changes to the game battle 
 system if you didn't like BN, There isn't any thing Over the top change to make you like this game.
 
  
  New to the game is the new battle grid, the game now has an over the shoulder perspective. Fight's 
 now take place on a 6x3 grid. You can no longer move Forward or back, but only left and right. 
 The way you fight has barley change as well. You still use battle chips to fight and the old megabuster, 
 but the way there used is changed. Before when chips can only be selected in mutiple based on what 
 letter was on the bottom of the chip, now if you select the same type of card, or if the cards 
 are in the same columan. Also like the cards with the asterisk, you have cards that can go with 
 any card. Also new is the Megabuster's charge system. Now it charges by it's slef, as oppse to 
 when you had to hold down a button for it to charge.
  And now holding down the buster's button you can rapid frie. Also new is a lock on system which 
 let's you lock on to people in the same columan, or diagonal from you. By locking on to someone 
 you can teleport infront of them before you use a battle chip. (Which makes using sword battle 
 chips much easier to use.) Also they added a sheild that can be use to block attacks. These new 
 addtion the battle system make the game fell a bit fresh, but don't make the game fell new. Also 
 insted of Jacking in like you did in BN games, you go On air Which are preety much the same, expect 
 that when you first go on air you are not in any devices yet, and you can still see the outside 
 world, from here you can go in side a device.
  
  Another new feature added is called The brother band system where you can Borrow another players 
 Favorite cards, best combos, and there giga cards. You can also get a brother force card. This 
 new feature is cool, but isn't needed. Add the fact you need a fc to connect wifi and this really 
 just seem like extra work.
  
  The Starforce seris looks like a great follow up to BN. The mix of the new battle enginge lets 
 people who played the other 6 BN games get a breath of fresh air, but other than that there is 
 really nothing new in Star force.
  You still have to run around and do quest for other people, slove decent puzzles, fight bosses 
 who look hard at first but with the right plan can be taken down easily, and the same RPG elements. 
 It has a Been there done that felling but still keeps the game from getting stale. And like I said 
 before, If you didn't like BN there's most likely nothing new here to change your mind. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
