-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mega Man Star Force: Leo
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/megamanstarforceleo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New characters and some minor formula upgrades.
 Friends-list system makes it easy to trade cards and gain status boosts.
 Story will last you 30 to 40 hours, and there's still stuff to do after.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't fix the complaints people had about the Battle Network games.
 The constant dungeon crawling and random encounters may wear you out.
 Story takes forever to unfold thanks to fetch quests and filler dialogue.
 New battle perspective is more restrictive than old setup.
 Graphics and audio aren't much better than they were on the GBA.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.9, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 242 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Aug 7, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite various minor improvements, Mega Man Star Force isn't significantly different than the GBA 
 Battle Network games. 

  For all intents and purposes, Mega Man Star Force is the seventh entry in Capcom's Mega Man Battle 
 Network franchise. There's a new story featuring a brand-new pair of heroes, tweaks have been made 
 to some aspects of the battle system, and now it's easier for you to trade and share attacks with 
 your friends. However, the core structure and gameplay are largely the same as they were in previous 
 installments. As such, this game, like its predecessors on the Game Boy Advance, is a role-playing 
 game geared toward people who will tolerate pouring dozens of hours into fetch quests and random 
 battles, as well as the obsessive pursuit of putting together a customized repertoire of attacks 
 to unleash in offline battles against friends.  

  Structurally speaking, Mega Man Star Force doesn't stray from the formula established by earlier 
 Mega Man Battle Network games. As a young boy named Geo Stelar, you walk in the physical world. 
 However, by putting on your activator goggles and merging with an energy being named Omega-Xis, 
 you become Mega Man and gain the ability to explore the electromagnetic world that exists parallel 
 to our own -- and do battle against the energy creatures that dwell there. For the roughly 30 hours 
 or so it'll take you to finish the main quest, you'll find yourself constantly alternating between 
 the two worlds in search of the bosses you need to defeat and the items you need to collect in 
 order to advance the story along. The only difference in pacing in Mega Man Star Force that distinguishes 
 it from its predecessors is that it offers a wider selection of optional fetch quests. Indeed, 
 if you choose to, you can run an errand for literally every character you meet to stretch the story 
 out for a good 40 hours.  

           While the new third-person battle perspective limits your movement, the homing function 
 allows you to hop forward if need be.      

  When you're walking in the electromagnetic world, battles occur at frequent random intervals. These 
 encounters still take place in real time on a 3-by-6 grid. However, for this game, they've rotated 
 the viewpoint so that you see the battle from behind Mega Man's back, with the enemies facing you. 
 Enemies have free run over the entire combat surface, but your own movement is primarily restricted 
 to sidestepping left or right at the back of the grid. It is possible to move forward, however 
 briefly, by first locking onto an enemy. If you tap down on the control pad before pressing the 
 attack button, Mega Man will leap onto the combat field and unleash the attack right in the enemy's 
 face, effectively giving you the option of wasting an attack card when you want to jump over an 
 incoming attack. This new third-person perspective isn't necessarily any better or worse than the 
 old way. On the one hand, movement is certainly more restricted. On the other hand, timing plays 
 a greater role in your ability to dodge an attack or nail a shifty opponent.  

  For the most part, battles unfold just like they did in previous Mega Man Battle Network games. 
 You still need to deplete your opponent's health meter before he or she obliterates yours, and 
 the best way to do that is still by using the attack cards that are randomly selected for you when 
 the confrontation begins. Each card depicts a hero, minion, or boss performing an attack from one 
 of Capcom's numerous Mega Man games. When you play one of these cards, you'll perform the attack 
 that's shown, hopefully deducting the indicated health from your opponent in the process. Cards 
 vary in terms of damage doled out, blast radius, and elemental attributes. You can only bring 30 
 cards into battle with you, so that's where most of the game's strategy comes from: collecting 
 and organizing useful battle cards in the folders you've set up. In all, there are more than 150 
 unique cards to find and collect. Capcom has simplified the rules underpinning the use of cards 
 in Mega Man Star Force, generally for the better. Without giving you an entire essay on the subject, 
 all you need to know is that six cards are now drawn instead of five, and you can play cards situated 
 in the same column or that have the same name or border color. The end result is that you have 
 a better chance of pulling the card you need, and you can unleash multi-card chains more readily. 

  Another way to bulk up is by adding people to your friends list, also known as a brother band. 
 When you add another person to your brother band, you can use his or her cards and combos in battle. 
 You also gain various health and ability boosts that you otherwise wouldn't get with an empty brother-band 
 list. Becoming brothers with someone is easy. All you need to do is wirelessly link your two systems 
 together offline or exchange friend codes to establish the link through Nintendo's WFC service. 
 Once that's done, you can send messages to each other, trade cards, and enjoy the automatic bonuses 
 that the brotherly bond entails. The lone downside to the brother-band list is that you can only 
 have six people on your list at any given time.  

  Confirming that we still live in an age where players "gotta catch 'em all," Capcom has published 
 three different flavors of Mega Man Star Force. The subtitles are Dragon, Leo, and Pegasus, and 
 they refer to the specific transformation that Mega Man can undergo in each particular version. 
 In the Dragon version, he's aligned with the wood element. In the Leo and Pegasus versions, he's 
 aligned with fire and ice, respectively. Each version also offers a different status bonus to the 
 friends in your brother-band group. Otherwise, all three flavors of the game share the same story, 
 characters, and major assortment of battle cards. You can acquire the star-force transformations 
 you don't have by forming a brother band with someone playing another version, so there's really 
 no reason to go out and buy all three versions of the game.  

  While the various gameplay tweaks and friends-list improvements are nice, they don't do much to 
 fix the problems that have been with the Mega Man Battle Network series since its inception. The 
 constant back-and-forth travel and random encounters in the story mode get old fast, and the story 
 itself unfolds at a snail's pace. Capcom's writers came up with charming tale, and the localization 
 people did an excellent job of transforming the original Japanese script into peppy English dialogue, 
 but quite a bit of the dialogue is filler. It already takes an hour or so to move from one plot 
 point to the next thanks to the dungeon crawling, so the superfluous chatter doesn't help speed 
 things along. Furthermore, Capcom has once again neglected to implement online battles. You can 
 duel against other players in the same room, but the WFC link is limited to the trading of messages 
 and cards. Last, but certainly not least, the battle system tends to wear thin after a period of 
 time. Early on, you'll enjoy customizing your decks and doing battle against CPU or human opponents. 
 At some point, though, sometime after you've built the deck of your dreams, you'll realize that 
 you're just performing the same attacks over and over. Your interest level will plummet as a result. 

           Despite a few snazzy visual effects, the graphics haven't improved a whole lot since the 
 GBA Battle Network games.      

  Capcom is guilty of phoning in the graphics and audio as well. The three-quarter-view environments 
 and tiny, big-headed characters in the traveling view are holdovers from the GBA. In the battle 
 viewpoint, the cel-shaded 3D characters look snazzy, but the quality and fluidity of the animation 
 is inconsistent. Some enemies move their feet and flap their wings. Some hardly move at all as 
 they travel from square to square. By the same token, some attacks are seamless and accompanied 
 by jarring visual effects. Others are choppy and/or matter-of-fact. As for the audio, the music 
 rules and the sound effects drool. You'll hear some familiar Mega Man themes, as well as a gaggle 
 of new compositions, all of which are melodic and rich. However, the lasers and explosions are 
 crude and sound like they were lifted directly from the GBA games. To add insult to injury, Capcom 
 recorded a few speech samples to accompany menu selections, but none for attacks or any of the 
 story dialogue.  

  Ultimately, it comes down to how burned out you are from playing previous games in the series. 
 If you're a newcomer and don't mind a drawn-out story or a gajilliondy random battles, you'll probably 
 get a good amount of enjoyment from jumping between the two worlds, building your card decks, and 
 watching your attacks manhandle CPU and human opponents. If you have one or two Mega Man Battle 
 Network games under your belt and still have the itch, you'll appreciate the minor improvements 
 that this new game brings to the table, especially if you plan to set up an active friends list. 
 If you didn't like the previous games, or if the last one you played was enough, then Mega Man 
 Star Force probably isn't for you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:57 am PT
Review:  Mega Man Starforce Leo, Pegasus and Dragon are three different versions of Capcom's Mega Man series 
 effort in the world of hand-held RPGs. In this respect it reminds a lot of Nintendo's Pokemon series.
 
  
  Story reminds me of Mega Man Battle Network. In the fictional year 220X the world has become networked 
 through use of electromagnetic or EM waves. Three large satellites orbiting the Earth (Leo, Pegasus 
 and Dragon) power the EM Wave World that exists around the Earth's atmosphere. You play as Geo 
 Stelar, who can see into the Wave World by using a special pair of goggles and joins together with 
 EM creature called Omega-X to clear the viruses inhabiting the EM Wave World. Story is told through 
 still images and lots of text and it's quite complex when considering that the game itself is clearly 
 designed for kids.
  
  Graphics are colorful and anime inspired. It's not very detailed, but you'll always have a clear 
 understanding about what you're watching. Sound design is quite typical quality for a Mega Man 
 game, which is to say that it contains lots of blasts and other futuristic sound effects. Music 
 is positive, yet after an hour or so quite irritating.
  
  Controls take a while to learn, but once you've gotten past the learning curve it's quite smooth 
 to play. There's an overworld where you navigate the environment and then there's the battle screen. 
 You have to write notes to yourself and the in-game censorship is too good: you can't write "hello", 
 because it starts with "hell".
  
  Battles take place in a small platform and your movement is quite limited. First you choose a few 
 cards and attack with them. Later you can add power to your attacks, heal yourself and so on. Game's 
 mix between turn-based card game and a real-time battle is quite successful in what it is doing.
 
  
  Mega Man Starforce Leo is a nice add-on to the DS library and it has a very specific audience in 
 its mind. If you are an adult, who plays DS casually or have already played serious RPGs like Mass 
 Effect or Lost Odessey then I can't recommend this game to you: it's been made for kids, who have 
 lots of friends playing the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hm360
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  I loved the MegaMan Battle Network games. Absolutely adored them. When the series came to an end 
 with no. 6, you can bet I was disappointed. So when I heard of this, I was excited. Wrong thing 
 to do. 
  
  The game has kept the 2D world with the few areas which you can get to by bus etc etc. The sound 
 is also the same style. 
  
  The battle system I can't stand. You view MegaMan from the back and he can move right or left (with 
 3 coloumns, that's not a lot of freedom) . Certain attacks allow you to take a few steps forward 
 but it's VERY limited. Why change the old 6x3 grid? The battle graphics are horrible. 
  
  The story is unimaginative. Not entirely bad, there are some good aspects, but it's hardly a RPG-worthy 
 story. 
  
  If you're after some MegaMan action on DS, pick up ZX or ZX Advent. Great titles, if a little hard. 
 Let's hope StarForce 2 is better than the original.
  
  GRAPHICS 5/10
  Sprite-based world and bad 3D battles. 
  
  SOUND 5/10
  Can be repetitive in some places but 
 some catchy tunes.
  
  GAMEPLAY 7/10
  Plays just like the MMBN games but the battles let it down. 
  
  OVERALL 17/30 = 57%
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force Leo is honestly a great game, but it still shows signs of wanting to remain 
 a Gameboy Advance game. The graphics are just like those out of the Megaman Battle Network series 
 for the Gameboy Advance. Any fan of Megaman would honestly enjoy it, playing it to the end, and 
 it has new battle features such as the battle style being first person, viewing the battle behind 
 the main character's head and choosing battle chips with your stylus. Also, there are new characters 
 to play as and if you have any of the old Megaman games, put them into the Gameboy Advance slot 
 of the Nintendo DS and you will be able to do an extra mission, getting you a new blaster. A good 
 thing is that whenever you play multiplayer with some one, they become registered into your game 
 and you can use their favorite chips. The bad thing is that even if you play them again, their 
 brother page does not get changed. You have to delete their brother page and then play them in 
 order to have it changed. Also, if you play two different versions together and you have the forms, 
 then you can change into the other person's forms, even though you cannot get it through playing 
 the regular storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force is not a game for everyone. True RPG fans will feel let down by the simplistic 
 RPG elements, and the hardcore Megaman fan will be disappointed by the fact that it is not a plain 
 shooter. Star Force takes place 200 years after the end of the Battle Network series and takes 
 a fair few battle elements from it as well. This is not a bad thing for fans of BN, but others 
 unfamiliar with the kind of game and universe might feel left out all together.
  
  Star Force takes place 200 years after Battle Network, in a universe where the internet has become 
 obsolete and now a network of "waves" control the everyday lives as the Net used to. The hero is 
 a familiar site to Battle Network and puts you in the shoes of a fifth grade boy, who in general, 
 is an outcast. In the year of 220X man has come into contact with aliens in space and attempted 
 to form a relationship with them. From there the story begins and as the young boy, Geo Stelar, 
 is inhabited by a run-away alien from the race known as the FM-ians. After wards, this alien gives 
 Geo the power to change into Megaman so that he can enter the Wave World to save earth from any 
 FM-ians that come to harm the one inside Geo.
  
  If you have played a Battle Network game, the battle field will look familiar, but there are some 
 significant changes. No longer do you watch a 183 from a third person view as Megaman moves around 
 and attacks the enemies. Now you will be seeing things from an over-the-shoulder view as Megaman 
 side-steps, shoots, and shields himself from enemy fire. This would seem to greatly limit the way 
 Megaman can fight, but instead it adds much greater strategy with new powers and needed to defend 
 instead of just run away. These changes are welcome to the Megaman RPGs and allows not only the 
 seasoned Battle Network player to be pulling off combos with ease.
  
  However, Star Force looks and sounds much like a GBA game. Very little is done to take advantage 
 of the DS Hardware, and with the exception of a few 3D effects, Star Force could have easily been 
 made on a GBA if it was still a popular console to make new games for. Sound quality is also the 
 same, featuring mostly remixed tracks from the Battle Network series. The Touchscreen is optional 
 for almost every use it has, and in no way truly changes the series through its use.
  
  Megaman Star Force is truly a great game for Battle Network fans, but few others would find much 
 enjoyment from Star Force. Little RPG emphasis, graphics and sound that could very well be from 
 the GBA, and a seemingly cheap take on the Battle Network popularity. Luckily it is still a fun 
 game to play and the story is host to a variety of unique characters that truly make an engaging 
 Megaman game. If you were questioning Star Force and were a fan of Battle Network, this is just 
 the game you may want to take up more than 20 hours of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This One's Gonna Be Simple, because there's not alot to say, so here we go:
  Graphics - 4.5/5
  Sounds - 4.5/5
  Gameplay - 5/5
  Controls - 5/5
  Story - 5/5
  Use Of 
 Touch Screen - 5/5
  OVERALL:9.5/10
  This is easily the best Megaman RPG and it's a must buy on The DS. The gameplay is much improved 
 over the Battle network games, but the same can't be said for some of the characters. This game doesn't 
 quite have the charm of the Battle Network games, but it's still over all a better game and it has 
 a better battle system than the Battle Network games, which is of course good. My only problem with 
 the game is that the graphics and music could have been slightly better, but all in all this is 
 my second favorite DS game right now. I highly recommend this game and for all the people who think 
 Megaman RPGs are stupid and old, just don't play them and get over your self. Anyways go buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinno441
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  There's something about Megaman that has always sparked my interest. Ever since playing X on the 
 Super Nintendo, I've found myself coming back to the series every year or so, whether it be replaying 
 a game, or discovering a new diamond in the rough.
  Upon sadly finishing the Battle Network Series, I was saddened at the fact that I wouldn't be able 
 to enjoy a nice RPG like this one, that mixed it up a bit. Then I saw the trailers for Starforce.
 
  
  The Good:
  -A nice throwback to the Battle Network Series
  -Some of the new features like online trading and the new battle system are intriguing.
  -The 
 "Battle Card" system is much easier to use than the old way.
  -The story is nice.
  
  The Bad:
  -Other than the battle graphics, which are god awful by the way, the game looks as 
 if it was ported directly from a GBA game.
  -The game proceeds episodically. Bad Capcom.
  -While the story is nice, the game has some pacing problems, and the story leaves a lot more to 
 be desired. It's in these terms that I find the anime to be a better source of story and backround.
 
  -A lack of content overall, the game is rather short, paling in comparison to Battle Network 3, 
 where I spent over 100 hours on one file.
  -The brother band system is boring, and while it spreads communication, it seems almost forced 
 onto the player as well as getting rid of the Navi-Cust. system.
  
  Capcom has gone into quite bad pattern since the third instalment of their critically acclaimed 
 Battle Network Series. Starforce takes place about 200 years after the escapades of Lan and his 
 crew and introduces a new protagonist, who is almost the exact opposite of Lan.
  
  Meet Geo Stelar, the cheesy named, spiky haired youth who you play as throughout the game. As Geo 
 you explore the human world, though, the game is rather limiting on this in the beginning. There 
 isn't much to do, because Geo likes to isolate himself from other humans since a tragic accident 
 three years ago.
  
  Eventually, you meet an FM-ian (alien) named Omega-Xis, who activates special goggles on Geo's 
 forehead. Other FM-ians have followed Omega-Xis down to Earth, and plan to launch an attack to 
 obtain something called the Andromeda Key, an item that Omega-Xis has.
  
  From then on, you have the ability to fuse with Omega-Xis and become Megaman, and explore the world 
 of radio waves. This world is a major letdown and pales in comparison to the creative net worlds 
 of old, alas, it will suffice though. As mentioned before, the game progresses episodically from 
 then on out, with many people in Geo's life becoming controlled by other FM-ians including a famous 
 celebrity named Sonia Strumm, who becomes a strong supporting character as Harp-Note.
  
  The controls are simple, and are once again a throw back to Battle Network, with only a few differences. 
 The Y button puts on Geo's visualizer and allows him to see the wave world as a human. The X-button 
 serves as the start button as well, other than that, everything about the game has remained the 
 same. The touch screen controls are forced on the player. In an attempt to cheaply harness DS' 
 touch screen, the player will be forced to do certain gimmicks meant to entertain casuals, which 
 don't really help the game at all and have no real meaning to them.
  
  The graphics and sound are completely ported. Everything from the explosions, to the text menu 
 sound could have easily been done on Battle Network, as well as the graphics being the same style 
 they were before. No effort was put in on Capcom's part to improve the game's graphics or sound 
 at all.
  
  The battles are the biggest difference from Battle Network. Now, instead of fighting an opponent 
 on a 3 by 6 grid, you fight on a 3 by 5 grid, in which you are facing behind Megaman and are limited 
 to only moving to the three spaces where Megaman is standing. This takes away a lot of strategy 
 that was used in the old games but was able to justify Capcom adding the ability to shield against 
 indirect attacks with the Y button, and simplifying the "Battle Card" system, making stringing 
 attacks together easier.
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics in the battle system are extremely jagged and hardly fluent at all. 
 The sounds are once again put in directly from the Battle Network games.
  
  Each of the three versions has a few distinct differences. There are five cards called Giga Cards, 
 that are unique to each version as well as each version of the game assigning you a different "Sattelite 
 Admin." The Admins are either Leo, Dragon, or Pegasus, based on which version you picked up. At 
 the midpoint of the game, the corresponding Admin will battle you and grant you powers based in 
 his image. This is much like the "Beast-Out" system in Battle Network, but is once again limited 
 and only usable when you draw the card to activate it.
  
  With all this negativity, you would expect Starforce to have been granted a much lower score. Starforce 
 is an either love it or hate it game. If you don't mind the letdown and gameplay features that 
 pale in comparrison to its predecessors, then go for it and love it. Some people will hate the 
 flaws of this game to the point of returning it.
  
  Overall, this game is not better than it's predescessors. It is still a "Battle Network Experience" 
 though, which makes up for the crummy production values and limiting ideas put in this game. Hopefully, 
 Capcom can improve upon this series with the sequal launching in June. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Bleh.
  Mega Man Star Force Leo has pretty solid storyline and a battle system that is certainly different.
 
  But that's about it. Sure It's fun for a while, but if you play it for about three hours every 
 day, you can finish it a week from date of purchase.
  Aside from that, the battles do get a bit annoying, especially when there are three enemies that 
 are much stronger than you attacking at the same time.
  Brother Bands are a pretty cool- You can wifi connect with other players as well as make Brothers 
 with the NPCs in the game. During battle, you can get a battle chip with your Brother's face on 
 it and -bam- you get to use one of your Brother's chosen, favorite cards.
  You can also transform using the power of your satellite admin (Dragon, Leo or Pegasus) and become 
 substantially stronger BUT if you're hit by the opposite element, you change right back.
  You'll have fun with this, but that is very short lived... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gospel_Clone
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  Overview:
  
  Megaman Starforce, Capcom's latest attempt at reviving its famed Megaman franchise. Megaman has 
 certainly come far since his days of platforming action on the NES to say the least.
  This game puts you in the shoes of a young schoolboy, although I shouldn't call him a "schoolboy" 
 to begin with, named Geo Stelar (you may change the name at the start) who, having lost his father 
 3 years ago in a space accident, rejects society and refuses to go to school. At the beginning 
 of the game Geo runs into an FM alien called Omega-Xis who fuses with him to become Megaman. As 
 Megaman you traverse the invisable wave world composed entirely of EM waves.
  It turns out later that Omega-Xis is being chased by his fellow FMians for staeling the Andromeda 
 key- the key to unlocking the ultimate weapon of planet FM.
  These FMians pursuing Omega-Xis seek out people on earth with lonliness in their soiuls and then 
 fuse with them-much like Geo and Omega-Xis-only during the process the FMians completely take over 
 the body and actions of their hosts. These people then serve as the bosses in the game, launching 
 their attack during particular scenarios with Geo then being the one to sort the mess out by battling 
 his way through different comp spaces to fight the boss at the end.
  
  The Fighting:
  
  The battles ar a combination of turn-based fighting and real-time action set on a 3X6 grid. The 
 viewpoint is set behind Megaman's head with you only being alowed to move side to side. At the 
 beginning of the battle you choose from a set of 6 battle cards and then use them to attack your 
 opponents. When all of your cards are used up you need to wait for your custom guage is filled 
 before selecting new cards to use.
  With the issue of your enemies having more space than you; Capcom added a lock on system. By pressing 
 down on the control pad you will be able to lock on to any enemy directly in front of you or diagonally 
 to you and warp in front of them when you use your card.
  
  
  
  Verdict:
  
  + Will last you a good 10-20 hours in the story.
  + Not just the same old system as Pokemon.
 
  + battling system is fairly solid....
  - ... But the viewpoint can be restrictive.
  - not too many improvements from Battle network.
  
  While certainly not the worst Megaman game 
 (or just plain game) on the market, Megaman starforce certainly isn't the best out their either 
 and, while more original than the oft-copied pokemon metagame, it hasn't truly reached the full 
 potential set by Megaman Battle Network full.
  A game to get if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Okay so there i was on ebay wondering if i should buy it at about 30-40$ Dicided not too and waited 
 and got it cheaper in another place due to a discount. I started the game up thinking it was gonna 
 be better then battle network maybe ( Boy was i ever wrong ) and when i loaded it ( I Admit i did 
 get stuck thanks to some of the horrible walkthrough ( Not too bad though ) after beating the first 
 mini-boss which before i fought him ( called a jammer ) i was scared kinda. Took me only a few 
 seconds to beat him and i was dissapointed.... Later i moved on which was fun bull riding shooting 
 ducks running from stars but the bosses really sucked.... I mean really in Mega Man Battle Network 
 you really had to try hard but in this it's easy enough for my 6 year old friends to play.... Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Libra 
 a few from the Zodiac which made it a little interesting.. The bosses were wayy to predicatable 
 you can beat them blind folded if you've practiced enough ( Or using a ds with a broken top screen 
 like meh. ) There was a few cool areas the music was pretty nice for the town areas and moment (s) 
 of dispear (s) . But the boss battle music compared to any of the other ones it was horrible, i'd 
 pick other musics that could be there instead.,. Your Geo Stellar, With the story of your dad dying 
 ( Kelvin Stellar) Trying to bring peace unsing brother bands ( exp later ) but dies and one year 
 later your in your house. A guy named Aaron comes and gives you a transer which makes you see EM 
 waves which later you form with Omega-Xis ( Mega ) to become Mega Man. Brother bands are used when 
 you become friends with either:
  A) CPU by going through story line ( Which can be deleted and accepted back after beating game) 
 
  Or
  B) Human player with Dragon, Leo or Pegasus by trading Wi-Fi codes or fighting DS-DS.
  The Wi-Fi's 
 probably one of the better things about this game, You can send E-mail, Cards, Combos, Faces & Secrets 
 to each other. Sadly no Wi-Fi Arena yet..
  What ever version you get you have 3 mega chip version only & 5 Gigas too use at your own advantage 
 ( 5 megas in folder at once & 1 giga )
  The game itself is veryyyy short and probably will only last you 35 - 50 hrs normally. I Highly 
 suggest a MMBN game or Mega Man Star Force 2 ( RnR2) .
  
  This was brought to you by another Ccooldudecool review taking opinions of others. To make a request 
 go to Ccooldudecool's blog and post what game you want to be reviewed or if you have a comment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gareth91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The First Megaman Game I ever played was Megaman battle nework on The GBA and eversince I fell 
 in love with all his games. I missed MBN6 so I picke up a copy of Starforce. So:
  
  The Good:
  Nice Music; New enjoyable charcters; Great Battle Graphics; Megaman looks great; great 
 boss battles; Lengthy main stroy
  
  Th Bad:
  New battle system feels the same as MBN; Filrd Graphics are same as seen on GBA; Hardly uses DS 
 features; one or two annoying charcters; frustrating end boss; 3 versions; wifi feature is lame
 
  
  So In my oponion. wait for this to game to go down in price before picking it up and ake sure you 
 have a friend with the other two versions. Thank for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimmJow23
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force seemed like a good idea. You take Battle Network and you make it almost First 
 Person. Same concept. Instead of putting the Blue Bomber into an electronic device such as a computer, 
 you fuse with some alien from another Planet and become this "MegaMan". Has the same style of BN 
 in the sense of the story line; cheesy. The gameplay is different only because of the limited squares 
 you can move, and the fact that you play behind MegaMan and not from his right side. If you expected 
 that good old Battle Network feel. Play Double Team. You won't find what you're looking for here. 
 The chips all feel the same, the bosses are too predictable. You won't find much replay value in 
 this game. I'm a fan of the Battle Network series. But, I found this game to be an utter, (and 
 for a fan) surprising disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megacharge
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  if you dont notice, i put the difficulty as hard. i said this because all the random battles slow 
 you down far too much. I think the game could have been better all 3D, but thats just me. the multiplayer 
 is a nice addition, but they took out multiplaer battles, witch was all the series had left. but 
 really, it was ok, especially the final battle.*sorry, no spoilers*. This game wasn't so bad, but 
 not as good the originals, like the last 3 were. so if you are a die hard fan of the BN series, 
 go get it. If you like the games like me and just like one or two things, you'll probably beat 
 and never play again. I hope the sequel does way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MageofBlood391
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  As Capcoms newest Mega Man game, Mega Man Star Force doesnt disappoint. People will tell you 
 that its not worth playing, its just a rip-off of the Mega Man. EXE games. Im not going to lie 
 to you, that last part is quite true, Star Force does bare striking resemblances to the Battle 
 Network series of Capcoms Blue Bomber. But if somebody ever tells you not to play this, I will 
 personally go out of my way to wring their neck. Well, not really, but you get the point.
  
  As the game opens, we find out that this era of Mega Man takes place in the year 220X (two 
 hundred years after Mega Man Battle Network) . Shortly, we find out that our protagonist is a young 
 boy named Geo Stelar (though, you can optionally change his name) , and that he lost his father 
 three years ago in an accident involving a space station. He has not been to school since, nor 
 has he had any friends or enjoyed talking to other people. Its really a quite sad story, if I 
 do say so myself.
  
  One day, little Geo is watching the stars at a local place called Vista Point, as he does everyday, 
 hoping that his father would come back. This time around, he sees something that hes never seen 
 before, and has probably never been seen by another human being. Literally out of the sky comes 
 a being made entirely of energy waves, and attempts to invade Geos body. Calling itself Omega-Xis 
 (or Mega, for short; bet you cant guess how this version of the world-famous character gets to 
 be called Mega Man...) , the alien claims to be from the planet FM, and that hes being pursued 
 by others from his planet. After fusing together to create one being, Mega stores himself in Geos 
 Transer (used for making Brother Bonds, which link two people together, share their secrets, 
 and effectively make them brothers. It shares close similarities to the P. E. T. s in Mega Man Battle 
 Network) , and the new companions return home.
  
  Geo soon finds himself being forced to fight against the beings that were following Mega, this 
 is where Star Force is the closest to .EXE. When youre in a battle, Mega Man is on a 3x5 battlefield, 
 though you can only access the three panels closest to the camera (which is shown behind Mega Mans 
 back) . You have to choose Battle Cards to battle with, each Card doing a different task for you 
 in battle. Some, such as Sword, are offensive weapons used for draining the enemys HP, while others, 
 such as Recover 10, are used for more defensive reasons. You also have the option to active a shield 
 which lasts for roughly two seconds, and is Capcoms way to make up for your newfound lack of mobility. 
 Its worth it though, that shield never breaks, can block most any attack, is fire proof, water 
 proof, electricity proof, et cetera, can be used repeatedly during battle, oh, and it looks cool 
 too. Sure, its a rip off of Protoman. EXE, but thats really not such a bad thing, is it? I mean, 
 everybody likes Protoman, right?
  
  Graphically, the battles are in 3D, while the rest of the game is in two dimensions, it looks good 
 though. And I must say, the music is pretty enjoyable. Star Force has taken a lot from the Battle 
 Network games, but thats not such a problem, as most of the music in the .EXE generation was well 
 made. Its been improved at certain points, but not too terribly much.
  
  Mega Man Star Force also has the option to access Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, though you cannot 
 battle online. You can, however, form Brother Bands with people, and e-mail your Brothers. Various 
 bonuses are gotten for doing Brother Band with people with other versions of the game, you can 
 use the transformations from their game (for example, if you have Dragon, and your friend has Leo, 
 you can transform into both the Dragon form native to your game and the Leo form native to his 
 game, cool, huh?) , you can get HP or Mega Buster bonuses, you know, little things. Still, its 
 a cool feature. No person versus person Wi-Fi battling does cost online mode a lot of points though. 
 Thankfully, Star Force 2 is supposed to have online battling, or so Ive heard.
  
  Recap and Other Crap: (rhymage!)
  
  Story: An alien named Omega-Xis has come to Earth and met 
 a fifth grader named Geo, the two proceed to fight off the bad guys, that are chasing said alien, 
 through turning into EM Waves. The story isnt overly amazing, but I enjoyed it.
  
  Graphics: The battles are in 3D, the rest of the game could pass for Game Boy Advance graphics. 
 In fact, they are, because theyre virtually the same as Battle Networks graphics.
  
  Gameplay: Lots of random battles, expanding your Card Folder, finding HP ups, gaining levels; this 
 is definitely a collection type game.
  Audio: Pretty much the same thing as was in the GBA Mega Mans, still sounds good though.
  
 
  Replay Worth: Though theres no Wi-Fi battle, you can use the DSs basic, close range wireless 
 functions to battle with friends in the same room. Collecting every card and getting all the health 
 also adds tons of time youll put into playing the game after seeing the credits roll.
  
  Summary: Its a real short game, but still something that would be better served buying than renting, 
 as youll be putting a lot of time into post-game side-quests. Anyway, I have to say, I love this 
 game. It may be yet another Mega Man spin off, but its still one of my favorite games to date. 
 I remember telling my friend when I first found the Mega Man Battle Network series that, Mega 
 Man as an RPG was brilliant! Who ever it was up at Capcom that came up with that, he needs to be 
 thanked. I still stand by that today, all these years later. Its a good game, Id recommend it 
 to most anybody (which would explain why Im writing a positive review of it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  this megaman game is like all the rest of megaman battle network games it has a whole new way of 
 showing the battle field and the battles get frustrating at times because you can only move from 
 side to side. the boss battles were nice although i must sayu they were knid of easy the only ones 
 i have found challenging are the lion and the final boss the others where easier to defeat. the 
 whole stylus feature is nic i like one where you have to move the sters and alling them. the combos 
 are really nice too you can get a good combo and use it against the boss to defeat them like nothing 
 sometimes. all im trying to say its the best megaman i have played so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Okay Gamespot gives a bit low score but if you loved BN then you should think abouth this game. 
 This game may be similar with battle network however it has new characters and battle systems and 
 more.. but true, at the end of review this game will great for someone who did not play battle 
 network and battle network lovers
  
  There are 3 versions of this game always like battle network with 2 versions... the graphic is 
 not good than battle network but in battle it's 3d battle system and you may only move 3 collums 
 but using cards press directional button down and mega will lock the enemy and attack then megaman 
 will go right front of enemy and attacks!
  
  You should get this game if you are RPG lover and Battle Network lover since battle network has 
 finished.. Also this game may fun to someone who want something changed with battle network. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force Leo is another Megaman game that absolutely rules!!! The game is very much like 
 Megaman Battle Network but the story is obviously different, as well as characters, and locations. Also 
 the DS features adds a little twist to the gameplay.
  
  OK..... The graphics of this game are no different than the Battle Network series. The only difference 
 is the character models during the battles.... they're 3-D instead of 2-D.
  
  The Gameplay is pretty much also the same as the Battle Network Series the difference is that instead 
 of being on a 3x3 grid your on 1x3 grid and to get to the other panels you have to aim at the enemy 
 by holding down and then using your Battle Card.
  
  The sound is..... also about the same as the Battle Network series. The music has slightly changed 
 but if you've played the Battle Network Series you'll recongnize from which game it was from. The 
 main difference of the sound is that there are more sounds. What I mean is that they now give sounds 
 to minor things unlike in battle network.
  
  Like Battle network this game does have alot of replay value. Collecting Cards, getting more Hp, Versing 
 Sp versions of enemys, raising your level, and creating BrotherBands. That's lot to do so you'll most 
 likely find yourself returning to the game.... alot.
  
  My closing comments are that if you liked the Battle Network Series than you'll like this one. Everything 
 is very similar so their wouldn't really be that much to learn. The only thing about the game is 
 that for those who really liked the battle network series, this game will make you miss it and 
 like me it'll probably take you a while to get used to the new characters, areas, and everything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha789
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The Review:
  
  Pro's:
  + Fantastic Game play
  + Great Graphics
  + Three different versions with a few differences in each game.
  + The game is decently priced.
 
  + The story mode lasts a good 40+ hours to get everything the game.
  + Multi player is a lot of fun.
  + The Wifi capabilities, and brother band offer new strategies, 
 and a way to help/get help from people over wifi.
  + Any Megaman Battle Network fan should adore this game.
  
  Con's:
  -At a certain point you 
 might feel that you are over-powered in the game.
  -People without wifi, or without friends who have the game might not be as satisfied as others.
 
  -Requests are sometimes annoying. Megaman Star Force is a great game for anyone who adores action 
 RPG's. Bosses are a lot of fun to fight, and playing against friends in multi player, and linking 
 up with them in a brotherband through wifi is also a lot of fun. Each new version offers different 
 link up abilities in the brother band, a few special chips, and a secret boss unique to each version. 
 Megaman Star Force is a game you should at least try to rent, you might just find that you would 
 love Megaman Starforce. In comparison to the Megaman Battle Network games, there are no more chip 
 codes making every single chip in the game have possible use. Unlike in Megaman Battle Network 
 where you build a strategy around a certain chip code. If you're a fan of any of the Megaman Battle 
 Network games, don't hesitate to buy, or at least rent this game, you should love it. Again, I 
 highly recommend any newcomers to give this game a shot, especially those of you who have wifi, 
 and friends who have the game.
  
  Thank you for reading my review.
  
  Just to note, this is the 20th year anniversary of Megaman.
  
  Congratulations Capcom!
  
 
  Author: Alpha789
  MSN: Windman. exe@hotmail. com
  Megaman Star Force Account:
  Leo version, level 80, FC: 0258-7727-1152
  
  Megaman Star Force Leo is an amazing action RPG 
 with wifi capabilities you won't find on any other DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldjango
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force is the successor to Megaman Battle Network in the same way X was to the originals. 
 You take control of a human, and go into another world as Megaman (The wave world as opposed 
 to the net) . Its an action-rpg that doesnt do anything too innovative, but doesnt follow the 
 norm.
  
  The story is pretty good. The set-up is that you are a 5th-grader named Geo Stelar (Subaru Hoshikawa 
 in Japan. Thats how Im going to refer to him from now on) you can rename him if you so wishin 
 the far flung future who hasnt gone to school in 3 years because his father was lost on a space 
 colony during an experiment to Brother Band (The games equivalent to registering friends on Xbox 
 Live or something) with the FM Planet. The FM king mistook the request for an invasion and kicked 
 the crap out of the space station. One of the FM aliens Omega-Xis (referring to him as War-Rock 
 because thats his Japanese name) went traitor and ran to Earth with a precious artifact called 
 the Andromeda key. One night while star gazing, Subaru puts on his Visualizer --which is a pair 
 of tricked out sunglasses made by his dad, which allows the wearer to see the wave roads, that 
 are formed by the radio waves used in everyday lifeand sees War-Rock as he crashes into Subaru. 
 They accidentally merge to become Megaman! After fighting some viruses, War-Rock decides to hide 
 out in Subarus transer (a mini, wrist-worn computer that serves as Star Forces equivalent to 
 the PET of Battle Network) . Soon, the other FM aliens following War-Rock get to Earth and crazy 
 crap happens.
  
  Most of the game uses 2d sprites. These are used for everything but battles, and are slightly crisper, 
 and more smoothly animated than Battle Networks sprites. During battle, everything is a 3d model, 
 that doesnt look too good. They have a lot of jagged edges and look blocky, but its the DS so 
 its forgivable.
  
  The sound in this game feels like the sound in the Battle Network games on the GBA. It's all techno, 
 but the music for this game belongs to 1/3 DS games that I can stand to hear because it doesn't 
 grate your ears. Overall, it does a good job of setting a mood, but some tracks are pulled straight 
 from the Battle Network games, like the crisis track, which is unfortunate.
  
  The game play feels like a traditional action-rpg, but at the same time, doesnt. While running 
 around either as the 2 worlds (normal world that the humans live their daily lives (and you play 
 as Subaru) , and the wave world where EM wave beings /FM aliens and humans merged with FM aliens 
 live, and carry out their lives (You play as Megaman. A merging of Subaru and War-Rock) . The wave 
 world is basically the new version of the internet) , you can talk to people, advance the storyline, 
 check stats ect. But the battles are where the game differs from other action-rpgs. If youve played 
 a Battle Network game before, you have an inkling of what to suspect. This time, you have a behind-the-back 
 view of the action. At the start of each turn, you pick battle cards cards that hold weapons, 
 support features, and other attacksfrom 2 rows of 3. The limitations are that you can only pick 
 cards in the same column. Exceptions to that are that you can pick more than 1 card anywhere on 
 the screen if they are the same (2 swords for example) , and white cards. White cards are 1 of 6 
 favorited cards that can be picked no matter what. An example is: I just picked a Heal 50 card 
 on the top-right. A Barrier card on the bottom-middle is a white card, and therefore I can also 
 select that. If you use your Star Force (transformation with the creature of your version. Pegasus, 
 Leo or Dragon, although through adding friends (Called Brothering) you can get the other versions 
 transformations) you can also pick every card in the same row.
  Once you pick your cards, you can start the battle. The battle takes place on a 3x5 grid which 
 to you are constrained to the back 3 panels. You can move side to side on your 3 panels with the 
 D-pad, and unleash the cards youve selected with the A button or use your mega buster (arm-mounted 
 energy blaster for the 2 people who dont know) with the B button for a machine-gun effect, or 
 use your shield to block most attacks (not bodily attacks. Fists and tackles for example) with 
 the Y button. Because you are constrained to the back row, it makes it hard for your sword cards 
 to be effective; this is where the lock on feature comes into play. You press down on the D-pad 
 and War-Rock changes to lock-on mode where he locks on to an enemy in the same column or diagonal 
 from Megaman. You can then use the card (any attacking card will work. It doesnt have to be swords) 
 and Megaman will get all into the enemys face and attack. Your enemies will move around and unleash 
 attacks of their own in an attempt to kill you (duh -.-) . If youve used up all your selected cards, 
 but the battle isnt over, dont fret because a bar on the right hand side is filling up while 
 you fight. When its full, you can press L or R and go to the card selection screen again. When 
 youve killed your foes, you win money, new cards, or sometimes an hp refill. Leveling up is done 
 through the gathering of HP memories, which increase your max health. Leveling up doesnt not affect 
 your other stats though; instead, the weapons you equip on your buster (evidently War-Rocks head) 
 affect your attack rating (how much damage you do per shot with your buster) , rapid rating (how 
 fast you shoot) , and your charge rating (how fast you charge up a charge shot for more damage) .
 
  The game supports both online and local multiplayer, although PvP is only possible through local 
 multiplayer. Online, you can send e-mails to your brothers (friends) , trade cards, and make brothers. 
 The advantage to brothering is that you get a bonus (such as increased max health or first barrier 
 which gives you a one-hit protection at the start of every battle) plus if you brother with a version 
 different from your own, you get their Star Force.
  
  No matter which version of Megaman Star Force you get (Pegasus, Leo or Dragon. The only differences 
 are your star force transformation, menu colour, and giga (ultimate awesomeness) chips.) , it is 
 a great game, weighing in at around 17-20 hours depending on how you play/how fast you play. The 
 battles are exciting, and whenever the battles get a little dull due to weak/same enemies, when 
 you get to the next area in the storyline, the enemies ramp up in difficulty and keep you on your 
 toes. The game differs in difficulty depending on your skill, both with this game, and your skill 
 with the Battle Network games as the game really just puts a slight twist on the Battle Network 
 series formula. Personally, Im a veteran BN player and felt this game to be slightly above-average 
 in difficulty. No matter how hard the game is at first, the streamlined game play makes it easy 
 for you to get used to it and get better quicker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djammal86
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Mega Man has finally hit the scene again in a new series for the franchise. you get to play as 
 a young boy name Geo (Subaru) and fuses with an FM alien to get his new found wave powers. In this 
 game, you'll get to travel in the wave world and battle the unseen evil that fills the earth.
 
  
  The game play in Mega Man Star force is solid, just like it's predecessor Mega Man Battle Network. 
 It's battle system remain the same, but with new dimension, since the formula work so well for 
 the EXE series. I like the variety of weapons you can choose from and the fact you can go online 
 and battle your brothers in your brotherband . This can become useful, if you want to use cards 
 from the other versions of the game.
  
  The difficulty in the game is easy at first, but get progressively harder as you move on. Also, 
 the graphics on the game look very clean and the presentation is good.
  
  To put it short, Mega Man Star Force Leo is a game that any fan of the Mega Man franchise or of 
 a good RPG should play. With it's solid game play, Mega Man Star Force: Leo is sure to keep you 
 interested for quite a long time. Trust me, most of you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  The Megaman franchise has finally reached its 20th anniversary mark and to top that it off, Capcom 
 has released a new Blue Bomber game for the public localized into the U. S. Megaman Star Force in 
 3 versions, Pegasus, Leo, and Dragon. The game takes core ideas from the original Megaman Battle 
 Network game and inputs it into this new game and creates a new stunning world with new features 
 onto the DS. Megaman Star Force is practically a continuation of Battle Network that takes about 
 2 centuries after the adventures of Lan and Megaman. The hero of this game, Geo Stelar, is a young 
 boy who wishes to travel to space in order to look for his missing father that disappeared 3 years 
 back. Geo skips school and is afraid of making friends when suddenly a strange alien, called Omega-Xis 
 or Mega, confronts him. This new being is called a FM-ain which is a race from the planet FM. Omega-Xis 
 has betrayed his home world and escaped to the planet Earth with a strange object with a priority 
 to protect it. Through strange events of the game, Mega and Geo merge together into one being called 
 Megaman and using his newfound powers intends to stop the evil FM-ians invading the world. The 
 world has evolved from internet and PET usage from Battle Network into a wave society which is 
 controlled by Electro-Magnetic Waves, or EM waves. As the world has transferred from the Internet 
 to Wave Roads and EM Waves, the PET have disappeared and came in with the new Transers. Transers 
 basically act as PETs except that it's attached to a person's arm and gains access with the Brotherband 
 feature, which will be described later on. By the use of the Transer, Omega-Xis is able to live 
 inside of it and allows Geo to fuse with Mega and make use of his battle cards. The basic layout 
 of the game on the Nintendo DS is that the top screen acts as the Transer information menu which 
 basically shows what's on the Transer at the moment, most of the time it'll be your information 
 card which shows a picture of the character, HP, Favorite battle cards, and level. By clicking 
 X the menu of the Transer will open and allow you to organize your battle chip folder, see email, 
 access items that you've found, and save. There is also a wireless function and a wi-fi function 
 which makes full use of the Brotherband system. However, when the menu is not accessed the bottom 
 screen acts as the RPG area where the character is free to roam around the world. The graphics 
 of the world and the characters which is displayed at the bottom screen on the DS is very identical 
 to the style from the Battle Network series so it doesn't show great graphical improvement from 
 the GBA to the DS however, the scenery, characters, and edges of the world seem much smoother so 
 it shows that Capcom liked the art style of the game and just wanted to improve on it. At certain 
 parts of the Wave World where you are Megaman, the bottom screen acts as an activity screen where 
 you have to touch certain parts of the screen with your stylus to progress through the game, such 
 as shooting notes by click the arrows on the screen and much more. Though this task seems tedious 
 at times, it can be amusing with a positive thought. The basic layout of the button country is 
 almost identical to the Battle Network, just like everything else, with the addition of X and Y 
 button. These buttons in the real world act as the Visualizer and the menu button respectively. 
 Overall the exploration of the world and its presentation seems to be smooth and slick just like 
 the original Battle Network series.
  Omega-Xis is an FM-ian is also part of the EM waves and therefore can't be seen with the human 
 eye, however, with a visor called the Visualizer, Geo is able to see EM waves and the wave roads 
 that cover the world. The world is covered by the 3 satellites called, Dragon, Pegasus, and Leo. 
 Geo by merging with Mega is able to transform himself into an EM Wave being and is able to freely 
 travel the world on the wave roads in his city. However, nothing in the world is perfect and therefore, 
 on the wave roads, where Megaman travels, is infested with EM Viruses which attack and mess up 
 electronic devices. The game uses the same RPG format the Battle Network series used, which allows 
 the players to randomly walk around as Megaman and run into a battle randomly. While this old format 
 of random battle is very tedious, Capcom has lowered the random encounter rates drastically compared 
 to the Battle Network series. However, the battles are not so few so that the players will not 
 gain any experience for future fights but enough so that the player builds up quick reflexes and 
 finger movements. Once entered into battle the player has the actual battle screen on the top and 
 the bottom screen acts as the chip choosing menu. The custom gauge is back once more and is still 
 a very effective idea even in the new Megaman game. The custom menu is part of the battle where 
 the player gets to choose chips from the bottom screen, with a stylus or the D-pad, and load them 
 up to Megaman. After the chips are decided the battle starts and the chips loaded become available 
 to use in battle, but once used they disappear. In order to use the chips you will press the A 
 button and activate the chips effect whether its support, offensive, or defensive. These chips 
 are used against the various types of viruses you will fight against in battle. Once you are out 
 of chips, you are free to use the Mega Buster and shoot at your enemies with the B button or use 
 the X button to use the shield to block against enemy attack for a second or two. However, not 
 everything can be blocked by the shield. The shield becomes an important asset in the new game 
 because of the change in battle system compared to the BN series. Unlike the original battle network 
 series where you have 3x3 range to move around in with a bit of a bird's eye view of the battle 
 area, it has completely shifted to a third person, behind the Megaman view, with only a 3x1 area 
 of movement, when the whole battlefield's area is 3x6 or 3x5. This seems limited but it's actually 
 due to the fact that some or most of the virus attacks are very linear and top that off with very 
 good 3-D graphics supporting the game, battles look and run exceptionally smooth. Everything in 
 the battle is run in 3-D from special navi-chip attacks to defending. However, most of the time 
 you'll only get to see Megaman's back since that's the only view of the battle the game offers 
 the player. Nonetheless with this limited movement, strafing left and right only, the shield becomes 
 vital to use in tough virus fights and most importantly, boss fights. Close range chips are back 
 once more, but how can you attack an enemy that's far back in the battle stage? The right and left 
 buttons on the D-pad allows Megaman to strafe in battle and the back button acts as a target button. 
 The target system allows Megaman to lock on to an enemy when it is in range. The range is that 
 the enemy is straight in front of megaman, regardless of distance, or that person is diagonally 
 left or right from him. This new system works very well with swords and close up attacks but can 
 be very cheap due to the fact that you can just lock on just about every enemy and spam battle 
 chips. However, this system is not so perfect that allows Megaman to become invincible. When locked 
 on an enemy Megaman moves close to the target, THEN uses the chip, and it takes a quick second 
 in order for this process to take place so at anytime where Megaman attacks to finishing the attack, 
 he is very vulnerable. When Megaman is out of chips a gauge on the top right corner of the top 
 screen is where you need to pay attention. Over the time of the battle this gauge will fill up, 
 and once it is filled up the battle chip selection menu will come up again and the whole process 
 starts all over.
  The Brotherband system is a new feature added to this game and takes fights and outside extras 
 to fullest. What the Brotherband system does is that you can link your Transers with other people 
 in real life (with your DS of course) or in game and allows you to enhance Megaman's abilities. 
 The Brotherband is basically a link that allows you customize how you want your Megaman to fight. 
 There are features in the game that go into a great deal to customize and alter your Megaman so 
 that he can fight to your use, but it's something that needs to be done by the player to fully 
 realize.
  The sound and the music seem really cheap and repetitive just like other RPGs and Megaman is no 
 exception. What also makes the music seem really cheap is that it seems like remixed music versions 
 of the original BN series, which to some can get really old. Other than that, the music fits according 
 to each situation in the game.
  Fans of the Megaman series might think the transition into this type of gaming style will be stupid 
 or dumb, but will be sadly surprised when this game turns out to be better than expected for them. 
 From stunning graphics to amazing fights, and endless wandering where to go next, this game shows 
 what kind of great RPGs are on the DS now, and what is to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonMaskD
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force (Shooting Star Rockman) is another spin-off series of Megaman (Rockman) . It 
 uses similar gameplay to the Battle Network series, but with some changes like 3rd person view 
 and some abilities that make the new view easier, giving it a fresh feel to those who played all 
 the Battle Network series. It's divided in 3 versions, but the only difference between each one 
 is the special form you obtain. Another interesting feature is the Brother Band system. It lets 
 you register up to 6 friends over Nintendo-Wifi and you can send e-mail, view each other's blogs, 
 and share Battle Cards (the replacement of Battle Chips) and power ups (including the special forms 
 exclusive to each version) . Like the BN games the plot is creative and amazing. My only problems 
 with MMSF is that while playing the game on a DS Lite the controlds are a little tricky when in 
 the overworld and of course the problems Capcom has handeling the english versions of the Megman 
 which are
  
  1. Some typos
  2. Unnecessary name changes
  3. A script that makes it more kid-friendly
  4. Removing a couple features (connecting with Lunar 
 Knights to get special items and unlock a new boss in Lunar Knights, and this Wave Scanner accesory (read 
 more about it on other sites) .
  
  Overall Megaman Star Force is a superb game and you won't regret buying it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
