-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mega Man Battle Network 5: Double Team
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/megamanbattlenetwork5doubleteam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More chips, puzzles, and variety than in past MMBN games.
 Nice to be able to use multiple Navi characters.
 Story and characters are very likable.
 Use of DS touch screen makes chip folders easier to manage.
 Numerous DS-specific improvements and features.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Just an enhanced version of the GBA game.
 2D graphics aren't up to par with recent DS or GBA games.
 Not everyone enjoys a dungeon crawler.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 766 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 1, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Capcom has taken what was already a decent role-playing game on the GBA and made it better on the 
 DS by taking advantage of the system's unique hardware features. 

  While it may be true that Mega Man Battle Network 5: Double Team is merely just an enhanced version 
 of a GBA game that was released a few months earlier, it's also impossible to deny that all of 
 the added map, touch-screen, and Wi-Fi features make the DS game easier to play, and ultimately 
 more enjoyable. If you haven't yet given Capcom's Mega Man-themed role-playing-game franchise a 
 try, now might be the time to finally cut your teeth. And, if you're a longtime fan, you'll appreciate 
 all of the improvements, not to mention the ability to unlock bonuses and transfer chip folders 
 by inserting previous Mega Man Battle Network games into the system's GBA slot.  

          Battle Network 5 on the DS packages together the two versions of the GBA game, but also 
 includes a number of beneficial DS-specific upgrades.     

  For the uninitiated, the Mega Man Battle Network series combines traditional role-playing with 
 action-oriented combat. The central idea is that the real world and cyberspace exist as two separate 
 universes. A young boy named Lan wanders around and interacts with people and places in the real 
 world, while his souped-up cell phone, a Navi named Mega Man, explores cyber dungeons in the virtual 
 world and partakes of random battles against evil Navis (called viruses) . Often, the things you 
 do in cyberspace will unlock doors or activate machines in the real world, and vice versa. Combat 
 isn't turn-based, like it usually is in role-playing games. Instead, battles happen in real time 
 on a 6-by-3 grid that's split evenly into player and enemy areas. Naturally, you want to deplete 
 their health meters before they obliterate yours.  

  The unique thing about combat in the Mega Man Battle Network games is that Mega Man's attacks are 
 randomly decided by drawing tiny cards known as battle chips. Five chips are selected at the beginning 
 of each battle, and when they're used, others are drawn to take their places. Some chips are better 
 against certain types of enemies, and some can dole out damage to a whole swath of grid squares. 
 Multiple attacks can be chained together by using chips with the same name or letter designation, 
 and some chips can be combined to create stronger attacks. You can only bring 30 chips into battle 
 with you, so that's where most of the game's strategy comes from: collecting, organizing, and storing 
 useful battle chips in your active folder. In all, there are nearly 300 unique chips to find and 
 collect.  

  Similar to how Ruby and Sapphire introduced multiple Pokemon battles to Nintendo's Pokemon franchise, 
 Mega Man Battle Network 5 introduces the ability to alternate between and control multiple Navis 
 (in addition to Mega Man) in cyberspace battles and during so-called "liberation" missions. The 
 main difference between the two situations is that you can only bring two other Navis besides Mega 
 Man into cyberspace, whereas in liberation missions you can control as many as six. Liberation 
 missions are basically just turn-based variations of cyberspace levels. Each level is filled with 
 dark panels that block your way to the boss. By using the Navis on your team, your goal is to liberate 
 dark panels until you clear a path. Each dark panel contains a group of viruses -- so battles aren't 
 random -- but you can only liberate one panel per turn with each Navi. Once all your Navis have been 
 used, your turn ends, and the boss gets its chance to heal its minions or conjure new viruses to 
 stand in your way.  

  Mega Man Battle Network 5 improves upon Mega Man Battle Network 4 in a myriad of other ways, too. 
 Many of the dungeons in cyberspace now include puzzles and side games, instead of just leading 
 the player toward the exit with a constant flurry of random battles. Battle arenas have a wider 
 variety of terrain, such as rocks and leafy vegetation, and some arenas are split so that enemies 
 are on the left and right sides of the screen while Mega Man is in the middle. Most importantly, 
 dark chips have been made easier to find and use. Dark chips are powerful attack chips that can 
 cause Mega Man to lose HP or turn evil if he uses them too frequently. There are twice as many 
 dark chips now, and they can be collected and put into folders just like regular chips. Previously, 
 the CPU would occasionally just insert a random dark chip into the deck during a battle. It's also 
 possible now to combine a dark chip with a soul Navi chip in order to activate a soul unison attack, 
 which doesn't reflect negatively on Mega Man's HP or personality. Taken together, these changes 
 give players more leeway to collect and use dark chips.  

           Although mainly a role-playing game, Mega Man's combat takes place in real time on a 6-by-3 
 grid.     

  Like most RPGs, Mega Man Battle Network 5 is primarily a dungeon crawler. You'll spend most of 
 your time in the game traveling through cyberspace areas in search of the enemies you need to defeat 
 and items you need to collect in order to advance the story along. The inclusion of multiple Navi 
 battles, liberation missions, and more side games makes that journey livelier than it was in previous 
 games. But the core gameplay still involves a lot of back-and-forth travel and frequent, randomly 
 occurring battles. Like in similarly designed RPGs, the roughly 30-hour trek through the game does 
 feel tedious at times. And, like in any other similarly designed RPG, the story and characters 
 make up for the game's repetitive hands-on aspects. On the one side, you have a group called Nebula 
 trying to take over the world by cornering the market on dark chips. On the other side, you have 
 Lan and his friends trying to stop them. In the middle, you have familiar characters like Mega 
 Man, Protoman, Guts Man, and so forth. If you enjoy the Mega Man universe, you should have enough 
 steam to slog through the game from beginning to end without burning out on cyberspace dungeons. 
     

   

  When Mega Man Battle Network 5 was released for the GBA, two different versions were published: 
 Team Colonel and Team Protoman. Each version had its own unique set of bosses, helper Navis, and 
 exclusive battle chips, but the stories and locations in both games were identical. In order to 
 collect a complete set of battle chips, you had to trade chips between the two different versions 
 of the game. As the name "double team" implies, the DS game packages those formerly stand-alone 
 versions together on a single game card. You can pick which variation you want to play by selecting 
 it from a menu, and, more importantly, you can swap battle chips and Navis from one version to 
 the other simply by going to the in-game chip shop or by using TP chip items to initiate a Navi 
 transfer. That sure beats wrangling two separate GBA systems, two game cartridges, and a link cable. 

          Eventually, you'll be able to control and swap between multiple Navis.      

  Apart from combining the two individual GBA games together, the DS version of Mega Man Battle 
 Network 5 also features a slew of enhancements that take advantage of the system's unique hardware 
 features. Players can now access Mega Man's PDA functions and edit battle chip folders using the 
 stylus and lower touch screen. Tapping icons and physically dragging chips back and forth between 
 folders is easier and more intuitive than using the D pad and buttons. The process is also more 
 enjoyable from a conceptual standpoint, since one of the game's underlying premises is that Mega 
 Man exists inside of Lan's PDA. For the first time, players can interact with Mega Man just like 
 Lan does. Another useful change is the ability to display a map on the lower screen while moving 
 around on the upper screen. It was easy to get lost in the GBA game, particularly in some of the 
 larger cyberspace areas, because there wasn't a map to refer to. Just having a map in the DS game 
 is a major improvement.  

  Trading battle chips and participating in multiplayer battles is also much easier in Double Team, 
 thanks to the DS's Wi-Fi capabilities. Players no longer need to fuss with link cables just to 
 swap chips or compete against friends that have their own copy of the game. Additionally, Capcom 
 has implemented a Wi-Fi tournament mode into the DS game. As many as eight players can get together 
 and participate in elimination-style one-on-one matches to determine the overall winner, who earns 
 a free battle chip for taking the top spot. One especially nifty feature of the tournament mode 
 is that players waiting on standby can choose to watch the current match in progress on their own 
 DS. That's a nice alternative to staring at a static "please wait" screen. While not many players 
 will be able to find three or four people locally that own the game, let alone seven, it's nice 
 that Capcom at least made it possible to get large-scale tournaments going.  

  Another nice feature is the ability to transfer data, unlock bonus goodies, and power up helper 
 Navis just by loading up the game with another Mega Man Battle Network game in the system's GBA 
 cartridge slot. If you boot up with Mega Man Battle Network 5 in the slot, you'll be able to transfer 
 over your battle chip folder -- saving you from hours of repeated legwork. If you insert one of the 
 first four Mega Man Battle Network games, you'll unlock different outfits and starting chips for 
 Mega Man. When you continue to play through the DS version with one of those games in the GBA slot, 
 you'll encounter additional merchants and minigames that aren't normally present, and you'll also 
 discover that certain helper Navis have been powered up during liberation missions. These bonuses 
 may sound paltry and frivolous, but the ability to begin a new game with even a few extra chips, 
 or to start a liberation mission with a stronger Navi, offers a significant head start over the 
 norm.  

  Taken together, all of the improvements and new features implemented in the DS game do make it 
 worth owning over the older and less pricy GBA game. The core gameplay may not have changed, but 
 being able to find your way around cyberspace and more easily manage chip folders and items ultimately 
 makes it easier to enjoy the game. After all, less time spent wandering around or futzing with 
 menus means more time spent fighting viruses and experiencing story-related events.  

          DS-specific features include touch-screen PDA access and chip folder organization, visible 
 maps on the lower screen, and a Wi-Fi tournament mode.     

  Of course, since the DS game is merely an upgraded version of the GBA game, the graphics and audio 
 pretty much reflect what the GBA can do and not what the DS is capable of. Capcom added voice narration 
 to many of the in-game menus and dialogue boxes, which were previously silent in the GBA game, 
 but that's as far as it went to spruce up the game's presentation. For the most part, the three-quarter-view 
 environments are sharp and colorful. Things like doorways, exits, paths, and interface terminals 
 are easy to make out. The character graphics used for the Navis and viruses are fairly large, and 
 fans of the Mega Man franchise will be pleased that they look just like the character sprites that 
 were in the old Super NES Mega Man games. What's not so pleasing is the dearth of animation, particularly 
 during battles. The characters pop instantly from one square to the next on the battle grid, instead 
 of walking, and their bodies transition into attack poses or react to damage in two or three jerky 
 frames. One could argue that the crayon-style colors, goofy portraits, and jumpy two-frame attack 
 animations contribute to the game's unique artistic style. Even so, Capcom could have at least 
 improved the animations or tacked on a few more visual effects for the DS release. As for the audio, 
 major portions of the music and sound effects have simply been recycled from earlier Mega Man Battle 
 Network games. In general, the dramatic melodies, familiar Mega Man themes, and high-tech lasers 
 and explosions fit the action just fine, even though they don't set the bar any higher.  

  All told, Mega Man Battle Network 5: Double Team toes the line between money-grubbing rehash and 
 legitimate upgrade. Ultimately, the game wins the day because its added features genuinely do make 
 it more user-friendly and enjoyable. Capcom has taken what was already a decent role-playing game 
 on the GBA and has made it better on the DS.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lord_bobert
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  as creative as it was the game made me sick anticipating a mmbn game for ds after throwing team 
 colonel out the window i was horrified to see that traditional battle network style had been shot 
 down by mega mans buster.
  
  and wow did THAT make me mad i bought-no wasted my money on it just to see how bad it was. and 
 it  
  the tile based action was decent but didn't even come close to how awful the mega man style was 
 re-made playing as other navis made for some good playing but being expected to kill enemys on 
 both sides of the battle screen with out getting double teamed is outrageous at best.
  
  for those who don't know the quirky gameplay here is a basic rundown:
  on the tile based field 
 you have to liberate panels in order to get to the boss
  once you chose the liberate option you enter the familiar battle network field and as you guessed 
 you have to delete all enemys on screen.
  
  all and all i probably don't give it credit where credit is due but im not lying the game sucks. 
 get it if you want to but buy at your own risks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke_21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  Able to play as other navi's, More Battle Chips, Double Soul, replayability 
  
  The Bad
  No improved graphics since MMBN3, The sword hitting Minigame
  
  The story is that 
 nebula is taking over certain parts of the net and Protoman or Colonel (whichever team you want 
 to enlist on (get it since one is colonel (ok bad pun) ) ) need to liberate the areas of which they 
 have taken over. I like team Protoman the best and so do most people i am guessing.
  
  Gameplay is great and it is the same as the other battle networks with some new additions. The 
 major thing i like was being able to play as other navi's (this game is the first one to allow 
 you to do it i think) , especially Protoman (favourite Navi) . The double souls are great fun cause 
 they import the navi's abilities like searchsoul uses searchmans gun and lock on ability (that 
 owns on bosses and versing friends) . One thing all MMBN have in common is to test your ability 
 to figure things out (i had to consult a walkthrough a couple of times) and have Lan (Megamans 
 operator) do things in the town or wherever you are find out information.
  
  Graphics are ok but it is a bit of a shame that they haven't improved them since MMBN3. 
  
 
  After you beat the game save the clear data and it will loud you back to just before you beat 
 the game and you can start collecting all the battlechips and do the other liberation missions 
 (they are extremely hard) .
  
  All in all this game is challenging and once you start playing you will be hooked. Just remember 
 Megaman, jack in and power up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Wow when you think even the GB version is great this one tops it!
  Graphics: Improved a little since on the DS and some of the characters still look cute. 8.5/10 
 
  Fighting: The same as before but with a new giga chip and the fighting itself has changed since 
 now you can bring 2 "ghost" navi data's with you.
  Music: YESSS you can pick your own music if you have any of the original games it does the virus 
 music on that and mixes it, by putting the GBA game in the slot 2 and then playing. #4 music is 
 the coolest even though that game isn't great. 10/10
  Bosses: Same as the GB versions but they seem cooler with the #4 mixed music. Not to mention you 
 can make 2 Accounts and make them protoman and colonel or colonel and colonel, ect. 10/10
  Liberation missions: This time you can trade your team's navis for the other teams like if you 
 don't want Knightman and you want Magnetman you can trade them because of there same data formation. Missions 
 are easier though because of you being buffed up. 10/10
  Storyline: Interesting storyline will keep you guessing and wanting more of it. 9/10
  Multi-Player: 
 Improves but sadly no Wi-Fi but now you can do even more i can't really explain all of it but if 
 you do get it try it out. 9/10
  Overall: Fun fun fun fun game i suggest this to about anyone who owns a DS and it'll be hard at 
 first but you'll get the hang of it. It does seem a little easier though then the gba version... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thargorx
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  The game looks fun and actually plays nice. And probably on the later levels it gets a lot better. 
 However you start of with few good chips so your folder is stuffed with no so useable chips to 
 do battle with. In the end this means that a lot of the battles you have to plough through are 
 determined by getting those few chips that can make a difference. Especially in the liberate missions 
 where you only have a limited number of turns to beat the virusses, you heavily depend on drawing 
 the right chips. And if you don't, well tough, you'll have to redo the entire mission.
  As I said, probably later in the game with a decent set of battlechips to fill your folder you 
 can enjoy it a lot more.
  All in all, I was quite happy to have gotten this for free, so I don't feel too bad throwing the 
 game in the never to be played again bin after a couple of hourse.
  Too much frustration and aggravation is not something I want to have in a game, I got enough of 
 that at work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f8al13
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game with two different versions (protoman, colonel) . This game has fairly good 
 graghics with gameplay that at times will be so fun and the sometimes will be very frustrating. 
 It is very addictive and and you won't be able to put it down. although if you have played the 
 series before I wouldn't get it. This game is exactly like the other megaman battle network games 
 but it is still fun. Most of the game is great but some parts of the game I could hardly play and 
 it seemed like a chore to coninue but after those crappy parts it was all worth it. This game is 
 pretty long and will keep you busy for hours. I only recommend this to people who have never played 
 the series before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisisMurderous
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  The new Battle Network is really good, if you haven't played the others in the series. MMBN5 has 
 a decent battle system, good graphics, and a fairly interesting story. Good presentation, except 
 for the voices, I would've prefered not to hear them. But even though the game is quite well-made 
 it feels the same as others in the series. I barely made it through the game, the battle system 
 which used to be really good is feeling very repetitive now. I reccomend this game is you haven't 
 played any other MMBN games or you skipped a through, but otherwise I say there's not much of a 
 point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryeth
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This game i think deserved a better review, it got a pretty good one, but it deserved if not any, 
 a little better, it was pretty good gameplay, i think the best game play yet, but the turn idea 
 was kinda boring, and scenarios took forever, i didnt like the story line too much, so if you are 
 just coming into the mega man universe, this isnt the best game to start with, its not that you 
 missed much storyline, its just that its not the best, you mega man gamers will still enjoy this 
 actioned packed game as i did, the game itself didnt take me very long, but if want to get all 
 the battle chips it can take a long time, So get out your DS and bust some viruses with Mega man! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinCamp24
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Megaman sure is getting famous for the NetNavi versions based on the original 2D side-scrollers. 
 They have had quite a few games, one for the GameCube, tons for the GBA, and even had a TV show. 
 You can't go wrong with Megaman. EXEs appearance on the DS.
  
  You start as the well known Lan Hikari, and his famous blue Navi, Megaman. You have to go through 
 a training session with viruses, which can get boring for the veterans of these games. You must 
 travel across the net with missions, looking for chips, or new to BN 5, the liberation missions 
 with Protoman or Colonel, and Navis that are different in each version. This battle system is of 
 which you face off against Nebula, the bad guys from BN 4.
  
  In this game you find DarkChips and put them in your folder, instead of them popping up when Megaman 
 is worried. DarkChips are quite harmful to Megaman, and they take 1 of his Max HP when you use them. 
 They give you bugs and glitches. I have never used one. Some people choose to, but it's your choice.
 
  
  The battle system is the same as always, 3x6 field, using Battle Chips when the come up, same old 
 same old.
  
  This is a game that is very enjoyable, and is worth the buy. I say... Go Megaman! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klyern
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  ( * )
  
  i thought id somehow reach 5 before becoming totally bored or maybe 6 if they are making one... 
 but turns out 4 had the same battle system, im not triying to curse the game out loud but the syncro 
 idea was a total rip of from paper mario and paper mario's was at least fun.
  
  We Say, You Say, They Say, i love gamespot but whatever, i dont know how u guys can rate it with 
 the same ratings after so many games (exactly alike) , of course its not the first time i am disapointed 
 with gamespot's ratings but this was clearly a failure by capcom, i wont buy 5 and i think that 
 speaks for itself.
  
  yhea 4 had new chips and so did 3 but DUH =P they'd have to change at least *something* right?
 
  
  on the bright side (has i bet you have too) , I loved the navicust and styles, cant get tired of 
 guts, sword or shield.
  
  ( * ) I might have prefered the discontinuity of the games, but posibly the best choice for buying 
 any game right now if you haven't played any other of the Battle Network series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lothis
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  After finally beating the previous titles in this series I reached this game, skipping over its 
 GBA counterparts. First I played through Team Protoman then I played through Team Colonel and have 
 done the extra stuff in Team Colonel.
  
  The story in this game involves Lan and his friends gathering at SciLab so that his father can 
 show them all something, but before he can, Nebula attacks the lab with knockout gas and kidnaps 
 Lan's dad and steals the PET's from Lan's friends. Lan was safely hidden in his father's cubicle 
 because he was looking for his dad's ID when the gas hit. Before passing out from the gas Lan hears 
 the PA system say that several areas of the net have been occupied by a mysterious group. Several 
 days after this Lan receives an anonymous email saying SciLab computers were under attack and he 
 rushes out there only to find it wasn't under attack but that [Protoman or Colonel] was testing 
 him to see if he is worthy to join a team to resist Nebula. Lan and MegaMan join and the adventure 
 starts.
  
  This game introduces liberation missions which sort of add a turn based strategy game into MMBN. 
 They can be fun but can also be very frustrating at times, especially the later optional ones in 
 the Nebula Areas. The way they work is that there are Dark Panels all over the area, they surround 
 Dark Holes, which serve 2 purposes: to protect the Darkloid and to release guardians onto the field, 
 and sometimes contain items, like zenny, battle chips, order points, or bug frags, and sometimes 
 traps disguised as items. Most Navis have a special command they can use to aid in liberating more 
 than one Dark Panel at a time, such as Protoman's Wide Sword and Colonel's Screen Divide hitting 
 3-squares wide. Not all have such a command, Magnet Man has Magnet Barrier which protects all team 
 mates from Darkloid attacks for that turn and Knight Man has no command at all in exchange for 
 always taking 0 damage from Darkloid attacks and automatically guarding any ally near him. Numberman 
 and Searchman both have abilities that allow them to search out items. Toad Man and Meddy both 
 have abilities that allow for liberating many panels in one turn. Gyro Man bombs 1 dark panel without 
 having to fight and Shadow Man can use Sneak Attack on guardians and Darkloids, both of them can 
 move over Dark Panels as well. Tomahawkman can clear a 2x6 grid while Napalmman can clear a cross 
 pattern 5 squares ahead, both destroying all items except barrier keys in the process. Mega Man's 
 liberation command is Long Sword which clears 2 panels. To use these commands, you must use up 
 1 order point, which you start with 3 and can have a maximum of 8 at any time. Also on the field 
 are bonus panels which can provide anything an item panel can but also it can deal a major hit 
 to the closest guardian or darkloid or it can grant invincibility for one turn to all your allies. 
 The number of Dark Panels around your Navi will determine which side has how many panels in battle, 
 and if you're completely surrounded it will be 2 colums for the enemy on each side with your Navi 
 in the 2 colums in the middle (you can switch which way you're facing with R or L) A battle in 
 liberation missions must be completed in 3 turns (when the custom gauge fills, and it opens automatically) 
 or the liberate will fail. Battle is otherwise the same on a 3x6 grid.
  
  The different Navis on each team is enough to want to play both versions but in addition to that, 
 on the DS version you get several benefits to having both games finished, such as getting to fight 
 an even harder version of Bass. In liberation missions, you can use something called a Transport 
 chip to bring in the other team's member of the same position (i. e. Colonel Protoman, Shadowman 
 Gyroman, Numberman Searchman, Toadman Meddy, Knightman Magnetman, Tomahawkman Napalmman) . In the 
 DS version you can use maps (picked up from BMDs in or near the corresponding area) and the Party 
 Battle System which lets you carry 2 'images' of your team mates with you through the net, they 
 can even be slightly customized with the Party Customizer. There's new Numberman Codes for various 
 items, specifically the previously unobtainable Leader's Raid and Lord of Chaos chips. Also you 
 can get a wide number of special effects by inserting MMBN 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5, Boktai 1 or 2 into 
 the GBA slot (Boktai 3 and MMBN 4.5 as well if you're playing the JP version) for things like special 
 shops, Sol Cross MegaMan and Bass Cross MegaMan and changing the battle music to a remixed version 
 of the previous games' musics. I've also heard (but not confirmed myself yet) that you can get 
 the other team's Navi chips from Higsby's open space board for 30,000 zenny each.
  
  Graphics in this game are the same as they were in MMBN4 but the sound is vastly improved, especially 
 the remixed battle music when you have the older games in the GBA slot.
  
  This game does have its downsides, most notably there are more typos and "wrong mugshots" used 
 than there were in mmbn3 and mmbn4 combined. Also liberation missions can get on your nerves very 
 easily, especially if you try to get the super prize (from beating the mission in at least 2 turns 
 less than the target) . To add to all that you must S-Rank all the Omega Navis of your team mates 
 to even be able to face the sub bosses of the secret areas.
  
  I would reccommend this game to anyone, its extremely fun and has just the right amount of challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega-sonic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Megaman battle network 5 carries on from the other 4 battle network games. The story is about a 
 evil group called Nebula that has kiddnapped Lan's Dad and takes over the network. Megaman's job 
 is to once again save all of the zones from Nebula's grasp. This game offers two teams for you to 
 play as. The game has a easy training session for you to learn the skills to use in the game. I am 
 going to give this game a great mark of 8.7 because of the game is using the DS's touch screen 
 features and the great graphics and this game was as good on the Game Boy Advance and is still 
 brilliant on the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilistun
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  MMBN5 was the best game in the series without the added features of the DS version. They took the 
 great aspects of the game and made them better. They even made the wireless multiplayer better!! 
 i think this is definitely the best one in the series because it takes all of the great ideas in 
 the prior games and improves them. plus the fact that is has both versions of the game in one. 
 The Liberation missions were great the soul unisons were great and the bosses were great. Capcom 
 has outdone itself this time. this game is a must have for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiker71
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  MMBN 5 is the newest game in the battle network set of games. I love the battle style on battle 
 network and the game flows very nicely with a nice slighly cheesy story its a great rpg and you 
 can get it online new from target for only 20.00$. Anyone who likes battle network will love this 
 game becuase it both of the protoman and conile games in one, theres also two save slots. Im awaiting 
 the release of the next battle network game and with it coming out soon i hope they make a DS version 
 of it. The new DS Things that were added to the game are the touch screen control to your PET and 
 a map on the second screen witch helps alot. Thats about all i have to say have a nice day and i 
 hope my review helped you in some way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vigma23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  This game is great you get two games in one for a low price which isnt bad. But their is a negative 
 side to it the saving is really slow and its not as fast as the gba games. Then there are the voice 
 overs which are alright but its kinda annoying. I like the maps and allthat and I like that bass 
 cross but its sorta hard. And I could just add chips into the ds game and helps easier and you 
 could use the other battle network games to change the music when you battle. I kinda like that 
 and you can use diffrient navis with you when you battle. I like that they had made some changes 
 and im a megaman fan. I like the battle network series and I have them all even bcc and nt and 
 that 4.5 game. I cant wait for number six to come out but if you have number five already and you 
 have both versions then dont pick it up its sorta the same. Only that it has voice things and maps 
 and you have the bass cross and I geuss thats alright but it depends on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberZero104
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  If you are a Mega Man fan and a DS fan, you might've waited for this game. If you want both versions 
 of BN5 and own a DS, buy this game. It bought Team Proto Man and Team Colonel and formed them together 
 to make Double Team DS, the first Mega Man game on the DS. And here's why this game is better than 
 the GBA games: It has touch screen access, advanced music, and even voice samples. Touch screen 
 access, uuhh.. well... lets you use the touch screen with the touch pen. With it, it's even funner 
 to move Battle Chips from the Pack to the Folder, or from the Folder to the Pack. You can also 
 view the Network Map in the touch screen. You can even press the Jack In button while near a computer. 
 Advanced music replaces the GBA's mostly 8-bit music, and makes the music sound better. Voice samples, 
 on the other hand, lets you hear Lan and Mega Man's certain voices. For example, when you jack 
 in, Lan yells out his signature trademark, "Jack in! Mega Man, execute!" And when the battle starts 
 after you send chip data, Mega Man says things like "We should do this!" or "Here it comes, Lan!" 
 And there's also a couple more samples. You can still have multiplayer battles, but with 8 players 
 maximum, with a Tournament. And one more word in Multiplayer: WIRELESS! You can also plug in past 
 MMBN games including the GBA versions of BN5 and get the game's Battle Chip data. You can even 
 hear remixed versions of Virus Battle music depending on which game you plugged in. And like the 
 GBA games, there are Liberation Missions, but you can switch Navis between the two versions in 
 the DS game. If you enjoyed the GBA games, this is a dream come true. If you don't have the GBA 
 games but would like to try them, the DS game will ultimately leave you proud of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are more of the same in this game. But the DS gives you some new abilities and gameplay 
 elements. 
  
  The part selection screen is great, and it just plays better than the GBA version!
  
  I've 
 been playing for hours, but I still can't put it down! NEED MORE!!!
  
  Storys good, and keeps you interesting. Some elements were not explained in the manual, and for 
 new players like myself this can be a bit tedious...
  
  Some of the sound bytes get annoying VERY fast (like the jackin audio playback...) and the ability 
 to not skip cutsceens or the tutorials is a huge pain in the ass.... The tutorials explain certain 
 things really good, but the stuff that does need explaining still has yet to surface....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsrarrow
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  OK, so this is a port. With some really useful tweaks. Reader please note Ive not had to play 
 through the GBA version of this game so I'm reviewing this as a game, not a suped up port. 
  
  Megaman and Lan are back, and yet another threat to the web has appeared. But Lan and a rag 
 tag gang of netbattlers are here to rescue the world from the terrible threat of the Nebula crew. 
 
  
  Gameplay wise the basic premise laid out by the previous games in the series stays solid, the gameplay 
 is just as addictive (if not more so thanks to the bottom screen) . The Addition of the touch screen 
 really makes this game really pull you in. The screen feels like Lan's 'PET' as you use it to jack 
 in to the net (only in the game not the real one, which is a shame) . Check your emails (again not 
 real one) , program Megaman to boost his abilities in battle and organise his 'chip data'. However 
 the game does show signs of being a port. There are points when you say, wouldn't it be easier 
 to use the touch screen here. Only to realise that it is just a GBA game with some really cool 
 DS style upgrades.
  
  Sound is very good in Megaman Battle Network 5 DS: Double Team (what a mouthful) . Thanks to the 
 added power of the DS you can here Lan and Megaman repeat certain phrases, which you would think 
 get annoying but surprisingly enough don't. If your feeling nostalgic, why not pop in one of your 
 old Megaman gba carts and hear the old style music during battles? That's not just a suggestive 
 question to lead you on to a myth, it's the truth!
  
  The graphics haven't had that much of an overall other than the 3d Megman who hangs out on the 
 bottom screen sometimes. The sprites used are convincing and colorful; nothing to write home about 
 but you won't be complaining.
  
  Throw in the odd Japanese style mini game and the fantastic storyline and you've got yourself a 
 stonking Action-RPG for the DS. If you don't own either of the GBA versions of this game, get this 
 one as you get both versions on the cart. Sorted.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arizbaig
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I have recently bought the game and i finish the whole game in less then 24 hours. I dont understand 
 what people have against this game. IT IS PERFECT. It doesn't take long to get hooked onto the 
 game and once your hooked you will never want to put your DS down.
  
  The graphics have improved alot since the GBA SP versions, the new improvement in the voices of 
 Megaman, Lan, and Protoman makes the game unique and a thousand times better then the ones before 
 this. 
  
  All in all, there is only one thing to be said. You have to be crazy not to have given this a try, 
 even if you didn't play any of the other ones in the serie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordantosh
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game, expecting to have something great to play. Turns out I was wrong. This game 
 is just a port of two GBA games, only adding voices and rarely used touch screen options. It's 
 really starting to repeat itself now. When I first played the Battle Network series, I thought 
 it was very original. After playing more of it, it began repeating. This game really shows proof 
 of it.
  
  One of the only things I liked about it was that if you put a GBA Battle Network game in the DS 
 GBA slot, it recognizes it and changes battle music and powers up a person on your team. I've never 
 seen any other DS game do that.
  
  Other than that, this game was pretty boring. I do not suggest playing this game, especially if 
 you are a die-hard Mega Man fan. Newcomers to the series may enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimateblader
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  this game is this best battle network yet you get 6 different souls in each team and so many chips 
 and even dark chips which you use to become chaos such n' such. so really this game is good but 
 it can hav its impossible parts and i hav not clocked it because of thge last boss he is sooooooooo 
 hard to beat. this game is worth geting if you like megaman games so i reakon its good. what are 
 you waiting for get it now. ok then get it later but just get it coz its good. * * * * * * ** * 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goku2000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Battle Network 5: Double Team DS is a vast improvement over the GBA games. For anyone who hasn't 
 played the BN games before, this game is a great place to start.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Classic BN gameplay, with DS-exclusive improvements that make the game much more enjoyable. The 
 ability to use the touch screen to edit chip folders, edit programs, and even being able to view 
 the map while navigating cyberspace is a major improvement. I've clocked in 50+ hours on just one 
 game because there is so much to do on this game.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics have undergone a major facelift since the first game in the series. Environments are 
 much more colorful, animations are much better, and the overall look of the game (including the 
 3D Megaman on the touch screen) is much better
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Perhaps the most noticeable improvement in the game. The sound has been overhauled from the GBA 
 version. The problem with the GBA version was the music was VERY washed down. Thanks to the DS 
 features, the music sounds a lot better. The ability to change the music by inserting other Battle 
 Network games in the GBA slot is a nice added bonus. The voice acting in the game was needed because 
 the previous games were silent.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  Without a doubt, this game is worth picking up because of the inclusion of both versions of the 
 game, as well as the DS-specific improvements.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 10/10
  
  Kudos to Capcom for utilizing the DS features to improve an otherwise unremarkable series. Here's 
 hoping that the next installation in the series gets similar treatment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meteorgun7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Battle Network 5 was a great game for the GBA, and it was greatly improved on the DS.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Very easy to get a hang of, if you have played the previous versions.
  
  Music:
  
  A lof of good music here. You can change the battle theme by having another Megaman 
 Battle Network game inserted in the GBA slot. It is also cool that Capcom added voices to Megaman 
 and Lan. Now, you can here Lan say Jack in everytime you, well, Jack in.
  
  Graphics:
  
  They werent improved from the GBA graphics but, at least they are still good. Capcom also added 
 an intro movie, pretty sweet.
  
  Replayability:
  
  Even when you beat this game, there is A LOT to do. The side quest with Bass needs to be done, 
 and you can start a new game with the other version. If you start the game with Colonel, you can 
 start a new game with Protoman and vice-versa.
  
  Overall:
  
  I would say a 10 out of 10 for this game. Any Megaman fan needs this game on their DS, a lot of 
 fun. You arent missing much if you played the GBA versions. Nothing new except some DS features. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up on Thursday afternoon and have hardly put it down for other games other than 
 Animal Crossing Wild World. This game is by far one of the better Battle Network games in the series. 
 Myself being introduced to this series with Battle Network 3 Blue/White which is the best one in 
 the GBA series, and Battle Network 5 on the DS having both GBA versions on one cart is a extra 
 treat, plus some unique features as well. Being able to control Megaman as well as images of characters 
 like Protoman and switching between them in battle gives for a new kind of Megaman experience. 
 The story line is rather strangs and so far the only thing I have disliked about the game is the 
 Liberation missions which can get really frustratingg at times and take a while to beat. There 
 are tons of new chips and navis to battle and being able to control and customize image versions 
 of navis that are in the game, and having two of your choice in your party is very cool. The graphics 
 are good, the controls are easy to learn, mind you every chip requires you to have a different 
 technique to use it so setting up your chip folder can be quite tedious. I love this game a lot, 
 more than any of the other Battle Network games, BN3 was the best out of the first 4 games on that 
 handheld, just having the DS version is better if you want to play the game through with different 
 characters. For a younger gamer though they would find this game fairly challenging, even I do 
 and I am fluent with the series and how complex they can be by the end. I wouldnt say its hard, 
 it is for me but some players would find it easy while others dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weemetal324
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Battle Network 5 Double Team DS was fun when it was first out on the GBA, but since it 
 is the exact same game on the DS, with a few added bonuses, it was kinda dull and was rather easy 
 for anyone who played the original two games. The chance to bring over NetNavis from other teams 
 was nice, like bringing over Colonel instead of using Protoman. Other than that and the new Party 
 Battle System, it was the same game we played only about 6 months ago. There was the addition of 
 Team and Single multiplayer battles, which are fun for the most part, but can get competitive and 
 can make some people frustrated and dissappointed. The fact that you can stick in another Battle 
 Network game to get power ups is cool, and it also works with both Boktai games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryodude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This is mainly a mesh of two GBA games into one DS game. Surprisingly, some significant improvements 
 have been made have been made on this special combo port. The DS Double Team version has exclusive 
 features that put this game on the tier just below MMBN2. 
  
  Gameplay is both more of the same and improved. Battles play out like usual on the 3x3 grids. The 
 liberation mission of the GBA versions are intact. I idea of the liberation mission itself is a 
 nice new twist for the series, along with the inclusion of enemies attacking on both sides of the 
 field from time to time. Well, the biggest change in the liberation mission is the elusive TP chips: 
 Special items that allow you to change one character for it's equivalent in the other version (ex. 
 Switch between Protoman and Colonel in Team Protoman or vice-versa) . You can collect 4 or 5, but 
 they are well hidden. The most significant change to battle comes as an exclusive to Double Team, 
 which is a in sense a battle party system. Now, after new members join your team, image data will 
 be created and allows you to switch between two other navis in battle during regular net-roaming. 
 Each character has exclusive powers that differ from Megaman's soul form of them, including a single 
 character specific chip that can only be used by that navi when it's battling. Each navi has its 
 own stats and can use your folder. Once the party system is introduced, you learn that they even 
 have a mini-navi customizer for you to beef them up. The new navis can be in play for infinite 
 turns, but there is a limit to how many times you can switch between navis. As far as regular game 
 roaming and menu scrolling goes, the DS's touch screen makes it simpler to navigate your PET and 
 organize your Chip folder/pack. Also, on screen maps for the net have become available. You can 
 view the map as you move in the net and even obstacles on the net are displayed. Megaman's position 
 on the map is constantly displayed, allowing you to do a straight-forward navigation through net 
 areas you've cleared. The only down side to the map is that most maps aren't immediately available. 
 They must be collected as hidden items on the net. There are a few new touch-screen mini games 
 that allow you win party navi customizer progs. Maps remain largely unchanged, but a few seem to 
 have minor alteration between GBA and DS.
  
  Graphics are not outstanding. For what was displaying DS power, namely the new PET navigation screen, 
 nothing changed from the GBA. A 3D Megaman is always present on the screen as long as you aren't 
 viewing the PET menu, on the net, or in battle. Megaman is largely stagnant, and only shows life 
 in the form of a faint blink, the occasional nod during story narration, and jacking-in and out 
 animations. A minor change that isn't outside of GBA powers is that the portraits displayed during 
 story narration now have variations helping to express a characters feelings as the words bleep 
 into the text box. Nothing special, but it's a nice touch of variety.
  
  Sound definately has more life to it by being on the DS's stereo system. What's new is voice clips 
 from the amercian anime actors. They are used in the most repetitive situations, such as jakcing-in, 
 initiating an important battle, annoucing e-mail arrival, and when you push L-button to talk to 
 megaman. Lan doesn't have a voice clip for that feature. Megaman and some other featured navis 
 have voice clips for battle grunts and victory comments. The use of voices isn't spectacular, but 
 it spices up the largely silent game.
  
  As for bonus content, you get the party battle system with the sub-navi customizer and programs, 
 the TP chips, a few exclusive secret battle chips, and the map data spread across the net. The 
 voice acting could be considered bonus content too, but the touch screen interface is a real bonus. 
 Also, plugging in the different megaman battle network cartridges in the GBA slot of the DS adds 
 new power-ups, shops, chip traders, and even changes certain features in the game.
  
  The package altogether is much better than the standard GBA games. Sadly, this is still a revamped 
 port. Had Capcom taken the time to really make this for the DS, this would have turned out as a 
 great installation, instead of a very good one. If you're a fan, buy this because of the new content 
 and it's cheaper than the two separate GBA games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_Metroid
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Battle Network 5: double Team DS , it might be a long name but with two fun games in one. Team 
 Colonel and Team Protoman in one! You can control a team with colonel and protoman as leaders and 
 the powerful net navi's that follow. It use the toch screen to buil your folder and save , look 
 at you navi's stats and more.
  This is a must have for the die hard megaman fans out there like myself. This gam ehas some many 
 twist and turn to leave itching for more. But if you have not played megaman battle network I would 
 a least try it beacuse you might like it! So pick up Megaman Battle Network Double Team DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmario3590
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Like most RPGs, Mega Man Battle Network 5 is primarily a dungeon crawler. You'll spend most of 
 your time in the game traveling through cyberspace areas in search of the enemies you need to defeat 
 and items you need to collect in order to advance the story along. The inclusion of multiple Navi 
 battles, liberation missions, and more side games makes that journey livelier than it was in previous 
 games.
  
  The unique thing about combat in the Mega Man Battle Network games is that Mega Man's attacks are 
 randomly decided by drawing tiny cards known as battle chips. Five chips are selected at the beginning 
 of each battle, and when they're used, others are drawn to take their places. Some chips are better 
 against certain types of enemies, and some can dole out damage to a whole swath of grid squares. 
 Multiple attacks can be chained together by using chips with the same name or letter designation, 
 and some chips can be combined to create stronger attacks. You can only bring 30 chips into battle 
 with you, so that's where most of the game's strategy comes from: collecting, organizing, and storing 
 useful battle chips in your active folder. In all, there are nearly 300 unique chips to find and 
 collect. 
  
  For Boktai players, bonus features are also in this game, which also encourage both Boktai and 
 Megaman Battle Network players to get this title
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolveric
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  This is nothing more than a port of the gba game, the ds have a 3d capability you known, this is 
 a waste of hardware. this game was a very good game if the game play was twisted a little, but 
 the same trash again, man this is horrible.
  
  this version have the same graphics n' audio of the gba version, so, if you don't want to waste 
 your money don't buy this or buy beautiful joe or some beater game.
  
  Gameplay: it's still fun i like it, but at this point it need some new features (the controls in 
 the ds version are very cool) .
  
  Graphics: it's only a group of riped data from a gba card to a ds one.
  
  sound: Suck's, the 
 same trash of gba.
  
  Value: the game still solid and have some cool features and new elements but the media was a port 
 from the gba, this is a waste of hardware, only see spiderman or beautiful joe and you will understand.
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: if you don, t have a gba and you want play megaman battle network.................... 
 buy the gba version, at the end it's the same game (from the firs to the last game : P)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Darkness
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Capcom released Megaman Battle Network 5 in two versions: Team Protoman and Team Colonel. They 
 are the fifth generation of the Battle Network sieries. They featured a new challenge called "Liberation 
 Missions." The point of a Liberation Mission was to liberate an area in the internet from the evil 
 Darkloids. Then they released an extension to these games, known as Megaman Battle Networtk 5 Double 
 Team. This game features the same graphics you'd expect from a Megaman game, but with the features 
 of the Touch Screen on the DS, the game became 1000 times more fun. You can touch the Jack-In button 
 on the touch screen to jack Megaman in instead of pressing R, and the Start Menu has become very 
 interactive. Now you can simply touch a battlechip and you can switch it with another chip in your 
 folder! And you can use the touch-screen to make using the NaviCust a breeze! There is also a new 
 system called the Party Battle System exclusive to the DS Version! With it, you can bring 2 teammate 
 navis with you on the net to help you in battle! There are also 2 save files and you can start 
 either version on a game file, and you can bring your battle network 5 folder into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_smitersux
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I think with the ds as it has more power than the GBA it is about time they stoped using the 2D 
 role play graphics and started thinking about third person or maybe first person in the same style 
 as metroid prime hunters demo. This not only gives you better control over your PET but it will 
 be more fun as well. The DS is purfectly disigned for first person shooters why not take advantage 
 of it especialy seeing this game would work well if oyu were Mega Man and you had to go through 
 the net coming up against new apponents and maybe easy opponents to keep you busy until you came 
 up to the boss. It's time for a change not only for mega man games but other 2D games, the Ds is 
 more than powerful enough for #d graphics as we see in metroid and in mario 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngtruth98
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Megaman battle network 5 double team ds overall was a good game. The game storyline wasnt touched 
 but new features gave a sort of fulfillment many players may have been looking for. When the Team 
 protoman version was release for the Gameboy Advance I continually thought something was missing. 
 Still the had its many flaws. Capcom could have done much better there was the top screen that 
 could have been displayed in 3d. The barely tapped into the dss many capabilities. If the plan 
 on making more Megaman games for the ds they need to improve on their flaws first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shikachan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I actually love the concept of the game it give you so much to do, you still have the quizmaster, 
 a navi hide & seek game, find the 5 Undernet navis to enter another part of the nebula world but 
 my favorite thing to do even though it sometimes work to my advantage and or disadvatage is the 
 chaos unison. Most of the time I can pull off the attack just right but is always that one screwup 
 were my own dark soul is kicking my butt. The only thing I disliked about this game is when I had 
 one more netserver left and it took me forever to find. But I highly recommend this game for newplayers 
 just getting into MMBN series, and the veterns at heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerosaber02
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  MMBN5: Double Team is a recreation of two GBA games of Mega Man Battle Network 5: Team Protoman, 
 and Team Colonel. It puts the games into one DS cart, which is perfect if you don't have either 
 game. If you already have a game for the GBA, I'll explain if you should get this or not later. 
 The gameplay is the same thing from the past five entries, still using the soul cross system founded 
 in Battle Network 4: Red Sun and Blue Moon. With each installment, Capcom has added more features 
 to the series, and they have decided to add in a few extras for the DS version. The first noticeable 
 difference is the PET screen, which has a 3D model of MegaMan. You touch him, he gives you hints 
 on what to do next, and you can also access your PET screen from it, by merely touching it. The 
 bottom screen also serves as a map, and a new navi-switch battle system, which again, I will get 
 into later. The map makes things alot easier to navigate, and it saves you time from going on a 
 website just to look for a few maps. Although they don't show you the location of every single 
 item, it does show key-items usually, and all of the different paths. 
  The battle system is still the same, save for a new set of souls, with the exception of Searchsoul 
 and Protosoul. Darkchips, introduced in BN4, are now considered regular chips, and they have their 
 own section in the battle chip library; yet they still give you negative effects, such as moving 
 automatically, HP drain, etc. If you do not know of the core battle system of the series, I request 
 you look elsewhere; for I will not be explaining that here. 
  Another new thing in the game is the navi-switch addition to the battle system. As you progress 
 in the games, the new battle system arises, and you'll meet up with navis; by the time you get 
 a Soul Unison from a navi, by that time you get the navi's data. During the battle, you can select 
 a navi from the touch screen, and you can have up to two navis with you. Once the navis are deleted 
 though, you'll have to go back to Lan's computer and redownload the data. These navi datas also 
 have their own mini customizers, and you can use these to upgrade them with various programs you 
 get. The number of navi switches during a battle is originally three; although, you can find and 
 install programs that upgrade the amount of turns you can switch the navis. And you can switch 
 to them anytime, during the custom screen, or midway during battle; the system really helps you 
 when you're in a tight pinch. But, if you're right in the middle of a scenario, you may not be 
 able to use the system at a specified time, such as restoring the net, fixing boat's computer systems, 
 etc. 
  As you're organizing your chip folders, and doing some other stuff while accessing your PET, you 
 use the touch screen to help you organize the chips; for example, when changing your folder, you 
 drag a chip to it, and then you can start using it. This is really helpful, and it adds a bit of 
 innovation. You can as well use this on the chip traders. You either trade in three chips or ten 
 chips, and you get a chip, sometimes new, sometimes an old one. In the previous Battle Network 
 games, you can only do one trade at a time; with this new touch screen system, you can do as much 
 trades as you want in one time; as long as you have the chips to back it up, which saves you alot 
 of time. 
  Battle Network 5 Double Team also has support for GBA cartridges that are previous installments 
 of the series. Games Battle Network 1-4 give you extra features, such as program advance information, 
 navi power-ups, in-battle music changes, and even a sub-chip dealer, who deals out the subchips 
 at half-price. If you insert a Battle Network 5 cartridge, you can transfer all of your chips from 
 one game to another, saving you alot of time, and making it so you can easily beat the game. Another 
 non-noticeable feature of the game is new Numberman chip trader codes, which give you some new 
 chips to collect. The game has support for an 8 player tournament, but it cannot link up with the 
 GBA versions of the games, only the DS version. This mode also has support for the navi-switch 
 system, as well as soul unisons. Heck, the battle system is the same, the graphics are the same 
 for the most part, and the games are the same as the GBA versions, but this is an enjoyable RPG-strategy 
 DS game starring the Blue Bomber. The first appearance on the DS is definitely not a bad one; it 
 may seem familiar, but it's from the same series, and Capcom has put in a good amount of extra 
 content. If you have a version of the game on the GBA, and you want to buy the other, why not just 
 spend $10 to get both games, with a few additional nifty features? Nevertheless, this is a game 
 that you should at least rent if you've never played the series before, and for the BN veteran, 
 you'll be pleased to see that Capcom did more than port 2 GBA games over to a DS cartridge.
  
  -Shadow Zero
  Admin of MegaManStorm and MegaManCentury. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatrbub54
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  People say these games are too much like the ones before. The ones before were awesome so this 
 game is awesome. It holds both the gba versions of 5. After you beat one you can trade your navi's 
 from one version to the other. This game is so fun and addicting that once you pick it up you don't 
 want to put it back down. The customization of your battle chips are endless. Also as you progress 
 through the game you can play as other navi's. (Protoman, Magnetman etc.) but the navi's depend 
 on which version. Megaman can get something called the dublsoul. You use a certain chip (lightning 
 chip-magnetman) and sacrafice it so you combine with the navi for three turns and get their style 
 and power. The graphics are a little low standard for the DS (best system) but they are really 
 good anyway and they are underrated. The sound is just geat with the 2 speakers that are on the 
 DS. It is almost the best sounding game for it. The only bad thing is the voice when you jack in 
 the computer and win a battle. The box says voice ins from the tv show but that isnt necessarily 
 a good thing. It's annoying and you should be embarassed if your playing in public and someone 
 hears it. Other than that this is a great game for the DS and you should definately buy this. What 
 are you waiting for buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeatgutsEXE
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Battle Network 5 is one game that some of us really wanted badly for so long. Unlike the 
 GBA versions, the new features and even the bonus features make this a really worth playing and 
 collectable game. The soundtrack changes completely into a great digital music which almost sounds 
 like disco soundtrack, brilliant work. Why do I say the game is collectable? Simply the enhancement 
 or bonus features require the older GBA series and once having both the DS card and any of the 
 other Megaman Battle Network series inserted in your DS, the soundtrack of the battlefield changes 
 and some bonus such as getting Bass Cross Megaman using the GBA Megaman Battle Network 5.
  
  For Boktai players, bonus features are also in this game, which also encourage both Boktai 
 and Megaman Battle Network players to get this title.
  
  It is really cool if you try to cheer Megaman or other characters using the mic. It maybe disappointing 
 as the mic actually act as a sound sensor which pick up any type of sound (even if you just blow 
 the mic) and as long as its loud enough, the game will take it as you are cheering. Capcom of Japan 
 does a great job on the features even though they did not change the graphics. I do hope that for 
 future Megaman Battle Network for DS (if any) will have better Voice Acting (from Capcom of America) 
 if possible, better grapics and even more enhancing experience for players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etcetcetc
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 3:39 am PT
Review:  As huge megaman fan, megaman battle network 1 and megaman zero was like the main reason for buying 
 my gba. It was great, but then 2 came out , then 3 and 4 , and now 5.
  
  So many years have passed and ive gots me a ds and this megaman battle network 5. Look its not 
 worth writing much because your better off reading the gamespot review for this game but, all im 
 gonna say is , the ds version has bothgba versions in one cartridge. That would usually be more 
 than enough to purchase this game , but whats the point purchasing if you got 2 games you wont 
 enjoy all in one package, this gameis perfect for anyone new to the series or to anyone whos only 
 played one and dying for more, which isnt many people. Worhty of purchase, i have no idea but i 
 dont feel like i wasted my money on it. This game doesnt push the Ds to its limits, what is on 
 here has been done on the gba which kind of dissapoints me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbares544
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  I know that this series has been dragged on for what seems like way to many sequels. To be honest 
 with you; I have never played even half way through one battle network before. Most reviewers give 
 this game a very average score because it is a port of the two gba games. But there is just so 
 much game packed into this little game card. You get both versions of the game that have new ds 
 only add-ons, wireless play, and a great touch screen menu. When I take a look at the menu it would 
 be so much harder to go through it without a stylus. You have all of this information in front 
 of you like if you were using a pda. Not all of the scrolling features on the touch screen work 
 as good as they should though. The best thing about the touch screen is the ability to drag and 
 drop cards from your folder to your active directory. This once tedious task is now made simple. 
 Most websites say that you don't get to use the bottom screen during battle that is simply not 
 the truth. There are times when the bottom screen will just say pet on it durning battle, but once 
 you get the net battle system up and running switching to a different navi just requires you to 
 touch the bottom screen and choose which navi you want. So most of the time you can even choose 
 to play as Protoman or whoever you have. I find the game to be a fun challenge. This is suprising 
 considering that it comes from Capcom. They tend to make rather hard games. Granted this is an 
 action rpg, but I like how it's not to hard or to easy. Kudos Capcom. If you've never liked this 
 series then don't buy it. But if your a battle network fan, or just want a good action rpg until 
 Mario & Luigi comes out, then here you go. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
