-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mega Man Star Force 2: Zerker x Ninja
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/megamansf2shinobi/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lengthy main story.
 Online battle and card-trading.
 Battle mechanics are engaging and encourage multiple strategies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Inane story and unskippable dialogue.
 Incessant random battles and fetch quests.
 GBA quality graphics and audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 411 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bad graphics and repetitive play make Mega Man's latest adventure a dull one. 

  Mega Man Star Force 2 is the eighth game in the Battle Network series, which began on the Game 
 Boy Advance. When Capcom moved Mega Man to the Nintendo DS, the Star Force series introduced new 
 characters, storylines, and an over-the-shoulder battle perspective. However, little else changed. 
 The gameplay mechanics, graphics, and audio design in Mega Man Star Force 2 are essentially the 
 same as those of its predecessors. Nevertheless, if you enjoyed previous entries in the series 
 or are an avid fan of dungeon-crawling role-playing games, then you'll probably find a number of 
 redeeming qualities.  

           Refined battle mechanics are great. Recycled boss battles are not.      

  This time 
 around, you play as Geo Stelar, a typical kid living in the year 20XX. Flipping on your activator 
 goggles lets you see the Wave World, an electromagnetic dimension that exists parallel to our own 
 and powers all of our electronic devices. By merging with an alien being named Omega-Xis, Geo Stelar 
 becomes Mega Man and is able to interact with both worlds. In Star Force 2, Geo takes on a group 
 of criminals who are attempting to resurrect the ancient civilization of Mu. The plot is laughable 
 and serves only as an excuse to travel from one environment to the next. It's worth noting that 
 Capcom's localization team has done a better job translating the insurmountable text than in the 
 past, but the game's inane story is made all the more excruciating by the seemingly endless stream 
 of corny filler dialogue.  

  Battles in Star Force 2 take place on a 3-by-6 grid. The camera is restricted to the back of Mega 
 Man's head, and his movement is generally limited to sidestepping left or right. Enemies can move 
 around the entire battlefield and attack in any direction, which puts more emphasis on the timing 
 of your attacks, evasions, and blocks than in previous games. Unfortunately, the frequency of these 
 random battles is so ridiculously high that at times you'll barely take four steps without another 
 encounter popping up. The relationships that you forge with friends throughout the game are given 
 numerical values that can be converted into new abilities such as barrier shields, more powerful 
 weapons, and increased hit points. Rather than gaining experience points and leveling up, you improve 
 Mega Man's skills by building a balanced repertoire of battle cards from defeated enemies. Assembling 
 your deck of 34 cards is a fun, addictive endeavor, but once you've established your favorite combinations 
 there's little reason to change things up.  

  Mega Man Star Force 2 follows the Pokemon marketing strategy and comes in two absurdly named versions: 
 Zerker X Saurian and Zerker X Ninja. The subtitles refer to three warring tribes from the Mu civilization. 
 After consuming the OOPArt several hours into the game, Mega Man can transform into a Zerker, a 
 Saurian, or a Ninja and gain elemental abilities from electricity, fire, or wood, respectively. 
 The Zerker tribe is available in both versions, whereas Saurian and Ninja are exclusive to each 
 particular game. There's no need to purchase both versions, given that you'll gain access to abilities 
 from each tribe throughout the game. Alternately, you can hook up with friends locally or via the 
 Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection to trade abilities, battle cards, and status upgrades. You can also compete 
 in battles with up to seven players, as long as everyone owns a copy of either the Saurian or Ninja 
 versions. The online functionality in Star Force 2 is a long-overdue feature that really enhances 
 your enjoyment of the game, especially if a friend can help you out with that last, elusive battle 
 card that you need.  

           Star Force 2 would look amazing... on the Game Boy Advance.      

  If you've played 
 any of the Battle Network games on the Game Boy Advance, you'll know what to expect from the presentation 
 here. The graphics do little to take advantage of the DS hardware. In fact, the only indication 
 you'll get that you're not playing a GBA game is during battle sequences. Considering that a lot 
 of the battle screen is taken up by the back of Mega Man's head, even these superior animations 
 are obscured. Music, sound effects, visual assets, and even major boss battles are all recycled 
 from previous games. It's a shame that a series that was once known for its high audio quality 
 has been reduced to these ever-so-slightly remixed samples of tired tracks.  

  Besides a few minor tweaks to the battle mechanics, a new story and characters, and the addition 
 of online multiplayer, this is essentially the same game as previous entries in the series. If 
 you were a fan of those games, you'll find 30 to 40 more hours of the same here. If you werent, 
 the random battles, fetch quests, and endless bloat wont change your mind.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shaggyboy5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  this game is seriously a great game. even if your like 8 you'll understand it and it a GREAT role 
 playing action game. no blood moms and dads! i think anyone out there would love this game. im 
 13 and i loved it. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Mega Man Star Force 2 is an action RPG much in the same vein as the first game. It is rendered 
 in an isometric style (sprites, views, etc.) during field gameplay, but its battle system is three-dimensional, 
 with the battles being viewed from behind Mega Man, and movement restricted to only left and right. 
 Since enemies have a much larger playing field, battle evasion seems limited, but the player is 
 given a choice of techniques like shielding and homing attacks to keep battles balanced. Mega Man's 
 life is a simple "Hit point" (HP) numerical system. When he takes damage, the number lowers, and 
 when it reaches "zero," the game is over and the player must restart from their last save point. 
 HP can be recovered in a number of ways, both in and out of battle. The player can also use their 
 standard Mega Buster at any time to combat with, and upgrade items for Omega-Xis can be collected 
 throughout the game to increase the Mega Buster's rate, power, and charge speed. The Mega Buster 
 is constantly charging to release a single powerful shot, but the player can hold the button down 
 to fire rapidly.
  
  
  source wikipedia. org 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archoniam
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:57 am PT
Review:  The second installment of the MegaMan StarForce series has gotten hate reviewers saying this game 
 "comes up short," as if there's something wrong with the game. If you're whining about repeats, 
 I'd suggest looking back at all the other MegaMan series (es) and tell me what you see.
  Nevertheless, when I asked for a great game, Capcom didn't let me down.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Nice 
 storyline
  -Easy to understand
  -Wi-Fi battles are epic
  -"Link Power" system allows use of abilities
  -Gameplay is decent
  -"Best Combo" system makes 
 epic combos, with some hard work
  -Cheating is just too easy
  -Killer attacks
  -"Tribes" are truly awesome (I play as a ninja)
  
  Cons:
  
  -Random battles get annoying
 
  -Some "minigames" within the game (saving Fire Hertzes, solving riddles, etc.)
  -Some things just can not be found without a walkthrough (chronologically ordering runes... ugh...)
 
  
  Overall: 9.0
  
  Nevertheless the cons, MMSF2 is a great game. I don't get why people put it down because it's a 
 "repeat," as I said before. If you enjoyed the first, the second ought to be even better to you. 
 With the exception of the random virus battles....
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionownn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  The next installment in the starforce series, is surprisingly better then the last.
  NOTE: While there are two games (ZerkerXNinja/Saurian) , this review counts for both of the games.
 
  
  The game has many new features including three new Megaman changes. Zerker: A lightning sword wielder. 
 Ninja: A Shuriken wielding Ninja: Saurian: A dragon type.
  
  Alas though, there are too many returning features, and not enough new features. The return of 
 battle cards is not surprising (150 in all) .
  
  There are some significant new features, including Nintendo WiFi play with worldwide matchmaking, 
 which surprisingly makes you come back for more.
  
  The other new feature is the new brotherband system which allows you to add friends via local wireless 
 or WiFi. The more friends you have the better, as it will power up Megaman in hugely significant 
 ways.
  
  Overall the game is somewhat better then the first Starforce.
  8.0-10
  
  THANK YOU FOR READING MY REVIEW FOR:
  MEGAMAN STARFORCE 2 ZERKERXNINJA/SAURIAN
  
  PM ME IF 
 YOU THINK MY REVIEW NEEDS TO BE EDITED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djammal86
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  First off, the let me just say that I have been a fan of Mega Man Games since 1990, so this is 
 coming from a true fan.
  
  Mega Man Star Force 2 is the sequel to the previous Mega Man Starforce 2 and there are a few new 
 changes that make the game more interesting. However, there are some aspects that the Mega Man 
 Star Force 2 Team needs to improve
  
  Pros: The storyline in more in-depth, there is a wider variety of battle cards, and the you can 
 now battle head-to-head online. You can also update info online more efficiently from your brother, 
 than on the previous game
  
  Con: Even with the improved story and multi-player, this game still come up short in game play. 
 The random matches seem to get repetitive and the bosses are too simple. Also, there isn't really 
 too much improvement in the battle system and the AI on the game is still lacking
  
  Overall, Mega Man Star Force 2 is an decent sequel to the series, but will probably not hold most 
 gamers or Mega Man fans interest for too long. But online should add a little more life to the 
 game, if you have friends to play .
  
  -Djammal86 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomahawkchop78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  this game is enjoyable and has a long story that will keep you interested. The battle system is 
 similar to the BN games yet requires more skill to play.
  
  Plot 8/10
  inventive plot that 's based on the mayan empire that isn't too complex. And all the places are 
 copied off a real place.
  
  RE-Play ablility 9/10
  
  all those bosses you thought were easy become hard. and the new boss requires all standard wepons 
 to get to.
  
  Overall 8.5 /10
  
  though random fetch quests that pop up can be annoying this game surpasses most BN games and is 
 a fun addition to the Star Force series END 
  OF REview 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaudBlaze890
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  OK the game is basically the same as Star-force 1. What happened to a variety of bosses instead 
 of a theme, Seriously cryptids. Ghosts, abdominal snow men, Lochness, the story is almost identical 
 to to the first. At least the main character is less whiny. The story is old, you gain all of your 
 Brothers then you lose them, then you gain them back. Boring, give us something new, the Mu part 
 was interesting, and the fact you can play two games, Zerker and Saurian, nice touch. 
  
  Playability: 2.5 / 5 it is pretty much the same as the first game. 
  
  Re-playability 1/5 After 
 the credits the only thing to do is a few side-quests that only help with bragging rights.
  
  Music 4/5 pretty good music i would say
  
  Graphics 3/5 really update, say the big word 
 with me UP-DATE. this should look cleaner but it doesn't 
  
  Story 1/5 New story please and varied bosses not just the same 4 with varying difficulty 
  
 
  Total 5/10 Not the worst game I have played but not the best. If you play for a hour and a half 
 everyday then buy it but if you play for much longer pick up a different game. If you have the 
 choice between this and Pokemon then buy Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiderZX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Looks Like they made a Sequel, and let's just see how good it is
  
  Story: If you haven't played the first one read it, if you have just skip it. So you play as a 
 boy named Geo Stellar, and in the last game you get's a Alien in his transer that helps to turn 
 into megaman.
  
  Gameplay: The game works almost exactly how the first one did, Random battles, when you go into 
 battle it will be 3-D and the enemys will be in the front. So you will choose the weapons that 
 you would like yo use, there are other things like healing and stuff, so the you will use them 
 on whatever Viruses that you like. Notice how I said the game works ALMOST exactly how the first 
 one did? Well in this one you can be Mega Man ANYWHERE so you don't have to just use the wave roads. 
 Sometimes in the game people can see you as well but I won't get into that.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good but in battle megaman doesn't look as good as he could of. 
 I mean the hair really looks distorted I'm not saying you care but this is a review.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is good there are some nice tunes to it, there is evil to sweet music 
 and everthing in between. The sound is okay it's not the greatest you woldn't mind not having it 
 on.
  
  Overall: The battles are fun but sometimes the random battles just make you want to sream: I JUST 
 WANT TO GET WHERE I'M GOING!!!!!!! The story is very good their are a lot of the same characters 
 form the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mega-dude
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  IT RULEZ CANT WAIT FOR  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverninga0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so this is like after the Battle Network series... Anyways, here's the review:
  
  Gameplay: It was pretty good. Still like the first Star Force, you have three panels to go on while 
 the enemy has like 15 panels or something. I liked the Battle Network style way much better but 
 this is ok. 3-d doesn't make the game look better and one of my friends who saw me playing it said 
 to me, are those Pokemons (to the EM wave viruses) ? I guess you can say that the monsters look like 
 weird kiddish stuff. The attacks are easy to dodge but then there's the question, if I only have 
 three back row panels to walk on and the enemy has the rest, shouldn't I get owned very fast? No 
 you don't get owned. The viruses are fairly easy. The boss battles are ok. They are easy at first 
 but then they get harder and harder (talking about from regular version to SP/IF version, yes, IF, 
 it's this new version of bosses when you go to a alternate future after you beat the main story 
 line) to get a S rank on. Still, the Battle Network series was better. The characters in Battle 
 Network also looked cooler than the Star Force series. Never-the-less, MSF2ZxN was interesting 
 and I played it for a LONG time. The only problems I have with this game are that sometimes, you 
 get this feeling that the English translations are stupid and don't make sense, and also the SP 
 bosses are so god damn hard to find even with Cloak. I still haven't found like 5 SP bosses. Yeah, 
 pretty interesting though. 9/10
  
  Sound: It's ok, like the first Star Forces, samo samo (same old same old) . 8.5/10
  
  Graphics: 
 I dig the Battle Network series way more than this. Like I said, characters were much cooler and 
 so were the viruses. But you get use to the graphics in this game after a while. 8.5/10
  
  Online: This is where there's a problem with this part. You don't know who you get to face against. 
 The first time I went online, I got owned by this guy who had like 1600 HP, you may think, oh, 
 1600 is nothing, but this dude had like 2-3 gigachips in his folder. IT WAS CRAZY, I got owned 
 like nothing. I hated that and that's why I don't like going online. But if you find the right 
 person, it's pretty fun, and it's also fun with friends. I play in my tutoring school class with 
 other people and heck yeah it's fun. 8/10
  
  Storyline: It's pretty good. I liked it, except for the side quests. That got annoying. You have 
 to keep going to places, encountering many viruses on the way. That was the only thing I got really 
 pissed off at. Oh god I hate wasting my time walking to a place that takes like 5-10 minute because 
 of the freaking annoying virus battles. No, you can't take the bus to those places. There's three 
 places where you can take the bus to go to and three places where you have to "jack in" and go 
 into a satellite and walk to those places. It gets super annoying but the main storyline is good. 
 8.5/10
  
  Overall I give this a 8.5. It's pretty fun, and I recommend you guys to try it out. I don't think 
 it matters if you didn't play the first Star Force (I did though) because it really doesn't tie 
 in with the first game. Buy it and try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManZeroDX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  The Megaman Starforce series has been an ok plot so far. The fact is that i find too many mistakes 
 within the whole new megaman thing. First of all this new megaman cant be seen by anybody, except 
 in some "visible zone" which happens to somehow appear where everyone gets in trouble. Secondly 
 unlike the battle network series there are battle cards instead of chips. These battle cards are 
 sold at a public shop in the game. So these battle cards that are used to battle viruses are being 
 passed around while people don't even know this "wave world" exists? well then what is the point 
 of them having battle cards? I found the megaman battle network series a way better story line 
 and lots more entertainment. in-fact they tried to make megaman starforce seem like a better, new 
 choice by making the battles 3-D and you can only move on 3 squares. I like the battle style of 
 megaman battle networks 2-d 9 panel style way better because there is more space to move and the 
 graphics don't look like crap because even though the battles are 2-D the graphics are sharp. Anyways 
 i find This new megaman pretty ridiculous but i think i will stick with it anyways and buy the 
 next ones coming.
  
  - Derek Raditz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratinalga
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  "Has the Battle Network series found it's true successor? Read on to find out."
  Well, it seems Capcom just won't give up on the Mega Man Battle Network formula. It is revered 
 that the Battle Network formula always worked best in Battle Network 6 so much, that not even the 
 1st Starforce could live up to it. However, that's about to change.
  
  Megaman Starforce 2 is arguably the best game to use the Battle Network formula out there. While 
 many say it is the same as the original Starforce, those experienced will, at the very start, see 
 that this iteration is far more strategic, contains far more features, and contains refined mechanics 
 that gives an undeniable appeal. Now, let's break this down into the simple, but understandable, 
 review format. MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!
  
  Presentation: 6.5/10
  
  The presentation for the Battle Network series was never really spectacular, and this isn't any 
 different. From the moment one starts this game, they'll notice that the game looks EXACTLY like 
 Starforce, and plays like Starforce. However, the customizations are far more advanced, a more 
 lengthy story, and somewhat refined gameplay. In short, it's an expansion, but a well-worth one.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The gameplay this time around is more advanced than any Battle Network and Starforce game out there. 
 There may only be 3 versions (actually 2, but both contain 1 specific version, and 1 extra [Zerker] 
 for both specic versions. However, new to the series is the ability to actually combine them for 
 more than 5 different transformations. When you combine two of them, it is called a "Double Tribe". 
 By using Double Tribe, you will be able to use an add-on to your Tribe Transformation (the game 
 requires you to have a brother from a different version in order to Double and triple Tribe, but 
 it provides you with an Auto-Brother from the games alternative version.) . There is also the Tribe 
 King, the ultimate transformation using all three transformations. All of this refines the gameplay 
 to make it more strategic. The downside is that the new mechanics horribly unbalance the game. 
 However, there is now an option to battle over Wi-Fi connections, both Worldwide and Friend Code. 
 
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  
  Not bad for a DS Game, but nothing special. In fact, everything outside of the fluid 3D battles 
 is GBA quality at best.
  
  Audio: 4/10
  
  Horrible, really. It isn't even that great by GBA standards. To add insult to injury, the Voice 
 Acting was omitted from the US version, but if anyone's played Mega Man ZX Advent, they might be 
 thankful. 
  
  Lasting Appeal: 9.5/10
  
  With a 30-40 hour story, complete with extras and more, Wifi Battles both Random and Friend Code 
 generated, those with Wi-fi connection will find this to be a VERY hard game to put down.
  
  
  Summed up:
  
  Pros:
  
  +Long Story, complete with extras
  +Refined Gameplay
 
  +Wifi Battles added.
  +Auto Brothers and packaging comes with two different versions, both being different files.
  
 +Advanced Mechanics.
  +Game mechanics are just right.
  +In-battle Graphics are nice....
  
  Cons:
  
  -... but overworld Graphics are GBA quality at best.
  -Audio is horrible.
  
 -Gameplay may have been refined and become more advanced and strategic, but became horribly unbalanced.
 
  -Story is filled with ludicrous missions and unneccessary fetch quests.
  
  In short, RPG fans and Battle Network fans will love this. However, if you didn't enjoy past BN 
 games, or you aren't a fan of Megaman in general, you might want to rent this first.
  
  Overall: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirb_eh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this game is a lot like megaman starforce 1. If you didn't like that 
 game, don't buy this game. If you liked that game I would recommend this to you because it is a 
 solid sequel. Now, on with the review.
  
  GAMEPLAY 8.5/10
  The battle mechanics are refined from the last game and are still quite nice. In fact, battles 
 are really where this game shines. With tons of chips (attacks) to get and enemies to fight, battles 
 are the center point of this game. Other than battles there are also many puzzles and jobs to do 
 so you are sure to get a good 20-30 hours out of this game. Some bad things about the gameplay 
 are too many random battles and downtime while doing the many fetch quests.
  
  GRAPHICS 7.5/10
  Although the non-battle graphics leave some to be desired and the battle graphics 
 are a little rough around the edges, they still get the job done.
  
  SOUND 7.5/10
  There are recycled tunes from the last game, and they repeat themselves, but it isn't like they're 
 horrible tunes.
  
  STORY 7/10
  The story isn't the most interesting story i've ever heard, and most of the dialogue is unskippable. 
 To be fair I'd say its about as interesting as the other games. Not horrible, but it won't keep 
 you glued to your DS screen. Its your run-of-the-mill "I'm going to take over the world" story, 
 so don't expect much.
  
  VALUE 9/10
  For 30$ whats not to like about 30+ hours of gameplay? Add online to that and it gets even better! 
 good value.
  
  OVERALL 8.5/10
  This is a solid game and good sequel to the first one. Personally I like this game better than 
 the first one. So if you're a fan of the megaman starforce/battle network series, it is a good 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskillz1020
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  It's a fun game and it will consume a couple dozen hours of your life, but seriously, it's Battle 
 Network. The graphics (except the battles) are practically the exact same thing you would find 
 on GBA, and even the battle graphics haven't changed since the last installment of Star Force. 
 Even several boss battles, while fun, are recycled from the original Star Force. I even think that 
 I'm getting tired of beating Ox Fire's face in. I enjoyed Battle Networks 2-5 (Never played 1 or 
 6) And Star Force 1, and I'm getting kind of tired of the same ol' thing. The tribe system is just 
 another way of presenting powered-up versions of Mega Man seen in practically every Battle Network/Star 
 Force game to date without adding and truly exciting new abilities. Don't get me wrong, it's a 
 solid action-RPG with a good story and moderately difficult boss battles, but how about some new 
 material, guys? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthslim108
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Overall, Megaman Starforce 2 is a pretty good game. The gameplay and wifi options have improved 
 since the first game. Unfortunately, I found the story to be a bit of a let down. It's good, just 
 not as good as the first game. With all the repetitive battles in these games, a good story is 
 what keeps the game going. The first game was about Geo coming out of his shell and learning the 
 strength of friendships while he battled aliens and searched for his lost father. The second game 
 recycles those same friendship themes into a typical "bad guys want to rule the world" plot. Character 
 development is definitely lacking. Bud starts to like this girl, and Sonia and Luna get a little 
 jealous over Geo, but at the end of it everyone is just friends and the relationships have gotten 
 seemingly nowhere. They should make a game with older characters so there can be some real romantic 
 subplot. Also, Geo gets no closer to finding his father, who is scarcely mentioned. One of my favorite 
 characters from the first game, Aaron Boreal, was barely even in this one. Still, the gameplay 
 is solid, the action is good, and there are some pretty challenging bosses. This game isn't as 
 good as its predecessor, but it is still a good installment in the series that you will enjoy if 
 you liked the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Megaman Starforce 2 Berserk x Shinobi (Zerker x Ninja)
  
  Gameplay ---------- 8.0
  Graphics ----------- 7.5
  Sound -------------- 7.0
  Lasting Replay ---- 8.0
  Tilt ----------------- 
 7.5
  
  Last year in the summer Capcom released their first new franchise of Megaman called Megaman Starforce, 
 or Ryuusei no Rockman in Japan. This new Megaman took a different turn from the EXE series that 
 many fans of the franchise were fond of. The new 3-D mechanics made Capcom decide that free moving 
 in battle mode wasn't needed anymore and took more on the side of simple gameplay with a little 
 bit of strategy.
  While the gameplay stayed true to the original Starforce game there were some mechanics that were 
 changed here and there. The game is a simple RPG in which you play as Geo Stelar, or Hoshikawa 
 Subaru in Japanese, to save the world from destruction. As Geo you have waveholes in the world 
 in which you can basically transform into the blue bomber Megaman. While you are Megaman you are 
 free to roam the real world as well as the wave world while you encounter many of the viruses that 
 plague the world. Running into viruses are random which makes it tedious at times and it seems 
 like you encounter viruses much more often than you would usually like making the game very tedious 
 at times. However, the bulk of the game comes from battling these viruses or somewhat difficult 
 bosses. You have one row to move around in and there is a grid of 3 by 5 in which the battle stage 
 is set. The player will be set in one of the farthest side of the rows and the viruses are randomly 
 scattered in other spots. You will only be set in that specific row but you have a targeting system 
 to help you virus bust as well as many ranged attacks. Chips are chosen on the battle screen to 
 help you fight these viruses but you can only choose so many at a time. Because of the limitation 
 of how many chips you can choose there is some strategic element in how you play and how you build 
 your chip deck. Another handy feature added to this game is the Tribe-On feature which allows Megaman 
 to be transformed into Zerker or Ninja. Both has its own advantages and its weaknesses. When you 
 combine with brothers from around the world you can fuse these forms to create a very power Double 
 Tribe form or Tribe King. The Brotherband system helps you to increase your stats as Megaman but 
 gains you access in other features in the game. 
  While the graphics don't seem stunningly amazing the game suffices to make it not unbearable. The 
 world has you in an isometric world that looks cartoonish. This is sort of the same style that 
 the EXE had. Once you go into battle though everything appears in 3-D. Now this can either be a 
 good or a bad thing. It's good because some of the bosses look awesome in 3-D instead of a flat 
 image. However, because of the DS limitations some of the pictures look jagged and awkward. Overall 
 though the graphics shouldn't hinder the overall game.
  Sound is the usual techno and melancholy track. It's not unbearable but at times it just gets so 
 annoying that you just want to turn it off. Every place has its own theme and every type of fight 
 basically has its own tune. The tunes aren't bad but sometimes just flat out annoying. One thing 
 that the Capcom of America decided to do in the English version of the game is to remove the voice 
 acting. The voice acting would certainly help to fans of the series but at the same time it would 
 diminish the awesomeness from certain players. 
  Lasting appeal and replayability is certainly more than the last game. There is the Sky Tournament 
 system for the players to go around play with other users on wi-fi which the last game did not 
 allow. There is still the casual wi-fi brotherband so you can just fiddle with that and there is 
 also the multiple sidequests and after-quests to do after you beat the game. Even if you did beat 
 the game 100% there is still quite a lot of stuff to do.
  Overall the game is a nicely wrapped package with a lot of things to do. The gameplay will satisfy 
 many of the players and with the ability to play with other users on wi-fi makes this game that 
 much sweeter. There are some shortcomings and problems here and there but if you look past that 
 it's a good game.
  
  Overall ----------- 7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  There are many megaman games on Portable as Battle Network series. Now after BN has finished the 
 Megaman Star Force has showed up to DS. Now there is Star Force 2 and I played it and it's the 
 best ever. Now I'm going to write down simply why SF2 is the best.
  
  REMEMBER, THIS REVIEW IS ONLY FOR FAN.
  
  First the story line is great. The mystery person 
 is trying to take control of the world and Geo Stellar and Mega will fight them. This may looks 
 same as always... but it's different. Each character have horrible memory of past and shows why 
 they are doing this. Also the scene of event and especially ending is great.
  
  Second is Gameplay. Unlike Battle Network series it's still same with first one. You can move megaman 
 only 3 panels. Also you can lock on enemy with sword and other lock on able cards and when you 
 use it megaman will teleport front of virus and attack them with card. This make game more thrilling. 
 The bosses are sometime feels too easy.... but many of them are very tough and challenging.
  
  The Tribes are similar with Leo, Pegasus, and Dragon from previous game. However this version 
 are much better and also you can choose 2 kind of tribes in one game as Zerker or Ninja/Saurian.
 
  
  Third is Graphic. This is DS. So it's not like so slick and sick. But for DS the graphic of 3D 
 is very nice and no frame problems. Also many battle card have a animation and they are fantasy. 
 
  
  After you cleared the game there are still many things to do as quest, secret place, and more. 
 However the story line seems to feeling too short. But I think this is fine because after you cleared 
 one version you could try other versions.
  
  Now here is bad thing... The 2D graphic are still same and I could say this game would be best 
 on gameboy. I wish they improve it. Also the encounter of virus can happen so quickly sometime. 
 So it can drag you down. Most of bosses are from previous game and they are recycled.
  
  In overall MSF 2 is the best Megaman game on portable and I would want to say this is great RPG 
 game. But they could really make this game better and close to perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwordCreator424
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force 2 has good customisable characteristics like the battle network and other star 
 force games. Your attacks are sort of overpowered but the games puzzles are the main difficulty 
 factor. Not that you dont die every once in a while. The overpowered attacks also make it excessable 
 by just about anyone who is willing to put in effort. It has 21 hours of gameplay without extra 
 gameplay factors to an experianced gamer. There are forms that give the game an extra boost of 
 power and makes it funner. This game is highjly recommended for people who like to customize their 
 characters and use different kinds of attacks and abilities. After you beat the game, which has 
 amazing twists by the way, You can collect many Battle cards, your attack items, and then fight 
 2 more secret bosses. Its just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megakirby0323
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  in this one ( if u have an IRL broter that has Saruian) you can tribe on from all of the games. 
 tri-tribe to become the TRIBE KING. pwnage. Also includes your favorite bosses from Leo, Pegesas, 
 and Dragon. and CancerBuble is now a challenge! OMG!! A definite buy! and if ur friends are megaman 
 fans too. i recommend you getting one version and they getting the other. XD. not to metion the 
 good game play. and the levels are difficult too. if you liked the virus battles from the last 
 ones then youll love this one! its like a battle arena with viruses popping up every 15 seconds!!! 
 fun for all!
  and yuo can play with strangers around the world VIA Wi-Fi! oh, and when u get the power ( Ninja 
 form, zerker form. or saruian form) you can choose to start your battles in ur special form!! no 
 more waiting for those tranformation chips!! 9.5 outta 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesiz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing with the 3d graphics and the transformations are great over 10 transformations 
 how cool is that like double tribe 6 transformations is pretty cool and the special attacks you 
 will always want to use them again the tribe king is the best form in the game and is very fun 
 wi-fi is very awesome even after you complete the entire game you will still have pretty much fun 
 battleing other players and the new brother band system not half bad even if the favorites are 
 now 4 its pretty cool now that you can have npc brothers and 6 real brothers sky colliseum is nice 
 being able to fight with much more players is entertaining the story is entertaining and the new 
 rival pretty cool and challenging expecially with the wave command codes when you face them in 
 dx form good challenges great story i reccomend this game for anyone having more than one file 
 keeps you entertained and twice the fun its like two games in one instead of three versions in 
 seperate games two games with one game in each of them the wave command codes are cool too if you 
 don't want to wait to get the tribe king use the wave command codes with the help of your friends 
 in the brother band you will get passed the game in no time. 
  
  Well thats all i have to say. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
