-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mega Man Star Force: Pegasus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/megamanstarforcepegasus/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New characters and some minor formula upgrades.
 Friends-list system makes it easy to trade cards and gain status boosts.
 Story will last you 30 to 40 hours, and there's still stuff to do after.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't fix the complaints people had about the Battle Network games.
 The constant dungeon crawling and random encounters may wear you out.
 Story takes forever to unfold thanks to fetch quests and filler dialogue.
 New battle perspective is more restrictive than old setup.
 Graphics and audio aren't much better than they were on the GBA.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.1, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 192 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Aug 7, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite various minor improvements, Mega Man Star Force isn't significantly different than the GBA 
 Battle Network games. 

  For all intents and purposes, Mega Man Star Force is the seventh entry in Capcom's Mega Man Battle 
 Network franchise. There's a new story featuring a brand-new pair of heroes, tweaks have been made 
 to some aspects of the battle system, and now it's easier for you to trade and share attacks with 
 your friends. However, the core structure and gameplay are largely the same as they were in previous 
 installments. As such, this game, like its predecessors on the Game Boy Advance, is a role-playing 
 game geared toward people who will tolerate pouring dozens of hours into fetch quests and random 
 battles, as well as the obsessive pursuit of putting together a customized repertoire of attacks 
 to unleash in offline battles against friends.  

  Structurally speaking, Mega Man Star Force doesn't stray from the formula established by earlier 
 Mega Man Battle Network games. As a young boy named Geo Stelar, you walk in the physical world. 
 However, by putting on your activator goggles and merging with an energy being named Omega-Xis, 
 you become Mega Man and gain the ability to explore the electromagnetic world that exists parallel 
 to our own -- and do battle against the energy creatures that dwell there. For the roughly 30 hours 
 or so it'll take you to finish the main quest, you'll find yourself constantly alternating between 
 the two worlds in search of the bosses you need to defeat and the items you need to collect in 
 order to advance the story along. The only difference in pacing in Mega Man Star Force that distinguishes 
 it from its predecessors is that it offers a wider selection of optional fetch quests. Indeed, 
 if you choose to, you can run an errand for literally every character you meet to stretch the story 
 out for a good 40 hours.  

           While the new third-person battle perspective limits your movement, the homing function 
 allows you to hop forward if need be.      

  When you're walking in the electromagnetic world, battles occur at frequent random intervals. These 
 encounters still take place in real time on a 3-by-6 grid. However, for this game, they've rotated 
 the viewpoint so that you see the battle from behind Mega Man's back, with the enemies facing you. 
 Enemies have free run over the entire combat surface, but your own movement is primarily restricted 
 to sidestepping left or right at the back of the grid. It is possible to move forward, however 
 briefly, by first locking onto an enemy. If you tap down on the control pad before pressing the 
 attack button, Mega Man will leap onto the combat field and unleash the attack right in the enemy's 
 face, effectively giving you the option of wasting an attack card when you want to jump over an 
 incoming attack. This new third-person perspective isn't necessarily any better or worse than the 
 old way. On the one hand, movement is certainly more restricted. On the other hand, timing plays 
 a greater role in your ability to dodge an attack or nail a shifty opponent.  

  For the most part, battles unfold just like they did in previous Mega Man Battle Network games. 
 You still need to deplete your opponent's health meter before he or she obliterates yours, and 
 the best way to do that is still by using the attack cards that are randomly selected for you when 
 the confrontation begins. Each card depicts a hero, minion, or boss performing an attack from one 
 of Capcom's numerous Mega Man games. When you play one of these cards, you'll perform the attack 
 that's shown, hopefully deducting the indicated health from your opponent in the process. Cards 
 vary in terms of damage doled out, blast radius, and elemental attributes. You can only bring 30 
 cards into battle with you, so that's where most of the game's strategy comes from: collecting 
 and organizing useful battle cards in the folders you've set up. In all, there are more than 150 
 unique cards to find and collect. Capcom has simplified the rules underpinning the use of cards 
 in Mega Man Star Force, generally for the better. Without giving you an entire essay on the subject, 
 all you need to know is that six cards are now drawn instead of five, and you can play cards situated 
 in the same column or that have the same name or border color. The end result is that you have 
 a better chance of pulling the card you need, and you can unleash multi-card chains more readily. 

  Another way to bulk up is by adding people to your friends list, also known as a brother band. 
 When you add another person to your brother band, you can use his or her cards and combos in battle. 
 You also gain various health and ability boosts that you otherwise wouldn't get with an empty brother-band 
 list. Becoming brothers with someone is easy. All you need to do is wirelessly link your two systems 
 together offline or exchange friend codes to establish the link through Nintendo's WFC service. 
 Once that's done, you can send messages to each other, trade cards, and enjoy the automatic bonuses 
 that the brotherly bond entails. The lone downside to the brother-band list is that you can only 
 have six people on your list at any given time.  

  Confirming that we still live in an age where players "gotta catch 'em all," Capcom has published 
 three different flavors of Mega Man Star Force. The subtitles are Dragon, Leo, and Pegasus, and 
 they refer to the specific transformation that Mega Man can undergo in each particular version. 
 In the Dragon version, he's aligned with the wood element. In the Leo and Pegasus versions, he's 
 aligned with fire and ice, respectively. Each version also offers a different status bonus to the 
 friends in your brother-band group. Otherwise, all three flavors of the game share the same story, 
 characters, and major assortment of battle cards. You can acquire the star-force transformations 
 you don't have by forming a brother band with someone playing another version, so there's really 
 no reason to go out and buy all three versions of the game.  

  While the various gameplay tweaks and friends-list improvements are nice, they don't do much to 
 fix the problems that have been with the Mega Man Battle Network series since its inception. The 
 constant back-and-forth travel and random encounters in the story mode get old fast, and the story 
 itself unfolds at a snail's pace. Capcom's writers came up with charming tale, and the localization 
 people did an excellent job of transforming the original Japanese script into peppy English dialogue, 
 but quite a bit of the dialogue is filler. It already takes an hour or so to move from one plot 
 point to the next thanks to the dungeon crawling, so the superfluous chatter doesn't help speed 
 things along. Furthermore, Capcom has once again neglected to implement online battles. You can 
 duel against other players in the same room, but the WFC link is limited to the trading of messages 
 and cards. Last, but certainly not least, the battle system tends to wear thin after a period of 
 time. Early on, you'll enjoy customizing your decks and doing battle against CPU or human opponents. 
 At some point, though, sometime after you've built the deck of your dreams, you'll realize that 
 you're just performing the same attacks over and over. Your interest level will plummet as a result. 

           Despite a few snazzy visual effects, the graphics haven't improved a whole lot since the 
 GBA Battle Network games.      

  Capcom is guilty of phoning in the graphics and audio as well. The three-quarter-view environments 
 and tiny, big-headed characters in the traveling view are holdovers from the GBA. In the battle 
 viewpoint, the cel-shaded 3D characters look snazzy, but the quality and fluidity of the animation 
 is inconsistent. Some enemies move their feet and flap their wings. Some hardly move at all as 
 they travel from square to square. By the same token, some attacks are seamless and accompanied 
 by jarring visual effects. Others are choppy and/or matter-of-fact. As for the audio, the music 
 rules and the sound effects drool. You'll hear some familiar Mega Man themes, as well as a gaggle 
 of new compositions, all of which are melodic and rich. However, the lasers and explosions are 
 crude and sound like they were lifted directly from the GBA games. To add insult to injury, Capcom 
 recorded a few speech samples to accompany menu selections, but none for attacks or any of the 
 story dialogue.  

  Ultimately, it comes down to how burned out you are from playing previous games in the series. 
 If you're a newcomer and don't mind a drawn-out story or a gajilliondy random battles, you'll probably 
 get a good amount of enjoyment from jumping between the two worlds, building your card decks, and 
 watching your attacks manhandle CPU and human opponents. If you have one or two Mega Man Battle 
 Network games under your belt and still have the itch, you'll appreciate the minor improvements 
 that this new game brings to the table, especially if you plan to set up an active friends list. 
 If you didn't like the previous games, or if the last one you played was enough, then Mega Man 
 Star Force probably isn't for you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nasty_butler_9
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Starforce: Pegasus, is a crazy addictive game, everyday when I got home from school I say 
 down and immersed myself in this game.
  
  The story line isn't exactly AAAE but it's interesting and makes you want to read the speech bubbles 
 instead of just mashing the B button until they disappear.
  
  Graphics, are typical for a DS game that hasn't been hyped out of proportions.
  
  The battle 
 system is now over-the-shoulder and has an interesting card-based system that makes the battles, 
 strategic, and chaotic at the same time.
  
  Definitely worth buying, bottom-line a solid game you won't regret buying, and will have tons of 
 fun playing for a while.
  
  One downside is the Wi-Fi, you can't battle online, but if you must have that, you can just buy 
 the newest one, just don't expect to follow some of the flashbacks.
  
  Overall, a fun long-lasting game you should buy, regardless of your experiences with other Megaman 
 titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zolorunnin
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  *Possible Spoilers*
  
  Mega Man Star Force has the ingredients to become a great series but needs more work. The whole 
 game made me feel that this game could have used a couple more months of solid development time. 
 To name just a few things, the character development could have been better. It didn't quite feel 
 like this kid who never wanted friends anymore made a rapid change into a superhero thats saving 
 the world. Another area that needs some help is the battle card chemistry. The card selection does 
 not move that smooth. It is a little confusing that cards are sometimes white and sometimes not. 
 The cards don't seem to compliment each other very well either. Even the most difficult of enemies 
 can be defeated in one turn with out using mega or giga cards. Yet another issue is the other "wave 
 battlers" that are just there. There is no story purpose and no explanation why they are there. 
 After playing through the game, there doesn't appear to be much room for a sequel. In Battle Network 
 everyone had a navi and everyone was connected through the net. In Star Force only a few people 
 can "pulse in" and that makes it hard to expand on the story and the whole wave world experience. 
 In conclusion this game has a skeleton but now Capcom needs to add the muscles and organs (most 
 importantly the heart) that makes great Mega Man games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeHenry767
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Megaman Starforce is a game that takes place after the Battle Network games But does Megaman Starforce 
 have any significant difference from the Battle Network?
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay follows the style of GBA game but its more Restrictive than before, you can 
 only move about 3 blocks is that better? Nope. Also Enemy battles come at to most random moments 
 in game, Its annoying because for example if you finished a cutscene you go and then BAM virus, 
 I mean its your way of getting more Battle cards but come on. In Dungeons there is some task you 
 do before going to the next room like for example Riding a Bull, Shooting ducks, etc they utilize 
 the stylus so the game ain't completely a GBA game.
  
  Graphics: The game's graphics's are okay but haven't changed much, Except the game goes 3D when 
 it comes enemy battle. By Judging the 3D Graphics they look like the graphics from when the DS was 
 starting out. In short, graphics's are okay but need improvement .
  
  Sound: The Music In the game are catchy ans some are just a migrain for your head (depending on 
 your perspective on the music) Sounds need to improve because there not any different from the 
 BN games.
  
  Megaman Starforce In general is not a game for everyone but a game for Capcom, and Megaman fans 
 alike. If your expecting anything new from this game you may wanna think twice about that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbdb1345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  No this game isn't a whole lot different then the previous versions of megaman handheld games but 
 it's those great role-playing elements that keep this series going.
  The good things about this game are that the new plot is very interesting and the ending is a pretty 
 good plot twist, if you have any of the old GBA games you'll be able to unlock a amazing weapon, it's 
 a pretty long game and there's lots more to do after you beat the game, boss battles are great, the 
 battle cards are more powerfull, the BrotherBand system is a great addition to the game, on-line 
 play is another grreat addition, and it has great little use's for the touch screen weither its 
 being use to enter waveholes or transers or doing little things to get to the boss battles.
  Thankfully there are alot less bads then goods. 
  The only bad parts are that the level system 
 in a liitle on the illogical side, you level up based on you HP level not your actualy skill (enemies 
 deleated, average cards used per battle, things like that) , jobs can involve lots of runing between 
 the real word and the wave roads which will indeed get annoying, and the customizer is now gone 
 only to be replaced by weapons for Mega. 
  
  
  Overall this game will be great for anybody looking for a great roleplaying game for DS.
  
 
  8.5 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Okay so there i was on ebay wondering if i should buy it at about 30-40$ Dicided not too and waited 
 and got it cheaper in another place due to a discount. I started the game up thinking it was gonna 
 be better then battle network maybe ( Boy was i ever wrong ) and when i loaded it ( I Admit i did 
 get stuck thanks to some of the horrible walkthrough ( Not too bad though ) after beating the first 
 mini-boss which before i fought him ( called a jammer ) i was scared kinda. Took me only a few 
 seconds to beat him and i was dissapointed.... Later i moved on which was fun bull riding shooting 
 ducks running from stars but the bosses really sucked.... I mean really in Mega Man Battle Network 
 you really had to try hard but in this it's easy enough for my 6 year old friends to play.... Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Libra 
 a few from the Zodiac which made it a little interesting.. The bosses were wayy to predicatable 
 you can beat them blind folded if you've practiced enough ( Or using a ds with a broken top screen 
 like meh. ) There was a few cool areas the music was pretty nice for the town areas and moment (s) 
 of dispear (s) . But the boss battle music compared to any of the other ones it was horrible, i'd 
 pick other musics that could be there instead.,. Your Geo Stellar, With the story of your dad dying 
 ( Kelvin Stellar) Trying to bring peace unsing brother bands ( exp later ) but dies and one year 
 later your in your house. A guy named Aaron comes and gives you a transer which makes you see EM 
 waves which later you form with Omega-Xis ( Mega ) to become Mega Man. Brother bands are used when 
 you become friends with either:
  A) CPU by going through story line ( Which can be deleted and accepted back after beating game) 
 
  Or
  B) Human player with Dragon, Leo or Pegasus by trading Wi-Fi codes or fighting DS-DS.
  The Wi-Fi's 
 probably one of the better things about this game, You can send E-mail, Cards, Combos, Faces & Secrets 
 to each other. Sadly no Wi-Fi Arena yet..
  What ever version you get you have 3 mega chip version only & 5 Gigas too use at your own advantage 
 ( 5 megas in folder at once & 1 giga ) ( Such as pegasus EX for pegasus users and Dragon EX for 
 Dragon users, ect. )
  The game itself is veryyyy short and probably will only last you 35 - 50 hrs normally. I Highly 
 suggest a MMBN game or Mega Man Star Force 2 ( RnR2) .
  
  This was brought to you by another Ccooldudecool review taking opinions of others. To make a request 
 go to Ccooldudecool's blog and post what game you want to be reviewed or if you have a comment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbdude006
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, easy to pick up and play and it draws you quickly into the story. The thing is 
 that you do not have to have played the battle network games to work on this sequel series, since 
 it does not reference the previous series in any way except for a minor and optional appearance 
 of Megaman. EXE.
  The games story may not be as long or difficult and its previous series but it still has major 
 replay value and its a good game for those days that you feel like you just want to shoot the heck 
 out of something.
  The new battlefield and virus battle feature does not give you as much freedom as the previous 
 series. it limits you to one row of a 3 square grid where you have to dodge and shoot. A paralysing 
 attack combo may delete you in a matter of seconds due to the lack of movement space where you 
 cannot dodge, thats why Capcom has included a shield attack in which Megaman produces a shield 
 to block oncoming attacks. The view uses a small line between a overhead and shoulder 3rd person 
 view. The battle uses 3D cell-shaded graphics for your attacks and viruses and of course you self.
 
  
  All in all is a great addition to the series and a recommended game for battle network fans (like 
 me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecuationzyx
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Well you know how this game is, just like the battle network series. They changed to 3d graphics 
 just in the battles. Although the story is good and the tme spent is 20 hours or less you can get 
 bored. It could have been better if all the game was 3d then gamespot would have scored it 9.0 
 or so.
  If you liked the battle network series BUY  
 but if you expect somethng new or better than mbn well, dont. The battles end being boring and 
 vey repetitive. If you are seriously looking for something similar buy Pokemon . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerguy92
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I found this game very interesting. To start off my review, I thought the battle style was interesting. 
 I thought that it would be like the previous MMBN games where you had a lot of panels to fight 
 on, but this game is different. You only get to move left and right on three panels, but Capcom 
 made it that you get to see the front view of your enemies and you can get close up to do a direct 
 attack. You also get to create your own combos that does 300 or more damage. If you used three 
 cards that does up to 300 or more damage on a boss's EX or SP form, it becomes a B. (Battle) Combo 
 in which you get to name it and make a card called a Legend Force. You also get to make a pop-up 
 message for it so that when you use the card, it says your own personal message which you created 
 for it. There's also these three special powers called Star Forces. In this version, you get the 
 Pegasus Starforce and in the other versions, you can get different starforces called Leo and Dragon 
 which you can use when you become brothers with people who have the other versions. The system 
 in which you brother with people is called Brotherband. You have 6 brotherbands slots in which 
 3 are for the in-game people and 3 are for people you can brother with wirelessly. You can send 
 your real brothers emails over wi-fi and you can even trade cards with them and battle with them 
 if they are nearby! There's also new bosses who are from the planet FM called FM-ians. They can't 
 fight on their own, so they take over your friends, family, and even some of your teachers! To 
 end my review, I would like to say that I had an great experience with this game and I think you 
 would too if you bought this game. I recommend buying this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellimist314
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Megaman Star Force is probably best described as an action/card battle RPG. It takes 
 place in two main parts: the Real World and the Wave World. In the real world, you play as Geo, 
 an 11 year old boy who apparently doesn't go to school. Similar to most RPGs, you walk around various 
 towns collecting items, talking to random people on the street, and watching cutscenes. You can 
 also perform what's called a Wave Change , which allows you to transform into Megaman and enter 
 the Wave World. This is where all those notorious random battles occur, along with the usual boss 
 battles. At the start of each battle, you will be taken to a menu that displays six cards randomly 
 chosen from a folder of thirty, which you can modify with cards you get from beating viruses, doing 
 jobs, or just examining objects. You can pick certain cards from the menu based on their position 
 and color to use in battle. Once you're finished, the battle will start and if you don't manage 
 to kill the enemy you will be able to choose more cards once your custom gauge refills, which takes 
 about 8 seconds. All in all, the gameplay is very similar to the Battle Network series on the GameBoy 
 Advance.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nothing special. They are not amazing, but at least they don't make 
 the game any less fun to play. There is not much animation outside of battle, and during battle 
 most sprites look very pixellated. Still, the explosions that happen when you successfully delete 
 an enemy virus are very satisfying.
  
  Sound:
  Again, nothing special. In fact, most of the tunes used in the game are exactly the same as ones 
 in the Battle Network series. They're the kind of tunes that you will either find very catchy or 
 very annoying.
  
  Value: Much like Pokemon, there is a sort of feeling of Gotta catch 'em all with collecting the 
 cards. There are about 200 in each version, and they can be fun to look for. Unfortunately, there 
 is no Wi-fi battling, which is a real letdown. There is, however, a Brother Band system where you 
 can become friends with someone who has a copy of this game; you get certain bonuses based on which 
 version they have, and vice-versa. Overall, this is a surprisingly fun game. Some people will hate 
 it, but those that do like it will find it very enjoyable. If you think you might be interested, 
 then give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cleric_of_doom
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Ya In Megaman Battle Network _ _ _
  U have to figure out the way to make a Combo CArd
  But in this game
  its 3rd-ish
  and You can make your own combo cards that can pack a whopper!
 
  Of Dmg!
  and you can have so many different ways of pumping up ur Megaman.
  If you want to make friends? Go do the Brother Band!
  Though it should be more Family ish then 
 Brother,
  and it should also have
  a Female Character that you can play as.
  So that you can have a Sister and a Brother !
  Luna and Sonia Don't Count &gt;.&gt;
  What I 
 mean by that is
  Other players who can choose to be a girl,
  though your icon you can change.
  Get It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samasora
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  IT IS VERY ADDICTING, I SHOULD KNOW I SPEND ALL NIGHT ON IT. WELL IT IS SOME WHAT LIKE THE THE 
 FORMER BATTLE NETWORK SERIES BUT THE BATTLE NETWORK SERIES WERE FUN AND SO IS STARFORCE. IT BRINGS 
 SOMETHING NEW TO MEGA MAN WITH THE BROTHERBAND SYSTEM AND LINK ABILITIES. ITS FUN LIKE OTHER MEGA 
 MAN GAME AND IS ON THE DS. THE BOSSES ARE COOL AND THE GAME PLAY IS EXCELLENT. ITS EASY TO LEARN 
 AND FUN TO PLAY SO IF YOUR A VETERAN MEGA MAN FAN OR A NEWBIE IT WILL BE FUN. YOU CAN ONLY MOVE 
 IN ONE ROW NOW BUT IT ALSO ADDS TO IT BY MAKING YOU STAY ON UR TOES TO DODGE THE NEXT ATTACK. IF 
 THERE IS ANYTHING BAD ABOUT THIS GAME IT IS THE WI-FI, IT IS KIND O HARD TO USE AT THE BEGINNING 
 BUT WHEN YOU LEARN IT, IT IS EASY BUT DOESN'T ALLOW AS MUCH FREEDOM AS SOME OTHER GAMES, AND THERE 
 SHOULD BE MORE BOSSES, THERE ARE ONLY 11 I THINK THERE SHOULD BE MORE, LOL ANYWAY THE BOTTOM LINE 
 IS THAT THE GAME IS FUN AND GREAT AND YOU SHOULD BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  From recent Battle Network games, most, if not all have been pretty satisfying to most megaman 
 lovers. Megaman star force introduces new stuff and keeps most of the basic stuff that BN lovers 
 have come to get used to. Pegasus style for megaman is pretty good, and i belive its better than 
 all the rest because you can freeze things, which can come in handy in boss battles or executing 
 great combos. Overall, to me they didn't make it hard enough, or long enough, but i still enjoyed 
 it pretty much. There's no more program advances or switching to styles whenever you feel like 
 it, but its new, and i respect that they tried. Brother bands are a great idea, and favorite chip 
 lists that can be used by brothers are also great. Overall, i think most people who start out with 
 this won't be able to appreciate the gameplay, and i believe some veterans might not enjoy this 
 that much, but sequels are definetly coming out so if you want to play the whole series, I advise 
 that you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  Six Battle Network games passed through the GBA. All of them were great, each featuring different 
 elements, but with the same aspect and gameplay objectives - defeat enemies and gain force to save 
 the Net from viruses and evil Navis. Now a new chapter arises - Megaman Star Force, which marks 
 Megaman's 20th anniversary - and it truly is a shining star.
  
  Graphics: We still have the same 2D overworld like in previous Battle Network games, but the battle 
 mode now presents itself as being total 3D. Rich and smooth graphics, similar to its predecessors.
 
  
  Sound: Always those catchy themes! It gets a little monotonous after a while of hearing the same 
 themes, but you can't help smiling as SF does in fact make use of relatively old SFX - but that's 
 okay.
  
  Gameplay: It has the same elements as the BN series, but Lan is gone. Instead, you control a boy 
 called Geo Stelar, whose father is out in space, and he mourns about him being absent at the beginning, 
 but soon makes friends and saves them from the evil Navis - now called FM's. Storyling is not epic, 
 but it's quite interesting, but why, oh why, must we waste our A button due to the text box being 
 small?! Capcom insists on making the font too big, so every conversation needs at least 20 presses 
 on the A button. Still, you can press START to skip the cutscene, but why do this if you're playing 
 for the first time? You'll lose the story and it's not that fun then. Enemies are quite easy to 
 defeat, because you'll have a good chip collection from battles and mystery data, and the bosses 
 aren't that hard. You'll see yourself ranking up those zenny quicky, and it's good, if you want 
 to afford that awesome Giga Chip that the Wave Shop sells. ;)
  
  Replay Value: It has Wi-Fi, but if you're asking about online battles, I'm sorry to say that it 
 doesn't have it. You can, instead, create an alliance called a BrotherBand which allows you to 
 use your Brother's favorite chips and gain more HP while you're Brothers. You can also use their 
 Star Force - let it be Pegasus, Leo, or Dragon. It's a fun way of creating relationships with people 
 - because the game does teach you moral values if you pay attention to the storyline. Main story 
 will guarantee about 15 to 20 hours, which is quite good, and then you can collect chips and become 
 a veteran (if you aren't already!) .
  
  All in all, Star Force marks a great chapter in the Megaman series. It truly shines in 3 colors, 
 and fans will not be disappointed. If you are new to the series, then this is an awesome game to 
 start your Megamania! It's really marvelous. Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrikeSIash
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  To start things off this game is fun though a bit altered from the battle network games due to 
 the fact that you can only move left and right in battle though you can now lock on to your enemy 
 and move to their position.
  Another thing I like to note is this game has alot of story to it so you have to go through long 
 cutscenes to move on of course you could always press start if you get tired of waiting to move 
 to gameplay. The bosses are fun though a little too easy ( at least for my standards) and also 
 a bit short but fun none the less. The graphics are pretty good for a DS game. Multiplayer and 
 Wifi I'm not sure of due to me never trying online gameplay on it yet though you can change your 
 name and icon at any time. Brotherbands in the game increase your HP and give you special abilities, 
 though no one I know of has this game I currently have no real brotherbands made up but I have 
 heard that you can also get to use their favorite cards and if I'm correct use their star force 
 but don't quote me on that. my only dislike is that from what I've heard they took out the link 
 to Lunar Knights which i was looking forward to. hmmmmm all I have left to say is that I can't 
 wait until part 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B14z3n_F3fnir
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Mega Man Star Force: Pegasus... a whole new way of Mega Man. With the same sequence of Battle Network 
 and the new 3-D effect, you get more into the game!
  
  When I started playing this game there were three things that appealed to me. The Sound was terrific. 
 The new music is just as good as the Battle Network series. The Graphics were wonderful. The detail 
 had a special difference from the Battle Network series. It brought out the best in the DS. Finally, 
 the Gameplay was excellent. When I played this game, I loved the
  3-D effect. I also liked that when I began a battle against a boss, the camera would spin around 
 the boss showing exactly what he looked like.
  
  This game was put together just right. There were some times when I got stuck, but that didn't 
 stop me. Instead, it inspired me to continue playing to achieve the goal. This game has everything 
 every Mega Man fan loves.
  
  This game is something you can't rent. If you want to play this game, you should buy it. This game 
 is so great that you are going to want to play it over and over again. There are plenty of things 
 to do from fighting the bosses over, to a bunch of side-quests. I recommend this game to every 
 Mega Man fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldjango
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Megaman Star Force is the successor to Megaman Battle Network in the same way X was to the originals. 
 You take control of a human, and go into another world as Megaman (The wave world as opposed 
 to the net) . Its an action-rpg that doesnt do anything too innovative, but doesnt follow the 
 norm.
  
  The story is pretty good. The set-up is that you are a 5th-grader named Geo Stelar (Subaru Hoshikawa 
 in Japan. Thats how Im going to refer to him from now on) you can rename him if you so wishin 
 the far flung future who hasnt gone to school in 3 years because his father was lost on a space 
 colony during an experiment to Brother Band (The games equivalent to registering friends on Xbox 
 Live or something) with the FM Planet. The FM king mistook the request for an invasion and kicked 
 the crap out of the space station. One of the FM aliens Omega-Xis (referring to him as War-Rock 
 because thats his Japanese name) went traitor and ran to Earth with a precious artifact called 
 the Andromeda key. One night while star gazing, Subaru puts on his Visualizer --which is a pair 
 of tricked out sunglasses made by his dad, which allows the wearer to see the wave roads, that 
 are formed by the radio waves used in everyday lifeand sees War-Rock as he crashes into Subaru. 
 They accidentally merge to become Megaman! After fighting some viruses, War-Rock decides to hide 
 out in Subarus transer (a mini, wrist-worn computer that serves as Star Forces equivalent to 
 the PET of Battle Network) . Soon, the other FM aliens following War-Rock get to Earth and crazy 
 crap happens.
  
  Most of the game uses 2d sprites. These are used for everything but battles, and are slightly crisper, 
 and more smoothly animated than Battle Networks sprites. During battle, everything is a 3d model, 
 that doesnt look too good. They have a lot of jagged edges and look blocky, but its the DS so 
 its forgivable.
  
  The sound in this game feels like the sound in the Battle Network games on the GBA. It's all tecno, 
 but the music for this game belongs to 1/3 DS games that I can stand to hear because it doesn't 
 grate your ears. Overall, it does a good job of setting a mood, but some tracks are pulled straight 
 from the Battle Network games, like the crisis track, which is unfortunate.
  
  The game play feels like a traditional action-rpg, but at the same time, doesnt. While running 
 around either as the 2 worlds (normal world that the humans live their daily lives (and you play 
 as Subaru) , and the wave world where EM wave beings /FM aliens and humans merged with FM aliens 
 live, and carry out their lives (You play as Megaman. A merging of Subaru and War-Rock) . The wave 
 world is basically the new version of the internet) , you can talk to people, advance the storyline, 
 check stats ect. But the battles are where the game differs from other action-rpgs. If youve played 
 a Battle Network game before, you have an inkling of what to suspect. This time, you have a behind-the-back 
 view of the action. At the start of each turn, you pick battle cards cards that hold weapons, 
 support features, and other attacksfrom 2 rows of 3. The limitations are that you can only pick 
 cards in the same column. Exceptions to that are that you can pick more than 1 card anywhere on 
 the screen if they are the same (2 swords for example) , and white cards. White cards are 1 of 6 
 favorited cards that can be picked no matter what. An example is: I just picked a Heal 50 card 
 on the top-right. A Barrier card on the bottom-middle is a white card, and therefore I can also 
 select that. If you use your Star Force (transformation with the creature of your version. Pegasus, 
 Leo or Dragon, although through adding friends (Called Brothering) you can get the other versions 
 transformations) you can also pick every card in the same row.
  Once you pick your cards, you can start the battle. The battle takes place on a 3x5 grid which 
 to you are constrained to the back 3 panels. You can move side to side on your 3 panels with the 
 D-pad, and unleash the cards youve selected with the A button or use your mega buster (arm-mounted 
 energy blaster for the 2 people who dont know) with the B button for a machine-gun effect, or 
 use your shield to block most attacks (not bodily attacks. Fists and tackles for example) with 
 the Y button. Because you are constrained to the back row, it makes it hard for your sword cards 
 to be effective; this is where the lock on feature comes into play. You press down on the D-pad 
 and War-Rock changes to lock-on mode where he locks on to an enemy in the same column or diagonal 
 from Megaman. You can then use the card (any attacking card will work. It doesnt have to be swords) 
 and Megaman will get all into the enemys face and attack. Your enemies will move around and unleash 
 attacks of their own in an attempt to kill you (duh -.-) . If youve used up all your selected cards, 
 but the battle isnt over, dont fret because a bar on the right hand side is filling up while 
 you fight. When its full, you can press L or R and go to the card selection screen again. When 
 youve killed your foes, you win money, new cards, or sometimes an hp refill. Leveling up is done 
 through the gathering of HP memories, which increase your max health. Leveling up doesnt not affect 
 your other stats though; instead, the weapons you equip on your buster (evidently War-Rocks head) 
 affect your attack rating (how much damage you do per shot with your buster) , rapid rating (how 
 fast you shoot) , and your charge rating (how fast you charge up a charge shot for more damage) .
 
  The game supports both online and local multiplayer, although PvP is only possible through local 
 multiplayer. Online, you can send e-mails to your brothers (friends) , trade cards, and make brothers. 
 The advantage to brothering is that you get a bonus (such as increased max health or first barrier 
 which gives you a one-hit protection at the start of every battle) plus if you brother with a version 
 different from your own, you get their Star Force.
  
  No matter which version of Megaman Star Force you get (Pegasus, Leo or Dragon. The only differences 
 are your star force transformation, menu colour, and giga (ultimate awesomeness) chips.) , it is 
 a great game, weighing in at around 17-20 hours depending on how you play/how fast you play. The 
 battles are exciting, and whenever the battles get a little dull due to weak/same enemies, when 
 you get to the next area in the storyline, the enemies ramp up in difficulty and keep you on your 
 toes. The game differs in difficulty depending on your skill, both with this game, and your skill 
 with the Battle Network games as the game really just puts a slight twist on the Battle Network 
 series formula. Personally, Im a veteran BN player and felt this game to be slightly above-average 
 in difficulty. No matter how hard the game is at first, the streamlined game play makes it easy 
 for you to get used to it and get better quicker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai-Setoshi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  Well here we are .. a Brand New Megaman Game that is sort of a sequel to Battle Network yet it 
 isnt .. the story takes place 200 Years after Battle Network .. so with a new story comes a new 
 Game .. Lots of changes have been made ..
  
  The most obvious change is the Battles .. now you are presented with a 3-D behind the back view 
 of Megaman .. for the most part it works out but i can say that i miss the old 2-D Battle Network 
 Days .. Combat is basicly the same as BN but you can only move Left and Right .. Which i thought 
 would suck but its actually quite good .. of course the Difficulty will ramp up due to the stuck 
 in one row thing but not to hard .. Also Chips are now known as Cards .. Megas and Gigas make it 
 back but BN Gigas/Megas were better Now the Megabuster is also changeable .. a variety of different 
 Weapons will be found throughout the game each with different Abilitys .. And of course as you 
 may have heard .. Wi-Fi
  
  The Brother Band System is the new Key feature in the game .. basically you can Exchange FCs with 
 people that have the other versions and get their Transformations and Gigas which is very useful 
 .. you may also send E-Mails to your Brothers and include Cards as Gifts
  
  One Question that ive heard alot of people ask is about Souls/Crosses .. no those features arent 
 in this Game .. instead you get your version exclusive Transformation .. each has its own weakness 
 and advantages so jus base it upon your Favorite Element
  
  All in All the Game is definitely different from the Battle Network series and many will have Mixed 
 Reactions about it .. my opinion its good , worth a purchase if you were a Fan of the BN series 
 .. hope this review will help those who are unsure about this game 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
