-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mega Man ZX
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/megamanzx/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Multiple Model X forms offer a variety of play styles.
 Tough bosses and challenging level designs will test the skill of even the most experienced Mega Man players.
 Great music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some of the levels and enemies blur the line between challenging and frustrating.
 The world map could use a lot more detail.
 Save system can be too unforgiving.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,169 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Developer: Inti
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Sep 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mega Man ZX offers a familiar but refined combination of action and platforming that will challenge 
 even the most seasoned Mega Man veterans. 

  Mega Man ZX isn't the first Mega Man game for the Nintendo DS, but it's the first to bring the 
 tough-as-nails, side-scrolling action the franchise is best known for. As the first action adventure 
 Mega Man on the dual-screen handheld, Mega Man ZX doesn't force any touch-screen gimmicks into 
 the game, but instead relies on a proven template lifted from the Mega Man Zero series on the Game 
 Boy Advance. The result is a rewarding game for dedicated action-game fans, but also one that can't 
 quite shake the feeling of familiarity.  

          As the name implies, ZX feels like a mix of the Mega Man Zero and the Mega Man X games. 
     

  In Mega Man ZX you can choose to play as a young boy named Vent or a girl named Aile. The two characters 
 play slightly differently, and each one has unique story scenes throughout the game, but for the 
 most part it doesn't matter which character you choose. You are a courier for a delivery company 
 known as Giro Express. One day when transporting a shipment of a material known as biometal, you 
 are attacked by evil robots known as Mavericks. In the scuffle you are exposed to the biometal, 
 which gives you the ability to transform into Model X, a basic Mega Man prototype with a blaster 
 and increased mobility. Since you can't do much in your human form, you'll spend most of the game 
 in the Model X form. However, there are several different Model X forms, which you unlock by collecting 
 new types of biometal as you progress through the game.  

  The setup is similar to a Metroid or Castlevania game. Instead of starting at the beginning of 
 a level and moving to the end, you are free to explore an entire maze of interconnected corridors 
 and rooms at your leisure. There are data terminals located throughout the world where you can 
 accept missions. You're given a choice as to the order in which you complete them, but you can 
 work on only one mission at a time. The game isn't quite as open-ended as it sounds, because to 
 reach certain parts of the world you need to visit other areas to defeat bosses and collect power-ups. 
 For example, to get to a particular section, you might need to go through a purple door, which 
 you can't do until you've obtained the purple card key, which you can't do until you've defeated 
 a specific boss. In this way the game is still fairly linear, although you're still free to explore 
 and collect items and discover secrets, albeit in a limited capacity. This structure works well, 
 although it can lead to spending an inordinate amount of time aimlessly wandering around as you 
 look for the area you need to visit next. It also doesn't help that the in-game map simply shows 
 several blocks to designate each area, rather than a detailed map that might actually be useful. 

  The most interesting part of the game is the Model X transformation mechanic. There are five different 
 models to choose from. Essentially these different models are like different suits that you can 
 equip on the fly to access new traits and abilities. There's a model with a saber and a blaster, 
 a model that can fly for short distances, a model that allows you to throw a constant stream of 
 deadly projectiles, and more. Because of the way the levels are arranged, you're rarely forced 
 to use one specific model, although there's usually a clear advantage for one type over another. 
 Often the key to getting past a particularly difficult area is simply trying it with a different 
 model. The same is true for the game's many boss battles, as the bosses usually have unique weaknesses 
 to specific types of attacks.  

  The level and enemy designs are typical of Mega Man games. You'll see a lot of difficult platform 
 jumps, spikes that kill you instantly, hazards like exposed electrical currents and grinding gears, 
 and all sorts of enemy robots with unique weaknesses and attack patterns. Each area of the world 
 has a different theme. There's an abandoned theme park; a dark, creepy forest; a manufacturing 
 plant with cogs and assembly lines; and even a town area with regular, human inhabitants that you 
 can talk to.  

  Some of the levels are deviously difficult even on the easy setting, with blind jumps galore and 
 enemies that reappear almost as soon as you kill them. Each area also has a miniboss fight, as 
 well as a much more difficult boss battle at the end. The problem is that the save points in Mega 
 Man ZX are few and far between, so if you expend all your lives battling a boss -- or worse yet just 
  getting  to a boss -- you have to do it all over again from the beginning. Since you usually have 
 only a couple of lives, you'll invariably end up covering the same ground and fighting the same 
 boss several times before finally completing the mission. The gameworld is quite large, and it 
 can take a long time to run from one area of the map to another. The save system certainly compounds 
 the difficulty and extends the time required for you to play the game, but it's also often aggravating, 
 especially if you're able to play only for a few quick minutes at a time. If you've played the 
 Mega Man Zero games, you'll be at an advantage here, but with the normal and hard difficulty settings 
 there are still more than enough challenges that will put your thumb speed and dexterity to the 
 test time and time again.  

  Mega Man ZX makes little use of the unique features of the Nintendo DS. All of the action takes 
 place on the top screen, while the bottom screen displays a range of information depending on which 
 model type you're currently using. Most of the information isn't very useful, and, in fact, sometimes 
 you won't see anything but a simple logo on the bottom screen. The touch screen isn't used for 
 the most part, but that's a good thing given the nature of the game. The precision and timing required 
 of you in Mega Man ZX mean that your full attention is required on the action on the top screen. 
 So although there's little to no use for the bottom screen, you won't ever have time to notice, 
 and the game doesn't feel lacking as a result.  

  The presentation in Mega Man ZX looks good, but it isn't much of a step up from the Mega Man Zero 
 games on the Game Boy Advance. The levels are all colorful and bright, with backgrounds that seem 
 to stretch on forever in some cases. It's great to see visual touches like dark thunderheads looming 
 large over a futuristic cityscape in the background, and the level of detail in each area is impressive. 
 The enemies are typical of Mega Man games, with everything from annoying little dragonfly robots, 
 to armored turrets, to giant bulldozers that fill up half the screen. Each of the X models that 
 you can transform into has a unique look, mostly designated by color. Since there are several models, 
 there are quite a few attack animations and effects for your character. None of the attack effects 
 are impressive or even interesting to look at, though, which is somewhat disappointing given the 
 apparent strength of each attack. The result is a repertoire of all-too-similar attacks that don't 
 feel powerful and aren't nearly as gratifying as they could be.  

          This game hardly uses the touch screen, but in this case that's a good thing.     

 
  The sound is marked by some excellent music that keeps pace with the action throughout the game. 
 Each area has a special theme, and some of them are good enough that you'll want to revisit a specific 
 area just to hear the music again. There's also a little bit of spoken dialogue during a few of 
 the cutscenes. However, it's all in Japanese. It sounds good, but with such a small amount of dialogue 
 to work with it wouldn't have been difficult to include English versions of the voices as well. 

  Mega Man ZX is a good game with plenty of challenge to offer fans of the series. Newcomers will 
 find the game to be a harsh introduction to side-scrolling action games but should still be able 
 to get by on the easiest difficulty setting. If you know what you're doing and don't spend too 
 much time dying or wandering around the world, you could easily finish Mega Man ZX in four or five 
 hours. However, with the multiple playable characters, difficulty settings, and secrets to find, 
 you could easily spend twice that much time with this game. This game won't change the way you 
 think about Mega Man, but it will remind you of why the series continues to garner new fans with 
 each installment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: udunwanan0
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Its been awhile since I've been able to enjoy a good sidescroller, these 2D these days just don't 
 live up to the good old SNES days. Fortunately Megaman ZX has come to the rescue with a brand new 
 cast of characters and storyline its just pretty refreshing. There are 9 great missions and a secret 
 boss, each has a guardian that guards a biometal that allows you to transform into another type 
 of Megaman. Its pretty cool being able to transform into all these different reploids, unlike the 
 old megaman games where you can only use X and Zero. The graphics are good enough, their not astonishing 
 but not bad. The cutscenes are the best part, its basically scenes from the anime with the original 
 japanese voiceacting too, so it looks and sounds pretty darn good. The difficulty was just about 
 right in this game, until you go on hard mode that is, it was so punishingly hard that I had to 
 give (Sorry I'm no hard-core Megaman guy) . All and All Megaman ZX is a great addition to the megaman 
 universe. Any megaman fan or just any DS owner should give this game a try, but its not for everyone. 
 For newcomers this game is pretty tough, it takes time getting use to the controls and such, its 
 pretty painful to the fingers mashing on small buttons. But yeah this game is a great continuation 
 of the Zero games formula. 8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chin3se_Pride
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is really fun but flawls really impact the game from good to bad.
  well im gonna start the bad part so u don't end up thinking this game is all bad after reading 
 the review. There's only 2 bad things about this game. 
  -The first one thing is really not bad for other people but for me it is. Remeber when u play the 
 original gameplay on megaman, time to time ull find this capsules that upgrades ur weapons and 
 abilities.... well its gone. Basically they reaplce it with biometals. Biometals are different suits 
 for megaman to use, each have their own unique ability. well this is actually not the bad part 
 the bad thing is that you won't be able to feel and see megaman evolving, u know like slowly gathering 
 parts inorder to become an ul timate killing machine. Instead u pick which biometal suit u want 
 then do wutever u want.
  -second bad thing is the free roaming system. Instead of the classic where you pick level/ mission 
 u want it got replaced by this huge 2d world and from there u do missions, which reminds me metroid 
 fusion. Well this system sucks. I understand how the game designer wann try something different. 
 Well it's not suck but they failed on applying it to the game. u really have to explore alot in 
 order to find ur next mission. Ull find ur self dashing every where avoidin the enemies to just 
 find ur next mission. There's literally no hint or what so ever to tell u where u goin. It really 
 killed the megaman feeling. well there's map but it suck. ul know wut im talking about once u play 
 it
  horayyyy- the good thing
  the biometals are really nice adition, having different ability for each is really entertaing to 
 play and look at. The graphics are really nice. Nice detail back ground, just by looking at it 
 it really feels like megaman. bosses are fun and mission level deesign are really fun. Story is 
 solid. 
  any way this may sound a really bad game, but its really not bad once u ignore the changes they 
 made. Solid game but not megaman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meiaman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  Yet another megaman game, while it keeps the basics from the classics, it suffered a lot of changes, 
 specially in story and bosses development. Let's explore the universe of megaman ZX now.
  
  Story (hero side) :
  Following the events and features of megaman Zero, megaman ZX tries to gives 
 a story and gameplay development that it has the same looks, but try to changes in a new series, 
 here you play as either a boy or a girl that can transform using the power of a thing called biometal, 
 and uses it to defend what you believes in. Unfortunately they didn't brother adding a story with 
 two characters, so basically its the same story, just with a different main hero.
  
  Too bad the game don't have that apocaliptic tone anymore, through the world is still in a mess, 
 people are livin comfortable.
  
  Story (enemy side) :
  Unfortunately the enemy still has the same purposes, to create a new order using some power in 
 which the villiain turns out to be the ruler, this concept is still used since megaman Zero 3, 
 and is starting to feel repetitive.
  
  Gameplay (general) :
  A lot similar to megaman Zero gameplay, but this time you can use various transformations. Cyber-elves 
 aren't really that important anymore, and besides a few mini-games and biometal repairs, you don't 
 have anything else to use the old currency "e-crystals".
  
  Some places and locations are poorly designed, you can freely roam around a town or a forest, but 
 still you have to pick missions, so don't expect running into a random boss in a forest, besides 
 some places have lot of unneeded space, making you waste your time when crossing from a place to 
 another, especially inside the town, and you will do it a lot.
  
  Gameplay (bosses) :
  Bosses now are called pseudoroids, enemies with biometal inserted on them, the place where the 
 biometal is located is their weakpoint, unfortunately hitting the weakpoint will weaken the biometal 
 and you will get a less useful biometal when you defeat the enemy, at least they can be repaired 
 for e-crystals.
  
  Music:
  The game music is simply outstanding, at least most of them, and they even feel a bit like the 
 classic megaman music.
  
  Graphics:
  2D graphics, updated from megaman Z, through it still use sprites, but its not that really bad. 
 The stages backgrounds and details, at least, are well designed.
  
  Difficulty:
  Can be hard for starters, but the whole difficulty falls when you figure how the enemy move and 
 attack.
  
  Overall: Good game, failed in some aspects but still a good megaman title, could be better if they 
 developed it a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Old school. Mega Man ZX is so old school, it's not even worthy of the slightly-less-retro 'k' variation 
 on the spelling. He doesn't have cutscenes, he doesn't have stealth sections and hell, he can't 
 even be bothered to crouch. The squatting action hero is far too modern an image for the likes 
 of Mega Man to be saddled with. Thus, Mega Man ZX is another classic romp for the blue guy and 
 a typical example of someone who knows what he likes and likes what he knows
  
  And what does Mega Man like? Shooting. In the traditional fashion becoming of the series, you charge 
 across the screen shooting at anything that moves and, typically, it's all very, very hard. Dancing 
 your way through the bullets isn't easy when Mega Man finds it impossible to touch his toes, let 
 alone gymnastically leap out of the path of danger. 
  
  You'll find Mega Man ZX hard, you'll find it frustrating and you'll also find yourself compelled 
 to come back time and time again as the enemy patterns slowly begin to sink in and you manage to 
 convince yourself that next time, you can do just that little bit better.
  
  What's In A Name?
  So let's increase the confusion factor tenfold by telling you that you don't 
 even play as Mega Man. Instead, you're playing as a maverick hunter who acquires biometals to become 
 Mega Man. 
  
  At first, it seems that now Mega Man has steered the franchise back on course following the Battle 
 Network adventures, he's only interested in half-heartedly flicking a handful of robots in your 
 path while moaning that he's bored. It takes a few stunning bosses and new abilities to stir him 
 out of his slumber but when Mega Man starts firing on all cylinders again, it reminds you why you 
 loved him in the first place. 
  
  Grab air dashing abilities and the puzzles and bosses shift to match it. Grab water dashing abilities 
 and again, ZX nimbly adapts. It's a constant tug-of-war. For everything you learn, there's a new 
 obstacle to test your new skills and that's what keeps Mega Man ZX from growing stale too quickly.
 
  
  Half Man, Half Android
  You can also revert from Mega Man form back to human at any time, which comes in handy given most 
 humans have a real problem talking to a blue android-person-robot armed to the teeth with laser-missile-plasma 
 things. It's a forced gimmick though, as you find yourself stomping through towns as Mega Man, 
 switching back to human form for conversations, then switching back straight afterwards. If anything, 
 it makes the trawls around towns even more of a chore than they already are, as you slouch around 
 trying to find the hidden panel/person/switch needed to advance the story. The flaws in ZX are 
 only apparent when the game slows down enough for you to take a look at them. Fortunately, that 
 doesn't happen too often.
  
  
  
  Which leaves it with one major problem. It's Mega Man. Nothing more, nothing less. It doesn't even 
 seem to have noticed that the touchscreen is there, using it to prop up the main screen with a 
 logo and nothing more. There are no innovations, no risks and no ambition. The gameplay doesn't 
 get stale but it doesn't half feel familiar. 
  
  Fact is, if you've played Mega Man before, you'll already know whether you want this. If Inti had 
 shown more willingness to bring in new fans, then we would have probably shown more willingness 
 to give it a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddpramo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a little sceptic and unsure after reading the reviews on it. It sounded hard 
 and the videos didn't impress me much. I had just finished beating the megaman x collection for 
 the game cube and really wanted to continue some megaman gaming. Megaman Zero on the DS is terrbile 
 as you can't remap the buttons. I've beaten all of the Zero series before and wasn't too impressed 
 expecially since they changed his look and the music doesn't quit sound right beacause of the GBA 
 sound system.
  
  Megaman ZX cures all the problems of Megaman Zero. Great sound from the DS and the music is very 
 catchy and mixes perfectly with all the action. I always enjoy the animated movies scenes they 
 make for these games but this only has a couple.
  
  I admit the story isn't all that great as I never really liked the whole Idea of megaman NT where 
 a kid merges with megaman to become megaman. Anyway that aside it still looks like Zero from Megaman 
 Zero but plays much more like megaman x as it should have after x6. It's strange but I do wish 
 they would have just continued using x but instead it is a merge of megaman and zero brain chips 
 in an armor for human.
  
  Figuring out where to go after you beat a mission is the only dounfall as it does have a horrible 
 map system but it is very fun and exactly what you would want in an x game once you figure out 
 where to go (gamefaqs has the maps you need to solve this problem) .
  
  I completely recommend this one as it is perfect only you probably won't want to play it for a 
 while after you beat it like any of the megaman games. Play it, you'll like it if you liked any 
 of the megaman x games expecially since it seems they won't be making any more x games and this 
 is actually a continuance of the story.
  
  If you haven't played the Megaman Zero games you might wonder who most of the characters are but 
 once you do you realize that all the biometals are actually chips in armor of the copy x's guardians. 
 It's interesting and really looks good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertyuioppizza
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  The concept is you play as a human (you can choose between a boy and a girl) and you transform 
 into X, Zero, and the 4 guardians from the Mega Man Zero games. Even though it's a little Power 
 Rangersish it really isn't a bad concept. The execution is decent. You'll get to choose from 5 models 
 throughout most of the game. ZX, HX, LX, FX, and PX (there are two others but you generally won't 
 have access to them.) Each form has different abilities. For example, HX can perform air dahses, 
 LX can move freely underwater, and so on. It's pretty fun using all the forms but you'll quickly 
 find that ZX is the most useful. While it is a little unfortunate that the others aren't as useful 
 it doesn't detract much from the overall experience.
  
  The world is now free flowing, which is nice, but since the game is mission-based that kind of 
 defeats the whole purpose of that. The basic game play is still the Mega Man you've known all these 
 years, the running, the jumping, the shooting, but hey, that why we like Mega Man. Thankfully though, 
 at the games core you will find an incredibly challenging game, which will please long time Mega 
 Man fans. There are also a few parts that will feel a bit nostalgic if you've played since the 
 beginning, which is a good feeling. The graphics are good, for sprites anyway. I like sprites myself 
 but I know some people don't. There are also a few anime-style cutscenes, which is pretty cool. 
 Really though it's the overall style of the game that makes the graphics interesting. Each Mega 
 Man series has it's own style and this one definitely stands out.
  
  The soundtrack is one of the most memorable Mega Man soundtracks I have heard in recent years, 
 especially the main track used throughout the game, Green Grass Graduation. That coupled with pretty 
 cool voice acting (in the JP version only) makes this an incredibly enjoyable adventure for Mega 
 Man fans. In short, If you've never played a Mega Man game this isn't a particularly good place 
 to start, but for long time fans of the series it's the breath of fresh air we've all been waiting 
 for.
  
  Gameplay-7
  Graphics-9
  Sound-9
  Concept-8
  Tilt-7
  Overall-8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Since Mega Man X6 the good old sidescroller Mega Man was gone, and there weren't many good additions 
 to the series that made the core gameplay seem anyhow better. In fact, only Mega Man Zero was true 
 to its predecessors. What Mega Man ZX does - is taking best out of Mega Man X & Mega Man Zero, 
 mixing it together, and adding a whole new plot in the same continuity. Hence the title.
  
  The plot takes place in the same universe and continuity as Zero, X and classic Mega Man series, 
 around 200 years after Zero 4. The game has two main protagonists, Vent and Aile (a boy and a girl, 
 respectively) , though it doesn't matter whom you choose - only the chosen character takes the lead 
 in the story, so the game is basically the same for both of them.
  
  The story is fairly good. I won't spoil anything, so I'll only tell that it is a good addition 
 to the previous titles from the same continuity. If you missed the good old stuff - then you won't 
 feel anyhow lost in the story, and if you're a Mega Man fan - you've probably played the game already 
 anyway.
  
  A thing that I simply loved about this game is the freedom to move across the in-game world. There 
 are no stereotypycal 'levels' in the game, instead there are lots of zones where 'missions' take 
 place, and all of these zones are connected with each other, so you can move from one to another 
 whenever you want to. All zones are dubbed by letters, and their expansions are dubbed by subsequent 
 numbers, forming names like A-2, M-3, etc. The only downside here is the illogical placement of 
 the names. Zone A can be next to zone B, but next to zone B there's zone F, while zone E is being 
 situated somewhere very far away from that place.
  
  A typical mission is: "something's wrong in zone D, go check it out", and by entering zone D a 
 mission starts, where you must follow the objective. Beside the main plot there's also place for 
 side-missions that can bring additional goods to you.
  
  A huge downside to the game is the absence of an voiceover. The original japanese game had all 
 the lines dubbed by actors, but the english version has just the text. Still, the characters speak 
 japanese in the animated cutscenes, and they still say some short phrases in japanese during the 
 battles. As far as I know, ZX Advent had this problem fixed, but I still have to check the sequel 
 out.
  
  I also loved how the game plays out the morphing into another form. This time it's all about biometals, 
 which are applied onto the character's body, a process that is called a 'megamerge'. Kinda like 
 HENSHIN! :) Oh, and the characters are humans this time around.
  
  The music is as catchy and upbeat as always in the Mega Man games. Some melodies get too repetitive 
 sometimes, but they don't get on the nerves at all.
  
  I simply can't let it stay unmentioned - ZX offers the player to conquer the bosses from Zero 3 
 and Zero 4 later in the game via inserting a required GBA gamepack in the GBA-slot of the console. 
 That's just an awesome feature, and if you have one of these titles - you'll definitely need to 
 dig them out for one more run.
  
  In conclusion I can say, that Mega Man ZX does great justice to its predecessors, and it's an awesome 
 sidescroller that is great for both newbies and hardcore players. It was a right choice for Capcom 
 to release it on a handheld console, like they did with the Zero series, so that you can take the 
 game with you wherever you go. It's definitely fun to play this title, and I strongly recommend 
 getting it if you're into sidescrollers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Its no surprise to everyone that the Megaman series was going down hill due to lack of development.
 
  Now the series shines in a new hope, with Megaman ZX. While it does suffer a few problems the 
 previous series did they don't stop the game from being strong.
  ZX is a new series that takes place after the Megaman Zero series.
  
  Story: Humans and reploids 
 now coexist peacefully, but the outer world is still full of dangerous mavericks. 
  Thanks to the efforts of Slither inc, maverick raids have become less of an issue although the 
 initially problem still exists.
  Giro, manager of the Giro express was requested to deliver a package to the guardians with his 
 assistant, but the 2 were attacked by mavericks and got separated. 
  They both managed to survive the maverick infested jungle and met with the Guardians leader Prairie, 
 who informed them that these past maverick raids have gotten dangerous lately and believe that 
 they are being controlled. 
  The 2 agreed to assist the guardians with their investigation.
  
  Game design: The game sports 
 an identical art design with the Zero series. The game will be an action 2D game, sporting action 
 platfroming from the X and Zero series, such as shooting, slashing dashing, wall jumping and etc.
 
  At the beginning of the game you get to select 2 characters, Vent and Aile. 
  While both have different genders they both play the same.
  You will get to select which missions 
 to take on but unlike the old games there won't be any boss or stage selection screen, you will 
 be going through this huge world, going to different environment and can pretty much go any where 
 you want, provided you have the correct weapon to get to some places (pretty similar to Metroid) .
 
  
  Game play: Surprisingly apart from the dual screens you won't use any touch functions through out 
 the entire game. 
  Whats new on the game is the biometal system. Biometal will allow your character to transform into 
 different reploids based on their models. 
  These models can also be switched mid-play on a fly, each model will give your character different 
 abilities and allow you to reach places you normally can't.
  Otherwise there isn't really anything new.
  
  Sound: The game has great music and sound affects 
 are awesome.
  Although its rarely present there are voice casts in the game but they are Japanese followed by 
 English sub.
  
  The game has an interesting story followed by dialogues and very rare cut scenes, however the cut 
 scenes are only in Japanese followed by English sub titles, which is annoying, because to think 
 they couldn't bother to hand in a few cash just for a line or 2 in English.
  Also while the idea of free roaming was an interesting concept the management for it is very poor, 
 while there is a map its hardly understandable and there will be missions which will require you 
 to go to places but you will have absolutely no idea where due to lack of (or no) advice, which 
 can easily make the game boring quick because you will be spending time trying to figure out where 
 to go.
  However the game is pretty much a solid action game and will definitely make old Megaman veterans 
 happy with its classic game play, or fans of action platforming alike.
  Its definitely not the best Megaman game ever but it helps to revive the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspineslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  back in 2006, well after Zero was final dead and gone, capcom revealed the newest spin off of megaman, 
 megaman ZX to my first impression looked like a clunky action game with frustrating main game mechanic, 
 all in all "biometal" wasn't what turned this game on for me. it looked like a bizzare lovechild 
 of megaman Zero 4 and some random power rangers game. however last christmas when it was given 
 to me (sadly i diden't get to play it untill days later because it was overshadowed by the wii) 
 i wasen't complaining, i was however plesently suprised minutes after finaly hitting the power 
 button on my old red DS i first played it on. why, read on!
  
  
  story: 9.0
  
  the story is very nicely done, ignoring the inconsistancies with its sequal megaman ZX advent the 
 story was at the time very solid and well done, basicly it opens with a young fe/male transporter 
 reminising about there long lost mother. (what about the father o_o) gaseing at the headquarters 
 of a compony in charge of security around innerpeace. the safe areas for humans and reploids to 
 live, there boss and guardian giro, a older man bearing a striking resebelance to Zero. tells the 
 main hero/heroine they need to go. they are promptly attacked and the main charecter is sent plumiting 
 off a cliff, there you aquare your first biometal, model X, guess who thats based off of. the story 
 keeps you hooked from start to finish and even has a few sentimental parts for the chick. bringing 
 up my point that of the two genders playable, they both have slightly different storylines that 
 give you some sort of insentive to play through as both genders shamelessly.
  
  gameplay: 9.5
  
  gameplay is everything you would expect from recent megamans and more, controls 
 are tight, responsive and as an added bonus are fully customisable. the different forms play as 
 differently as if you were playing seprate charecters and not sperate forms, giving the game almost 
 infininte replay value, three difficulty levels make this game acsessable to anyone from 6 year 
 olds to the hardest of the hardcore. and frankly its MEGAMAN, its just flat out fun, also the new 
 metroid style map system gives this game some freshness to wash out the bad aftertaste of megaman 
 battle network series in general. the reason this is docked half a point is because the game box 
 itself advertises two seprate charecters with DISTINCT DIFFERENCES for incredible gameplay action, 
 while it extends (to a somewhat sexist level) the man not being knocked back so far from attacks 
 and the woman moving very slightly faster, neither of these are very noticible at all and makes 
 it seem as if your playing through again with slightly different hair and new text
  
  
  multiplayer is nonexixtant although it by no means suffers for it.
  
  in conclusion and in 
 short... ONE OF THE BEST IF NOT THE BEST ACTION/SHOOTER/PLATFORMER ON DS, BETTER THAN ITS SEQUAL, 
 BUY IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkkaix17
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Megaman ZX is a cool megaman video game ZX is the best seirs so far the gameplay is good story 
 good music awsome bio metal forms awsome the game took me almost three hours and I can't beat megaman 
 games intill Megaman ZX The best Model I have to say is Model OX that can only get on normal or 
 hard model the wepons are cool the ZX buster charge attack could be better it could had been longer 
 then it is but other then that the game is good I would suggest geting Megaman ZX even if your 
 not a hard core Megaman Fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusStream
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I have played Megaman games when I was 5 and from the classic megaman series to battle network, 
 and to this one. ZX is far better than Megaman Zero series and it has the same gameplay and boss 
 battle styles from the last one. The storyline is great, but I do not like the part where there 
 has to be an alternate timeline when you play as either Vent or Aile. Everything else is okay and 
 that goes to playing as Models H, P, L, and F like from the guardians from Megaman Zero. I would 
 consider this to be one of my favorite Megaman ZX game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hughies
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Roughly following the storyline from the X and Zero games, MegaMan ZX puts you in control of Vent 
 or Aile, two humans working as transporters for the company Giro Express. Afterbeing caught in 
 a Maverick raid, the hero finds himself merging with Model X (supposedly the spirit ox MegaMan 
 X) , which gives him the power to fight his enemies. Later on, Model Z (MegaMan Zero) will be acquired, 
 allowng for the first time in the series to control a fusion of both X and Zero: Model ZX. The 
 X-buster and the Z-saber combined, now that's a deadly combination.
  Unlike other games in the series, Megaman ZX isn't split up into levels, but works more as a Metroid-like 
 adventure game, with areas all linked to each other and opening up as the player acquires new capacities. 
 The game is therefore very linear, as most of the time there will only be one or two areas available.
 
  8 bosses, divided in 4 categories (Models H (air) , L (water) , P (shadow) and F (fire) ) , will provide 
 great adversity.
  Nothing is really new in this MegaMan for the DS. The new layout of the levels is actually quite 
 confusing and doesn't bring anything to the game, except for losing the player. Objectives are 
 always really vague and the player will run around for long minutes before finding where he has 
 to go.
  If you're a fan of the series, go for it. If you've never liked MegaMan, this title won't change 
 your opinion, as it doesn't bring anything to the concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antacid03
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with my DS two weeks ago, because it was one of only two games I'd play. I don't 
 think I'd get much use out of the stylus, but then again, who knows.
  
  Anyway, onto the game. It's your basic MegaMan game with added features, you can switch out different 
 model Biometals, Z, aka Zero , Hx, Harpuia , Fx, Fefnir Lx, Leviathan and Px, Phantom and even 
 revert to Human form.
  
  The pros of the Megamerge 
  Climb walls
  Dash (Mid-air with Hx)
  Slow descension (Hx)
  Cool weapons
  Item Scanner
  
  Cons
  People 
 won't talk to you
  Can't crouch
  
  While going through the game, I found myself using only two Biometals: Zero and Phantom. Phantom 
 to clear my path of any and all unnecessary traffic and Zero to take out the boss with the mid-air 
 roll slash, which is highly effective. I rarely use any of the others, unless I want to skip parts 
 (Hx) , or try to find items (Lx)
  
  The worst part of this game is that both characters have the same story. What gives? Why couldn't 
 the guy have lost his father at the power plant instead of being a momma's boy and losing her at 
 the amusement park? It's more fitting the chick. Whatever, hopefully Advent will be improved upon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Mega Man has possibly more games than any other game series out there. There's been 14 original 
 games (Counting the Gameboy games and Mega Man and Bass ) , 8 X games, 4 Zero games, 3 Legends games 
 and 6 Battle Network games. And now comes a new Mega Man series: Mega Man ZX. I'm not familiar 
 with the Mega Man Zero series, but I heard this game is similar to those ones.
  
  As you start the game, you can choose between two characters, Vent and Aile, who are both new to 
 the Mega Man series. You start out with your normal buster, then as you go through the game you 
 get sabers and more powerful busters. You can also go in your human form, which may look useless 
 at first, since you can't shoot or anything, but you can do something you can't do in your other 
 forms: ducking. This useful for when you need to fit through a small spot. I was a bit disappointed 
 to see no Zero or any character from other Mega Man games, but being able to use a saber like Zero's 
 sort of makes up for that.
  
  Unlike the Mega Man or Mega Man X games, you don't just choose what level you go to. The whole 
 game is basically just one level, much like the Metroid series. You can, however, choose which 
 mission to do, which can vary from saving someone to defeating a bad guy. One cool thing is that 
 some areas in the game are pretty familiar, for example, there's this one area in the game which 
 is almost an exact replica of the introduction level in Mega Man X1.
  
  This is a fun game while it lasts, but it's not nearly as fun as just about any Mega Man X game. 
 I was also disappointed in how easy the bosses were. They are all weak to the standard saber. Just 
 jump and do the saber spin a few times and they are done for. At least the bosses weren't all weak 
 to the same weapon in the other games. Most of them were weak to a different weapon. The reason 
 I listed the difficulty as Just Right is because sometimes, it can be easy to get lost.
  
  Overall, this is a good game, but not good enough. I hope there will be some improvements in the 
 sequel, Mega Man ZX: Advent. My real rating for this game would be 7.2, but due to the new review 
 system, I rounded it to a 7.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B14z3n_F3fnir
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Megaman ZX is a whole new Megaman game. Since it was the second Megaman game for the DS, I was 
 not quite sure if it would be good or not. I decided to get the game and my view on Megaman changed.
 
  
  I always thought Megaman was just a simple side-scrolling game or a logical shooting game. The 
 Megaman Battle Network series was good and all, but it was getting too obvious. The Megaman Zero 
 series was okay, but not quite what I expected. When I played Megaman ZX, I felt like this was 
 a new series of gaming.
  
  It was defiantly different from the rest of the Megaman games, but it was not bad, it was really 
 fun! It was great being able to change your form to take on different challenges. Anyone who likes 
 Megaman should get this game. It's a game that will you will never get tired of. Once you finish 
 this game, you can do the boy/girl story mode. Once you complete both and start a new game, a secret 
 is unlocked...
  
  Anyways, I feel that you should get this game whether or not you like Megaman, or at least rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  The game starts you off with the decision of being the male of the story (Vent) or the female of 
 the story (Aile) . You are a simple delivery boy/girl and you have to send this package containing 
 a biometal. When trying to deliver the package you get attacked by a band of evil robot who want 
 the biometal for their own purposes. During the brawl you, the simple delivery boy, fuse with the 
 biometal and you turn into model X. Once you become model X you have a buster cannon and hightened 
 speed. You proceed through the game collecting biometals and transforming into whatever they were. 
 If you defeat a underwater boss you will get its underwater abilities, and you if defeat a fire 
 boss you get its fire abilities, just like the classic Megaman games. The gameplay is perfect. 
 It feels exactly like the good old Megaman games except it plays like a new game. You would be 
 shocked at how difficult it is. It provides one of the greatest challenges you can find on the 
 DS. If your new to the Megaman series you will want to play through the game on easy first. You 
 would think with such a simple gaming mechanic it wouldn't be this hard, but it is, and I love 
 it. The only thing about the Megaman series that has always bugged me is your shooting skills. 
 You are a highly advanced super android who can fuse with other robots, but you can't shoot straight 
 up?!? What? Is the M. E. G. A. suit that restricting that you can't even move your arm up all the 
 way? Anyways, the game plays amazingly and veterans and newcomers will both love the controls.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  This game has an amazing art style that kind of reminds me of Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. The 
 game is presented in a 2D style much like the Zero series and the past iterations of Megaman. The 
 character models look amazing, and they are some of the coolest looking sprites you can find on 
 the DS. The whole design of the game is really intricate, and the bosses look amazing. Each boss 
 has their own unique look that really defines them, and in the end makes them quite memorable. 
 This game also throws a lot of cutscenes at you, which are very entertaining to watch. Usually 
 they show pivotal points of the story in this kind of cool and short anime scene. The graphics 
 are almost perfect, but some of the environments get old after playing in them for ahwile. Regardless, 
 this game looks amazing.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  This is hands down my favorite videogame soundtrack for the DS. I love these songs to the death. 
 I would openly put these songs on my mp3 and listen to them on my own free time. The music fits 
 so well together with the environments your in, that they just tie together to resonate something 
 beautiful. Put some headphones in and listen to this music with the volume all the way up, because 
 it truely enhances the gameplay.
  
  Value: 8/10
  This game is longer than I expected it to be. Even when you complete the main story mode you can 
 always go back and collect various objects, like these round devices that give you an insight on 
 enemies, bosses, and people in the game. It's also great to go back and beat all the bosses again 
 with the highest level. After you beat a boss it ranks you (i. e. level 4 victory) and it's always 
 a good challenge to try to beat every boss perfectly. And once you complete the game with one character, 
 you switch over to the other and play again. There are only minor differences in the characters, 
 but the stories are different, and I think it's great that they have the same story from two different 
 points of view. This game will last you longer then most of the other Megaman games.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 7/10
  Megaman ZX has its difficult points, but is an overall amazing experience. 
 The graphics and sound knit together perfectly and the whole game melds into one nearly perfect 
 platformer. I recommend this game to veterans of the series because it provides a daunting challenge 
 and I also recommend this game to people who are looking into the megaman series, because this 
 is simply a good place to start. If you enjoy a good challenge or just like 2D platformers, pick 
 this game up and give it a try, you won't be dissapointed.
  
  - Joe B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_hid3ous
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love megaman games, but at first I didn't want this game because I thought it was 
 super hard, and some bad reviews on youtube,
  (That means you JoshuaZimmerman!!) But in the end I bought it,
  AND IT WAS WORTH EVERY PENNY!!! 
 and it wasn't hard!
  The new biometal system is really good, and you can choose to be
  a dude or a dudette, Vent (guy,) or Aile, (girl) , a first for the series.
  But, to the review, as 
 this is what you came for.
  
  The gameplay is tried and true megaman, and with all the moves too,
  (jump, shoot, dash, charge up, etc)
 
  
  Graphics are really good, and the detail level is incredible. just going to area f (I think) and 
 watching the northern lights is quite the beauty,
  ... as I said, graphics are really good.
  
  Sound and music are Really good, and while the music isn't quite as good as the music in the 
 zero series, it still is quite good. and the sound,
  sounds like the zero series... (this is a good thing, as the sound in the zero games were quite 
 good)
  
  The story is about a kid, (dude or dudette) whoever you pick, and you, and your friend (named Giro) 
 get attacked by robots, and the biometal talks to you, then, in an awsome anime sequence, you become 
 megaman!
  Then it proceeds to the intro level.
  Anyway, as for the story itself, is not as good as the zero games,
  didn't cry at the end like 
 I did with zero 4. The size of the world is really big, and there are so many places to go and 
 things to unlock. Lets'a go!!
  
  Name: Megaman ZX
  Size: Really big
  Discription: Instant classic
  
  What I think: Megaman is on of the best platform game series, 
 and those games don't get too much better then this.
  Enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerisol
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  this game is a little more difficult than the zero series but once u get the hang of the buttons 
 you will like it. i love this game, the levels and bosses are different and challenging and there 
 are something like 8 different forms to unlock. the game doesnt really make very good use of the 
 touch screen, but what do you expect from a side scrolling action game.
  the music is great, not annoying in fact i did sort of like it.
  the graphics are about the same 
 as the gba zero graphics but hey those werent exactly bad. The game play is great on top of having 
 many completely different levels the bosses all use different strategies and require you to alter 
 your play style to defeat each opponent. the levels some times can get frustrating when you keep 
 dying in the same place and end up having to take a break for a while before realising that it 
 was actually painfully easy. I didnt like this game quite as much as zero 2 because there wasnt 
 as many weapons/powers to unlock, basically you can unlock different forms and thats it, where 
 as in the zero series you could unlock suits moves and element chips, however in saying that i 
 havent completely beaten the game yet im only about half way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invadingduck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  We all love the little blue guy, right? Well this time his soul is back and ready to kick some 
 metal butt.
  The first difference fans may find in the game is that you can choose to be a boy or girl human. 
 The story plots are different for said humans, but only in a few minor details. As a human you 
 can avoid some robots, talk to other humans, and crawl under low ceilings and the like.
  The realy new thing Capcom thew in was the Biometal system. At any time you can change into one 
 of 5 robots (and 2 secret ones) that resemble a character from past MegaMan games. Each form is 
 unique and will help you. You get half of a biometal from each of the 8 bosses you will fight. 
 When you combine both halves, you can use your special moves that drain your special meter more 
 requently and use a more powerful special move.
  The bosses in the game range from normal dificulty to downright hard. In clasic MegaMan fasion, 
 the player has to find the boss' pattern of attacks (and more importantly, how to dodge them) in 
 order to properly defeat it. In theory, every boss can be defeated without a scratch on you, but 
 that is highly unlikely. Each boss has a weak spot on them and some have an elemental weakness (Fire 
 melts ice, Ice freezes Electric circuts, and Electricity... does something to Fire) . But if you 
 attack these points, you will have to repair the biometal fragment you recieve from the boss, but 
 its not to big of a deal. The bosses also respawn after a little while, so you can go back and 
 get a better boss fighting rank. (gloat material, i guess)
  There is only one problem I got with this game. It is a free roaming world. Usually, that is a 
 good thing, but in MegaMan ZX you will be spending half of your time trying to find the boss' stage. 
 There is a map, but it only shows the places you've gone and it is not very accurate. So if you 
 have a mission in area F and you've never stumbled apon it while looking for area E, G, or I, you 
 have a problem. Though running around aimlessly you may find a good power up or colectable, it 
 is just frustrating sometimes.
  There is an easy, normal, and unlockable hard mode. To the casual gamer, easy mode is still rather 
 chalanging. But to a MegaMan veterin, it shouldn't be too much of a problem. Normal is hard, and 
 hard is brutal! So you might want to play easy if you are new to the games. Besides dificulty, 
 the main differences between easy and normal mode are boss patterns and moves and the two unlockable 
 forms, so you might want to play normal if you are a fan of the game. Also there are differences 
 between the two genders in regards to story plot, so there is a nice deal of replay value. To get 
 through one story takes between 5-7 hours, depending on your ability to play the game successfully 
 and on your luck at finding the area your mission is at.
  In all it is a nice game that goes back to the good ol days of side-scrollers. Any old-school gamer, 
 MegaMan fans, or anyone who enjoys a decently challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RegiNightmare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game is hard to describe you can play it in many different ways. There is easy, normal, hard, 
 and very hard to play in the game. you get to chose to between a boy and a girl to play as during 
 the game. Once you finish the game or at any time you can start a new game and use the other gender 
 and once you do you unlock something. This isnt like the other megaman games where you just teleport 
 to the level and go through it. The only places you can teleport is to the areas you have been. 
 So you will have to find the area first then go to the boss of the level. Like all theother megaman 
 game once you beat a boss you get there mode a new way to face the enemys. There are 4 modes to 
 play as if you played the Megaman Zeo series you will know who they are. They are the protectors 
 of there land. They are Leviathen, Fenfir, Harpuine, and Phantom then its like you are playing as 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  With every new system, there's a new megaman (except for the PS to PS2 leap) . For the Nintendo 
 DS we have Megaman ZX, a cool game that's just as fun as any other megaman game and won't dissapoint 
 megaman veterans.
  
  Megaman ZX is somewhat based off of Megaman Zero. The gameplay between them are somewhat similar 
 except for a couple of differences. You don't collect weapons, but you do beat bosses and collect 
 different forms entirely. New armour sets, and while they don't increase your defense they are 
 whole different ways to play the game. You have ZX, who is loosely based off of Zero in megaman 
 zero, and then you have the guardians in Megaman Zero, and get to play as them in different armour. 
 HX has hovering and supreme dashing abilities, FX is extremely easy to just pummel opponents with 
 the only weapon being energy blasts that do 2x more damage then normal pellets. However, there 
 is a buster edit, which allows you to change the direction of your blasts depending on how much 
 energy you have in FX. PX is a rapid fire machine that's more or less like a Ninja. PX has abilities 
 that allow you to dash past enemies and be protected, however with poor attacking abilities and 
 a flawed jump attack he isn't useful for practically anything, especially boss battles. Finally, 
 you have LX, who is just a better swimmer and by all means much, much more useful in water then 
 any form, but not so much on land. There are 8 bosses, with 3 main mini-bosses and a final boss 
 with 4 forms. However, there is also a mission based mode and a full blown world map. The world 
 map, when thinking of all the residential areas and boss areas, is pretty big. Some of the levels 
 aren't very big, and even take a little over 10 minutes to do on any difficulty. The bosses are 
 very original, however. The level design is top notch, especially in some specific areas. It's 
 overall a good megaman game, with everything you'd really want.
  
  There are sub-quests thrown into with the main missions. Really most of the sub-quests are stupid 
 jobs that aren't much fun and don't add to the game. Even with that, some of them give you upgrades 
 while others give you EC (currency of the game, and only used to upgrade energy) only. In all modes, 
 this is useless. In easy and medium modes it's very easy to pay every last bit of EC to upgrade 
 energy, while in hard mode it doesn't mean a thing. Like I said before, you can buy more energy 
 for your other models if you hadn't gotten a level 4 victory on bosses. You can also spend money 
 on arcade games, but they won't really be much and really just add a little bit to stretch out 
 the game.
  
  The graphics for the game aren't mind blowing. They're simple sprites. The animations look good, 
 and by no means really make the game bad, but it's nothing you'll notice in the long run. Everything 
 runs smoothly, and there is never any lag time. The backrounds are nice, and really there is every 
 bit of detail you can think of.
  
  The sound is somewhat like the graphics. The tunes are all enjoyable and match the stages very 
 well. There is an explosion, hop, and little sounds that make the game more realistic. Nothing 
 was left out, but it's nothing that makes the game stand out more, and it doesn't make it worse.
 
  
  This game can stretch up to a very long time. At normal DS game pricing and over 20 hours easily 
 with replayable value. Because of the world map style, you can spend a lot of time figuring out 
 where sub-tanks, life-ups, and sub quests are. It's definately worth it, especially since some 
 megaman games only go up to 5 hours on the first play for 50 dollar pricing.
  
  Overall, megaman ZX won't dissapoint, and is a fine addition to the megaman universe. It's reccomendable 
 to anyone really, and in the end is a fine and fun game. When the sequel inevitabely comes out, 
 i'll be looking foward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 15, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is interesting in the fact that you are a human with powers of a robot. You get model 
 X at the beginning and from there your adventures begins. Youll pick up more models later on and 
 at mid-beginning you get model ZX which is a combination of both model Z and model X. To be honest 
 Model Z basically took over because if this was a combination of both then you should charge your 
 X Buster to the third level and you should take half of the damage since you suppose to get twice 
 the strength. Well anyways you get to become beside normal and model ZX four more Models and a 
 secret model that from what I heard is to be super strong. This is basically the same old mega 
 man game with different graphics and new characters/ bosses. This game is totally worth playing 
 and to those hardcore fans would find this game to be quite challenging even at easy level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 6
Date: May 15, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Mega Man ZX is an alright action game, but the colors ware wattered down and look flat where instead 
 they could have complemented the in your fast blasting action with in your face vibrant and hard 
 colors... but no. Most disappointing though is the gameplay system where you switch back and forth 
 between your normal human self and megaman form which becomes annoying. The game should have simply 
 featured a straight forward megaman with no mucking about since that`s what megaman is supposed 
 to be, a straightforward action game. Switching in and out of your suit to travel in and out and 
 through the city is annoying. I believe the game would have been way funner constructed as simple 
 action game through simple level progressions rather than featuring a sort of persistant world 
 type of design that watters down the action. Complexity could have been achieved just fine through 
 the customizing system the game already features where you can power up your suit using differemt 
 core fragments from defeated bosses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willow67
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  if you are looking for a mega man game that's got hot graphics, excellent story plot , and a great 
 beat um' up game, look no further. I have played many good mega man games before but this one takes 
 the cake! It is so good I haven't put it down yet. It was that good! you should deffenatly play 
 this game as soon as you can! a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a aa a a a aa a a a a a. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisisMurderous
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  Mega Man ZX is the first traditional 2D Mega Man for the DS and while there isn't anything new 
 this is still a solid entry in the series. It will feel very similar to those who have played any 
 Mega Man X Mega Man Zero as ZX feels like a mix of the two. The presentation is fairly good, the 
 graphics are colorful and look pretty good but at the same time it doesn't look much better than 
 Mega Man did on the GBA. The music is decent and there is very little voice acting which is only 
 in japanese. It would've been nice if it was translated to English but it wasn't that big of a 
 deal. As you start the game, there are two characters to choose from. Which character you choose 
 doesn't really matter but there are some differences in the story depending on you choose. There 
 are different Model X forms to get throughout the game which does add some variety. You can change 
 forms on the fly and they each have a feature which is useful at different points of the game. 
 The gameplay is fun, there are many baddies to dispose of using different weapons and forms of 
 armor. Each of the main levels are connected to the same world which means you have to move from 
 one are to another yourself. You don't complete one level and automatically choose your next mission. 
 You have to take on a new mission at a save point and then find the area that you have to go to. 
 This can be both good and bad at the same time as there are things to find and people to talk to 
 in different areas but finding where you need to go can be harder than it should be sometimes. 
 The map isn't very useful as it doesn't have much detail. The levels do get very challenging and 
 you will have to be careful to avoid repeating a level many times because there is no midlevel 
 save which can sometimes be annoying. If you use up your last life on a boss you have to start 
 over again. The game will take only a few hours to complete playing through both characters and 
 try the different difficulty options makes for some replayability. If you've played other Mega 
 Man games then there isn't anything out of the ordinary here but it is a good installment and is 
 fun to play even though it does have some downfalls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djammal86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Mega Man ZX is a spin off of the original Mega Man Zero series that has one very cool element that 
 was added, which is the live metal . It allow model x or model z to transform into some awesome 
 robots that have their own unique powers.
  
  You get to play as two different character: Model X and Model Z. Both of them had great potential 
 and powers, so It doesn't matter which one you choose in the game.
  
  There are a lot of clever stages and side bosses, which will keep you on edge the whole time you 
 play it.
  
  And if your a fan that like a challenge in bosses, than this is the definite game for you. I'd 
 highly recommend Mega Man ZX to anyone looking for a good 2-D side scroll-er.
  
  -Djammal86 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosmakerX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  MegamanZX, the newest installment in the 2D platforming Megaman Zero series put in one word is 
 slightly flawed but defenitly fun. This game adds a little twist to the age-old serise by letting 
 you change forms via something called biometal, each form has different powers and abilities (for 
 example if you are model LX you can swim in water) . This brings new strategic possibilities in 
 to the game. The other new system is the interconnected worlds, unlike previous megamanX or Zero 
 games this time when you choose a mission, instead of just teleporting to it, you have to go find 
 it, this can be very frustrating because the map is so unclear and there is also a definite lack 
 of save spots and teleport zones. On the other hand, the fast pase dash &amp; slash Megaman Zero 
 action is still good as ever and the difficulty options make the game accessible even for newcomers 
 to the series. Over all MegamanZx is very fun and Megaman fans and 2D platformer lovers are bound 
 to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 26, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Followers of the mega man serise might be a little puzzled by this one. It's fun, but a little 
 odd. I have no idea where this Mega Man game came from, but it's certainly... trys to be different. 
 I mean. it has little to nothing in common with previous games, other than the collecting power 
 thing. All known characters (except Zero... or at least a simulation of him that you can fight for 
 fun) are thrown out the window to be replaced by lame good guys and decent bad guys. All in all 
 though, it has some interesting new twists to the MM style and plays well dispite it's extreme 
 differences.
  
  STORYLINE: If you are a fan of the MM serise as a whole and played at least on previous MM game 
 in your life... you are going to be completely lost when you turn this one on. Yes, this Mega Man 
 actually has a story. Not as good a the MMZ serise but more complicated than the MMX or origanal 
 MM to be sure.
  
  It's hard to really tell but this is ether in the FAR future after all the other games or it a 
 pumped up alternate reality like the MM: Battle Network games... I'm not really sure and it doesn't 
 really tell you.
  
  You start out by choosing between two characters. One is a boy named vent who resembles the origanal 
 Mega Man in his human form. The other is the exact female version of him, Aile. Ether character 
 makes no real difference in the game that Ive noticed. It probably should considering they bothered 
 to make two characters in the first place, but that's an arguement for a little later. Anyway, 
 pick one and there is a scene that opens with some guy called Giro talking with some on a comlink 
 while waiting by a motercyle. Your guy Mega Man or girl Mega... uh... Man are hanging out with you're 
 bike, the blue one, while this happens. It's a long balony filled anime scene all the way to down 
 to a lame attempt to the exessive long complicated story of your character. Short version: his 
 (or her) parents died in a Mavorik raid and he can't get over it. Now he's a delivary boy... or 
 girl. Anywho Giro is your boss and you are delivering two items under strange circumstances to 
 someone in the middle of nowhere when you both are attack randomly by Mavorik robots and you both 
 are seporate when Vent (or Aile) is toppled over a cliff with one of the mysterious packages.
 
  
  Convently enough... or not. the client happens to be waiting for you on the bottom of the cliff. 
 Her name is Prairie and her guards are wiped out before you can give her your package so eveything 
 looks bleak. But then the package bursts open and a floating mass of metal that calls it self Biometal 
 X talks to and then merges with you in order to beat the baddies and to save Prairie. Predictably, 
 you are than recruited more or less into a Mavorik hunting soceity.
  
  Unfortunaly you'll find out that the soceity has stepped into a consperiousy that could change 
 the world for even worse if you, Mega Man don't stop it.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  It plays almost exactly like MMZ serise. There's a large continuous map to explore. You save and 
 get your missions from teleportation boths. In fact, shortly after you get the Mega Man X suit 
 ( and I mean REALLY shortly) a plot twist arrises that pretty much turns you into Zero from the 
 other games. They call it Mega Man ZX, but no, it's really just the same old Zero you played before 
 in the MMZ serise. It even looks like him. You use a chargeable sword with one button and a chargeable 
 blaster with the other. You can get other suits though, from the bosses you defeat. However most 
 of them really aren't so different or usefull. The only suit besides the plain Zero one that used 
 was the HX suit, which, once I got it, was the suit that I had on for the rest of the game. Heck, 
 for me, they might as well have named the game Mega Man HX. I didn't even really need the suit's 
 expendable superpowered attack. The regular functions where the only things I needed to beat the 
 entire game. I was also stuck by the fact that the game hardly utilized the DS touch screen at 
 all. It was still fun but the suits where heavily imbalanced and the gameplay action itself wasn't 
 too complex. GRAPHICS:
  
  Other than the anime cutscenes, the graphics were pretty oldschool. It looked much like a previous 
 gen Gameboy SP game during normal play. As for the cutscenes, they where well drawn but, short, 
 and still dubbed in Japanese. If youve ever seen Japanese anime styled works before this game 
 goes with kiddie look normally adopted for younger audiences. Most of the main characters in the 
 animated artwork look like theyre no older than 12 year olds wearing tights inside of heavy battle 
 armor. Personally, Im not really for that style, but as long as gameplay is still good it doesnt 
 really matter to me./&gt;
  
  SOUND:
  
  Surprizingly, this Mega Man game sounded really well when it came to music. I could get you really 
 into the action and moods the game is trying to set, even if the story couldn't.
  
  COMPLAINTS &amp; COMPLIMENTS: As an oldschool fan and hardcore gamer, there where a couple of things 
 that bothered me. One was the complete balony of the main character (s) . The whole revenge for my 
 parents and family theme is getting old and WAY overused. Mega Man origanaly didn't need an excuse 
 to do anything. He was you're average guy that had a unique oppurtunity to help people, but if 
 that isnt working anymore they could have at least have come up with something else that wasnt 
 boring and overused. Then there is the whole turning Mega Man into a girl thing. I mean, come on, 
 the game is called Mega MAN . So there is implication and supposed to be growth in the direction 
 that Mega Man is, in fact, a man or at the very least, a young male intending on becoming a man. 
 If they really wanted to go with a female character that player could get into, Capcom could have 
 gone about it in any number of intelligent ways and this was not one of them. They could have redone 
 Roll as well as Mega Man for example. Capcom could have really done something with that one. Rename 
 Vent into Rock and make them brother and sister you have a subtile reoccurring theme shout out. 
 Not to mention that Roll would have a completely different storyline in the game as would any other 
 female character they decided to introduce or reintroduce. This would have made the game not only 
 more interesting, but creates material for future games like what was done with Zero. Any way you 
 look at it, making Mega Man a girl and still calling it Mega man was just plain dumb.
  
  Another thing that got to me was that they turn Mega Man into Zero all over again. Again, Capcom, 
 like I said earlier you don't change your character into another character if you want to make 
 money from Mega Man. Keep Zero seperate in his own serise and as a guest charcater or partner to 
 Mega Man. If you want Mega Man to be as successful as Zero than you have to UPDATE Mega Man to 
 keep up while maintaining his identitiy and specialty. Change the power absorbtion system, his 
 buster weapon, the way he fights melee... just don't make him exactly like Zero. Again, common sense 
 here people.
  
  I did, however really injoy the whole new suit shifting that came with the powers though. I liked 
 that idea a lot. It's new and it put a whole new dimention on the gameplay. I also liked the villians 
 and their modivation baised on in their actions, just the little plot twists and the fact that 
 the line between Mavorick and not was blurred was interesting. A good villian always makes things 
 more solid. All in all it was very enjoyable, not perfect, but enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  MegaMan ZX is the first side scrolling MegaMan game for the DS, and it's great. It plays like the 
 Zero series wich was also ver y good. The best part is the biometal system, which lets you become 
 different robots and use their powers. It's the same gameplay you've come to expect, but that's 
 not a bad thing. There is a veriaty of areas to go to, from volcanos to frozen waste lands, as 
 well as towns. My one gripe is that the game is just not coherent, as you don't know if the two 
 characters even know of each other and it's not know which storyline is cannon.
  Other than that, you sould get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_hero_riku
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Ive just finished playing MegaMan ZX one thing I can say is it not hard. I hear a lot of people 
 say this game is hard but it isnt. I played this game on normal the first time I got it. You just 
 need time to master it. Anyone who has played the zero series for gba will fell right at home. 
 The soundtrack is cool but you might not remember every track. The greatest aspect of this game 
 is the biometal system.. which could have been better. The system isnt bad but it just doesnt 
 fell completed because all the forms play pretty much the same. When I can beat a stage with Zx 
 Hx &amp; Lx there is something up. The game is good but like I said it could be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Just fyi, the last MegaMan games I played were MM7 and MMX, many years ago. What first intrigued 
 me about this game when I first heard about it this past summer were the different elemental-based 
 models and the fact that it would play somewhat like a Castlevania game (a series which I have 
 only recently become interested in) . Flash forward to today: I've just beaten the game and can 
 definitely say I loved every minute and only wish it was longer. That's not to say the game is 
 short. I think it's a decent length for a MegaMan game. To continue, I was very surprised to encounter 
 an actual story, complete with twists and revelations. I was definitely not expecting that. What 
 I was expecting was I'm the good guy, you're the bad guy, and after I kill eight bosses, I'll come 
 to kill you . It was so much more than that. How long have MegaMan games actually had an intriguing, 
 engaging storyline??? I don't know, but ZX's story was awesome.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Classic MegaMan fare. It was great. Regarding the map and the mission system, it was 
 a little silly to be told to go somewhere having not been there before and having no idea where 
 to begin looking for it (unless you unintentionally stumbled across it earlier) , but it was never 
 too annoying for me. My course of action was always try to find the area first, then find a transerver 
 to save and take the mission . It worked well, given the way the map and mission system are. As 
 for the different models, they are colorful, detailed, and very fun to play. They each have their 
 own element and useful properties. Personally, I found myself using the Fx model the most just 
 because it allows for dashing up and in midair as well as the fact you wield two sabers. Coolness. 
 Actually, you'll find you use the Fx model to find most of the entrances into new areas. Overall 
 though, the gameplay never lets you down.
  
  GRAPHICS: Good stuff. All the environments are very detailed and immersive. Though they don't really 
 take advantage of the DS' capabilities nor do they appear much different from the graphics of the 
 GBA games (I've seen some of them in action since my brother owns some of them) , they still provide 
 an enjoying visual experience. SOUND: I absolutely loved the music in this game. I had forgotten 
 how terribly catchy MegaMan music is! None of the BGMs are really hummable, but you will definitely 
 not get irritated by the music.
  
  VALUE and TILT: Seeing as how this is the first MM game I've bought in at least ten years, there 
 had to be something good about it from the get-go... and I find that to definitely be the case. 
 This game rocks. It's not just another MegaMan game . So overall, I give this game solid 9's because 
 nothing's perfect or flawless, but everything's amazing. I HIGHLY recommend this game to any MM 
 fan or to anyone that would enjoy a 2D platformer. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geusprime
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good- I'm sick of reviewers always crying because WAH WAH WAH I died and now I have to play 
 through that area and I can't beat the game so I can get the SWEET EXTRAS!!!! When you play Mega 
 Man Zx you are going to die. A LOT. And that's completely cool because this game is teaching you 
 how to play it. It's not one of those sissy games with tutorials that hold your hand through the 
 whole thing and give you the illusion of accomplishment. You will feel the accomplishment on your 
 thumbs. Games need to be more like the original Mega Man (games that force you to learn how to 
 play them right, or you die.) You know maybe if more games were like Mega Man Zx, people wouldn't 
 suck so much at games and they'd give games like Zx the justice they deserve. (Here's looking at 
 Contra and Ghosts and Goblins) . Anyway I suppose I should point out a few details about the game 
 for those who can't read the box. It's an adventure game. It's free roaming. It's HUGE. In Zx you 
 basically have all the awesome blasting power of X combined with the killing slashing power of 
 Zero. This still isn't enough to keep you alive. All the elemental suits you get pretty much rule. 
 Expect eight majorMega Man X like bosses with less stupid names. They all rule.
  
  The Bad- Honestly my biggest gripe about the game is that during the quests they could give you 
 a little better directions on how to get from area to area as it's common to get lost all the time. 
 The world is huge and you don't go through areas in a linear manner. There are teleporters in almost 
 every major area though. The Awesome- The hidden boss in Zx makes me want to cry for love of all 
 things Mega Man. He's unrelentingly tough. Basically if you're someone like me who takes much more 
 pleasure from games that challenge you, you're probably going to faint out of joy or something 
 when you fight this boss. Same with the last boss. I'll say it again. I LOVE Mega Man.
  
  The Bottom Line- Either get better at games or stop crying. This is the only hardcore adventure 
 game I've played for years. That's enough to give it a nice juicy high rating.
  
  -Geusprime 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaznwi3rd0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  The wind is blowing, the sun is... well, shining. You look up, and it seems like a perfect day 
 to buy a DS game. So you go to the store and pick up your very own Megaman ZX game. Exhilarated, 
 you quickly open up the box and take out the game. You insert it in swiftly and then turn it on. 
 You cant wait for it to start!
  
  This game is absolutely perfect. The minute you buy it, you cant stop, unless, of course your 
 parents tell you to stop. And the minute it is Monday, you cant stop thinking about it. Megaman 
 ZX features many new things, such as the Live Metal (Biometal in the U. S. A.) system. There are 
 7 forms that are playable: Model X, Model ZX, Model HX, Model FX, Model LX, Model PX, and finally, 
 Model OX. Model OX is not accessible unless you wield a Megaman Zero 3 or Megaman Zero 4 game. 
 You have to insert the Megaman Zero game pack into the Gameboy SP slot. Then, you will fight 8 
 bosses and when you are done, you will see a stone. Model OX is a special Biometal that is available 
 after completing certain tasks. Vent/Aile will look like a duplicate of Omega Zero, the final boss 
 of Mega Man Zero 3. Model OX has many abilities similar to Omega Zero, executed with certain button 
 commands while in Overdrive and it has infinite Weapon Energy.
  
  The story line is quite interesting, accutally. Most games, however, have a boring story like and 
 you would most likely want to skip it. The game takes place on a technologically advanced world. 
 Humans and Reploids now coexist peacefully. Humans began to develop machine bodies for themselves 
 and gain the power of Reploids, and in turn Reploids developed finite lifespans. Eventually this 
 led to the erasure of the boundary between humans and Reploids.
  
  In time, the humanoids of earth (who were once humans and Reploids) managed to revive some of the 
 former nations of Earth. However, preventing further prosperity like the days of old, incidents 
 around the world began where some of the machine life forms became Maverick, making some areas 
 dangerous, and soon this activity obstructed exchange between nations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renzoku
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  If you have played any of the 4 previous Zero installment in GBA clealy you know what to expect 
 here.
  
  The major change about the game system is the ability to used biometals to transform into the bosses 
 you defeated, adding some variety to the game. As you can expect, some areas in the game are inaccesible 
 at first, but aquiring the correct biometal enables you go to where previously you couldnt.
  
  At first sight the game seems non linear in its development, but after all the missions they 
 gave you in the end consist of defeating some maverick.
  
  The graphics are a bit better than in the GBA (mostly more stuff on screen or better effects) , 
 but with th extra DS power Inticreates could have done something that uses that power. The game 
 has some videos, but even in the GBA we've seen that.
  
  The tunes of the game are very standard, an are what give to the game a childish taste to it; too 
 bad, since even if MMZ tunes we all that distintive, they gave a serious face to the game.
  
  After all, play this game if you liked any of the MMZ games. I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpsmastaps2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok heres my very first review, and i felt i should try one out for this game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Mega Man ZX is pretty amazing considering it made a leap from GBA to 
 the DS. The game pretty much sets you out to find and retrieve biometals, which are used to transform 
 into a model of (harpuia, fefnir, leviathan, and phantom) . In the game, you are given missions and 
 you can choose which ones you want to tackle in the order you want. The games map is pretty big 
 but the map could have used more detail to help you find the area you need to go to start a mission. 
 Thats what will consume the most time for first time players, is finding the area. Other than that 
 the game's great and offers challenging boss fights.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of Mega Man ZX is well.... about the same graphics used for the mega man 
 zero series. The only detailed difference is the environment, where you have objects sometimes 
 overlapping your character. the background is also detailed and looks brilliant coming from the 
 DS. There are a bunch of colors used in each environment which give you a feeling that not every 
 area looks the same. Sound: The sound, is really impressive. Each area has its own theme to it 
 and suits the situation. And the themes arent 20 seconds long that repeat forever, they are more 
 thought out ranging to about 1 minute of good tunes of the area. Value: There is much value to 
 the game than you may think. You are able to interact with people in the city and sometimes even 
 offered to do optional missions that will earn you cool items and/or energy crystals. You can even 
 unlock Hard mode, which allows you not to obtain life-ups or subtanks. That would give the game 
 most of its hardness in that difficulty
  
  Tilt: I for one, have to say that this is one of the memorable games for my DS and that there should 
 be a sequal coming soon which will surprise people even more! The game does have its ups and downs, 
 but the ups weigh the bad stuff down. So in other words, if you want a game that is filled with 
 action and great music and not your basic run and gun game, then by all means please try the game 
 out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Brandon-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: MegamanZX, A must have game if your a fan of this Series. Its way different game from 
 the 'Z' series,
  The game controls are easy to follow but each biometal has
  a different feature like some use the touch screen to look for hidden items or secrets etc.
  
 There alot secrets, and onuses too on this game like c
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics Are the same as the other megaman z games though.
  So don't expect any updated graphics 
 on the NDS game.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds are kinda Better, although better then the gba version sounds.
  
  Value: The game 
 cost only 30 Dollars if you live in US. Kinda cheap
  For a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silva_Ragun
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This review on Megaman ZX. This is one of the few games I have for the DS. This game has some bad 
 qualities, so I'll get the bad traits out of the way. The main flaw is that when you are in human 
 form you can't attack or wall dash/ wall jump, but you can duck. When in biometal form you can't 
 duck and the townspeople are scared of you. Those are the main game flaws.
  
  For the good features its that it keeps it's orignal Megaman side scrolling game play while letting 
 you change into different models with different abilities. Each of the abilities do come in handy 
 at one point or another. Another good point is that if you beat the game with both characters you 
 get to keep the model X and you also get to get the model OX. The music in the game is very good. 
 The game also proves to be challengeing at times. Also if you don't touck certain areas of the 
 bosses you get a Lvl 4 victory which means that you have gotten the biometal to its max attributes. 
 It will also unlock a plusie in a certain area.
  
  Over all this game is fun and addicting. I would recommend it to any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinCamp24
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Megaman ZX, the classic type of Megaman game with twists that divides this from every other Zero 
 game. It follows the new story of the Biometal system, with are the minds of old heros from the 
 Maverick war, that can attach to people to give them their power.
  
  The controls are easy to get used to, and the Biometal system adds new controls too. If you are 
 a Megaman veteran, the controls may seem a little too simplistic.
  
  The graphics stay the same as any other Megaman Zero game. Nothing new there.
  
  You can find 
 Megaman ZX at a lot of stores, and whats good about this is that its cheap for a good game. Below 
 40$ Canadian. Over that can still be worth it. But don't go too high in prices.
  
  Megaman ZX is a great game and is worth buying. For all the Megaman fans in the world, this is 
 a good game for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saba_ora
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  This game is ridiculously hard. there are three modes: easy, normal, and hard. this should read: 
 normal, hard, and OMFG ARE YOU KIDDING ME!! the whole mission style gameplay is nothing new, your 
 at a base, you get missions, you beat them, you've been there. but now you can get side missions 
 from towns people that rank from simple to frustrating. The boss battles are sometimes insane. 
 You can easily memorise their attacks most times, however some attacks leave you absolutely no 
 room to dodge. And now for the best part; the models. this is the one and only thing that drew 
 me to this game, is the ability to megamerge . when you beat a boss you get a model (a spirit of 
 a past hero) that you can transform into, gaining new weapons, elements, and so forth. there are 
 a total of 8 models, four from the bosses, one you lose fairly quick, one you never really get, 
 the combined of those last two, and a unlockable one. I mean come on, whats a MMZ game without 
 unlockables? The game is alright for the most part, however there could have been a lot more improvement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  *note: There is something wierd with the paragraphs, so there's a big block of text and I can't 
 do anything about it, sorry.
  
  With every new system, there's a new megaman (except for the PS to PS2 leap) . For the Nintendo 
 DS we have Megaman ZX, a cool game that's just as fun as any other megaman game and won't dissapoint 
 megaman veterans.
  
  Megaman ZX is somewhat based off of Megaman Zero. The gameplay between them are somewhat similar 
 except for a couple of differences. You don't collect weapons, but you do beat bosses and collect 
 different forms entirely. New armour sets, and while they don't increase your defense they are 
 whole different ways to play the game. You have ZX, who is loosely based off of Zero in megaman 
 zero, and then you have the guardians in Megaman Zero, and get to play as them in different armour. 
 HX has hovering and supreme dashing abilities, FX is extremely easy to just pummel opponents with 
 the only weapon being energy blasts that do 2x more damage then normal pellets. However, there 
 is a buster edit, which allows you to change the direction of your blasts depending on how much 
 energy you have in FX. PX is a rapid fire machine that's more or less like a Ninja. PX has abilities 
 that allow you to dash past enemies and be protected, however with poor attacking abilities and 
 a flawed jump attack he isn't useful for practically anything, especially boss battles. Finally, 
 you have LX, who is just a better swimmer and by all means much, much more useful in water then 
 any form, but not so much on land. There are 8 bosses, with 3 main mini-bosses and a final boss 
 with 4 forms. However, there is also a mission based mode and a full blown world map. The world 
 map, when thinking of all the residential areas and boss areas, is pretty big. Some of the levels 
 aren't very big, and even take a little over 10 minutes to do on any difficulty. The bosses are 
 very original, however. The level design is top notch, especially in some specific areas. It's 
 overall a good megaman game, with everything you'd really want.
  
  There are sub-quests thrown into with the main missions. Really most of the sub-quests are stupid 
 jobs that aren't much fun and don't add to the game. Even with that, some of them give you upgrades 
 while others give you EC (currency of the game, and only used to upgrade energy) only. In all modes, 
 this is useless. In easy and medium modes it's very easy to pay every last bit of EC to upgrade 
 energy, while in hard mode it doesn't mean a thing. Like I said before, you can buy more energy 
 for your other models if you hadn't gotten a level 4 victory on bosses. You can also spend money 
 on arcade games, but they won't really be much and really just add a little bit to stretch out 
 the game.
  
  The graphics for the game aren't mind blowing. They're simple sprites. The animations look good, 
 and by no means really make the game bad, but it's nothing you'll notice in the long run. Everything 
 runs smoothly, and there is never any lag time. The backrounds are nice, and really there is every 
 bit of detail you can think of.
  
  The sound is somewhat like the graphics. The tunes are all enjoyable and match the stages very 
 well. There is an explosion, hop, and little sounds that make the game more realistic. Nothing 
 was left out, but it's nothing that makes the game stand out more, and it doesn't make it worse.
 
  
  This game can stretch up to a very long time. At normal DS game pricing and over 20 hours easily 
 with replayable value. Because of the world map style, you can spend a lot of time figuring out 
 where sub-tanks, life-ups, and sub quests are. It's definately worth it, especially since some 
 megaman games only go up to 5 hours on the first play for 50 dollar pricing.
  
  Overall, megaman ZX won't dissapoint, and is a fine addition to the megaman universe. It's reccomendable 
 to anyone really, and in the end is a fine and fun game. When the sequel inevitabely comes out, 
 i'll be looking foward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Child
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  Most of the people reading this personal review have likely played Mega 1 through 8, X through 
 X8, or the Zeros. From playing any of these game you can predict what your gonna get when you play 
 Megaman ZX. One thing that may annoy a non-RPG action side scrolling gamer is that the world is 
 very open-ended, until the very last moment in playing the game you are GAMFAQing where you need 
 you to go. That being said, Megaman ZX plays very similiar to the ZERO games and a little similar 
 the megaman X game. Once your used finding your away around the world in ZX, the game becomes action 
 packed, challenging, and will leave you at points of creative-amazement. I am specifically referring 
 to the Biometal system in ZX: This system resembles in other MMgames as the way megaman achieved 
 new abilities after defeating an enemy. In addition to an enemies abilities being absorbed, ZX's 
 form undergoes changes such as green wings, bigger guns, or claws.. Changing forms can also give 
 you various abilities such as crushing rocks, swimming, or air dashing. This unique quirk in the 
 megaman formula and the challenging difficulty makes this game worth while for any gamer looking 
 for a unique side scroller or just a good challenging game (because we all know there aren't enough 
 on the DS as it is) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Megaman series of games ever since the very beginning. With the exception 
 of a couple of the Battle Network games and those god-awful 3D Legends games (as well as X7 and 
 X8 -- Megaman, like Castlevania, does not belong in 3D) , I've played just about every Megaman title. 
 And I think that Megaman ZX is the most engaging MM game in a while. The gameplay is familiar -- you 
 still hunt down bosses and beat them to get new powers, and there are less powers than before, 
 but at the same time, all of your different play options (air dashing, creating platforms, swimming, 
 breaking through rocks, etc.) are condensed into the different forms you will acquire throughout 
 the game.
  
  I enjoy this game because it brings about a nice human element to the gameplay -- instead of playing 
 as X or Zero or some other robot, you play as a human male or female (Vent or Aile, two separate 
 protagonists with minor gameplay differences) who merges with Biometal , a device that contains 
 the powers and consciousness of past heroes (this game is set in the future after the Megaman Zero 
 series) and transforms, basically becoming Megaman X, Zero, or others. It's a cool concept that 
 adds a sort of super hero/secret identity flair to the game, especially since there are some instances 
 where you actually need to transform back into human form. (In fact, when I first played Mega Man 
 on NES ages ago, I found myself wishing he were a human who transformed instead of a robot because 
 robots don't interest me story-wise. I was so happy when I saw him change into a human in the ending, 
 only to be saddened to find he was actually a robot in future MM games. MMZX is the next best thing.)
 
  
  The game also takes a nice turn by applying what is probably the best format for a 2D action/adventure 
 game, the Metroid concept, to a Megaman game. About time. Instead of having separate stages, the 
 entire game world consists of one collective series of areas, with regions that require different 
 abilities to reach and such. Given this, however, I found myself wishing the map were more reliable 
 (I could swear that it was actually backwards sometimes) , and that it were actively displayed on 
 the bottom screen at some point, instead of the M. E. G. A. System logo when you play as Model X or 
 Model Zx. In fact, although I don't mind that MMZX doesn't use the DS' unique functions that much 
 (the one thing it is used for is actually easier to do with the control buttons) , I did find myself 
 wishing something more was displayed on the bottom screen. It is nice that Models Hx, Lx and Px 
 make some good use of the screen, but I think the usage of the screen for models Fx, Zx and especially 
 the human form could have used some more planning.
  
  The graphics don't look that much more detailed than the Megaman Zero series of games, but they 
 seem brighter and more colorful. Then again I'm used to playing my GBA games on my GC with my Game 
 Boy Player, which often looks a little washed out anyway. The graphics are nicely done, with lots 
 of well done animations, as is usual for Megaman games. I thought it especially nice that attention 
 was paid to Model Fx's separate animations from firing from the left hand and the right, correct 
 when facing either direction. Also of note, there are some short anime cutscenes at a few points 
 in the game that look great on the DS' screen.
  
  The music is pretty good, nothing I found myself humming, but serviceable. I didn't really notice 
 it much most of the time. But the sounds are a mixed bag. There are voices in the game (all Japanese) , 
 and let me warn you, some of them are really, really annoying. Aile, using Model Hx, makes this 
 whiny Hiya! sound whenever she swings her sword in the air, and it's headache inducing -- I'm pretty 
 tolerant when it comes to voices in games, and I found myself cutting my volume down whenever I 
 needed to use Model Hx while playing with Aile. Vent isn't quite as bad, but some of the bosses 
 like Lurrere and Hurricaune have some irritating voices too.
  
  Of course, the controls are tight and responsive. It's a Megaman game that's not in 3D. If you 
 get beat, it's because you haven't learned the boss' or enemy patterns yet, or you still have to 
 learn the stage, not because the controls failed you.
  
  The reviews I read stated that this game is difficult. I didn't find it so hard. I didn't find 
 it easy either, but on the normal difficulty I'd say the challenge is fair. The last boss was kind 
 of brutal, only because you need to make your way all the way to it after surviving a lengthy stage 
 and beating all eight bosses again (and it wouldn't be a Megaman game if you didn't) and still 
 win against all three of its forms. It's pretty easy to hit the bosses in their weak point and 
 cause absurd damage, especially when using the right element. However, the game tries to penalize 
 you for exploiting their weak points by giving you lower energy levels for your different forms 
 when you beat the boss by repeatedly hitting the weak spot. On the normal difficulty, this is no 
 big deal because it's easy to get your energy gauges maxed with money. On hard, it's much more 
 expensive and demands you play more skillfully.
  
  The game's got some longevity to it, with hidden items to find (various food items, chips that 
 expand your abilities, and a secret form) and two playable characters, but it is pretty short and 
 if you play it heavily you'll probably blow through it on Normal in a weekend or less. The game 
 has a lot of useless elements too, like minigames that offer you NOTHING (at least give me money 
 for getting high scores or something) and character data files (nothing for finding them all except 
 reading material -- some of the enemy files are a little helpful) that you can find. In the future 
 I'd like to see a lot more out of the various forms, some upgradeable skills perhaps (not just 
 life and energy meters) and maybe twice as many bosses, not to mention a decent, Castlevania-like 
 map system and maybe even multiplayer (come on, it's the DS. I'm sure they can think of something) . 
 And am I the only one who's sick of spikes being so deadly to characters who are apparently covered 
 in armor? I know that will never change in a Megaman game, but still...
  
  One thing worth mentioning is that this game doesn't seem to have been designed with portability 
 in mind. The save points are few and far between, usually at the start and end of areas, AFTER 
 you fight a boss, not before. This means you pretty much have to start a mission and beat the boss 
 (if applicable) before saving again. Of course, you can put the DS to sleep if you have to stop, 
 but I thought it would be worth mentioning.
  
  Overall, I found Megaman ZX to be a worthy purchase, and I hope that Capcom pushes out a menagerie 
 of sequels to expand on this new series (heck, it's almost guaranteed they will, if history is 
 any indication) . The only thing I find myself wondering is how much farther can they take the Megaman 
 series... it's gotten to the point where our familiar heroes aren't really even involved anymore, 
 and I have to admit I'm a bit worried. Megaman has always been one of my favorite game series, 
 and it pains me to think Capcom may finally need to put the Blue Bomber to rest. But hey, with 
 dozens of games across almost every game platform in history, he's definitely had a good run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxx369
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 22, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, the Zero series finished and a new series has been launched: ZX. Megaman ZX is the first 
 game of the blue bomber in the DS (Battle Network 5 was a GBA game) and its very similar to the 
 zero series games (including the graphics...)
  
  The Good: great story, challenging stages, good music, the gameplay is perfect.
  The Bad: the 
 graphics are too simple, the game is short, you never need the touch screen, the missions are too 
 difficult to find.
  
  Graphics: 7,0
  What can I say about the graphics? Some people say that they are GBA graphics, they are really 
 very similar! But ZX's graphics are better than Zero's graphics, the animations are more fluid, 
 the characters and places are more detailed....
  
  Gameplay: 9,0
  Perfect as most of the Megaman's games, and the Rock On* system works perfectly. It is a old school 
 game at all but jump and shoot gameplay is extremely good.
  
  Sound: 7,0
  Good at all, its not masterful, but the musics let you exited playing the game. After all: 8,3
 
  
  Megaman Zx is a great game with two playable characters, the rock on system, great story, three 
 different difficult settings, simple graphics, perfect gameplay, great sound.
  
  *Rock On system: it lets you use biometals to transform your character, each biometal (there are 
 seven, and one is secret) have their own abilities ( Hx model lets you perform the air dash, Fx 
 changes the buster firing direction) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryeth
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a spin of from Mega man X and Mage Man Zeroa, personally i liked the Zero seriies better. 
 This is a fubn game with great gameplay but the graphic arnt reall DS quallity and yoy aisicly 
 use one screen the hole time enless you fight a boss or somthing, then it shows his health on the 
 bottom screeen, this i s a good game wityh a solid storyline, a little weird at first, somthing 
 about Biometals and a secret orginazation, any way battle your way through this sweet game with 
 a few Anikme clips for those Anime fans out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubb7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Really sweet game. Great difficulty to it. Brought me back to the old days when games were hard 
 as nails to get through. Game play was really, really solid IMO, although I would like to have 
 seen them make all of the Biometals to be more relevant and usable. I found myself just using Hx 
 and Zx the whole game pretty much. Not much use of the touch screen here, but that is a good thing 
 here I think. The action in this game can get relentless and I would not have wanted the touch 
 screen slowing me down. But they did find some nice ways to use the extra screen for relevant content. 
 Loved the visual style of the game, and all of the enemies and character animations and models 
 look really nice. Only complaint here is that at some times I could not clearly see a door I was 
 supposed to go through to progress in the game, but I suppose even that point is moot by simply 
 switching to one of the handy Biometals with a map underneath. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiyoshi777
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Having just finished Mega Man ZX, clocking in at a mere four and a half hours of gameplay, I felt 
 that it was about time for me to return to Gamespot for my first review in quite some time. And, 
 well, it's good to be back, though I wish it was under better circumstances.
  
  Mega Man ZX isn't a bad game by any stretch, but it is medicore and rather pedestrian, which is 
 particularly disappointing given that it tried to introduce a number of fresh elements into the 
 tried-and-true Mega Man series. Principal of these new gameplay elements is the overworld, which 
 feels about as functional and necessary as that in the first Sonic Adventure game: not at all. 
 You can explore the world of MMZX at your leisure in-between blasting enemies and taking on missions, 
 but outside of a few secrets and opportunities to fight optional enemies, there's simply no reason 
 to do so. The world is sparsely furnished with NPCs who will spout out a few lines of text like 
 in any RPG title, but never is what they have to say useful or entertaining. Yes, occasionally 
 they'll assign you a mission that wouldn't have presented itself otherwise, but these missions 
 also feel tacked on and like a waste of time. Clearly, Capcom was attempting to emulate the worlds 
 of Castlevania, but exploration simply does not lend itself well to this game and simply fills 
 time that should've been used to destroy more enemies in more missions. I also found myself getting 
 quite lost in this overworld when actually trying to get to a mission location, and it was then 
 that it became crystal clear to me that, yes, this overworld was included simply to pad the game's 
 extremely short length. It's a shame, really, especially after how much better the worlds in the 
 Zero series on GBA worked.
  
  Outside of that unfortunate inclusion, however, the various innovations in Mega Man ZX world rather 
 well, though aren't without their respective flaws. The most obvious and widely advertised of these 
 innovations is the Model system, which basically has your character changing into entirely different 
 settings that are accumulated as bosses are defeated as opposed to merely switching weapons, as 
 has been the norm in previous Mega Man titles. There's a ninja-esque model (model P) that can hang 
 off of ledges and throw thousands of shurikan at high speeds (it's my personal favorite) , a model 
 that functions well underwater, a model that allows for mid-air boosting and dual saber attacks, 
 a model that has two gigantic arm buster cannons, and the plain vanilla Z model that is basically 
 the Zero of games past. Perhaps this isn't typical, but I found that the only models worth using 
 were the ninja and air dashing ones. The water model was useful only in the very brief instances 
 where a level actually had water that needed to be traversed, and the buster cannon model was, 
 quite simply, weak and slow in comparison to the others. Each model and transformation gives off 
 an entertainingly tacky Power Rangers vibe, which I think was intentional. So again, we have a 
 decent idea that was simply broken in its execution, which is too bad because the art for each 
 model was pretty bad ass. What else? At the game's onset, you can choose to play as Vent, a male 
 protagonist, or Aile, the female. It's a completely innocuous aesthetic preference which character 
 you choose, because both follow the exact same storyline and get the same models, though their 
 sprites look a bit different when compared. It was a rather frivolous thing to include, though 
 Capcom certainly can't be faulted for doing so.
  
  Speaking of storylines, Mega Man ZX's is rather terrible, though it's basically par for the course 
 in a Mega Man game. A big bad man who's so discreetly named Serpent is attempting to collect the 
 bio-metals so that he can form the massive Model W and take over the world, more or less. You, 
 as either Vent or Aile, join a rebel group that fights against him. A close friend is killed and 
 some horrendously bland scripting fleshes out the rest of the all too typical story. Oh, and there 
 are some short though nifty anime sequences along the way, further instilling the This is the love 
 child of Mega Man and Fox Box vibe. Huzzah!
  
  If you're looking for some Mega Man action on the go, you'd be better off playing one of the three 
 Zero titles on GBA, which could also be used in your DS, or better yet, playing Mega Man: Powered 
 Up on the Sony PSP. Again, it's not that Mega Man ZX is bad, it simply isn't as good as it should've 
 been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FetusZero
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  ZX is easily explained in a few words: Megaman Zero with cyber-elves replaced by models and a choice 
 between two playable character, respectively named Vent and Aile. Let's go deeper in it.
  
  From a graphical view, ZX is Zero. Apart from a very few animated cutscenes replacing the still 
 slidehsow images that Zero would use as "cutscenes", nothing has changed. Just wanted to get rid 
 of that part right away since there was nothing to say on it.
  
  In Zx, you can change Models (ultimately called Bio-Metals before becoming a Model) and there is 
 a total of 6 different useable Models plus a secret one. You can easily change from a form to another 
 by a single button press which is pretty effective. Each model has it's own strenght and weakness, 
 each with its own ability. Here is a brief description about each model you will come to use.
 
  
  Model X - this is the base model for your character. Model X basicaly is Megaman X, with a mega-powerful 
 buster. Other than that, he doesn't have any special ability used with the touch screen like others.
 
  
  Model ZX - model X and Z merging together, forming ZX. This will be your main model and is quite.. similar 
 to Zero. Enough said, saber, buster, you know it. No special ability.
  
  Model HX - obviously, Model H meets Model X. Go figure who this is (pretty obvious) . Saber type 
 weapon, you can air dash and hover in the air. Spacial ability to analyze enemies weak points.
 
  
  Model PX - no need to say how. Throws several blades like weapon. You can hang on ceilings and 
 what not with him as well. Special ability is absicaly.. an enemy radar like with a map of the area. 
 Helps for hidden doors  .  shhhh.
  
  Model FX - FIRE!! Simple buster a bit stronger than ZX's one, easy, no? Your special ability here 
 is pretty unique as you can choose a directed path for your bullets to follow.
  
  Model LX - Saber like weapon and good swimmer, you won't need it for anything else.. of yeah, special 
 ability is a map of the area as well and finding items scattered around you.
  
  Each model has it's own overdrive attributes if you want.. as well as their own pwoer charged shots 
 which I left for ypou to discover since this is going to be a big review. I didn't include the 
 Models appearing that you canot use (such as Model Z) nor the secret model, since it is secret 
 (and everyone knows which it is anyway) .
  
  The game as 3 difficulty modes: Easy, Normal and Hard (hard is unlocked by beating Normal mode) . 
 None should create such a problem to any players, but for the Hard mode which tend to be quite 
 a challenge. The game is far from being as hard as the Zero series were.
  
  The story line obviously follows the Zero series. Basicaly, a century after the events of Zero 
 4, you up to saving the world yet again, like every Megaman game out there, but this time your 
 help will come from the different bio-metals you can gather to put an end to terror. You go against 
 Serpent, the president of Slither Inc. who tries to awaken the Model W Core to rule the universe. 
 You will encounter my favorite characters in the game: Prometheus and Pandora. A series of adventures 
 await before you to protect the ones you care about. Each character (Vent and Aile) both have their 
 own stories int he game but nothing will change for the gameplay (such as different missions and 
 stuff) xept for one side mission different to each. Yep, you can also take side missions requested 
 from citizens and from some of the guardians to get special items or simply get some E-Crystals.
 
  
  Don't know if I forgot anything to say, but I think ya'll have enough of what I said. Megaman ZX 
 will be enjoyed by Megaman fans for sure. Specially if you liked the Zero series. To anyone who 
 don't even know who or what is Megaman, you better like 2D side scrollers and if you do, don't 
 fear that this game is too hard to play, with its 3 different difficulty modes there really is 
 fun for ANYONE, bad or good.
  
  This game mostly applies to Megaman fans though, as theya re the ones to truely enjoy the storyline 
 continuing the never ending saga. I'll be waiting for ZX 2, that is for sure. The game has more 
 secrets than just what I said, but it is up to you to figure them out or to grab an FAQ, this is 
 a review, and impression of the game, I ain't here to provide walkthrough. Alright, hope ya'll 
 can get a bit of impression on what the game is, if not, simply think this: Megaman Zero, no Cyber-Elves, 
 added buttons on the handheld, new story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I dont know how to say this but i think its good game except i wish capcom put more use of touch 
 screen. I can only touch screen touch with FX Model. But good game through maybe Megaman Zero Fans 
 would enjoy this game. and a bit short but its alright. and there is another secret Model but im 
 leaving to you find it. Gameplay - fine with it. because it have model system with special ability
 
  but i wish it have more use with touch screen
  
  Graphics - almost same as megaman zero but much better.
  Sound - I could better with DS and i 
 didnt hear much. but good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeatgutsEXE
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Known as Rockman ZX in Japan, Megaman ZX is a great game which most Megaman Classic, X, and Zero 
 series players can't miss. Megaman ZX is mainly an evolution based on Zero series. In the storyline, 
 100 years have passed since Megaman Zero 4's time. Unlike most Megaman games, this game does not 
 have a true Megaman, instead, we have a hero, Vent and a heroine, Aile that comes with slightly 
 different storyline that take possession of the ancient power of the past heroes in Zero series. 
 These powers are placed in these armor-like minerals that are alive known as the Bio-metals (or 
 Live-metals for the Japanese players) . Using these Bio-metals, the character make use of the M. E. G. A. 
 (Meta-Encapsulated Granule Awareness) or R. O. C. K. (Rebirth of Crystallized Knowledge) systems to 
 transform into a mighty warrior of the Bio-metal.
  
  Similar to Zero series, you are required to take on missions to challenge a stage as well as defeating 
 the boss. In ZX however, after taking a mission, you will need to find the stage on your own. This 
 is somewhat similar to Castlevania (however, there are no missions in Castlavania) which you need 
 to explore the game map to find where you should be going.
  
  At the start of the game, you will receive your first Bio-metal, Model X which you will lose after 
 gaining Model ZX. Later on, you will need to defeat bosses in order to gain more Bio-metals. For 
 boss battle, there is a new system involve which aren't in the previous games, which is the Level 
 Victory system. You can have a victory of level 1-4. The boss have a weak point which a Bio-metal 
 can track (explained later) . The more you hit the weak point, lower your level victory is, which 
 will cost you to receive a more damaged Bio-metal. While a level 4 victory without hitting the 
 boss weak point will allow you to gain a Bio-metal that is completely at full energy level without 
 the need to repair.
  
  Since the game is on Nintendo DS, the touch screen will need to have some function to make the 
 game more interesting, which is not in your Model X, Z and OX (secret model) . However, the touch 
 sensor will not function at all in the game except for the use of one Bio-metal, which is Model 
 FX. Model FX allow you to use the touch screen to customize how the buster's bullet will move when 
 you shoot. Model HX allow you to check the health of enemy as well as tracking the Boss weak points. 
 (This will be needed to aid you when you are planning to defeat the Boss at a level 4 victory) . 
 Model LX will show a cyber elf like object which will move towards a direction when an object is 
 found. Model PX will have a radar will let's you track hidden passages or enemies.
  
  For these forms, you can charge your weapons to do powerful moves that consume your energy which 
 also do elemental damages to the enemy (except PX) . Or if you prefer, you can make use of the Overdrive 
 system or O. I. S. which cause your energy to be consume constantly. While in O. I. S. mode, normal 
 attacks will do elemental damage which are also slightly more powerful. For the case of Model PX, 
 it allows you to dash through enemys body without taking damage.
  
  As a bonus to Zero series players, owners of Megaman Zero 3 and 4 can insert their game pak into 
 the GBA slot of the DS while playing ZX to gain access to a secret place where they can battle 
 bosses of Megaman Zero 3 and 4 in ZX instead.
  
  Like Zero series, ZX is also like an RPG where you can interact with the characters in the game 
 but unlike Zero series, ZX contain side quests that you can attempt. This makes the game more RPG 
 like as well as more interesting. Also you can return to a boss room when you receive a notification 
 that the boss is found to re-challenge him (mainly for level 4 victory) instead of leaving you 
 nothing to do after game completion. Unfortunately, Megaman ZX is a single player game without 
 multiplayer features at all. If it were to be similar to Castlevania or Megaman Battle Network 
 by allowing some multiplayer features such as comparing libraries or progress, it wouldn't have 
 wasted the DS multiplayer capability.
  
  The music of this game is well composed as really suit the game's climate. The storyline twist 
 may seem weird but its kind of easy to understand after a playing for a while. Despite being the 
 DS game, its good that they manage to have some anime-like sequence in the game. For Japanese 
 players, they will be able to enjoy this game much more as all dialogue will contain voice acting 
 which happens to be removed in the English release. Megaman ZX comes with an easy mode so even 
 new players of Megaman can enjoy this game.
  
  Thank you for reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benitez555
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  for all you megaman beginners i hope buy and beat the zero series before even looking at the box 
 art of megaman zx. anyway this game brings me back to my playstation days when i used to play the 
 x games on it. this game has some really cool features like the fact that u have different kinds 
 of armors wich u notice if u have playd the zero series that they really resemble some of the characters 
 from there. each armor has its own uniqe abillity wich is really cool.
  
  this game is really hard wich is not suprising. i beat the game on hard wich was one of my greatest 
 accomplishments in game history. well bottom line is this game is great so play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPG-er
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  The game looks a lot like the zero series (like the artwork, graphic, and gameplay) . I personally 
 love the cut-scenes. Whats new? You play as 2 new characters, Vent (boy) or Alie (girl) . The ability 
 to transform from humanoid to megamerge, is a great new feature in this series. Combining the powers 
 of the character and our heroes (X and Zero) . Something I wish that was in the zero series that 
 wasnt in here, was more weapon choices. The two ZX weapons are the buster and the saber. As for 
 the gameplay, its more of an adventure game. Theres no more picking a mission and teleport to 
 the stage. In ZX you have to travel to the correct area, like in battle network. But you can teleport 
 to selected area (areas that have a teleporter room) . Luckily theres a saving point in each area. 
 However theyre usually at the end of the stage, aka after you defeat the boss. As for traveling 
 to find that area, it was difficult. If you havent been to the area, and area is unmapped. But 
 its a must buy for all X fans. Its a new challenge, but the same old X feel.
  
  Overview:
  Gameplay (9/10)  Good: The old X theme. Bad: Traveling in unmapped area, you can 
 find yourself traveling around for 10 minute going in the wrong direction.
  
  Graphic (8/10)  Good: Cut-scenes. Bad: Nothing different compare to the zero series.
  
  Sound 
 (9/10)  Good: Great music, like always. Bad: Beeping noise after you complete a mission 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Megaman ZX fixes the problem of previous installments of being too difficulty by giving you to 
 choose difficulty between easy or normal. However the game is a complete mess when taking missions. 
 Basically you will be through exploration on a city from there you go to doors that most of them 
 have nothing but also offers routes to other levels. Now the problem here is that even tough they 
 tell you which mission you have to do, you don't exactly know where do you really need to do this 
 mission. So is really sad to see that one thing got fixed but a new thing arrives that is even 
 more worst.
  
  The gameplay of shooting with megaman is still there and great but if you ask me I am kinda tired 
 of seeing Megaman always shooting so slow and do the same stuff. You also can transform into other 
 bodies that deliver different style of shooting which is the positive thing that keeps the game 
 alive and varied. Now if only this whole exploration thing wasn't there this could have been the 
 best megaman game out there. So sadly Capcom you once again dissapoint and now you remove the developer 
 Clover Studios that offered A+ titles like okami, viewtiful joe 1 and 2. So that means less good 
 capcom games coming, how smart Capcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthRUSH
Rating: 1.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The sun was rising, the clouds were forming, it was a beautiful day to purchase a Nintendo DS game. 
 I was looking forward into buying Capcom's latest installment of its cult-classic Mega Man (Rock 
 Man / X) series. Having replaying Mega Man X8 for PS2, I was ready for some old-school platforming 
 action with some new surprises.
  
  After Opening up the case, I plopped the cartridge in and preceded to watch the opening introduction. 
 So far, decent 2D graphics, wonderfully drawn sprites, and a beautiful cut-scene, I was ready to 
 play ZX! Being a Veteran in the Mega Man series, having played all games starting from the NES 
 until now, I know Capcom's mistakes and trails. But this was too much. Once I started playing ZX, 
 the first thing I noticed was the lack of enemies. Okay, that alright. Whats this? I entered a 
 door and I am led around this city that have the population of 2 civilians? On top of that, I 
 was treated to many empty rooms (resembling RPG areas) done horribly bad? This can't be a Mega 
 Man game. But in fact folk, it was. Most of the time you'll find yourself walking around aimlessly 
 trying to complete missions. Missions, you say? That sounds fun? If your definition of fun is finding 
 information and retrieving it this suits you. The map is another problem. All it points out is 
 the area you are in; unlike Castlevania: DS showing navigation of your current location. Mostly 
 you'll be going through doors that lead in random orders (A-1 leads to F-4 ... ect) attacking a 
 few enemies. This is not a Mega Man game. This is absolute crap.
  
  I must warn many Mega Man fans about the horrors experienced from playing this monstrosity. This 
 is NOT a platform, and defiantly NOT a classic. Fans of the X series re-play your classics until 
 Capcom of Japan releases a decent new Mega Man X game. If youre a fan of Mega Man Zero for Game 
 Boy Advance, it might interest you, otherwise avoid this DS game at all costs.
  
  Bottom Line: If you enjoy walking around attacking 2-3 weak enemies every now and then, opening 
 doors in which lead to nothing, doing tasks in which require you to talk to 5 people, this game 
 is for you, if not stay clear.
  
  For More Reviews Visit Special Attack:
  http://bawitblog. ba. funpic. org/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomgnade
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  So here's a rambling review, that I did at work instead of doing.... well work. So I just bought 
 the black DS lite yesterday and Megaman ZX to go along with it. Now let me start off by saying 
 that ZX is hard and the save system is bad and it sometimes takes awhile to get to the right mission 
 (the map is horrible) . That pretty much sums up the entirety of the negatives of this game. I could 
 not put this game down. Granted I was a huge SNES Megaman X fan and have liked hard games such 
 as PS2 Shinobi, so some of the negatives of the game do not bother me at all. The Gameplay is absolutely 
 perfert! It is oldschool goodness to its best, Twitch addictive gameplay. The ability to change 
 into 5 different megamen is also really cool. You can even turn into your human self (though I 
 wish the Human had more abilities, he can just crouch into small spaces and doesn't scare people 
 when he talks to them) . The Graphics are sweet in my opinion and look really good, though I doubt 
 they are really straining the DS hardware. The bosses are tough and everything is slickly animated. 
 In fact, one of the megamen can shoot with either hand and the way you are facing accurately changes 
 which hand animation-wise fires- very nice touch. There are 2 characters- guy and girl and although 
 I am only past the first 7 or so bosses on Easy, I definitely have not found it overly difficult 
 (though I have died) and look forward to replaying the game as the girl and on harder settings. 
 Love this game. If you loved any of the X games you have to absolutely pick this one up. Currently, 
 Metascore has this game at 80. I would says it is more of a 89-91. It sucks that there isn't a 
 decent map on the bottom screen (or even in the menu) but I like not having to look at both screens 
 all that much. Anyway, you can read the other reviews and complaints yourselves. I think most critiques 
 are valid but are not that big of a deal. I'm pro difficulty, the save system is fine, but the 
 map system - walking around finding where the missions are- definitely needs a huge improvement.
 
  
  BREAKDOWN:
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Pros: Absolutely couldn't put this game down for the first 5 hours. I'm even itching to play it 
 again now, but I'm at work and the DS is at home so I'll have to wait. The only reason I stopped 
 is because I only have 1 mission left available to select and I don't know where section J is! 
 Excellent control very responsive, classic megaman with 5 different versions!
  Cons: Some may find it hard or just not like the Old School and difficult gameplay - NOT for CASUAL 
 GAMERS!!
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Pros: Crisp and excellently animated sprites. Great Anime Sequences! Lush backgrounds with excellent 
 scrolling aspects (foreground and parallax backgrounds) . In the vein of great SNES games like Super 
 Metroid, but crisper! with more colors!
  Cons: Nothing that is truly next-gen... minimal graphics on 2nd Screen
  
  Sound/Music: 8/10
 
  Pros: All the classic sounds of dashing, shooting, etc. return. Music is good and fits the mood 
 of the game.
  Cons: When you complete a mission there is an annoying beeping until you file a mission report. 
 Music/Sound doesn't really stay with you.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 8/10
  Pros: 2 Different characters, drastically more difficult difficulty levels, 5 different Megamen 
 with different play mechanics. Huge world - lots of levels to explore. Only $30! SICK gameplay!
 
  
  Cons: Too difficult- Too hard to explore and find next area or mission. Gameplay is tough for newcomers 
 to Megaman games. Extra playtime attributed to re-traversing areas to find the next area or get 
 back to a save point.
  
  Average: 87.5%
  Tilt (+/-) : +2.5%
  
  Verdict: 90% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Light-Shadow
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to continue the series with. The entire story comes together from the beginning. It 
 has the basic controls still, just with more added in. Great gameplay, great graphics, fantastic story, great 
 etc. In this one, you can finally play as the guardians, that is one of the big points for me. Its 
 a lot more free roaming, so there is a lot to explore. I have a feeling its just going to get better 
 and better in the Megaman series. Overall it is an absolutely great new series addition that should 
 continue on and keep getting better and better. I mean it when I give this a ten out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Megaman ZX
  Developed/Published by Capcom
  1-player only
  
  Pros:
  + Great sword slashing/ blaster shooting side-scroller.
  + Up to 7 total Biometals (Suits that 
 grant your character new abilities) to experience; X, ZX, HX, FX, LX, PX, and the secret OX.
  + Can choose between Vent (male) or Aile (female)
  + Roughly 16 different locations to explore.
 
  + Plenty of side-quest to explore.
  + Couple of Mini-games to play with.
  + Handdrawn-style backgrounds are gorgeous.
  + Bosses are unique and interesting.
  + Plot is 
 engaging and enjoyable with plenty of characters to meet.
  + Easy mode is available for rookies like myself.
  + Hard mode is unlockable for the MegaMan 
 hardcore.
  + Video cut-scenes are awesome
  
  Cons:
  - Short, can be beaten in 10 hours.
  - Not all side-quest are as rewarding as they could have 
 been
  - Not much changes from Vent to Aile.
  - Video cut-scenes only use one-screen as does most of the game.
  
  Final Thoughts: This is 
 my first MegaMan game and I was drawn in from the very beginning of the game with the short cut-scene 
 where model X joins the main character. The missions and bosses were all a blast. The game has 
 a sort of old-school feel that is actually very enjoyable. The music is unique and upbeat. Even 
 the way enemies are sliced in half when you slash them with your sword is a treat. Thankfully there 
 is an easy mode which makes the game accesible for anyone willing to pick it up. I had heard some 
 complaints about the map, but personally I found the map to be very intuitative and I rarely had 
 a problem figuring out where to go. All-in-all this was a game that I was glad I bought. A permanent 
 addition to my collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Mega Man ZX is a 2-D side-scrolling action game like all other Mega Man games. A new part about 
 this one is that there is an adventure element added to the game. Now, instead of just playing 
 level after level, you go all around exploring the world like a Metroid or Castlevania game. You 
 progress through the game by completing missions assigned to you at data rooms. The missions are 
 usually going through a certain area until you meet up with a boss that carries a Biometal. Biometals 
 are the source of your character's power. (You can chose between a male and female character) . 
 The Biometals give you the powers of previous Mega Man characters like Zero and Mega Man. You can 
 switch between these Biometals at anytime in the game and you will have to. Each Biometal gives 
 you a different ability to get through obstacles the levels have. The gameplay is still the same 
 but the element of adventure truly makes this game shine especially. The graphics have improved 
 from the GBA ones but they still aren't the best the DS has to offer. The music on the other hand 
 is excellent, providing some of the best the DS has to offer. The game will take about 15 hours 
 to complete, but there are alot of extras to be seen. The biggest problem is the game's difficulty. 
 Sometimes it gives you a challenge but at other times it gets ridiculous. Overall Mega Man ZX is 
 a very exciting, challenging, and fun game. It boasts Metroid and Castlevania style gameplay which 
 helps it stand out from other Mega Man games. If you are up for a challenge and like previous Mega 
 Man games, this is a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best mega man games ive played in a while but it is way to short. When 
 i first bought this i thought it was going to be a game that lasted a while like Castlevania (I 
 still play it form time to time) . Then I played and I really liked it so i kept playing and i beat 
 it in 3 days and my time was 6 hours and 55 minutes. I was very disappointed. I then beat it again 
 for fun and beat it in 4 hours. I was surprised that there were only 7 bio metals. I think the 
 best one was still Zx but Hx was also very good. The two playable characters were ok but i thought 
 there should have been just one. They should have spent more time on the bio metals and levels. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoonOmen
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Like a new classic among an old and unforgettable series. One of the best Mega Man games ever. 
 Deal with it! :D
  
  Easily lives up to the standards of the old classic while incorporating the greatest new traditions. 
 New styles of old and favorite characters from the Zero series come alive in the players hands.
 
  
  While it is not required to play the other games from the Zero and X series to seriously enjoy 
 the game, it does add to the experience, like being in on an inside joke.
  
  The abilities to utilize the Guardians powers is one of the most amazing additions to the Mega 
 Man series, especially if you've played the the Zero series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guided_Wind26
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The game was cool and all that stuff but theres a couple of problems I couldnt deal with so I'll 
 just list them here. Problems
  
  1. Not enough extras
  
  2. Not enough special abilitys (lack of skills)
  
  3. Lack of map design ( I could'nt get to 
 places easily)
  
  4. You get Omega Zero but not Omega X ?????? (whats up with that?)
  
  5. Secret or sub quests are too short
  
  On the other hand Megaman ZX had good features that 
 I liked Good Things
  
  1. Omega Zero I guess
  
  2. transformation
  
  3. able to get X back after beating game twice (good challenging)
  
  4. Double Rock on with 
 the combination of X and Z
  
  Those were the things I liked about Megaman ZX. I would only suggest that a newbie would play this 
 because its easy for them and a maybe not a pro since this game is similar to MegamanZero but if 
 you want the story or to expierence the new transformation than go ahead to all pros out there.
 
  
  Oh almost forgot, I tried megaman network and it kinda sucked since it doesnt have enough action 
 but it has good characters is all I can say about it (wish some of Megaman NT characters were playable 
 in Megaman ZX) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoughryderGT
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Im probably giving too much credit for this game. but im actually comparing this game to the battle 
 network series. I know some will say that i cant do that, since its totally different gameplay. 
 but hey if it has megaman on the title, i expect like the snes classics and zx. thats what i like 
 bout the zx it brought back the feel like the first time i play megaman X. and its flashy enough 
 to make it feel more up to date. the soundtrack isnt as memorable as the snes classics. but good 
 enough to where it blends in with the game. im dissappointed that the game didnt include features 
 with the stylus, but its forgivable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanddragoon89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is set some decades after the megaman zero series. Basically humans and reploids live 
 together in this city called Inner-peace and the mavericks live outside the city in the wild.
 
  
  The game introduces this new style of game-play called bio-metals which change the appearance and 
 the strength of the character you chose in the beginning.
  
  The bio-metals are really great in that each BM has its own strengths that can be utilized. Such 
 as the X metal which gives you great long range attacks which prove to be good later on. The bad 
 thing is the loss of X later on. You get ZX which stays with you for the rest of the game along 
 with the other bio-metals you can find. There is a way to have model X for the rest of the game 
 and most likely you already know how. For those who don't know, find it out yourself.
  
  The game is short in my opinion, but then again all the megaman games are. It has the usual 8 bosses 
 and then the 4 final ones, just like any other MMX or MMZ game.
  
  The graphics are about the same as the MMZ games, except that there are a few anime cut-scenes.
 
  
  I never really notice the sound but from what I heard the sound is good. The music tends to match 
 the level which is good. The cut-scenes are subbed meaning that they are speaking in Japanese with 
 subtitles on the bottom. This tends to be a good thing because English voice-overs are not as good 
 as the Japanese ones.
  
  The learning rate is easy because of the ability to change the controls. The difficulty can be 
 changed when starting a new game, having the classic easy and normal modes. Hard mode has to be 
 unlocked. Easy mode is just that easy and should only be used by those who have never played a 
 Mega Man game before. Normal mode is for those who have played Mega Man games. Hard mode is for 
 those who would like a challenge.
  
  This game also has the function for your character to fight bosses from MMZ3 and 4 provided that 
 you own those games.
  
  Overall this game gets a 8.1 because of the awesome bio-metals, the compatibility of the MMZ 3 
 and 4 games, and the cut-scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkchib
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Do we need another new Mega Man series? Of course we do. With each new Nintendo system, there is 
 a new Mega Man series. It started with the original Mega Man series then we got Mega Man X for 
 the SNES. Followed by Mega Man Z for the GBA and now we have Mega Man ZX for the DS system. Since 
 getting a DS Lite, I've looked foward to getting a game that utilized all the buttons on the system, 
 yes I do have New Super Mario and Mario Kart DS but I also own Brain Age and would like something 
 that give me a challenge when it comes to fast action reflexes. Mega Man ZX does just that with 
 similar gameplay found in Mega Man Z series. But this is the same gameplay that I didn't particularly 
 like. Instead of the traditional select a boss and fight the level, you are now given the choice 
 to choose where you like to explore. Which is just like selecting a boss but the problem here is 
 aimlessly wondering where to go. The Map system isn't useful at all and it's frustrating trying 
 to figure out where an area is. The gameplay isn't hard, which is a good thing for Newbies to the 
 series, because progression is the only way to keep new player interested. Graphically, I was kind 
 of disappointed with this. This doesn't look all that much different from Mega Man Z. You get to 
 choose from a male character or a female character and the sprites only differ in Human forms. 
 Would have been cool if there created different sprite for both Vent and Aile. I was hoping something 
 in the level of Mega Man X4-X6. The Cut scenes were well made, but not as good as the ones found 
 in Mega Man X Maverick Hunter for the PSP. As for the Music, most of the tunes aren't all that 
 memorable. There are some familiar sounds from the Mega Man Z series. And the sound effects were 
 good but the voice over can be a little annoying. Does Aile always have to scream something when 
 she fires the charge shot.? I've played many Mega Man games and will continue to support this franchise. 
 As long as they keep making them in these old school 2D style games, I'll continue to buy them. 
 But as an honest review, I don't suggest this game to all gamers. If you like Old School side scrolling 
 action games, then this might be a good game for you. Otherwise, you'll probably get bored after 
 trying to locate area B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I picked this one up because I've been a Mega Man follower since MegaMan 3 on NES. So far I'm liking 
 it, lots of places to wonder around, the 'non-linear' level design is pretty cool... but gets annoying 
 pretty fast. The game seems more linear than previous games though.
  
  Graphics are good, cutscenes are interesting, and the story is well done. The whole 'soul' thing 
 is an interesting idea... but seems to mess up previous cannon a bit.
  
  Gameplay is fun, the new 'combo' feature of X is deadly. The whole human form thing is pretty cool. 
 Kinda feels more like an RPG at times than a side scroller, but I don't have a problem with that.
 
  
  SPOILER:
  Once you get past the first two levels the game declines in my opinion. You seem to be stuck using 
 'ZX' and have no ability to return to 'X'. This pisses me off because being a fan of the classic 
 Mega Man, or earlier X games, X kicks ass! Z is just annoying. I hate the sword, I play mega man 
 games because I like shooting things! For this I dropped the swing vote score pretty low.
  
  Overall this is one of the better Mega Man games since X7. I'll play though it, even though 
 I hate Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamehead88
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game in a few ways makes it better than Megaman Zero 1,2,3, and 4. The fact that you actually 
 have a world map makes it feel like you have more freedom which is a plus. In this game you get 
 items that allow you to transform into powerful mavericks called biometals. With these no one can 
 stop you. The storyline im guessing is in the future from its predecessors because of the fact 
 that you are changing into legendary mavericks. By the way mavericks is another name for robots 
 in the megaman universe. The combat is the same you have your basic sword and gun attacks. Each 
 maverick has their strenghth and weakness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P0W3RH0U53
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Like I said before, it's all in the hype. Everyone said that this game was going to be a really 
 great, great game but..... it isnt. First off, the map system isnt good. NONONO its not that I dont 
 like the open map. But the map just isnt readable. It only shows the area like A-1. It doesnt show 
 a detailed map. You spend 3/4 of the game jus trying to find out where the next area is.
  This got very repetitive and annoying. There are a few secrets that make the game better but...... um.......
 
  
  What makes this game good are the different biometals . They tranform you into other types of megamans 
 with different powers. If you havent played previous megaman zero games then you wont have any 
 idea whose biometals characters used to be but that doesnt matter to the storyline.
  Like i said, each suit has different weapons and different bottom screen capabilities. In one you 
 can see where hidden items are. In another you can
  change where your beams is going to go
  EX: ____ (megaman) __ | |___ |____|
  um.... the line represents a beam going up and down......
 
  anyway the way I see it is if you liked the megaman x series and you liked the megaman zero series 
 and you like an open world type game.... you will like this game.
  
  THIS GAME IS STILL GREAT
  but its not as good as everyone says it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyuy96
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  This Megaman game is like your usual sidescrolling like any other Megaman series games. I like 
 this game due to it being unique and I'm all about new things, unique things and different styles. 
 The story is also different, involving a special force called Guardians. 
  
  Megaman ZX isn't like your usual Zero and X style. It was different than going through a select 
 stage and beat the boss for the stage collecting their power. Instead, it uses an entire map all 
 connected in some way. Also, instead of collecting boss powers, you're getting this new thing called 
 Biometals. 6 different models to play with.
  
  I'm not sure if it's just me, but I don't find the game hard at all. I've been playing Megaman 
 series for quite a long time so I expect things even if it was my first time playing. This series 
 is much easier than most of the X series that I've played.
  
  In your usual X series, the sub-quests are searching for parts and armors for your characters, 
 which is very needed near the end of the game. The sub-quests here aren't that important, aside 
 from the definately needed sub-tanks. If you do the sub-quests, you get Energy Crystals for upgrading 
 your Biometals. And certain sub-quests rewards you with 8 equipable items, such as no slip on ice, 
 quick charge, and some more.
  
  As I said before, I like this game since it was different than the X series. If you're a fan of 
 the Megaman series, then you should definately get this. Reading some other reviews, I only found 
 it annoying in one part, which was getting one of the sub-tanks, but I can live without 1 sub-tank 
 =p. Megaman games are generally short. 1 day - 5
  3 day - 4
  1 week - 2.5
  2 week - 1
  1 month - 1
  
  This is a rating from the first day you play to the first month you've been 
 playing, that is if you ever reach the 1 month mark, lol. This describes the fun factor that I 
 feel, others may feel different. This whole review is on my opinions only. This is my first review 
 ever, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I never liked the Zero and later X games. So, I thought getting this game was a mistake. I did 
 anyway, but the game turned out to be pretty good.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  If you've ever played a MegaMan game, you know the game play. You can run, jump, jump boost, boost, 
 shoot, charge, pull out your sword and cut up some enemies. Thats just for one model. The game 
 offers variety by allowing you to get 5 or 6 MegaMan models with different weapons and abilities. 
 Need to boost in air, then use Hx. Need to knock down walls, use Fx. You get the jist.
  
  Rather than a select screen, you have a world to explore sort of like MegaMan Legends in 2D. Missions 
 are in certain zones, and you can do any mission in any order, but you may need items from the 
 first mission to do the second mission, so its pretty linear. The levels themselves are inventive, 
 and on par with most 2D platformers. The one thing this game has is tricky levels and one hit kill 
 spikes that everyone hates. Not saying its as bad as other MM games, because it isn't, but I'm 
 tired of the one hit one kill traps.
  
  Now you get to the end of a level, and you then fight a boss. Bosses are extremely difficult until 
 you learn their pattern, which involved 2 to 5 attacks usually. Once you memorize their pattern 
 and weakness, bosses become nothing of challenge. Not sure, but it gives you a certain clear after 
 you beat a boss, like level 1 - 5 I believe. Not sure if this is based on how quickly you beat 
 the boss are how good you were while you fought, but it must mean something eventually. Bosses 
 can be frustrating at first, and you have to redo the entire level if you die on a boss. Without 
 E-tanks, some bosses are near impossible on hard. I don't know about you, but losing on a boss 
 and having to redo the entire level is not my definition of fun. But luckily, the levels are EXTREMELY 
 short once you learn them. I'm talking less than 5 minutes easy.
  
  Other things are the city. Nothing important really. You jump around in a relatively safe areas 
 with no enemies. Not very much fun actually. The second mission requires you to actually look around 
 for guardians in the city. Not fun. Stick to the combat unless you are going to make MegaMan Legends 
 3 alright Capcom?
  
  The bottom screen is used for nothing usually, but sometimes you can draw the path the buster shot 
 will take, or it will scan for items or enemies. One uses a radar so you can see in dark areas.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Aside from the cool warning you see right before a boss, the graphics are mainly GBA or SNES. The 
 only difference are the explosions are a bit more complex than before, and the sprites sharper. 
 Thats in game, the Anime styled cinematic scenes are down right awesome on the DS. I loved it myself, 
 and I usually detest anime. Its in Japanese, because the lazy people at Capcom decided not to translate 
 the voices, but the subtitles work well enough.
  
  SOUND
  
  You get the annoying yelp of the Hero as in any game like this. Its Link in Zelda, Mario in Mario, 
 and Vent in MMZX. This character particularly got on my nerves though. I can't explain it, but 
 in most games I enjoy hearing the characters yelps and battle cries, but in MMZX it justs makes 
 me turn down the volume. He does have different voices for each model, but that only does little 
 to quell the issue. Back on track, explosions sound good, even for a MegaMan game. The music is 
 surprisingly non-MMXish in my opinion. I loved the music for that alone. Some get annoying if you 
 decide to just go in the area and look for every last item for an hour or so, but for 20 minutes 
 at a time, the music is good. Certain songs are extremely memorable, boosting how much I liked 
 the game considerably.
  
  VALUE
  
  The game is short. If you played any MegaMan game ever made, you can probably beat the game in 
 under 10 hours, if you played any recent MegaMan game, maybe in under 6 hours. That doesn't include 
 EXE.
  
  TILT
  
  For a MegaMan game, it has a stronger story than most. Its not on the quality of other games, but 
 for MegaMan, this is as good as it gets. The story makes you wonder whats going to happen next, 
 but its easy enough to get frustrated and quit also. Basically, the story will keep you attracted, 
 but you have to have a tolerance for back breaking difficult parts also. Like the attack on the 
 people excavating the area. I BEAT THE LEVEL AND SAVED BUT IT DIDN'T SAVE. I reloaded, and it completely 
 deleted it. Heh, that was enough to make me quit for a while. If its a bug, that would hurt the 
 tilt immensely, but since it only happened once, I'll let it go...
  
  OVERALL
  
  Best MegaMan game in 4 or 5 years... though that isn't saying too much. I don't play MegaMan games 
 that much any more, so I perhaps didn't see the same amount of boredom that hard core MegaMan fans 
 would see. If you need a side scroller for the DS, this is it. If you suck at games and need a 
 cake walk, stay far away from this.
  
  NOTE: This game is noticably easier than most recent MM games despite me giving it a hard rating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snicky00
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  i want to be strait forward. i LOVE the zero series. i started playing at zero three and i worked 
 my way up from there. so naturally someone who loves the series would go out and get this game. 
 well i did and i played through it on normal. its really not that challenging. so on the features. 
 u get these things called biometal, the spirits of past warriors. over the course of the game u 
 unlock and play as the spirits of megaman, zero, and the four army commanders of neo arcadia (harpuia, 
 leviathan, phantom, and fenfir) . i feel like they could have added a little more to the close combat 
 (i. e. leviathans biometal spriit only has one attack and a charge attack, no combo! ) . harpuia 
 attacks are pretty cool, but still no combo for sword play. each character has special abillites 
 some useless some, well, useful. the gunplay ( or shuriken play, if ur using shadow) is superb. 
 this game pretends to be a rpg using a world map and sending u on ''missions'' to secure biometal 
 and stuff. its a surprising change, but it ultimatley fails. like always u forget the story and 
 have fun blasting and slicing the crud outta enemys. i dont know what it is , but this game needs 
 something more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Incredible, at first i was skepticle about touch screen add-on gameplay and the new mission system 
 but those fears were subsided. The touch screen is barely used which is for the better cause as 
 buttons are the best controls for a mega man game. Also the mission system is kinda weird but is 
 okay after a while. The choice of playing as a boy or a girl is also cool. These three new things 
 stand out the most of ZX and make it a great new addition in the mega man saga... theres more to 
 this review dont worry or maybe you should as this is only ny second review.
  
  Gameplay- 9
  Nothing wrong with traditional slash-blast-destroy mega man gameplay right? only 
 thing wrong with the gameplay is the awkward mission system but it gets easier too use over time. 
 The controls are also the definition of perfection... like all mega man games.
  
  Graphics- 8
  The new transformations are pretty sweet and each has a cool look and there are 
 a couple of cutscenes that are neat. Overall though the graphics are nice to look at and they hold 
 up well.
  
  Sound- 8 Each area in ZX has different music that stands out and there is a couple of japanese 
 voice acting parts that sound pretty good. The saber sound effects are different for the models 
 and the weapons are different too.
  
  Value- 8
  All mega man side scrollers last a good 5 to 8 hours but they have a ton of replay value, so the 
 time could be at least ten hours that the card stays in your DS.
  
  Tilt- 9
  it's tilty?
  
  One more thing, mega man games are hardcore tough challenges but ZX is a bit 
 easier than previous ones but i would say that the bosses are a let down as one can usually look 
 foward to the first time you meet a boss that it is just going to end up with the game over screen 
 and it is really just a time to get used to their moves and attacks. In ZX you could probably beat 
 a boss on your first try on normal mode given that this isn't your first mega man game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latino_zero
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game should most likely to be in a higher rating, why?! Well first of all, this game has so 
 many cool features enabling the player to kinda get the chance of playing the Four Guardians, and 
 getting the chance of playing X and Zero at the same time, similar to the X games. ALSO!!... FINDING 
 NICE SECRETS such as the OX Model which in the Japanes Ver. You need MMZ 3-4 to get OX Model, lucky 
 for us, WE GET THE OX MODEL WITHOUT USING MMZ 3 OR 4!!. Aren't we lucky? the game is really challenging 
 makes it more of a challenge if the player unlocks Hard mode. This is recommended for players who 
 have hard time playing the MMZ and needs a game thats wasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canon-D
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 12, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Megamans sidescrolling action finally makes it to the ds in incredible style.
  The game is what you'd expect from the title, a fusion of sorts between megaman zero and x series.
 
  
  This game makes little to no use of the touch screen feature at all, but in this case it's a good 
 thing!
  
  The game does present a partiocularly cool X system, where you transform into different megaman 
 forms each having powers of its own.
  
  The game uses the ds's graphic power to some extent, presenting some animated movies that will 
 blow an anime's fan's head off, but will probably not hit anybody else too much.
  
  What flaws and makes this game great is the difficulty, wich is something you should expect from 
 a megaman sidescroller.
  The difficulty and the easiness of some stages makes the game sometimes weird to play, sme bosses 
 are incredibly frustrating and some are a piece of cake, it's that much of a difference.
  But if you've got the nerve and you're a megaman zero or x fan, this is the game for you! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
