-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mega Man ZX Advent
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/rockmanzxadvent/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Full English voice acting.
 Vastly improved map system.
 Exciting new system for assimilating powers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible full English voice acting.
 Still almost entirely linear, despite its illusion of open-ended play.
 Rehashed story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 493 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Developer: Inti
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mega Man ZX Advent walks a thin line between challenging and infuriatingly difficult, while bringing 
 along a number of new tricks and improvements for the journey. 

  To say that Mega Man ZX Advent is a step in the right direction from its predecessor would be very 
 much like saying that the surface of the sun is hot: Both are accurate statements, but neither 
 really gets the point across as well as it probably should. Perhaps a more suitable thing to say 
 is that Mega Man ZX Advent includes a complete overhaul of the arcane and largely useless map system 
 that bogged down its predecessor, all while keeping the difficulty setting cranked to 11, the environments 
 varied, and the Metroid-esque gameplay intact. As with the original, fans of the more classically 
 styled Mega Man games -- specifically the Mega Man X and Mega Man Zero series -- will feel immediately 
 comfortable with it, and its amped-up difficulty will earn it a place in the heart of any side-scrolling 
 platformer masochist itching for a portable fix. Unfortunately, the improvements made to the game's 
 map system and its more intuitive use of the touch screen are undermined by its rehashed story 
 and terrible voice acting, making Mega Man ZX Advent a worthy sequel to the original, though flawed 
 nonetheless.  

  As in Mega Man ZX, you will begin Advent by selecting between two characters named Grey and Ashe. 
 However, unlike in the original, your selection is more important than which gender you prefer, 
 as it completely alters your various attacks. Grey fires quicker but weaker shots, his charged 
 shot is a single blast in the traditional Mega Man style, and his sub attack fires multiple homing 
 energy bursts. Ashe, on the other hand, fires less rapidly but more powerfully, has a charged shot 
 that reflects off of solid surfaces, and her sub attack fires a single blast that homes in. In 
 addition, some of the abilities that the two gain throughout the game are also slightly different, 
 and each has a separate backstory, though their games progress almost identically.  

           Battle other mega men to absorb their powers and become them.      

  The story is, 
 for the most part, a complete rehash of the story from the original game: Your main character unwittingly 
 becomes fused with a sentient metallic fragment known as a "biometal" and must battle a madman 
 in possession of the Biometal Model W to save the world. While Grey and Ashe each have separate 
 reasons for fighting, they will unfortunately play through a nearly identical game, which differs 
 only in starting location and key bits of dialogue. Occasionally, fully animated cutscenes, which 
 are drawn in a vibrant anime style, will appear to advance the plot, though this happens infrequently, 
 as the game prefers to keep the storytelling in the second dimension.  

  Gameplay is a fine mixture of the side-scrolling platformer action of the traditional Mega Man 
 games and the open-ended exploration of the Metroid series, although it leans slightly more toward 
 Mega Man than its predecessor. The world itself is divided up into a number of different levels, 
 each of which is further divided into stages. The different environments, which vary from an undersea 
 volcano to a mysteriously floating island, are all connected by color-coded doorways and transervers -- computer 
 terminals that allow you to teleport to different locations -- which means that you'll be free to 
 roam about from one level to the next through a single, connected map. To speed things up, each 
 stage has an access point that lets you warp directly to it from any transerver provided you have 
 activated it. Stages themselves are each designed to be self-contained challenges, and you must 
 typically pass four in order to challenge the boss of the level. Unfortunately, for as much as 
 the game tries to make you believe that it is open-ended, it is a surprisingly linear game veiled 
 in a thin illusion of freedom. You'll spend much of the game performing specific tasks in a prescribed 
 order, as you are prevented from doing almost any exploring at all by the lack of a particular 
 ability or colored keycard.  

  This time around, you are actually assisted by your minimap, which occupies the bottom screen most 
 of the time instead of being tucked away in the menu. The DS touch screen is put to good, intuitive 
 use here, allowing you to click and drag the map around, reset it to your current location, and 
 toggle a more detailed terrain map that points out doors and relative heights. In addition, you 
 can now select which access point you want to warp to at a transerver by tapping it directly on 
 the map rather than selecting it from a list, making long-distance travel far less obtuse and annoying. 
 The touch screen is further used by a new touch-activated selection screen that makes switching 
 between your various powers as easy as tapping its icon.  

  As with every Mega Man game, as you defeat enemy bosses, you will assimilate their powers and grow 
 stronger, though Mega Man ZX Advent does manage to throw in a new twist on this formula. Your biometal, 
 Model A, has a unique ability called A-Trans, which lets you perfectly mimic a defeated boss, from 
 its attacks to its appearance. The biometals from the first game all make their return with a slightly 
 new look but identical powers as before, and in addition, a collection of new enemy pseudoroid 
 bosses appear, each with unique powers and abilities, making for a total of 15 forms you can assume, 
 including your base humanoid appearance. Generally, the game never forces you to select a specific 
 form to progress through levels, instead allowing you to customize your own gameplay experience. 
 But that said, it's often best to stick with Model A or Model ZX, as they seem to be the most well-rounded 
 of the bunch.  

  As previously mentioned, the environments of the levels themselves are well varied, and each one 
 provides a different sort of challenge that walks the thin line between hard and frustrating. Bottomless 
 pits are a common occurrence, deadly spikes line narrow hallways, and hundreds of enemy robots 
 roam about looking for you. To further complicate matters, once you enter a level, you cannot exit 
 it or save until you have defeated the boss and gain access to the transerver at the end. This 
 means that if you lose all of your lives fighting the boss -- or fighting to get to the boss -- you'll 
 have to start over from the beginning again. The boss battles themselves are as aggravating as 
 ever, relying more on memorization of patterns and attacks than any real strategy, though each 
 does have a weak point for you to exploit if you can discover it. Ultimately, as a handheld game, 
 it isn't very receptive to short play sessions and often requires a significant time investment 
 to get from one save point to the next.  

  Mega Man ZX Advent looks great. It features a very colorful palette with some highly detailed sprites, 
 and sweeping background vistas once again dominate the environments to give them the illusion that 
 they go on forever. Some of the artwork, particularly for the enemies, is recycled from the series' 
 previous title with little more than some recoloring done, but overall it promotes a feeling of 
 familiarity more than one of shameless reuse. The original artwork, in particular the various biometal 
 forms that Grey and Ashe assume, look great, and your attack animations are for the most part vast 
 improvements over the underwhelming ones previously featured.  

           One of the enemy pseudoroids you will copy attacks with the power of rock.      

  
 The music continues to impress, and the soundtrack is filled with upbeat tunes that match the high 
 levels of action all throughout the game. The most notable addition to the game on the aural front, 
 however, is the inclusion of full English voice acting. The original featured bits of Japanese 
 dialogue scattered throughout, and Advent takes it one step further by including spoken dialogue 
 during any pertinent story moment, making it one of the few DS games that does this. While a nice 
 addition, the quality of the voice acting is uniformly awful and comes across as the sort of phoned-in 
 job one would expect from a fifth-rate anime dub. Part of the problem is that the dialogue is so 
 hammed up and unintentionally funny, but the bulk of the blame is due to poor directing and unenthusiastic 
 vocal talent.  

  Ultimately, Mega Man ZX Advent is an improvement over its predecessor that will continue to offer 
 tons of challenges to Mega Man loyalists and platformer fans. Anyone new to the series or the genre 
 will likely be turned off by its high difficulty level, though the easy setting might let them 
 squeak by. With two completely different characters and a ton of hidden items to find, missions 
 to accomplish, and secrets to unlock, replay value is high. Though the main story can be accomplished 
 in roughly five hours by an experienced player, the extras make it a worthy investment for anyone 
 looking for a fun challenge.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: udunwanan0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Megaman ZX Advent is a great follow up to the orginal Megaman ZX. With two new interesting characters 
 and a new biometal it makes the game feel new and fresh. Biometal A was an ingenuis invention, 
 not only can Grey/Ashe take the power of the biometals they are able to transform into the psederiods 
 they defeated. Being able to transform into a powerful ZX model and the giant Bifrost makes the 
 game so much more interesting. With all these new transforming abilities its possible to do so 
 much more crazy stuff like eating your enemies or even fly with Queen Bee form. Much improvements 
 have been made since ZX, there are actually voice acting within the cutscenes now instead of just 
 subtitles and for the most part the voices are pretty good. The only voice I was irritated by was 
 Aile's, she sounds very unemotional and doesn't have that female feel within it. The game is a 
 bit shaky in the beginning because of the big change between ZX and ZXA but you'll get used to 
 it fairly quickly and enjoy the extra little gadgets that they include. Everything is a lot more 
 smoother now in the start menu, its organized and even has an easy map screen access. The transerver 
 has changed quite a bit, you dont teleport to other transervers now, instead it teleport you to 
 warpoints. Getting to and from places for sidequests and extra stuff gets pretty annoying and tedious. 
 The story was quite stunning, I never expected such a good story from a Megaman game, its pretty 
 suspenseful with lots of twists and turns which keeps the game interesting. Overall Megaman ZX 
 Advent is a great game, its improved a lot since ZX and any megaman fan would surely enjoy it. 
 Its a great follow-up to the handheld Megaman games and its quite difficult, however its not punishingly 
 hard and anyone with a DS would most likely enjoy it. The pictures are very nice to look at with 
 the nice background scenery and nice animated scenes. In the end I would recommend this game to 
 any megaman fan and even to people who enjoy 2D action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdiamond91
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This Megaman game brings back the former side-scrolling gameplay of the original Megaman X Series 
 that we've all come to enjoy. With a near-full voice cast and tons of challenges and sidequests, 
 any fan of the Megaman series will just adore this title. With the addition of taking the form 
 of and the abilities of the bosses, both big and small, who wouldn't want to pick this masterpiece 
 up. Even if you're not a "Mega-Head" you can still find plenty of enjoyment in this game. The game 
 is also loaded to the hilt with action. The slight graphical improvement just puts the icing on 
 the cake. Not to mention that the story is deep, suspenseful and more exciting that the last game. 
 The main characters, Grey and Ashe, feature a new Giga Crush attack that destroys many enemies 
 at once and/or delivers a heavy blow to any boss. The Model a Mode brings back memories of earlier 
 Megaman games by allowing the player to take the form of an 8-bit form of Model A. Overall, this 
 is a wonderful game for the fan-base and traditional crowds and is well worth $20 bucks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenliver22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This Megaman title brings you back to classic side scrolling. Whats different about this game compared 
 to the old Megaman games, is that when you defeat a boss, you can become that enemy-which opens 
 up a lot of ways to play because there are several megamen and psuederoids to copy. The game seems 
 open ended at first, but you'll find that you can't reach certain areas or advance until you acquire 
 some new abilities first.
  
  There are many side quests to go on that are rather short, but it's nice to have them and they 
 reward you with e-crystal (to activate warp points and buy things) and even upgrades for your character. i 
 was amazed by how many things there were to obtain. The difficulty in this game can be somewhat 
 easy on the beginner mode, but as soon as you go to the next difficulty it gets very hard. This 
 (contrary to what other reviewers may claim) is a good thing because Megaman was SUPPOSED to be 
 hard and it sort of brings the series to its roots. You'll come to appreciate the difficulty if 
 your a hardcore gamer, but even if you are a casual gamer you might want to buy this because it's 
 just plain fun.
  
  Graphics: this game provides colorful sprites and backgrounds that are pleasant to look at. 8.0
 
  
  Story: the story isn't all that compelling and the voice acting is kind of cheesy but it will grow 
 on you. 7.0
  
  Sound: Sound effects are ok, music isn't as good as Megaman x but it's decent. 8.0
  
  Gameplay: 
 This game delivers excellent and challenging gameplay. The game mechanics are pretty good too. 
 Nintendo (once again) provides excellent, tight controls that let you be precise while playing. 
 9.0
  
  Replay value: There is lots of it because of all the extra things to do. 9.0
  
  Overall: 8.5
  
  Megaman ZX Advent is a fun, challenging, complete game. Do yourself a favor 
 and ADD IT TO YOUR DS LIBRARY! It's only $14.99 which is a complete steal. Buy it as soon as you 
 can!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Mega Man ZX Advent is the sequel to Mega Man ZX, and its awesome. Its a side scroller obviousely, 
 and like all other Mega Man games, its pretty hard, but pays off in the end.
  
  Gameplay: Like all other Mega Man SS, you collect weapons, fight bosses, and die countless times. 
 Its really cool that you can collect bosses power once you kill them, which lead to a few puzzle 
 aspects. Levels are pretty lengthy too. The overall game is pretty long.
  
  Graphics: Looks good. The enemy animations are really cool. Some cutscenes are fully animated, 
 which is nice.
  
  Sound: Great SE's, and about half is voice acted. But voice acting is a little crappy.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 Only gem buster minigame, no co-op, which is dissapointing.
  
  Unlockables and Extra Content: Secret Disks, with medals, minigames, quests, and equipable items, 
 it will take you a while to find everything.
  
  Replay Value: Moderate
  
  Final Comments: A great platformer that screams hardcore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I reviewed Mega Man ZX a couple of days ago, and since then I've been playing the sequel. Now I've 
 finished playing it, and this review is going to be the continuation of my last one.
  
  Like Gamespot's review on Mega Man ZX Advent says - the sequel is really better than its predecessor, 
 but it depends what really makes it better. ZX Advent takes what Mega Man ZX did and pushes it 
 further, expanding and improving almost every part of the gameplay. But just the gameplay, the 
 plot isn't really that good this time around.
  
  The plot takes place a couple of years later after ZX. Both protagonists of the last game are young 
 adults now, and yeah, they aren't playable anymore, but they still do play a huge role in the game. 
 The new heroes are Grey and Ashe, and the new biometal model they aquire is not X or Z (they both 
 belong to the older guys) , but a biometal model A, which is whole new thing. The plot itself is 
 just copying the plot of the ZX, and I must say - it's done poorly. Basically there's a new danger, 
 you show up in the middle of it, and a biometal is laying nearby. Guess what? You become the chosen 
 one who must save the day! It must be noticed that this time the plot is not exactly the same for 
 both characters, which is sorta a good thing, though it wasn't bothering me in the first game, 
 and the characters themselves aren't completely alike anymore. But still the game plays mostly 
 the same for both characters, and it's plot is just playing out poorly, sorry for repeating. Hard 
 to explain why, but it's just uninspiring.
  
  So, the model A is really a great thing. In the previous game the main character merged his X model 
 with the aquired one, but model A isn't merging with anything - it morphes the character into the 
 exact same form as his enemy was, no matter if it's an evil mega man or a pseudoroid. For example, 
 there's a pseudoroid called Bifrost which is almost as big as the screen. And yeah, after beating 
 him - you can morph into him, and crush almost everything you see. I wish he was a little more 
 faster though :P
  
  The amount of the morphing possibilities is twice as large as in ZX, if not even larger. Every 
 beaten mega man and every beaten pseudoroid. It's just a henshin-paradise.
  
  Speaking of enemies - yeah, this time you don't fight just the pseudoroids, you fight mega man 
 too. The models that Vent/Aile aquired in ZX were stolen and activated by some evil guys (won't 
 spoil much for you) , and you have to fight them. You don't aquire their biometals though, you aquire 
 their data instead. The only biometal that you carry along through the game is model A.
  
  Oh, almost forgot about the character differences. Grey is a reploid, and Ashe is a human. The 
 game starts differently for both of them, but plays mostly the same, as said above. Grey's characteristics 
 are somewhat different from Ashe's though, but you probably know that from the Gamespot review 
 anyway. If you're Grey - you'll meet Aile on your way, and if you're Ashe - you'll meet Vent. And 
 yeah, if you missed the sword and the attitude of model ZX - there will be a situation that you 
 both must fight, so you'll get your portion of ZX data afterwards. Sorry for spoiling, but I just 
 can't hold it :D
  
  A really great addition to the game is the improved map. There're no more illogical zone placements 
 in the game too. The map is really easy to use, it's always viewable from the touchscreen, and 
 you also can see the overview of your current stage and where the doors are located. Sometimes 
 the map even tells you which door leads where.
  
  There is no need to take missions anymore. The map will just show you where you need to go next 
 to progress further, and when you enter the zone - you'll automatically start a new mission. The 
 mission progress is now automatically written to a special menu, which shows the active missions 
 and the finished ones. It also has a tab for side-quests, which is incredibly useful too.
  
  The formulas for both main missions and sidequests haven't changed much. You either have to 
 go through the stage and kill a boss, or find something and bring it back. But still it's no longer 
 annoying to find and finish all those side-quests, because it's now possible to keep track on all 
 of them.
  
  In my last review of Mega Man ZX I wrote that the biggest downside of the game was the absence 
 of an voiceover in the english localization, though the voiceover was present in the original japanese 
 version. Well, this time they did a voiceover for mostly all of the spoken lines, except the small 
 talk, and no matter how much Gamespot review says that the voiceover was bad - I still kinda liked 
 it. Model A's voice was a bit annoying sometimes, but it perfectly resembles its childish and naive 
 nature. Anyway, its not about the voiceover, its mostly about the plot, which could have been better. 
 And excuse me for saying that again.
  
  The music in the game is even better this time. The soundtrack is not just catchy and uplifting, 
 it's just plainly cool. Some boss themes were sorta annoying, but it's probably due to the need 
 to play through them again and again, because the game's difficulty has been highered.
  
  Speaking of which, the game's difficulty has really gotten harder, and the game itself has gotten 
 longer. The plot seems shorter though, mainly because of its simplicity, but the stages themselves 
 are large. If you want to collect all of the collectibles and complete all of the side-quests, 
 Mega Man ZX Advent will take a good 11-12 hours for a completion on a standart difficulty.
  
  As for the unlockables, ZX Advent has no secret bosses or a backwards compatibility with the 
 Mega Man Zero game packs, but it has a good amount of mini-games, one of which is "Mega Man a" 
 (a, not A, meaning "ancient") , a game that looks like classic Mega Man game for NES, with the same 
 graphics style and music, but the character looks like a mix between the first ever Mega Man and 
 the protagonist of ZX Advent. It really feels like playing a whole new Mega Man game on NES. I 
 mean, the experience is just great, it's almost even better than unlocking classic Contra and Super 
 C in Contra 4. Which I'll probably review next.
  
  If you're looking for a good sidescroller/shooter - Mega Man ZX Advent is just for you. If you're 
 a fan of the Mega Man series, you'll love it too, at least its gameplay. The plot is not that good, 
 but the game itself is great. And hey, classic Mega Man games hadn't had a plot at all, just some 
 prologues and a setting. Having a good detailed plot is sure important, but it's not something 
 the Mega Man games are famous for after all, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiometalZX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I did not expect what I recieved when I first played Advent. My character was Ashe and 
 when I became Model A, it blew me away at the power it possessed. Unfortunately, I did not get 
 much of a challenge out of it thanks to the option Giga Crush, but it was a nifty tool to have 
 in my aresnol. My most used A-Trans was Model F: Ashe's Story, due to the fact that, back in ZX, 
 I loved Air Dash Left, Right, and Up. The map at the bottom (along with a list of changeable characters) 
 defiantly came in handy when I versed Buckfire, whenever he would shoot an arrow at me, I would 
 transform into a Human (Or Reploid For Grey) , then go Model A on him! And, after I beat the game, 
 It was fun to go around and collect medals to show that I am a hardcore ZX saga fan! Thank You 
 Capcom for the Advent, but next time, please try to add more Cutscenes (Nice English though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicthemegaman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Megaman ZX Advent starts exactly like you'd expect it to with hunters fighting against mavericks. 
 The first thing you'll notice is the full English voice acting put in this time around. It's a 
 nice touch but, kinda cheesy. "Time to find out where the booty is" is just plain bad dialogue 
 but, good for a cheap laugh. The biometal of choice this time is model A (the game refers to it 
 as model Albert but, megaman veterans will notice that it is base off of Axl from Megaman X7) which 
 can copy the form and abilities of defeated bosses. This adds a new twist to the whole beat a boss 
 and get a powerup cycle use in past games. This time you become the bosses. As you'd expect, missions 
 are the games way of saying pick a boss. Megaman will see the similarities to previous games right 
 away. The story itself feels familiar as well but, this game isn't just a rehash. The stage and 
 boss design are difficult and will feel brand new even for fans. There are alot more bosses than 
 you'd expect which will in return end with you having 14 transformations under your belt. The inclusion 
 of a medal system adds a little depth to the already ranked up difficulty. Beside from the basic 
 beginner and normal mode, there is also a pop quiz, antique minigame, survival mode, boss battle 
 mode, expert mode, and maniac mode to keep players occupied. With side missions and challenging 
 gameplay, hardcore fans and new players alike will find something to like about this old-school 
 piece of platforming pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FetusZero
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  With only one character so far though. I'll give in my thoughts on the game so far after goin' 
 through it with Grey. Be warned that some parts might be considered as spoilers (the bosses you 
 fight, the different characters, secrets, etc.) , but no plot points will be unfolded.
  
  So, for those who have played Megaman ZX and enjoyed it, you certainly will not be disapointed 
 with Megaman ZX Advent. In the first game we had the choice between playing as Vent or Aile, this 
 time around they are non-existent (or almost) and instead you choose playing with either Grey or 
 Ashe. I chose Grey to start my first playthrough. Who's Grey? Where does he come from? Sadly enough 
 for you people, I did say I would not unfold any plot point.
  
  Anyway, I start the game. It feels familiar, which is a plus in my book concerning sequels. It 
 plays much like MMZX played and just as well too. So I went off, playing the game, the intro stage 
 seemed much like other Megaman games: Somewhat challenging for beginners and newcomers to the Megaman 
 saga, yet just right, even a tad bit easy for long time fans such as me. My pre-judged statement 
 was soon to be proven wrong. Why? I will tell, but be aware that for any newcomers, don't be turned 
 off by this as there is a "Beginner" mode in the game allowing for anyone of any skill to enjoy 
 the game.
  
  Everything was going well, but the seconde I entered an actual mission to take down a maverick, 
 I realised the game wasn't as easy as it's predecessor. In fact, MMZX was quite easy compared to 
 MMZXA. The game doesn't even come close being as challenging as any of the previous Zero titles 
 (Megaman Zero for GBA) , but still offers a good challenge when you first dive into it.
  
  There's also a new Biometal called Model A, which is your main Biometal. As this is nothing new, 
 I'll allow myself to talk a little bit about it. Forget what you learned from ZX where you would 
 aquire different Biometals and merge with them. This time around, Model A uses something called 
 A-Trans which basicaly copies the data of other reploids. Yep, good ol' fashionably Megaman, you 
 take on the form of the mavericks you defeat and gain their abilities. The game counts as many 
 as 15 different transformations (including Model A and Human form) along with a little, tiny secret 
 Model which is up for you to discover and which I'll discuss later.
  
  You will come accross familiar Biometals through the game such as Model H, L, F, P and even ZX. 
 In what circumstances and why is up to you to discover. Most of them plays much like they did in 
 the previous game and I even believe they have more moves at your disposition.
  
  The music in the game is just as good as it is with most Megaman music games. I have NEVER been 
 disapointed by megaman's soundtracks and this one is no exception. It merges well with the overall 
 style of the game.
  
  I can say that clearly nothing disapointed me in the game to the exeption of a few things. One 
 specific fight left me disapointed ALOT because it was one of these fights from which I expected 
 so much more challenge, yet found it to be the easiest fight of the entire game. As something else 
 disapointed me? Not really, maybe the fact that some of the VA's were quite bad, but to me it's 
 already good enough that they implented these into a DS game which is rather rare to come by. 
 
  
  I ain't got much else to say other than I truely enjoyed the game. There are several little secrets 
 for you to find as well, such as beating bosses in a specific manner to earn a little something 
 in a new game, tons of missions requested by reploids in the hunter's camp, just like there were 
 in the previous title. There are also mini-games to unlock which simply adds to the replay value. 
 All of this adds to the replay-value actually.
  
  So I made this review rather short, but yeah, it's good enough to make anyone who is a fan of Megaman 
 know that this game is worth it.
  
  I give this game a 10 because that's just how much I love Megaman games. So if you enjoyed Megaman 
 ZX, you are sure to love ZX Advent. If you haven't played ZX, you can still give it a try since 
 you don't really need a background story to play it. Of course, if you never liked Megaman to begin 
 with, then why are you here anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tycoon7
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Now, Megaman Zx did not come out that long ago, and Capcom decided to make a sequal to game. Now, 
 there are somethings that are pretty good. For example, the voice acting. Even though some of the 
 text is really cheesy, you'll actually be surprised at how they voice the characters. Still, there 
 are somethings that I have to point out. For example, the difficulty. There is a big chance that 
 this game will infuriate you in different ways. Second, the touch screen. Yes, there are more things 
 that you can use for the touch screen, it's still the same point and click, like other games. The 
 anime cutscenes are beautiful, and the last boss is really... evil. Not really, but he is evil. 
 Expect to find some onld characters like SPOILER : Aile, Vent, and... that's it. END SPOILER. They 
 will be there, but won't be much of a help. The good is that there is more transformations than 
 before, which include bosses. Sadly, some of them are hardly used, or their attacks just suck. 
 The last boss is just way too easy. To end this, Megaman ZX Advent is a nice sequal, but let's 
 down in a couple of levels. Die hard Megaman fans, I suggest you but this game, but for other people, 
 it's best if you just don't buy it. Anyway, give it a try. It can be enjoyable. Trust me.
  
  Pros:
  -Anime cutscenes are nice.
  -The voice acting was better than expected.
  -Lot's 
 of transformations available.
  -Touch screen is used more than before.
  -Prometheus and Pandora are more baddass.
  
  Cons:
  -Last boss is way too easy.
  -Infuriating 
 in Normal mode.
  -Touch screen is not well used... again.
  -Model A's quite childish talk. Annoyng.
  -Some cheesy text.
  -Graphics aren't that different.
 
  -Easy mode is so easy, you can beat it in under 3 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusStream
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I was surprised of the storyline in here which takes place 4 years 
 later after the first ZX game. I was also surprised that they have English voices in here and they 
 were good than the Japanese voices in Megaman ZX Advent. Some of the characters' voices are great 
 and some just sounds really scratchy. Other than English voices, the gameplay is great especially 
 when you get to transform into the bosses that you defeated and of course the bosses are challenging 
 to including the enemy Mega Mans. It is also great that Vent and Aile returns in this game, but 
 it is still sort of like an alternate universe for both of them like Grey and Ashe for example. 
 Other than that, everything else like graphics, game play, sounds, etc., in this game are alright 
 and it is one of the best Megaman games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plaxz2007
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  I have played ton's of megaman games... From the megaman series, then the X series, then jumped 
 off to Zero series... other megaman games like Star force, battle network and legends... I played 
 them all and actually beat them all. Whew... so when I first heard about the ZX series coming to 
 the ds, I bought myself a NDSL. And guess what, i really enjoyed the zx series... then the sequel 
 out just now... and it never failed to impress me.
  
  The story continues after the events in the first game where you play the role of a boy or a girl 
 that doesn't know anything about his/her past. as you progress the story, you'll eventually meet 
 up with some familiar faces including the heroes of the first game, and uncover the truth about 
 your existence. 
  
  The gameplay is similar to megaman ZX. But instead of absorbing the powers of the biometal that 
 you defeated, this time you copy them and become them self. although the map system have been improved, 
 the save points are somewhat very far from each other with makes the game FREAKIN' HARD. But this 
 makes the game more challenging. After few tries and accidental deaths, I'm pretty sure you'll 
 get the hang of it. The graphics is similar to megaman Zx. The Colorful 2d background is very sweet. 
 the sound is good but I didn't really enjoy the voice acting... I still prefer jap voice acting. 
 
  
  ALL in all, megaman ZX advent is a solid game that every die hard Megaman fanatics should play. 
 It's fun, challenging and definitely a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  True, megaman ZXA is a worthy sequel, and should be bought by whoever loved the first one. Yet, 
 it is somewhat disappointing, since it has no crazy transformation, unlike the first one. Back 
 to the point, it has everything the first one had, and the producers made some improvements to 
 it also. The map is much better, you can transform into biometals and bosses, and it is challenging, 
 maybe a little too challenging, unless you have some subtanks, then it's pretty easy. Megaman ZXA 
 is a great game for megaman lovers and hack n slash 2Dscrollers, and even though it has no real 
 afterquests and has a confusing plot, the game is great on game play and has worthy good graphics. 
 One more thing, the voice acting is horrible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed reactions to this game. I thoroughly enjoyed the previous ZX title, but this title 
 I had a more difficult time getting into. I think some of it was that what I enjoyed in the previous 
 game was not the shooting but the saber slashing of enemies and seeing the red-glow as they seperate 
 into two separate halves before exploding into a cloud of mist. Unfortunately it felt like I was 
 stuck using a gun for way too long. While turning into some of the bosses sounds good as a bullet-point 
 it didn't seem to be that great in practice. I would have rather the abilities of those bosses 
 been incorporated in some way into the biometals rather than as their own separate forms. I was 
 also annoyed that every time I came to an important encounter it would switch back into model A. 
 With addition of so many forms it takes a bit too much work to search for the desired biometal 
 you want to use. Gameplay wise it was fairly standard to the previous ZX game which was fine. The 
 bosses seemed to move faster than in the previous game. I can't say if that's a good or bad thing 
 really. 
  
  What really annoyed me most was the plot. It was a little too typical and you didn't get to develop 
 a bond with very many other characters like you did in the previous ZX title. The Hunter's Camp 
 just wasn't as exciting as the Airship from ZX. Ultimately we ended up with a somewhat Mortal Kombat 
 tournament going on with biometals. The plot is typical in the sense that there's a bad guy who 
 wants to erase the world and make a new one but we're going to stop that cause we still believe 
 in the world we live in. Fine, but these two perspectives are the two extremes of this argument. 
 How about putting some characters in the game where they sit a little more towards the center (but 
 are not ignorant of the events transpiring) . Changes may be necessary, but we don't need to destroy 
 the world. 
  
  I was really annoyed with the copying of biometal DNA. It would have been much more interesting 
 if we were able to convince these various biometal characters to join us in a "party" of some form 
 back at the hunter's camp. Then when we switched biometals it could be as though we are switching 
 characters. It would have been nice to know some back stories of the other biometal characters. 
 The plots not all bad it just seems a little too systematic. The main character seems to develop 
 somewhat through the game, but I would like to see other characters develop as well. 
  
  I was fairly pleased with the voice acting. It wasn't perfect, but I found most of the main characters 
 to be very adequate. This game has some gorgeous backgrounds. One area later in the game showed 
 erupting volcanoes as you moved through the sea. There's times where the game is really spot on 
 and then at other times it felt like a bit of a chore. One of the reasons why I had enjoyed the 
 previous ZX game so much was because it was the first Mega Man game I had ever played. It's possible 
 that I put my expectations really high for this game but I don't think that's necessarily a bad 
 thing. Overall, it's a good game worth the price, but maybe it's not as friendly to newcomers as 
 the previous title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbdude006
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  A great game which uses control and game displays almost identical to the Zero series. Some story 
 issues may add controversy regarding the timeline.
  Also new player should consider playing beginner mode instead of normal mode because this could 
 be a little too hard than you think.
  The O. I. S (Overdrive. Invoke. System) from the previous ZX game has been removed and replaced with 
 Biometal Energy. Even though Biometal Energy existed in the previous game, more charge attacks 
 including charged buster shots drain the bar or even they drain the bar more. Luckily this bar 
 regenerates slowly.
  The original biometals have been slightly redesigned and two new models have been added: Model A (starter 
 model) which replaces model X and Model a, the a stands for antique which is a 8-bit model of the 
 original Megaman, this is a secret model like Model O from the previous ZX game, this replaces 
 Model O.
  Model ZX also makes a return.
  Another interesting feature is the DNA copy ability which lets you copy a defeated boss' for and 
 enables you to transform into this boss and use all his attacks (your dream has come true) .
  This time there is an actual difference between character attributes disregarding the fact that 
 one is mal and the other female, the male
  character, Grey has more rapid fire shots but less powerful shots, whereas the female character, Ashe 
 has less rapid fire shots and therefore more powerful shots. These differences are small so don't 
 let this put you off your original choice.
  Aile and Vent from the previous game also make and appearance as your ally.
  
  This is a worth 
 while game for Zero and ZX fans, although it is recommended that people who are new to the series 
 should rather start with ZX as this may arise complicated questions about the story. It may have 
 cheesy or weird sounding English voice-over but the anime cut-scenes last long and have a good 
 voice-over.
  Nevertheless great story, great game and best.... err... great buy.
  
  Vbdude recommends this...=) HELL YEAH!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha789
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Writer: Alpha789
  
  Game: Megaman ZX Advent
  
  The Good:
  - 2 different characters you can play as, each with a different story line, and with cool Anime 
 Cut-scenes within each story.
  -16 different Transformations, all from bosses you play against in the game.
  - Side Quests are 
 better than they were in Megaman ZX.
  - Some Multiplayer options, with DS Download Play, and DS Multi-card Play.
  - Difficult gameplay 
 that the old school fans with adore.
  
  The Bad:
  - Some of the Boss Transformations suck, and also some of the voices of the bosses is dreadful.
 
  - Some Stages have annoying rooms filled with spikes that might drive you crazy.
  - With some missions, or scenario's require you to exit a long room just to accept another request, 
 or to do another action (Like digging through the cave, or accepting multiple requests within the 
 cave) . Good Point Summary
  
  Just a note, I played normal mode on my first play through the game. If you have played Megaman 
 ZX in the past, and you have enjoyed it, chances are good that you will like Megaman ZX Advent 
 even more than ZX. The 2 main protagonists, Grey, and Ashe, each have a story, and different stats 
 as well. Grey specializes in Rapid fire, and Ashe specializes in attack power. Like in ZX, each 
 character has cool 30 second- 1 minute anime cut-scenes which any anime fan will adore. With the 
 ability to copy the bosses you can fight in the game is a very interesting idea that you will most 
 likely enjoy. Also if you remember the side quests in ZX, and how some of them were simple requests 
 for a few E-Crystals, thats still back, but now they have some better more interesting quests that 
 offer better rewards. Now I still have not played the mutliplayer options yet, but knowing Capcom, 
 they will probably be pretty good. Any hardcore fan should appreciate the hard gameplay, and extras 
 found within the game.
  
  Bad Point Summary
  
  Although the transformations in general was a great idea, two bosses in particular were big disappointments, 
 Rospark, and Bifrost. If you hoped that playing as a giant Tyrannosaurs Rex with ice powers would 
 be fun, think again. With Rospark, what could you expect from a flower boss, not much right? All 
 the other transformations are either average to great. Within the game, you'll notice that about 
 1/2 the voice acting is pathetic, and would of been better with just the japanese voices, and subtitles. 
 Something that surprised me about the game was some of the rooms had these very annoying spike 
 traps everywhere. I'm not sure about other players, but this really ticked me off. I hope if they 
 manage to make a third game, they won't include as much of the spike traps. My last complaint is 
 about the mission requests when entering and leaving the room. For example, when you go into the 
 cave at the hunter base, you see a guy in there who asks you to pay some energy crystals (Basically 
 money) to dig further into the cave. He says thanks, and he won't do anything until you leave the 
 cave. Once you re-enter, the cave is dug in some way, and you'll find the guy in there again asking 
 for even more energy crystals. You then have to leave all the way out again just so he will dig 
 in again. This gets bothersome after a little while, especially since the last room in the cave 
 you have to visit a few times in the game to accept different requests.
  
  Overall, this game is great, if they fix all the problems with the game I listed above, a possible 
 ZX #3 could have the potential to be an even greater game. I think Gamespot really panned Megaman 
 ZX Advent for the Voice acting, but in my opinion it's not really that bad. For another sequel, 
 an anime cutscene viewer would also be a nice addition to the game. Thanks for reading my review, 
 and I hope if you do decide to get the game, you will enjoy it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arline6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Oh My God! This game is so good when I first got it. The game's graphic is good. Controls are same 
 as previous ZX game that you can customize. Model H, P, L, F as same previous. Plus this game adds 
 new bosses and new powers. For example, I defeat Chronoforce then copy it's powers and abilities 
 and become like Chronoforce to use Time Bomb. You can play as Grey or Ashe as bounty hunters. There 
 are also quests and mini games too. If you have Mega Man ZX game, get this sequel and see, learned 
 happened after Vent and Alie destoryed BioMetal Model W. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
