-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Metal Slug 7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/metalslug7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Crazy 2D shoot-'em-up action.
 Distinctive series features such as POW power-ups and vehicles.
 Colorful, cartoony visuals.
 Multiple modes of play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No co-op play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 130 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ignition Entertainment
Developer: SNK Playmore
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Metal Slug 7 for the Nintendo DS brings the series' outstanding run-and-gun action to a new platform. 
 

  What year is it again? You'd be hard-pressed to tell without the aid of a calendar after playing 
 Metal Slug 7, a 2D scrolling shooter that could have been released at just about any time in the 
 past decade. That usually isn't a good sign, but this SNK series wears its throwback status like 
 a badge of honor, delivering the same uncompromisingly crazy action today as it did back when the 
 series started in 1996. The only oddities here are the Nintendo DS format and the lack of co-op 
 support, both of which make the game seem a bit stripped-down by comparison to its predecessors. 

           The screen may be a bit smaller than you're used to, but this is the same old Metal Slug 
 at heart.      

  The ability to team up with a buddy and blast your way through insane hordes of bad guys has been 
 a must in this genre, going back to Contra in the late '80s, so this feature is sorely missed here. 
 Some sort of local or Wi-Fi support for co-op could certainly have been included, even if the inclusion 
 of another commando running around might have been confusing on the diminutive screen. Along with 
 the MIA co-op, the game doesn't take advantage of any DS control features. During levels, the top 
 screen displays the action and the bottom shows a map that you can pointlessly scroll around with 
 the stylus. In menus, the bottom screen often isn't used at all, with a placeholder brick-wall 
 graphic filling the space. If you're looking for a game that shows off the unique attributes of 
 the DS, look elsewhere.  

  But if you can get past these limitations, you're golden. Metal Slug 7 is a great addition to the 
 franchise, loaded with some of the most intense action you'll find on any platform this year. Gameplay 
 remains centered on run-and-gun shooting, with you picking from a roster of six commandos and then 
 venturing into old-school 2D scrolling levels to gun down everything that moves. The story apparently 
 plays out as a prequel to Metal Slug 4, with the Peregrine Falcon Strike Force troops taking on 
 General Morden and his mysterious allies from the future, but you don't need to know any of that. 
 Just run, jump, and shoot, and you'll be fine.  

  There are just a couple of differences between this game and precursors such as Contra and Super 
 C. The biggest change is probably the lighthearted art style, which remains distinctive even on 
 the small screens of the DS. The commandos look like little cartoon characters, to the point that 
 you can always make out such features as Marco's big pompadour and Clark's hat and shades, and 
 enemies have exaggerated expressions that include big, wide eyes and thrown-wide arms when you 
 do things like blast shields out of their hands. Using prisoners to provide power-ups is another 
 characteristic not found elsewhere. Ragged hostages, complete with Rip Van Winkle types with long 
 beards can be found throughout all levels, and when you spring them free, they show their gratitude 
 by dishing out goodies such as rockets or lasers. Finally, the game makes greater use of vehicles 
 (slugs) than most of its rivals. Just about every level has a tank, mech, or flier of some sort 
 that you can hop into and use to incinerate enemies until your ride blows up beneath your feet 
 and you have to eject.  

           Big mech, meet little enemy tank.      

  All in all, it's hard to stop playing. The fast-moving shoot-'em-up levels and the driving arcade 
 music keep pushing you forward to clock ever-higher scores, even when you're getting smoked over 
 and over by the baddies constantly swarming you from all sides. You even have two separate ways 
 to play: the usual string of linked levels that make up a campaign, and a Combat School mode in 
 which you hit on a hot drill instructor (fruitlessly, as your one-sided conversations just go in 
 circles) and take on nearly 100 one-off training missions based on objectives such as assaulting 
 bases and rescuing POWs. Training missions don't compensate for the loss of co-op, although they 
 at least give you a way to pick up and play when you have only a few moments to spare.  

  Regardless of the platform, it's good to see Metal Slug back in action with all of the same old 
 intense gameplay that has made it such a hit with shoot-'em-up arcaders for more than a decade. 
 This may not quite be what fans of the series have come to expect, but it's at least a good way 
 to tide yourself over until the presumably more full-featured version of the game hits the Xbox 
 360 next year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  Out of nowhere the Metal Slug franchise came out with a new game. Of course, I picked up a copy 
 as soon as I could. Here is what I thought.
  
  Good- Its Metal Slug successfully put on the DS. Graphics are still great. Game play is as crazy 
 as ever. Many characters.
  
  Bad- Way, way, way to short. Combat training is dumb. No Co-op.
  
  Okay so I was surprised 
 when I heard about a new Metal Slug back in October. I recently went out and bought it when I got 
 the money. I was not expecting much and I did not get much. I love the Slug series but there is 
 just not enough to this game. It is incredible Metal Slug fun while it lasts But there is no Co-op 
 and it is only like and hour or two long. But it does have tons of replay value.
  
  This new combat training mode is useless and all you do is replay the levels with new objectives. 
 But it does give you a few extra hours of game play.
  
  Overall a bit disappointing but still crazy Metal Slug fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  There have been many Metal Slug games in the series including: Metal Slug, Metal Slug 3, and (definetily 
 a favorite) Metal Slug Anthology. Since its release in April,1996, Metal Slug has always been a hit! Some 
 of its main qualities that made this game series so legendary are its simple controls, crazy violence, and 
 also good balance between reality and fantasy has made millions of people LOVE Metal Slug. This 
 game continues with that. Simple controls, a bunch of enemies, and of course new weapons. Hell yeah! Let's 
 get down to the game now. So, this game basicly has no intro. No worries, because after you beat the 
 first level there is a short intro. A guy (who looks like a German general or something like that) falls 
 out of his machine. But then, the boss blows up, and turns into a portal in which futuristic enemies, tanks, and 
 helicopters come out. Now I thought that the second level of Metal Slug 3 (the zombie level, where 
 you can turn into a zombie) was weird, but I don't think that they've done THIS before. Oh well. I 
 think that this game is like Contra 4 in a respect. You do have a lot of guns, and there are an assload 
 of enemies. The difficulties are similar in a way. In Contra 4, easy mode gives you automatic fully 
 upgraded weapons. In Metal Slug 7, easy mode gives you a machine gun as your standard weapon*. The 
 action in this game is crazy fun, and the weapons are great, too. The Combat School is great! The drill 
 instructer (its a girl) is hot! You can talk to her, and also play missions, which are fun and challenging. I 
 highly reccomend this addicting 2D side scrolling shooter.
  
  -Sk8more67
  
  *standard weapon is a weapon you can't lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupahDude
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I love the Metal Slug series. So, when I happened to see the latest installment not on a home console, 
 but a portable, I saw it as a little sketchy at first, but I picked it up anyway, and I've got 
 this to say... WHAT THE HELL IS UP WITH HAVING ONLY 7 CONTINUES? This point ruins the game for 
 me. Have you ever played these games in the arcade, only to run out of quarters? I guess that's 
 what they were trying to emulate, but I don't expect this to happen in the home version of the 
 game. I remember when I purchased Metal Slug Anthology, they got it right that time, having the 
 option of infinite continues. In a game like this, with such a punishing level of difficulty, I 
 need this option in order to romp through the game. In this game, trust me, you will die, a lot, 
 and you will be frustrated when you unknowingly run out of continues. Game-play wise, they lifted 
 the engine from Metal Slug 6 and re-used it for this one. All they did is change the levels! It's 
 the same as last year! Yet, it still is the first (of possibly many) to come out on the DS, so 
 maybe next year, they'll get it right. This year, though, they almost succeeded. If they had more 
 continues, and a new engine, maybe they would have succeeded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shindark
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  "Playmore it is not a software house... it's a CUT & PASTE company"
  
  A friend of mine (just like me an old SNK fan) often repeat this sentence.
  Hard words... but 
 looking the last titles of glorious brands like King of Fighters or, in this case, Metal slug, 
 you cannot overlook how harsh the truth is.
  Metal Slug 7 is only another meaningless sequel of a brand that, in my hearth, closed with the 
 fourth episode of the saga: Metal Slug 3.
  
  For those that lived in Shangrila in the late ten years and don't know yet the brand, Metal Slug 
 is a scrolling shooter characterize by frenzied action, permeate of pungent humour, genial level 
 design, and crazy looking bosses.
  How said so far it's up only until Metal Slug 3, really a little jewel of creativity and good ideas.
 
  From metal slug 4 to now, Playmore limited itself to recycle sprite and general concept creating, 
 in every title, only a bunch of miserable additional levels.
  
  The story of Metal Slug 7 see the usual quarrel with the same dictator from Metal Slug 1,2,3,4,5,6. 
 For the occasion the villain can count from help directly from the future thanks to a time machine 
 portal. Too bad that the future troopers are the SAME of the present army. The only differences 
 are in the sprite colors (WOW!!!) and in the weaponry (laser instead bullets, but the routines 
 are the usual... DOUBLE WOW!!!) .
  Playing as one of the veterans: Marco, Tarma, Fio and Eri it's up to you drive out the new menace 
 in the future. A little surprise, among the playable charachters there are also Ralf and Clark 
 from the KoF serie. It's a shame that their sprite was obtained redrawning Tarma and Marco.
  
  The gameplay is the usual: take down every moving things on screen, collect bonuses and weapon, 
 face megalitic end level bosses. Those last, though drew pretty well, lack of inspiration and imagination, 
 either in the aesthetical look then in attack routines (where are the giant crab or the aliens 
 of Metal Slug 3?)
  
  Level design is flat like a salt desert and as much irritating (where are the multi route levels 
 of Metal Slug 3) and for conceal the lack of inspiration the difficult level gone on stellar levels 
 (much more of... guess... Metal Slug 3!)
  Obviously in your trip of destruction you could ride a lot of odd vehicles (mostly recycled from 
 prequels too) but there is not left the possibility of morph the main charachters (prequels included 
 various transformation: mummy, zombie, monkey, and the awesome "fat" form)
  
  This game seems obtained by an editor. Playmore took in the levels a lot of enemies in crossing 
 fire toward main charachter. Also, seems that Playmore powered the normal enemies shortening their 
 attack time. Grenades and bullets are now shot more fast than in the past, making even more difficult 
 to avoid them.
  
  But the unbearable is the shameful recycling of enemies sprites from the prequels, putting some 
 of them in improbable context.
  
  In the end the game it's also pretty short, only seven unappealing mission. For encourage the portability 
 of the title you'll choose at every game start one of the levels unlocked previously. There's also 
 a "Combat School Mode" where you can face several missions attempting to achieve the highest rank. 
 Here you'll also speak with the instructor, a blonde cutie (a bit unpleasant, in the truth) . Some 
 of the missions you can try in this mode can be a little different from the main game and a bit 
 more entertaining respect this last. But mostly of them require only to retry the main game levels 
 achieving some results like losing no lifes, completing in the minor time possible, ecc.
  Useless to say that even this mode is pretty disappointing.
  
  And now we can spare a couple 
 of words on the quality of adaptation of this game for the little-great DS.
  
  Indeed, Playmore with Metal Slug 7 create an useless game; but they adapted the title really well 
 to the hardware. The sprites was resized to the NDS screen resolution, they appear smooth and well 
 animated, the action is fast without any slowing, neither in most convulse situation. Obviously 
 the touch screen was barely used for a map of the levels, but it's no use complain, considering 
 the game style.
  
  Final comment
  There's no excuse... Metal Slug is dead long time ago, and this sequel cannot hope in a resurrection. 
 Playmore should dedicate to create new brands... yeah, right!!! (if they was capable of that)
 
  A good adaptation to the hardware it's not enough for a game that simply have no reason to exist.
 
  
  Good
  Well adaptation to the DS capacity. 
  
  Bad
  Game recycled from prequel for almost 95%. Level design really poor ad flat. Unappealing in every 
 aspect.
  
  Votation 4.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssszzz8
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  variety: 6.8/10
  the levels are al fun, but there are only 7 levels, which makes it a bit boring after you try them 
 all out. But it is good how they are all challenging enough for you to keep trying until you beat 
 them.
  
  graphics: 9/10 
  Rea;; y good graphics, but could have been better, but look-it is a nintendo ds. what do you expect?
 
  
  gameplay : 8/10
  moving and shooting doesnt require the touch screen, so that is why i like it. but it is kind of 
 unusual to press the buttons to shoot up, down, left, or right. ,., .,.,.
  
  action: 9/10
  it is great arcade shooting action, with bullets everywhere, but it does get quite 
 hectic, but it feels like your are right at war!!!
  
  good; good graphics, addictive gameplay and levels, good cartoon looks, challenging-having you 
 try more and more till u beat it, amazing action.
  
  bads: only 7 levels, sometimes fustrating or too hectic, kinda weird controls, but you will easily 
 get used to it. 
  worth it?
  i think you should rent it first. if there were more levels, then it is an absolute buy!!!
  
 
  yeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been itching to get my hands on this game ever since I read the information that the said 
 title was going to be released on the DS. I always wanted to reminisce my arcade playing days where 
 me and my buddy try and finish the game with the less amount of continues possible. I however had 
 mixed emotions when I started playing the game...
  
  I was one of the many people out there who were greatly disappointed by the lack of multiplayer 
 support on this game. I mean c'mon, I for one couldn't think of a good reason as to why they chose 
 not to include such feature unless they were trying to rush the game to come out into the market 
 and had no more time to add a multiplayer option. The multiplayer is almost always a must have 
 feature especially on a title like this one that can be played in co-op on the arcades. Contra 
 4 was able to do it, right?
  
  As I try and set that aside I played the game and had a blast doing it. Most (if not all) of the 
 gameplay elements that can be found in the arcades can be experienced here as well. You have a 
 number of guns in your arsenal, along with the usual tanks, planes, and even mech robots that you 
 can blast from enemies or take control of. And even though I consider myself as probably one of 
 the worst side-scrolling shooter gamer on our planet, I found it too easy to beat the game using 
 the easiest difficulty setting. Cranking it up a single notch however seems to be too tough for 
 me, and I find myself getting butchered by the enemy soldiers. But regardless of how fun a game 
 is, there is in my opinion no excuse for creating a very short game. This game only have a total 
 of 7 missions. It might be enough for an arcade game, but not for a console game.
  
  Graphically the game looks pretty much as what you'd expect out from a Metal Slug game. It leans 
 a bit on the pixelated side and animation isn't something that you can applaud to but you wouldn't 
 even care about that because the game is fun to play. There are occasional slowdowns on heavily 
 crowded portions, but they're tolerable.
  
  Sound on the other hand is pretty good, and you won't get the feeling that they have over-compressed 
 the audio like with some DS titles. Background music, sound effects, and VO's are all here.
  
  Controls is also quite easy to pickup. The stylus can only be used here to move your view around 
 the map while playing ... which in my opinion is a not so imaginative use for the lower screen.
 
  
  All-in-all this game gives out the excitement that Metal Slug fans like me are looking for. However 
 given the lack of multiplayer support and short lifespan, the game doesn't deserve to receive a 
 "great" rating of 8. It's almost there, but not quite ... I give it a 7.5
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticman245
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I'd recommend this game to whoever likes change and to whoever likes challenge and this game is 
 full of that. The game play is addictive, the music is awesome, and probably the best thing about 
 it is that unlike the other metal slug games you can get game overs so it should take you more 
 than a day to beat it. What bothers me about the game is the touch screen, all it does is show 
 you what the rest of the level looks like from where your standing to the end. The game is something 
 what i least expected, the very hard difficulty and new choice of weapons is a good comeback to 
 the previous games in the series. Its very different from the original metal slug games but that's 
 what makes the game so good, its also good to know that SNK made this game while still ignoring 
 the canceled 3D metal slug game, after playing the 3D contra games on the playststion i dont even 
 want to know what that game would be like. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
