-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Meteos: Disney Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/meteosdisneyedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Super-insane gameplay is as satisfying and challenging as ever.
 horizontal movement and special abilities tweak a successful formula with mostly positive results.
 multiplayer is a lot of fun and requires only a single game cartridge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Underwhelming unlockable content.
 weird choice of films for the various themes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.6, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 104 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Q Entertainment
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date: Feb 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Disney theme won't be everyone's cup of tea, but the core Meteos experience is still a ton of 
 scribbling fun. 

  It's tempting to write off the new edition of Meteos as a typically disastrous, Disneyfied sellout 
 for Q Entertainment, the creator of Lumines and the original Meteos. But amazingly, Disney Magic 
 doesn't take the easy way out and offers up a new way to play Meteos without messing with a successful 
 formula. And for a game featuring unlockable Cinderella art, it's an incredible challenge, even 
 if you're a stylus-scratching whiz. It's not quite as mesmerizing as its predecessor, but if you 
 like puzzle games or are a fan of Disney films, Meteos: Disney Magic is a thoroughly enjoyable 
 game with many hours of entertainment packed into its cartridge.  

          In this Winnie the Pooh level, the slowly launching blocks are as lazy as Pooh Bear after 
 engorging on hunny.     

  Playing the game is very much like playing the original Meteos. A bunch of blocks constantly fall 
 from the top of the screen, and you move them into a group of three or more to fire them -- and any 
 blocks above them -- into the air using the Nintendo DS's stylus. The goal is to fling them off the 
 screen, but the tricky way gravity works in each level offers a unique challenge. Creating a three-block 
 rectangle may throw it and the blocks above up and off the screen or send it lazily into the air 
 just to fall slowly back. In many cases, vertical groups will fire differently from horizontal 
 groups, so you need to get a handle on each level's gravity because your strategy will need to 
 change every time the level changes. Combos add another tactical element and are created by shaping 
 rectangles on a set of blocks already fired into the air. In some cases, the only significant way 
 of firing off large numbers of blocks is to create combos, so it's not just a mechanism for getting 
 a higher score.  

  The biggest modification to the gameplay is how you move blocks. In the original Meteos, you could 
 only move blocks vertically; now, you can move them horizontally too. It's a huge change, and one 
 that might make purists squirm because the limitation on block movement was a big piece of the 
 challenge in the original game. But the rate at which blocks drop gets to be absolutely nuts, especially 
 at the hard difficulty level, which throws out win conditions so grueling you may first wonder 
 if it's even possible to get past some of the levels. And if your hand-eye coordination makes you 
 so dexterous you could be the subject of scientific study, there's the unlockable expert difficulty 
 that limits blocks to vertical movement. Good luck with that one. But the younger audience inclined 
 toward the license rather than the gameplay won't be turned off because there is an easy difficulty 
 level that offers a more easygoing experience.  

  There are a few other gameplay changes here too. You'll notice that you flip the DS on its side 
 to play, which is an improvement over the original, because the vertical game board doesn't have 
 to be squished horizontally onto the touch screen. There are also some special powers you can take 
 advantage of now: slow mode, nitro boost, and horizontal block movement. Slow mode decelerates 
 the blocks to a crawl for a short time, while nitro boost flings your blocks right off the screen 
 without regard for the level's gravitational pull. The horizontal block movement ability is available 
 only in expert difficulty, but when used, it lets you move blocks from side to side for a short 
 time.  

  Oh yeah, then there's that whole Disney thing. Disney fans will like the theme just fine, although 
 it's a mystery why this particular set of films was chosen.  Toy Story ,  The Lion King , and  
 Winnie the Pooh  seem like obvious choices because of their popularity among fans. But  Tim Burton's 
 The Nightmare Before Christmas ?  Lilo &amp; Stitch ? Surely, they could have been ditched to make 
 room for  Beauty and the Beast ,  Finding Nemo ,  Aladdin , or even classic films, such as  Snow 
 White  or  Fantasia . In story mode, the levels are strung together with Jiminy Cricket's little 
 narrative about how the Disney stories have gone awry and that it's up to you to set them straight 
 again. It's not as fun as the spacey theme of the original Meteos, but the artwork and backgrounds 
 are cute and colorful. However, you will likely forget the existence of the top screen (or rather, 
 the screen that is normally on top) entirely because you'll need to keep your eyes glued to the 
 touch screen.  

  If Meteos: Disney Magic is missing anything important, it is noteworthy unlockable content. By 
 playing through the different modes, you unlock artwork you can use in other modes and view later, 
 but it doesn't compare to uncovering the new planets and tunes of the original. Only one of the 
 film themes is locked in its entirety at the start of the game, and it doesn't take long to unlock 
 it, which leaves only the expert difficulty as the major remaining incentive. Non-branded backgrounds 
 and artwork may simply work better for games like this, because no matter how good they are, it's 
 hard to look forward to unlocking predictable images based on ubiquitously marketed characters. 

  However, strong gameplay makes it easier to overlook the bland extras, and there are multiple ways 
 to experience it outside of the story mode. Challenge mode lets you play for high score or against 
 the timer, or you can play versus with up to four CPU opponents. But like in the original Meteos, 
 playing against others is the real delight. Up to four people can join a multiplayer game, and 
 the download play option allows you to share the game with only one cartridge. Successful launches 
 shower your opponents with incinerated blocks that morph into usable blocks a few seconds after 
 they land. You can even choose which player you wish to target or simply let the game automatically 
 target one for you. Any good game is even more fun against real people, and Meteos: Disney Magic 
 is no exception, assuming your buddies can stomach the cutesy Disney visuals.  

          I have been chosen. Farewell, my friends. I go to a better place.     

  The appeal 
 of the sound and graphics is tied directly to the appeal of the source themes.  Lilo &amp; Stitch 
  may have been an odd theme choice when there were so many better ones to choose from, but the 
 blocks are clear and easy to distinguish from each other.  The Little Mermaid  features nice artwork, 
 but the blocks look so much alike it's easy to get confused. The sound is fine too, and like the 
 graphics, the re-creations do justice to the source material, but their success depends on how 
 good that material was in the first place. One of the  Lion King  levels features the rousing tribal 
 music from the film, while the  Pirates of the Caribbean  stages have plenty of booming cannons 
 and typical Hollywood music but not much personality to go along with them. Where's Johnny Depp 
 when you need him?  

  Still, there's plenty to like here. The core Meteos gameplay and level of challenge remain intact, 
 even with the special abilities and horizontal block movement. It's ironic given the game's title 
 that it's missing some of the delight of its predecessor, but Meteos: Disney Magic is still a worthwhile 
 investment for puzzle-game fans. It's hard, it's fun, and playing it is its own reward.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  The first Meteos was released shortly after the launch of the DS and it was generally well-received. 
 A great little puzzler, it made excellent use of the touchscreen and gained quite a fanbase. Now 
 a sequel (of sorts) has turned up, and this time it's been given a Disney-based makeover. But have 
 the numerous changes affected the game negatively, or has it still retained the addictive nature 
 of the original?
  
  Well, first things first, there's plenty here to potentially annoy the Meteos purists who loved 
 the first game. First of all, Disney Magic changes the overall feel of the game, switching from 
 a normal two-screened puzzler to a side-on playing style, much like Brain Training. This suits 
 the game quite well, because whereas the original played over two screens and had you firing tiles 
 up into the top screen (at which point you couldn't touch them with the stylus) , now you have full 
 control over the whole play area, meaning you can match up sets of three at the top of the screen 
 instead of waiting for blocks to fall down past halfway.
  
  
  As well as this visual change, you can now also slide tiles horizontally instead of simply vertically. 
 Meteos purists will probably be outraged at this change to the basic gameplay mechanics, and it 
 does make the game a heck of a lot easier, but that's not to say it's not fun. There's also a hidden 
 Expert mode which prevents players from sliding tiles horizontally, much like the classic game, 
 so all is not lost.
  
  All Stitched Up
  Finally, there's also the fact that, obviously, the game's now plastered with all sorts of Disney 
 characters, animations and music. Yes, gone are the original game's alien lifeforms, with their 
 different planets and various types of gravity, and replacing them are characters taken from Lilo 
 And Stitch, Toy Story, The Nightmare Before Christmas and The Little Mermaid, with animations playing 
 out on the spare screen that's been made available by the game's switch to a vertical layout. But, 
 much like the retro animations in Tetris DS, you'll never look at that screen due to the speedy 
 nature of the game, so it's a bit of a pointless feature.
  
  If you're a fan of the original game, the decision to purchase Disney Magic should come down to 
 whether you're a fan of Disney characters and whether you don't mind the game being made significantly 
 easier due to its altered mechanics. If you never played 
  the original game however, this should be your starting point as it provides a more user-friendly, 
 visually appealing experience than the first title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARMonkey57
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game is just like the regular meteos game, but instead of colors and symbols, you have Disney 
 characters. Now, the game itself is good, but I hate that face that I have to hold the DS on its 
 side to play it. There is a reason why Nintendo made the DS the way it is. I personally feel that 
 it is unnatural and annoying to have to hold the DS on its side. That is my biggest problem with 
 the game, but if you're okay with holding the DS right away, then go for it. If it were a normal 
 game, I would probably give the game a 7/10. Some of the good things about the game are it is unique 
 and fun. Also, with the DS's touch screen, it makes the game experience even better. Overall, the 
 game is pretty decent, but I would not recommend it to my friends. In my opinion, if your going 
 to spend money on a DS game, do yourself a favor and buy The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. 
 Thanks for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Meteos: Disney Magic is a fun game for the DS.
  I'ts agem that you can do anything ans you'll score points...
  ... but it's for a short time fun.
 
  The game is not bad and not amazing!
  It's good but it could be better!
  It's disney, so it's nice and more fun.
  Many nice disney caracters that I really liked, like 
 Jack Squelleton (... excuse the ortograph...) , Simba, Woodie, Winnie the Pooh, and many others.
 
  Problem, the stuffs that you can unlock is boring. It is images, good and bad ( the image that 
 you unlock if you win or lose a chapter ) ( Good=win and Bad=lose ) .
  You canot save youre progress if you want to stop playing, youre game save, but you have to redo 
 the story.
  Thanks for read! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Meteos was a fantastic DS puzzler and this time it's got some new twists including new game play 
 features, but also an abundance of the Disney world. First, let's talk a bit about the gameplay. 
 The first time around Meteos allowed you to soley move blocked up and down to form rows of three 
 and send these little blocks blasting into space. This time, we have a free range of movement up 
 and down and also left and right. This makes gameplay a lot easier as you can never find yourself 
 without an available move and just hoping that a block will drop down right where you need it. 
 You can now move a block from the top left corner to the bottom right no problem. This game play 
 feature is nice because you don't find yourself helpless, but like I said it does ease the game 
 play significantly. Last time around each level was also a play until you've defeated the number 
 of enemies and then you move on to the next one. For bonus points you were also given goals in 
 story mode to complete. The goals and enemies are back again, but there will also be some levels 
 that are simply survive for so long and the goals are significantly easier.
  
  If you haven't noticed yet I've mentioned a few times how things were made easier. I think it's 
 pretty obvious that this was directed more towards children. Although the challenges can be hard 
 or getting golds on each level is hard, surviving is not.
  
  It's a shame that the difficulty was turned down so much because the game looks really cool and 
 it offers a lot of new stuff to the meteos world. I haven't mentioned yet that you play this version 
 with the DS sideways (Brain Age style if you've played) which gives you a much taller screen for 
 blasting. But, yet again, makes it harder to lose because you have much more room upwards and much 
 less to worry about sideways.
  
  It seems that Disney also felt the need to incorporate a lot of cutesy little stories so that kids 
 felt like they were saving Mickey or whatever. These are fine for young kids, but after reading 
 no more than 3 anyone over about 9 is going to have that skip buttons positioned memorized. It's 
 a shame this happened because Q put in some funny/weird type stories in the original Meteos that 
 worked well.
  
  It's nice to see some more Meteos with some new ideas as it's one of the best puzzler's the DS 
 has to offer, but it's a shame that it got so directed towards the young ones. However, if you 
 can look past the Disney side of it and appreciate it as more Meteos you're bound to have some 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushgoil
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I had tried the original Meteos but couldn't really get into it. I find it a much more satisfying 
 game now that the horizontal movement has been added. It's a nice puzzle game because each level 
 is just a little bit different (more than just the backgrounds like in Lumines) and there are a 
 fair number of options going along with it. It is nice to have four difficulty settings so you 
 can keep challenging yourself as you get into the game. I also like the challenge mode because 
 it adds an opportunity to play for a short period of time or a longer period of time. The music 
 is memorable, and find it much less annoying than the music in many of the puzzle games that I 
 have tried. It's also a cute addition because of the Disney characters and backgrounds. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone who thought about getting the original Meteos but didn't for some 
 reason, or to those who loved the original and want some more good Meteos action with a bit of 
 a twist! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_motor
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I loved the original Meteos. It was great. Unfortunately I was expecting 
 a similar experience here. I was mistaken. If you've played the original Meteos, don't look here. 
 Half of the fun in the original Meteos was gaining elements and blending them for new worlds, sounds, 
 and weapons. No such luck here. Actually, there's nothing even remotely similar. You unlock stuff 
 as you play through, which is alright I guess, but I liked the challenge of needing so many spirit 
 blocks. The other big change that kind of killed the experience was the ability to now move blocks 
 sideways. Now I never understood why you could only move up and down, but it sure made it that 
 much more frantic. That in turn made it more fun. Now that I've gotten the negatives out of the 
 way, I'll look at the few positives I found playing. First, holding it like a book was quite nice. 
 That seems to have a more comfortable feel to it than the regular way of holding the system. Aside 
 from the aforementioned moving sideways, the physics and play remained intact, which is actually 
 a good thing. The graphics were quite nice and enjoyable, but then like most puzzle games for the 
 system, you don't really get to see much of it while you're playing. The sound was alright as well, 
 you'll recognize many of the little diddy's as you play. Overall, the Disney edition of Meteos 
 is mediocre at best. If you didn't play the original, you might like it. This would be a good introductory 
 puzzle game for children or non-gamers, but a disappointment for people who are addicted to puzzle 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stripeknight
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  The primary differences from Meteos Disney Magic and the original Meteos are as follows: First you 
 hold the DS sideways like a book so that the falling block/images fall longways on the right hand 
 DS touch screen, the left hand screen is a background theme with various Disney characters following 
 a certain theme, the second huge difference is that you can now move blocks horizontally and vertically 
 as opposed to the standard verticle movement of blocks from the original Meteos which really diversifies 
 the game and really opens the action up! Finally the theme is no longer based in outer space so 
 obviously you will be playing through Disney themed back grounds and themed blocks, wich is a very 
 cool change of pace and is much more diversified as every level has it's own theme music, style 
 of block and music type. The game is as fun as ever and is now probably the best puzzle based game 
 for the DS system, the music is fitting with the Disney themes and the graphics are crisp and very 
 good looking. Overall this game has my highest recommendations! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
