-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Meteos
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/meteos/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovatively designed, crazy-fast puzzle action.
 Great fun in single-player and multiplayer.
 Multiplayer requires only one cartridge.
  premise always a plus in a puzzle game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some interface elements a little hard to see.
 Fun but formulaic gameplay might not hold your interest indefinitely.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 24, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.8, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,641 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Q Entertainment
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date: Jun 28, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
One of the best DS games yet, Meteos delivers a unique and successful twist on the puzzle game formula. 
 

  The fate of the entire universe straight-up hangs in the balance in Meteos, a frenetic, fun, and 
 innovative puzzle game exclusively for the Nintendo DS. It's somehow strangely appropriate that 
 the game is the work of none other than Q Entertainment, designer Tetsuya Mizuguchi's studio that 
 also gave the PSP one of its first, best titles, the puzzle game Lumines. After all, the incredibly 
 hectic and cleverly envisioned Meteos is pretty much a perfect counterpart to the trancelike, rather 
 relaxing feel of Q Entertainment's previous game. And on its own terms, Meteos offers up a great, 
 original experience that's plenty of fun whether you play it against the computer or against some 
 friends.  

          Meteos is a puzzle game about preventing the destruction of the entire universe. Are you 
 up for it?     

  Not many puzzle games bother with storylines, but Meteos doesn't settle for convention. In fact, 
 the game is so bold as to deftly mix cute, colorful graphics with the threat of a science fiction 
 apocalypse in its entertainingly epic introductory cutscene. The planet Meteo, a seething eye-shaped 
 thing that could probably stare Sauron down, spews forth a deadly rain of fragments called meteos, 
 which annihilate practically everything that gets in their way. By some chance, a planet survives 
 the assault as several like-colored meteos latch together and fly off from whence they came. Now 
 various extraterrestrial races must fight to protect their homes by firing the meteos raining down 
 on them back toward their source. And a magnificent spacecraft -- the Metamo Ark -- is constructed 
 to bring the fight back to Meteo's turf. Here's mud in your eye, you good-for-nothing planet-busting 
 alien bastard.  

  The premise of the game figures into the action more than you might expect, especially in "star 
 trip," Meteos' main single-player mode. In it, you fight your way through successive stages before 
 finally squaring off against Meteo, after which you're treated to any number of cool little endings. 
 The premise of Meteos justifies the game's hectic pace as well as the outstandingly over-the-top 
 soundtrack. It helps draw you into a game that's just as creative in how it plays as it is in how 
 it presents itself.  

  In a typical game of Meteos, you'll spend your time keeping a sharp eye on the DS's bottom screen, 
 in which multicolored meteos rain down constantly, piling up higher and higher. Don't mistake this 
 for another Tetris or Puyo Puyo clone, though. For one thing, you can't actually control the meteos 
 as they fall, as you might expect from a typical puzzle game. And once they've landed, all you 
 can do is shift them vertically up or down through the stack they're in. You need to do this because, 
 if three like-colored meteos are placed adjacent to each other either in a row or in a column, 
 they fire off like rockets, launching themselves and all the meteos stacked on top of them up toward 
 the top of the screen. You're constantly trying to stop the meteos from piling too high by blasting 
 them back up into space. Theoretically, the more meteos pile up, the easier it is to find a nearby 
 few that can be matched up and blasted away. The thing is, the more meteos pile up, the more momentum 
 you'll need to push them the heck off the screen. This is a formula that sets up a near-nonstop 
 string of life-or-death near-misses.  

          No two stages in Meteos are quite alike, but all revolve around trying to keep tons and 
 tons of falling meteos from completely filling the screen.     

  The many different levels in Meteos represent all the different planets that have come under fire. 
 Each planet has its own unique properties and other twists you'll just have to get a feel for. 
 It doesn't take long to notice that different planets seem to have a different sense of gravitational 
 pull, for example. On some planets, you may need to fire off your meteos stacks using consecutive 
 launches, forming triplicates multiple times within a single stack to gather enough steam to launch 
 them away. But on other planets, the meteos will jettison offscreen with much less effort on your 
 part, though they may rain down a lot faster and into a much smaller playing field. While the tone 
 of the different levels in Meteos is often distinctly different, make no mistake -- the pacing of 
 the game basically ranges from ridiculous speed to ludicrous speed as you're constantly trying 
 to prevent your planet's annihilation.     

  It's possible to manage your planetary defenses using the D pad and buttons, but it's much faster, 
 easier, and more natural to drag meteos up and down using the stylus. In fact, Meteos controls 
 great this way -- the meteos seem like they're just the right size to make it easy to grab hold of 
 individual ones within a stack. You won't blame the controls, only your reflexes, should the meteos 
 stack too high.  

          A good range of single-player and multiplayer modes, plus plenty of unlockables, gives 
 Meteos lots of subtle variety.     

  The game's got plenty of other twists. For example, as meteos get fired off into the atmosphere, 
 they become incinerated and unable to be matched with any other meteos colors. So if you don't 
 manage to push a chunk of meteos off the screen with enough force, you'll get a big, useless blob 
 of them floating right back down at you, possibly causing serious problems. The other thing is, 
 as you fire meteos off the screen, you're sending them against up to three different opponents. 
 Their own meteo-pushing antics will sometimes cause incinerated meteos to unceremoniously dump 
 down on you, but you can counterattack with your own assault. In three-on-one matches, it's possible 
 to get taken out very, very quickly. Still, it's a great challenge as you try to survive long enough 
 to take out your opponents one at a time while slowing their assault. The DS's top screen lets 
 you see who your opponents are, and peripheral parts of the bottom screen (which are a little too 
 hard to read, actually) let you see what your foes are up to.  

  The game sports plenty of options. The single-player star trip mode offers three distinctly different 
 paths and multiple modes of difficulty, making it highly replayable and worthy of being the primary 
 mode of play. There's also a free-form mode that lets you choose a stage and different settings 
 and have at it. A survival mode tests how long you can survive a meteo downpour, and challenge 
 modes let you see how many meteos you can launch and how high you can score in a given period of 
 time.  

  Meteos was clearly designed with multiplayer competition in mind, so it's great that the game gives 
 you the option to take on up to three other players using just one cartridge, through the system's 
 download play feature. You're limited to just a few different stages this way, though, so for best 
 results, everyone should have a copy, and you can convince your friends to get their own by uploading 
 a demo version of Meteos to them if you want. Multiplayer Meteos is functionally equivalent to 
 playing against the computer, though it can inherently be more fun to stomp your friends instead 
 of that damned eyeball.  

  There's a good amount of unlockable content in the game, too. What's neat is that all the meteos 
 you send flying off the screen (except for incinerated ones) are actually tallied as a sort of 
 currency for the game's unlockables, which include new planets, special items, music, and more. 
 The new planets are probably the most exciting unlockables, since they translate into new riffs 
 on the gameplay. The special items are interesting too, since they include stuff like bombs and 
 hammers that can occasionally fall from the sky during gameplay, helping you clear the path or 
 affecting the action in other ways. Meteos also tracks a ridiculous number of different statistics, 
 helping make you feel like all your time spent with the game is contributing to something greater -- especially 
 since certain unlockables are tied to other metrics, like your overall time spent playing, and 
 not just your number of meteos fired offscreen.  

          Do yourself a favor and give this crazy game a go.     

  The game's visuals aren't 
 dazzling, but they're clear and attractive for the most part. Some stages and their meteos look 
 better than others, but overall, Meteos has a fun look to it that keeps up with the rate of the 
 action. The various animated icons for all the different alien species are particularly appealing 
 and show quite a bit of personality for being little bunches of squiggles. The game's audio fares 
 even better, especially due to the eclectic musical score, which features different themes for 
 every planet that all change with the tempo of the action. Meteos doesn't seem so remarkable in 
 still images, but when you see and hear it in full effect, it'll seem a lot more exciting.  

  It's hard to imagine having much more fun than this, scribbling like crazy. One of the best DS 
 games yet, Meteos delivers a unique and successful twist on the puzzle game formula. And, like 
 any great puzzle game, it's something you can play for just a few minutes or for much longer periods 
 of time and come away satisfied, regardless.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (192 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Positive: 
  + excellent presentation
  + fun, addicting gameplay
  + lots of variety within the few offered modes
  + awesome soundtrack and sound effects
  + offers 
 a lot to keep you coming back for more
  
  Negative:
  - not enough variety of game modes
  
  I used to not like puzzle games much. I was kind of indifferent 
 towards them, because I hadn't played many before and didn't really care to give one a try. But 
 when my friend showed me Meteos, I suddenly was addicted to a puzzle game. Why is that? Because 
 Meteos is, quite simply, one of the flat-out best DS games for its excellent presentation, addicting 
 and fun gameplay, and overall quality.
  
  Meteos has a story, and for a puzzle game it might be kind of odd but it doesn't get in the way 
 at all. The evil planet Meteo has been destroying planet after planet by shooting millions of blocks 
 called Meteos at them, making them explode in dazzling supernovas. Then the residents of the universe 
 get smart and form an alliance to stop Meteo by giving them a taste of their own medicine, and 
 that's where you come in.
  
  The game has a few different modes, but the gameplay is basically the same in each of them. Star 
 Trip takes you through the story, where you can play it at three different lengths and see tons 
 of different endings depending on where you end up, which is a neat way of doing the story. Deluge 
 is where you play to survive as long as possible, Time War is a game with set limits of time or 
 Meteos, and Simple is the mode for playing a regular stock or timed game. Each mode will occupy 
 almost equal amounts of your time with the game, which just shows that effort went into every aspect 
 of Meteos whether the modes differ much from each other.
  
  Gameplay in Meteos is at a glance quite simple, but underneath the surface lies a challenging and 
 addicting puzzler. Blocks (Meteos) are constantly falling from the sky onto the bottom screen, 
 and you have to use the stylus to align three in a row vertically or horizontally, and you can 
 only move the Meteos up and down (side to side would make it way too easy anyways) . When three 
 are aligned they ignite and everything on top of them shoots up into the air, where you keep aligning 
 more together to keep launching the blocks until they hit the top screen, where they are flung 
 into outer space. There are a lot of techniques to learn to improve the way you play, and just 
 how much you can do with a single bunch of launched Meteos.
  
  That said, the gameplay of Meteos is quite inventive and fun, and even 50+ hours and almost 4 years 
 later I still enjoy it. But it doesn't end there- tons of planets are available to play on too. 
 Each planet has their own likelihood of the appearance of certain Meteos, different gravity effects, 
 and such. This makes for a lot of diverse gameplay even though the core remains exactly the same 
 all throughout. The game does inspire you to play it a lot, though, between the four main modes 
 and working to buy all the sounds, planets, and stuff with the Meteos you launch (they basically 
 work as currency to fuse into new stuff) . Unfortunately, the gameplay is basically the same in 
 all the modes with little variation outside of the planets, but the planets create enough variety 
 to keep you coming back for a long time anyways.
  
  Meteos isn't only a fun game to play; it's also impressive both in graphics and sound. The visual 
 style for each planet is pretty different, which keeps the game fresh as there are really a lot 
 of planets. The animated cutscene at the opening of the game is pretty spectacular by the DS' standards 
 as well. The graphics don't pay a lot of attention to detail for the most part, but the simplistic 
 style that varies so much just fits the game perfectly.
  
  And if the graphics aren't good enough for you, the sound might blow you off your feet (although 
 I don't think I've heard of anyone who regularly plays a DS standing up) . The opening cutscene 
 really makes a strong first impression with its graphics and sound also; the effects are really 
 cool and the music is just plain epic. Then you get the title screen and the main theme is simply 
 awesome. The sound effects and music during gameplay are pretty strange and quirky, but they give 
 the game a very unique feel. The sound gives Meteos its uniqueness more than everything else, in 
 my opinion, and I wouldn't have it any other way.
  
  Multiplayer is also an option in Meteos, and it's pretty well done. You can play on a limited amount 
 of planets with single card download play or have the whole thing if you have multiple game cards. 
 This is basically Simple mode with human opponents, and it can get really fun and fast paced just 
 like the rest of the game.
  
  Meteos is a truly excellent game. Even after 50+ hours of gameplay and almost 4 years of owning 
 the game, I still enjoy it. It's so much fun to play, and the overall quality of the whole package 
 really puts it over the edge. It remains one of my favorite DS games to this day, and that will 
 probably never change.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Camera & Control: 9.5
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 10
  Value: 9.5
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechatac
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Released several months after Lumines released on PSP, Meteos feels like a cousin game, as it was 
 developed by Q? Entertainment and they both deal with your gameplay actions affecting the game 
 with not just action, but sounds.
  
  graphics: 4/5
  It can vary between levels, but it's generally very good. Kudos for the alien designs, which are 
 all distinct in both motions and looks and it's fun to look at the aliens. Planets are also just 
 as distinct as the aliens that belong with them.
  
  sound 4.5/5
  Sound is very good, but a little too old-school at times (nothing against Mekks sound set) . Each 
 planet has its own sound set, which you can buy from Meteos that you launch during any gameplay 
 mode. Different sound effects for each planet play depending on what type of launch line you do, 
 vertical, horizontal, in the air, linking a launch to another column, etc, etc, as well as a basic 
 tune in the background which changes up and down depending on how full the screen is of un-launched 
 Meteos. It's an enjoyable system that works very well and helps add to the experience.
  
  Gameplay: 4.5/5
  Gameplay is deceptively simple on all mode, line up 3 to 5 of the same type 
 of Meteos horizontally or 3 vertically to send a stack of Meteos up and sometimes off the screen. 
 However, you can only move Meteos up or down, never side to side (like you can in Disney Meteos, 
 but it rather sucks the challenge from the game as well) , in what is most easily described as the 
 opposite of Puzzle League where you only move side to side and never up/down. While the game is 
 releasing Meteos slowly, it can be simple, but there are also items you can use to help, chain 
 linking of Meteos for higher scores extra launch time, more sound effects, etc. The gameplay takes 
 place on one of the 32 Meteos planets, which are all distinct in graphics, sound sets, effectiveness 
 of horizontal and vertical launches, launch height, launch duration, burnt meteos duration, width 
 of the planet, frequency of the different element types, etc. One planet may have no effect from 
 vertical launches (Vubble) while another will launch everything from a single vertical launch (Forte) , 
 which will require a different strategy from planet to planet. Basic strategy is the same, but 
 when all the little differences are factored in, it's more than it seems at first, new planets 
 aren't just new skins (like they are in Lumines where basic gameplay is still the same) . You start 
 with 4 basic planets (Geolyte, Firim, Anasaze, Oleana) , but can fuse more using the Meteos you 
 launch (as well as items and sound sets) , and unlock a few planets from story mode.
  There are also plenty of modes to choose from: single player, single player vs computer, player 
 vs player (up to 4) , deluge, branched story mode (3 types) with over 10 different endings. There's 
 single card multiplayer, but players cannot choose between different planets. If everyone has a 
 cartridge, everyone can choose their own planet. The game modes are all great fun and encourage 
 you to improve your skill, even at 3 in the morning. To top it off, the game keeps track of all 
 sorta of silly little things, like amount of time turned on, high scores, number of burnt meteos 
 launched, number of meteos launched, total time playing, and many other silly little things that 
 are great fun to look at from time to time.
  
  Overall: 4.5/5
  Fantastic puzzle game that got overlooked with all the other stuff on the DS and was outsold by 
 Tetris DS, but Meteos is by far one of the most addictive experiences on the DS. A must play for 
 any and all puzzle fans or fans of Lumines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olimar-GMSS
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I love this puzzle game.
  It's planetary and addictive puzzle game.
  Let's start my review here:
  
  Graphics: Pretty good, the alien characters are great.
  The 
 planet background is quite nice.
  The planets are realistic even fake ones.
  7/10 for graphics.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun, you line up three meteos
  and you launch at your 
 enemy (s)
  There's also team work and other modes
  
  Sound: Pretty great, some are great and some are
  slightly annoying, planets in the game have 
 music
  that fits it's environment.
  
  Value: Worth your money, I got this for 20$.
  Recommend this for planetary and puzzle lovers.
  
  Story: Pretty great and reasonable, there's 
 a evil planet named
  Meteo and sends matter called "meteos" in which
  destroys other planets. Certain planets survived by lining up meteos. Then they made a strong ship 
 called "Metamo Ark"
  to destroy planet meteo for the better.
  The game had about 7 different endings good and bad.
  
  The Bad: It isn't on nintendo wi-fi
 
  and that's about it.
  
  Love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-25
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is probably the best DS game that I have played so far. The graphics are stunning, and the 
 challenge required in moving the blocks only vertically allows for more attention and thought being 
 required (more rapidly as time passes) . Story Mode is a great way to spend time, as it gives branching 
 paths that will have you attempting to finish in every way possible. Multiplayer was also excellent, 
 as even with only one game cartridge, two or more people could battle, and with multiple cartridges, 
 a chaotic interplanetary battle would ensue. The unlockables are fun, and the multiple endings 
 are a nice little reward. Considering that this one one of the first titles to be released on the 
 DS and that it retains all of its initial playability even now, I have to say that very few other 
 games have managed to top this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Meteos is a simple, but very fast-paced puzzle game in which you save the whole universe from a 
 total annihilation.
  
  An evil sentient planet called Meteos is attempting to destroy as many worlds as possible. In time 
 the people of different worlds are able to line up three meteors (or meteos) of the same color 
 to ignite them and fly towards the evil Meteos. Of course it's up to you as a player to save the 
 universe from destruction. Story is really thin and meaningless, but at least there is one.
  
  Graphics of cinematic intro and a few cutscenes is absolutely brilliant, but the actual gameplay 
 is much more humble in its presentation. Luckily the game is colorful and the audio is very well 
 done: you'll never get tired of listening the game's music and sound effects.
  
  Gameplay is very simple: you just use the stylus to line up three blocks of the same color to ignite 
 them and that's it. Luckily these blocks come in different shapes and they drop in a frantic pace 
 from the top of the screen. There are 32 different planets - think of them as graphical skins - 
 and this guarantees a lot of variety in terms of graphics and audio. On the other hand the gameplay 
 itself stays the same from beginning to end. At times you can use special items to help you in 
 your quest to save the universe.
  
  There are a few game modes to choose from and the main mode is story or Star trip and in it you 
 pick a difficulty level and play from planet to planet igniting lots of meteos as you go. In the 
 end there waits the mighty and evil Meteos. Game also includes wireless multiplayer to 2 to 4 people, 
 but for some reason there's no Wi-Fi support.
  
  Meteos is a fast-paced puzzle game that is best played in small doses and with headphones on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocarina_jedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  Meteos is a very complete package as far as puzzle games go. It owes a great debt of influence 
 to that Holy Grail of a puzzle games, Tetris, and updates that simple format. In Meteos, your goal 
 is to clear the screen of colored blocks by aligning three or more of the same color using the 
 stylus. You can make rows or columns, but you can only move blocks vertically. Once you put three 
 in a row, they will rocket off the screen, carrying away any other blocks on top of them. Play 
 continues until either your screen fills with blocks, or you send enough rocketing off your screen 
 to fill your opponent's.
  
  The plot of Meteos is simple enough: The rogue planet Meteos is traveling through space, bombarding 
 other planets with meteos (the blocks) , until they are destroyed under the onslaught. When the 
 citizens of the planets realized they could launch the meteos back at Meteos, the game's premise 
 became clear.
  
  As such, this opens up a variety of different game modes for players. First of all, there are different 
 sorts of blocks, with each color representing a different element (air, water, fire, etc.) . Depending 
 on which planet you're currently defending, you'll see a different ratio of certain blocks. This 
 is important to note, because all the meteos you launch are kept track of. You'll need certain 
 quantities of different meteos to unlock new planets, items (which can help or hurt you during 
 the course of play) , and sound tracks. 
  
  The other notable game play factor is that different planets have different degrees of gravity. 
 As a result, on some planets, your meteos won't launch off the screen right away, and you'll need 
 to quickly make another launch while they're still in the air, lest they fall back to the ground. 
 And on some planets, you'll find that columns are simply too heavy to launch, and you can only 
 launch rows of meteos. You strategy really will vary from planet to planet.
  
  So with a huge supply of planets to play as, a good number of single player modes (endurance, timed, 
 "star trip," and more) , not to mention online play, Meteos will almost certainly never get old. 
 Pretty soon you'll be seeing those little blocks rocketing off the screen of your dreams! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mos333
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS was born to implement touch screen features into games and innovate handheld games 
 to provide what should be a more responsive and interactive feel. Meteos for the DS manages to 
 capture this idea perfectly and the outcome is what is quite possibly one of the greatest puzzle 
 games ever created.
  
  Meteos is a puzzler-in-space, featuring falling blocks, which you must sort into matching groups. 
 Sounds rather simple. However, there's a catch. You can only move blocks up and down. Although 
 this may sound quite limitting at first, you'll soon realize how deep this concept really is. You 
 can use the touch screen to sort blocks at break-neck speeds, or fling blocks into the air, ready 
 for blast-off back into space. It's these intuitive elements that come together in a way that makes 
 Meteos a puzzler like no other.
  
  Every stage features different block sets, backgrounds, play are sizes, gravity, etc. No two stages 
 are the same and they're all based on different themes. As you can see, the game is a lot deeper 
 than you may have initially thought.
  
  Meteos accomplishes perfection in almost every aspect. The game is insanely addictive, looks gorgeous 
 for a near-launch title, and it's undeniably charming. The action can get quite hectic later through 
 a level, and you'll find yourself swiping the stylus all over the screen to improve your high score. 
 It grows on you as a truly immersive game, and it truly feels like you're playing a game which 
 belongs in an alternate universe.
  
  As with the graphics this game includes an extensive list of sounds. From the moment this game 
 was powered up and I heard that great space-like tune I knew that this game would not disappoint 
 in the sound department. I'm sure that you'll feel the same. Each level has its own unique sound 
 set. Some are weird such as Suburbion however overall the sound sets are great. The developers 
 obviously felt the same allowing players to fuse all the sounds from the game in sets. Of course 
 the beautiful sounds are not only experienced from the Fusion Room or in-game. The credit screen 
 BGM is probably one of the best in the game
  
  There's a story mode, and some other gameplay devices such as Time Attack modes and general arcade 
 modes. Multiplayer is also present, and it works extremely well as a competitive game. It all ties 
 itself together beautifuly and although it may not sound interesting overall, Meteos needs to be 
 played to be believed. It's one heck of a puzzle game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerseynut2004
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The concept of Meteos is one of the many reasons why it's such a good game. The way you play meteos 
 is that there are falling blocks on your screen, which you must line up 3 in a row horizontally 
 or vertically. Sounds easy, right? Not exactly. About a minute in, things start to get faster. 
 The pace in Meteos is constantly hectic, making gameplay very exciting and keeping you on edge. 
 One of the best features of Meteos is the huge collection of unlockables. Every meteos you send 
 out, not including ones used in ignition, count toward your collection of meteos. You use these 
 meteos in the fusion room to form new weapons, sound sets, rare metals, and even new planets! There 
 are 32 planets to choose from in total, ranging from the fiery planet Firim to the holographic 
 planet Layazero. Meteos incorporates the elements of a puzzle game, the unlockables of an RPG, 
 and the fast-paced action of an action/adventure game, which makes it arguably the best DS game 
 ever! Make sure you snag a copy of his one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: u8nogard
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Meteos is a good puzzle game. It's addictive, for a while; you might get your money's worth out 
 of it. Part of me wants to say that I am glad that I borrowed it; part of me wishes that I owned 
 it.
  
  I give its rating cause of what I saw when observing another person play this game. In the attempt 
 of viewing my game play from a strategically well played game in blasting the Meteo off the screen, 
 this other player just took the stylist pen and "scribbled" on the screen non-stop, breaking the 
 record for that planet, became bored and turned off the Nintendo DS. Broken. If this game is that 
 broken, can a three year old achieve the same results? Or am I just putting too much emphasis on 
 the strategic movement?
  
  I would elaborate into the game play  but that can be read up on other players. It is a good puzzle 
 game just don't let other persons game play style destroy the reality of how easily the game can 
 be manipulated.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svenkill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  There's so much you can do within this game. It takes a while to get used to the chaos that this 
 game causes, but once you understand what's going on and how to deal with the chaos, it's really 
 a lot of fun to play. I recommend this game to anyone and everyone. If you like quick puzzle games, 
 this is a great game for you. Some games may only last a couple of minutes, and others can last 
 as long as 10 minutes, depending on how good you are.
  
  I haven't played any multiplayer yet, but I've heard it's just as much fun, if not more because 
 of the social aspect it adds. The only downside to this games is there's internet play. They may 
 have purposefully left this out because of the lag issues it could have caused since there's so 
 much that goes on in Meteos, but then again, I may be way off. I wish there was some net play though, 
 even if it was 1vs1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has played Tetris. Or if you haven't played it, you've at least heard of it. After all, 
 Tetris is, as argued by many, one of the most important historical video games of all time. It 
 was simple, addictive, and fun for everybody. And, possibly most important of all, it established 
 "puzzle" as a completely legitimate genre of game.
  
  Now, years and years after Tetris, the puzzle genre is still going relatively strong. Admittedly, 
 it suffered a bit of dead time for a while there; it seemed to some people like all the puzzling 
 possibilities had already been exhausted. Well, surprising as it may be, it was actually Nintendo 
 that brought new life to the puzzle genre, first with its intergalactic space puzzler Meteos.
 
  
  At first glance, Meteos may seem like a touch-screen rip-off of Tetris (don't worry, though; if 
 that's what you're looking for, there's always Tetris DS for you) . Blocksdisappearing blockslining 
 up blocks. Lots of blocks, and doesn't it all sound familiar?
  
  Well, that's part of the charm of Meteos. While in one respect, it all feels a bit nostalgically 
 familiar, at the same time, it brings something very new and innovative to the table. Of course, 
 probably the most new aspect of Meteos, at least with respect to other puzzle games, is its setting.
 
  
  You take on the role of one of several planets, each full of their own special citizens and each 
 with its own specific attributes. The evil Planet Meteo has begun launching projectiles at all 
 the planets in the galaxy, attempting to wipe out everybody and take control of the galaxy. Naturally, 
 we can't have that, so delegates from each planet create the Metamo Arc and go on the offensive 
 against Planet Meteo.
  
  Admittedly, Meteos does have a weak story, but do you ever purchase a puzzle game solely for its 
 story? I didn't think so. And besides, the lack of depth in terms of plot is more than made up 
 in terms of game play. Like I said, it borrows a few foundational elements from the popular puzzler 
 Tetris. Mainly, the fact that everything essentially evolves around getting blocks to disappear.
 
  
  The differences stop there, however. Because, in Meteos, getting blocks to disappear is done in 
 a very interesting fashion. Rather than simply filling up a line with blocks, you must line up 
 three blocks in a row that are the same color, either horizontally or vertically. Just use your 
 stylus; touch a block and slide it up and down. And, beyond simply disappearing from your screen, 
 the blocks will then launch into space, carrying with them any blocks that are piled above. It's 
 important not to let blocks sit, though, because you will die if you let the blocks reach the top 
 of the touch screen.
  
  This game play mechanic really does allow for an incredible amount of player customization and 
 innovation. Incredibly, you can actually implement some sort of strategy while playing. Sometimes, 
 it's advantageous to let blocks pile up, set up a threesome, then move it into place at the last 
 possible moment and unleash a huge barrage of blocks at your foe. Other times, though (if blocks 
 are coming down quickly) , you're going to be better off just frantically sending up as many blocks 
 as you can, as fast as you can.
  
  Also in terms of customization comes the vast number of playable planets in the game. You'll start 
 out with only a few, and slowly unlock more as you progress further and further into the game. 
 What's cool about all the planets is that each one has a very distinct gravity. Gravity, as you 
 might expect, affects how easy it is to launch blocks into space. Planets with less gravity make 
 it easier to launch off large amounts of blocks, while its harder to so when you are on planets 
 with a stronger gravitational pull. It may seem as if the low-gravity planets have a huge advantage, 
 but as you progress deeper into the game and learn for yourself some of the playing strategies, 
 you'll see that having strong gravity can actually sometimes be helpful.
  
  Aside from simply offering a fantastic, varied game play mechanic, though, Meteos also offers quite 
 a few game play modes. Star Trip is essentially the story mode of the game; this is the part of 
 Meteos where you'll play through its weak story. While you've got no incentive to play thanks to 
 the story arc, it's still plenty of fun playing a random variety of enemy planets. In addition, 
 there are a number of different game endings in Star Trip depending on decisions that you make 
 throughout your current game. While the endings are by no means anything incredible, they do allow 
 you a few special unlockables if you collect all of them.
  
  Star Trip is really only the beginning, though, because there are several other enjoyable game 
 play modes. Free Mode is there when you just want to play a straight-up stock or timed match. It's 
 fun, addicting, and a great way to improve your block-launching skills and to experiment with all 
 the planets you've unlocked. Another favorite of mine is Deluge Mode, in which your faced with 
 an unrelenting barrage of blocks. Your only goal is to stay alive as long as possible; it's tough 
 because the longer you stay alive, the faster the blocks rain down. It's great mainly because it 
 really epitomizes the frantic, exciting puzzling action that Meteos, at its core, is all about.
 
  
  And even once you think you might have exhausted all the resources that Meteos has to offer, you 
 can still keep on playing. Because, in addition to offering one of the most fun and addictive game 
 play mechanics I've ever experienced, there are tons of unlockables, all of which are going to 
 require rather extensive play time on your part. Every time you lanch a block into space, no matter 
 which mode you're playing in, you get "credit" for that block. Special items and soundtracks are 
 available for you to unlock, but you will have to spend some of the blocks that you've earned. 
 Likewise, you can unlock new planets by spending blocks that you've earned through playing. It 
 takes an ungodly amount of blocks to unlock every soundtrack, item, and planet, so if you're a 
 completionist, rest assured that there's tons of gaming time for you with Meteos.
  
  It's worth mentioning that the music in Meteos is really top-notch. While it's not the sort of 
 music that games like Fire Emblem or Advance Wars sport (that is, really awesome-sounding music 
 that you could listen to hours on end) , it still does a great job of fulfilling its purpose in 
 the game. That is, it's very, very immersive. Each planet has a very distinct theme (some are underwater 
 planets, others are full of mechanical beings. Regardless, though, each planet's respective soundtrack 
 is perfectly meshed with the feel of that planet. The result: incredible, albeit quirky, immersive 
 music.
  
  The one big stumbling point of Meteos is its graphics. They're simplistic, roughly done, and just 
 not all that pleasing on the eyes. Admittedly, graphics are never all that important for a good 
 puzzle game. Still, though, good graphics will certainly never hurt a game, and the one of the 
 few things that holds Meteos back from being a truly perfect game is just the fact that the graphics 
 are rather poorly done.
  
  Further adding on to the pure awesomeness of Meteos is a killer multiplayer mode. It features both 
 single card and multi-card play. Unfortunately, single-card play is rather shallow; the downloading 
 opponents are forced to all play as the same, basic planet, which is rather disappointing. If you 
 have some friends with a copy of the game, though, you'll have access to all the planets as you 
 play up to four player intergalactic death matches. Multiplayer doesn't do anything new with the 
 game; it just takes the game play mechanic and gives it multiplayer capabilities, and trust me: 
 it's awesome.
  
  Meteos really is one of the best reasons to purchase a Nintendo DS. At least in my opinion, it 
 really is the best puzzle game to come along since Tetris. It's addicting, has tons of replay value 
 and unlockables, and sports a killer multiplayer mode. It's a great game for anybody looking to 
 see just what the DS is capable of -- it really does show off how touch screen control can make 
 even a seemingly clich&eacute; d idea fresh and exciting. So, if you've got a DS, try and find a 
 copy of Meteos. If you stop playing long enough to register a complete though, you'll be glad that 
 you made the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  We've all played countless puzzle games in the past. And we've all seen the same thing over and 
 over. Meteos changes all of that with its all new style of gameplay. There's not much of a story 
 involves in this game. But who cares? you don't play puzzle games for the story. You play them 
 becuase they are fun and addictiing. right? right. The gameplay is easy to pick up. It will take 
 you no longer than half an hour to learn the basics. So for you guys out there who are afraid of 
 change, don't worry. Meteos is here for you. And you will spend a lot of time playing it. Either 
 with a friend or by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redryno23
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is tetris with rockets. Yeah, its that awesome. Gameplay is repetitive, but the gameplay 
 is what made tetris so popular. It is incredibly addictive. The graphics are good, and the cutscenes 
 are amazing, especially for an '05 game. The story is a =n evil planet shooting things out Called 
 METEOS, hence the name of the game. The other planets are trying to defeat this threat before they 
 are destroyed. The music is incredibly good, with orchestrated music, not some 8-bit crap, unless 
 it is completely necessary, as for one of the planets. This game is just plain fun.
  
  THE END. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiuKang3000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I got this game last Saturdy. So after spending a week with it, I think I'm ready to review it.
 
  
  When I first saw this game, I didn't really know to expect. But wen I started playing it, it was 
 a load of fun. It was easy to understand, and it has a lot of replay value. There are multiple 
 endings and a lot to unlock. But if you play this game, you have to know what are playing. This 
 is a puzzle game. Nothing more, nothing less. This game kind of reminds me of Tetris. (I don't know 
 why, it just does) . The game is really easy and slow when you first start. But when you finally 
 get on a roll, it speeds up. Eventually, the game will get really tough and you will probably (More 
 than likely) lose. If you are looking for a game to waste some time with, this is it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pannstar
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is so dull and such a rip off i am ashamed i bought it. The graphics are fine, but the what 
 sucks about it is its lack of variation. Its the same thing over and over again. I cant play it 
 for more than 5 minutes, i get bored out of my brians.
  
  Meteos falis at every turn.
  it fails at making an interesting puzzle game
  it fails at keeping your interest
  it fails 
 at giving you any enjoyment
  
  it suceeds at stealing your money
  it suceeds at boring you out of your mind
  it suceeds at failing
  
  Dont buy this no matter 
 what you read, you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Back in 2005 the PSP and DS were neck and neck. Each platform was looking for the one great game 
 unique to the system. That game came to the PSP in the form of Lumines. But the PSP dominance didnt 
 last long; for the same creators of Lumines brought an equally impressive puzzle game to the DS, 
 Meteos. Meteos is unique in the fact it has a story element which most puzzle games lack. Basically 
 the evil planet Meteo is destroying planets with its ruthless power. But one day the people of 
 Geolyte find out the weakness of Meteo and by using this knowledge they set off to save the planets 
 under attack and defeat Meteo once and for all.
  
  The gameplay in Meteos is simple. There are rows of blocks called Meteos, you must use the touch 
 screen to move the blocks vertically to make a row of three or more identical kinds of Meteos. 
 Once this happens those Meteos will ignite and start flying upwards out of the playing field taking 
 all Meteos above it with them. The Meteos that fly off your playing field are sent to your opponents 
 and once a stack of Meteos reaches the top of your playing field you will lose. At the end you 
 will earn Meteos based on the amount of Meteos you ignited off your playing field, you can use 
 these to buy extras. The rules of Meteos arent complex, but it can get quite hectic.
  
  There is some strategy to the game; simply igniting Meteos isnt enough for later levels. You see, 
 when you ignite Meteos not all of them will make it off the field. The ones that didnt go off 
 the field will fall back, but you can use this time to do multiple things. If you have enough Meteos 
 you can make a second ignition, make another ignition from Meteos still on the ground, etc. There 
 is a lot going on at a very fast pace in the game. But the fast pace nature of the game is what 
 makes it fun; keeping track of the hundreds of Meteos on screen is very hectic but oh so satisfying 
 when you get a huge chain of ignitions going and sending your opponent to oblivion! Now youre 
 probably thinking Igniting Meteos after Meteos will get boring after a while; but thats where 
 you are wrong. Each planet has its own Meteos, music and physics. The physics play a huge part 
 in making each world feel unique. The physics can very a lot from the size of the playing field, 
 to how fast more Meteos fall, to how the Meteos ignite. Each of the 30 or so planets has its own 
 look and feel of gameplay so the game never gets boring. After you beat the game you can use the 
 Meteos you earned to unlock extras like sound tracks and more planets. You can also play locally 
 with friends through DS to DS play or DS Download, although the DS Download play is very limited. 
 You can also send a demo of Meteos to a friend which is a nice touch. Lets go onto the graphics. 
 Each planet has its own theme and background, most of which look nice. But its the style of Meteo 
 in each planet that is a hit or miss. Some worlds have awesome look Meteos and youll love them. 
 But then some have Meteos that just arent that pleasant to look at. Thankfully there are only 
 a few that look horrendous. Overall the graphics are nice.
  
  The sound in Meteos is good as well. Each planet has three speeds of music. As you get more Meteos 
 on your playing field the faster speed of music will play. This adds to the overall hectic pace 
 of the game and is a very nice touch. The music can get a bit repetitive though, but you wont 
 really notice since youll be to busy igniting Meteos.
  
  Overall Meteos is a very fast paced and addicting puzzle game. The controls really can only be 
 done on the DS and it makes it one of a kind. If you want a new type of puzzle game then Meteos 
 is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0starter0
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is, by far, my favorite puzzle game ever. It's that good. And it's so addictive you'll easily 
 get your money's worth.
  
  Now the main story of Meteos is that the evil planet Meteo has sent multi-color blocks called Meteos 
 to destroy the universe. If one planet builds up too many of these Meteos, the planet is destroyed. 
 But, if you align three or more Meteos in a row, vertically or horizontally, they blast off back 
 into space. This is where you come in. You and the Metamo Ark set off to save the universe from 
 the evil planet Meteo.
  
  Now the object in the game is to send the Meteos back into space. By aligning three or more in 
 a row vertically or horizontally, the Meteos (and any Meteos above them) will shoot to space. But 
 sometimes the Meteos don't make it all the way. Then they'll slowly fall back to earth. This is 
 where the game gets interesting. You're able to launch Meteos in mid air, shoot off Meteos under 
 another group of Meteos falling back to the planet to lift them up again, align the Meteos so when 
 a group of Meteos come back down that they shoot off again with even more Meteos, or throw Meteos 
 up at groups of Meteos to give them an extra push into space. It uses the DS's touch screen really 
 well.
  
  There are many different modes of single player in this game. There is Star Trip which is the story 
 mode, Simple which is where you set the rules and face other planets attempting to destroy each 
 other, Time War is were you try to blast the most Meteos into space as fast as possible, and Deluge 
 where you keep playing till your planet gets annihilated. The best part about Star Trip is that 
 for every different mode/path you take to get to planet Meteo, you get a different ending. This 
 makes for replay value.
  
  Then there's this little feature called Fusion which adds even more replay value. In the Fusion 
 menu you can fuse the Meteos you have gathered in Single Player and Multi Player to create new 
 planets, items, rare Meteos, and music. This keeps the game fresh for a long time, and takes a 
 lot of play to get the Meteos to fuse everything. I mean a lot of play.
  
  Meteos is a good Multi Player game. It's very similar to Simple mode but you're facing other players 
 instead of the CPU. It's a lot more fun and competitive when playing with your friends. Plus you 
 get to choose which planet to use against your friends and your selection of planets depend on 
 how many youve unlocked by fusing Meteos in the game. This game is a definite for anyone who knows 
 someone with a DS. The only bad part is it doesn't support WiFi, the only glaring flaw of the game 
 in my opinion.
  
  The graphics in Meteos are clean and have variety. Though some backgrounds on certain levels aren't 
 as good as they should be, and I noticed a slight frame rate drop on planet Meteo (only one that 
 shows slowdown) , Meteos offers a pretty looking game. Plus the music and sound are pretty good! 
 There is a different theme song to every planet. Plus the tunes can be pretty catchy. And by fusing 
 Meteos you can unlock these tunes so you can listen to them at any time. All in all Meteos is a 
 decent looking and sounding DS game.
  
  To wraps things up, Meteos is a fun, addictive puzzler that you'll be playing for weeks. Another 
 must have for anyone's DS library and the best puzzler currently on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  2004 Q? Entertainment releases Luminus for the PSP and the Puzzle genre gets a breathe of fresh 
 air. Rather than simply porting that great game to Nintendo, Q? decides to greatly exploit the 
 touch screen by creating a new game with a story and wildly unique gameplay. At first glance, Meteos 
 looks like a Puzzle League rip-off, but almost immediately you realize there is much more to it 
 than connecting blocks and colors. By, building a rocket launch system, into the touch screen you 
 command your Meteos by sending them off the screen to attack your opponent. By using different 
 planets as settings the game adds loads of gameplay variety by having each planet excersive different 
 physics. Someplanets will have stronger gravity, while others have more combustion that others. 
 The characteristics of the levels make each one feel like a brand new experience. Meteos doesn't 
 look as good or sound as good as Luminus but that is a real footnote that can easily be blamed 
 on the hardware. The forking story line is miles better than Luminus' linear bore fest and the 
 fast paced gameplay keeps your attention much better than the trancey aura of Luminus. Also, the 
 unlockables are feed to you gradually as you play and you don't have to play the game for hours 
 to find something to unlock. Unlike Luminus, Meteos doesn't force you to get better and better 
 at it to make progress. You can simply put your play time into it and greatly enjoy yourself, without 
 feeling stressed that if you die you will have to start over from 25 levels ago. Beware though, 
 if you are a casual puzzle gamer you may want to steer clear of Meteos, it can get fierce and fast, 
 so don't get it thinking you can play it while trying to hold a conversation with someone, this 
 puzzle game is going to take all of your attention and you better give it to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  In short, you are an alien figurine trying to save your planet from an evil eye by shooting blocks 
 at it. That's peculiarly the story driving the game, from initiation till' end. After a while, 
 the game will get repetative due to it's simplistic, effortless and feeble gameplay. 
  
  What the game expands further beyond the tetris dimensions are the seeminlgy easy-to-use items 
 as well as the quirky characters that operate as your representative. Give it a try if you found 
 tetris appealing, the grid and entirety of the game haven't aged.
  
  Graphically, the game has good artistry and has multiplayer too. Unlike the mob of tetris rip-offs, 
 this game has a strong theme to stand on and you will notice how reliant it will be.
  
  Something unique you will notice is the variation that the game holds to be very statistcal. For 
 example, it will relatively be harder to launch a series of blocks in a planet with a larger sense 
 of gravity opposed to one with very limited gravity. Furthermore, different planets call for different 
 scenery, so in trun the blocks will be different for example there will be more grass or more fire 
 elements.
  
  All in all, the game is a well produced past time, nothing more than that. It's fun producing more 
 creatures or items, along with music and materials. Occasionally, you will come across "Rare Metals" 
 which serve of importants to the creation process. This is a pretty good game but it feels too 
 much like tetris or that pokemon puzzle game produced a while back on the Nintendo 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterspodi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Not since Tetris have I've been addicted to a puzzle this way. This game manages to grab your attention 
 by the crazy game play and bright colors. The first few times you play a quick game you may be 
 a little confused, but then you'll get used to it within the first fifteen minutes. I'm so addicted 
 that I've actually played it five hours straight! Its a great way to kill some time. There are 
 a few different types of game modes, but they all have all the same concept. You can change the 
 difficulty to your skill. I definitely think its worth the $20 dollar price tag. It's personally 
 my favorite DS games. Thats saying a lot because I love my DS library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudaMarrTL
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Meteos is a great game. What you have to do is match up as many 3 in a row or more blocks of the 
 same color and send them flinging into other planets.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Innovative and fun. Can keep you addicted for quite awhile. And each planet has its own different 
 size and gravity. so no two planets are the same. So you will be sampling every planet. and eventually 
 be playing Planet Havendor the entire game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  For the DS. they could be a tad better
  
  SOUND
  
  I wish there was more variety to the 
 music as thats Meteos's weak point. you eventually hear the same beats over and over only with 
 added extra noises when you launch a stack of blocks.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Not much to say but. works good with the stylus.
  
  Overall. The game deserves a rental for 
 everyone. And if you like Luminess, Baku Baku, Jewelquest Etc. you want to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  this in my opinion is the best puzzle game for the DS. chaining meteos is so much fun while bombarding 
 your opponets with blocks. there is plently of content to unlock and it kept playing until i unlocked 
 everything. msic is great and the sylus works beautiful with the game. a must have for all DS owners! 
 there is plenty of planets to unlock each with there own personality and avatar. multiplayer is 
 amazing. and if you had four people i can't even imagine how crazy it would get. probally one of 
 the best puzzle games ever. if you can even call it a puzzle game the game is prenty insane especally 
 on harder difficulties 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcelice
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Everything in this game is perfect. Except the unfortunate shortness. The touch screen innovation 
 definitely works, and everything else about the game is flawless. Yes, though the game is short, 
 (you could beat in the game in a mere 10 minutes) , it does have great replay value. The only problem 
 is that replaying the game doesn't seem to have many rewards. Though the game has many different 
 modes, I truthfully only used the star trip mode, which is where you go on a journey to various 
 planets until you reach the planet Meteo, which is the equivalent of a boss. You defeat Meteo, 
 and the credits begin to roll.
  
  Overall, I think that Meteos is one of the greatest puzzle games of all-time, but think that there 
 could have been better presented, with more rewarding adventure and a longer campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawnBurn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Metoes is probably the best puzzle game out there for the DS. It takes strong advantage of the 
 stylus, though it also has controls using the D-pad. The game play is a simple modified Tetris. 
 Blocks are falling from the sky. By moving a block up or down in its column create matched colors 
 of 3 or more (horizontal or vertical) and the blocks will launch up, taking with them any blocks 
 sitting on top of them.
  
  The point of each game session is to continually reduce the number of blocks on your screen by 
 launching the blocks far enough to get them completely offscreen. Depending on the planet you are 
 playing on (level) , the gravity will be different as will the number of colors and the width of 
 the screen. You can create combos by attaching columns from launched portions to stationary for 
 a short time or by making additional matches within a launched portion. Combos tend to launch the 
 blocks higher, and may be necessarily to fully power a mass of blocks offscreen. In multiplayer 
 modes, or agains the computer, Metoes launches offscreen turn into blocks that launch onto the 
 other player's screen and act as nonmatchable blocks for a short time.
  
  There is an overaching story mode you can play through and the more you play the more Metoes you 
 capture. Captured Meteos are used to unlock planets, sounds and special weapons, which can then 
 be used as your 'home' planet during story mode or for multiplayer competitions.
  
  This was my third DS game and it is probably my most played. I'll bring it out for a quick 5 minute 
 session or sit down and pound through the story mode for the nth time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Tetris, struck the original GBA it has been hard for people to come up with a puzzle 
 game, so much fun, so addicting, and just so overly simple. Well I think that Meteos is it. The 
 story line, well who am I kidding, if there is a story line, then I would have to say it is that 
 you go around destroying the enemies plantets until you get to Metos. The final one. There is no 
 challenge, but it is the final planet. This is in my opinon what a Star Fox game would look like 
 if it was a puzzle game, there are different paths that you can take, just like in Star Fox. The 
 graphics, are nothing spectacular, but the background are pretty cool, and all the different Meteos 
 look cool as well. I found that the ones that move are the hardest to control all at once and see 
 all together. The control is simple, you just use your stylus, you can use the control pad, but 
 that just makes it pretty complicated, and not as much fun because really how many games are there 
 that take the stylus seriously, not that many. The rules are simple. You have all these different 
 Meteos that have different colors and designs. You have to try to get three in a row, of the same 
 kind (this is kind of like the Bejewled internet game) , and then they send rockets up, but you 
 have to get a powerful enough one for it to shoot off screen and then have it count. You can only 
 move things up and down and on the same column, but you can move them as many as you want, but 
 you cannot move them sideways. You do this while blocks fall. There is multiplayer, and that is 
 fun to, seeing how many points you can rack up and beat the others. However this game's replay 
 value comes soley from all the different gameplay options that you have. You can play a 100-Meteos 
 (like the 100 Man Meele from SSBM) , or you can set up your own rules. This game may be beatable 
 storywise in under fifteen minutes, but its the abitltiy to play and make you own, that makes this 
 game so much fun. It is kind of cool, because it reads you scores of your DS name, atleast that 
 was my understanding. If you are a Tetris fan, or just looking for that one puzzle game that will 
 without a doubt pass the time away, there is no doubt in my mind that Meteos is the way to go for 
 the most fun on the NIntendo DS, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariodeath
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  It wasss fun a long time ago. But there was something else already out. And thats Tetris, but tetris 
 is old news this game has got more action and stuff but it needs to be longer on startrip. I mean 
 you can just beat the all startrip missions in less than 3 hours while other games go to over 7 
 hours. now the graphics are good.... well for stick people they are. the music does sound according 
 to the game and it goes with it. And the wireless play is awesome for multi-card players, because 
 you can score more meteo blocks that way so you can get all the meteo blocks you need to get all 
 the planets in the galaxy. so everything is all good... (a little) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Space theme is cool; gameplay works very well; soundtrack is really awesome; lots and 
 lots of variety and unlockables.
  
  The Bad: Gets old after a little while; visuals can be a little bit cramped; no online play.
 
  
  Q Entertainment's Meteos is just bursting with creativity and flair. The gameplay is addictive 
 and original, and has loads of variety. Really, the only thing comparable to Meteos is Lumines, 
 another fantastic puzzle game published by Q Entertainment.
  
  Meteos offers a lot of things to do. The single player is split into a story mode, an endless mode, 
 and a few other very fun modes of play. There's a lot to unlock, including extra planets, items, 
 and sound tests. This offers all kinds of extra incentives to play. Multiplayer is solid too.
 
  
  Unfortunately, Meteos' thrills don't last forever. Eventually, it gets to the point that you've 
 pretty much seen all you want to see and done everything you feel like doing. Also, Meteos missed 
 the Wi-Fi bandwagon, so it has no online play. That's really all the bad that can be spoken about 
 a game this intriguing, however. Definitely check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Summary:
  The objective of the game is to shoot blocks into space to blow up planets. In order to shoot up 
 blocks into space you must align 3 of the same blocks together horizontally and vertically. The 
 more you shoot up the more Meteos you get. Meteos is a type of currency in this game, in which 
 you use to buy planets, items, sound, and rare meteos.
  
  Review:
  The gameplay was innovative. The way you play the game depends what planet you are on. Planets 
 differ by gravity, size of the field, and what Meteos are dropped on. So your styles will change 
 with planet you use. Just like Tetris, this is very addictive. The graphics and sound were good. 
 They were what you would expect for a DS puzzle games. The sound were a bit better than the graphics. 
 The sound set of each planet was unique, and matched the planet. The best part that makes this 
 game last in the collecting. Fuse different meteos to create planets, sound sets, items, and rare 
 meteos. The amount of collecting keeps Meteos in your DS slot. The multiplayer (would have been 
 better online) was very good. Blowing up your friend's planet isn't just satisfying, but fun.
 
  
  Overall:
  This is a must buy for the DS. The most addictive game for the DS. The only things they could improve 
 is the graphics, and the sounds. They could have added an online mode. Go out and buy this now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --ZyoX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  I'm not exactly a puzzle gamer, but this is just a puzzle game everyone should try out.
  It's a very unique puzzle game which I've never seen before. You have to use the stylus to move 
 Meteos' up and down to match them with other Meteos' which are the same colour (type) for them 
 to launch. Making things unlockable makes the game even more entertaining. And it's a very challenging 
 game for people will slow reaction times. So playing this can also practise your reflexes.
  The single gameplay can be a little short for some people, but with its online multiplay makes 
 it last longer. And it's fun to challenge other players around the world, testing their reflex 
 skills.
  The disappointing bit is that the graphics are poor, but because this isn't a good-graphic-needing-game, 
 it's still alright for it, it's also a 2D game, so it doesn't matter.
  Anyway, it's a game that any DS owners should have... can't be bothered to write more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdizzie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Meteos is an amazing Action Puzzle game, awesome multiplayer and singlelplayer modes. The item 
 using reminds me of Super Smash Bros., and the pick up and play is alot of fun. Enjoyment all the 
 way through, It's just so fun to look at, the story mode is a blast as you get to choose where 
 you want to go a, wonderful high quality game. You can use the D-pad or the touch screen, both 
 are fun but when the pressure gets on, you'll want to get the stylus. One of the most amusing parts 
 of the game is the Fusion where you can reap the benifits of your play to create planets ,items 
 and what not to increase the massive amount of fun you have with meteos, if you don't have it, 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juansouto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  This is the game I like the most of my collection (FFIII, PoR, New Mario, Mario Kart, Resident, 
 Tetris and Brain Age) . I got it fr christmas and if i'd know it was so good I'd bought it a long 
 time ago. Let&acute; s start the review (my first) .
  
  Graphics: Since this is a puzzle you can't ask for anything extraordinary but they are nice and 
 the videos quiet nice. There is a good variety of meteos depending on which planet we are. Perfect 
 frame rate and animations (not too difficult) .
  
  Sound: top notch. each planet has its own and unique music (good music) and each time our meteos 
 fly into the sky we get different sounds depending on the number of pieces we'v thrown, if it was 
 a column... they're all great.
  
  Gameplay: fantastic. The basic is really simple join up at least three meteos. Is that all? No 
 way. Each planet has its own mixture of meteos and each of those its frequency. Furthermore every 
 planet has a different gravity and in some columns are thrown easier but in others rows fly better, 
 or maybe you need 2 takeoffs in order to get ready of them. The only downside is that sometimes 
 you'll move the wrong meteos due to their size. Nonetheless, it doesn't annoy.
  
  Value: There are 32 planets, 4 modes, 12 endings and 5 levels of difficulty. The main mode is divided 
 in 3 more, one of them including missions. If all this wasn't enough, you accumulate all the meteos 
 you throw (not the burned ones) . These meteos are used to get all the sounds, the planets and the 
 objects. You&acute; ll a lot of hours to get them all. (I have no time to explain all the game modes, 
 sorry)
  
  In conclusion: get it, you will like it. All my friends doubt about the game and none of them could 
 stop playing. Great purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  Dear PSP owners,
  
  Are you keeping your PSP to play Lumines? I know I did for over 8 months. Lumines was the only 
 game I played. Now, Lumines is on XBLA (of course I own it!) and the DS has this stellar title 
 named Meteos. Really, its just as good! And just think, you can trade in your PSP, get a brand 
 new, shiny, sexy DS Lite and a copy of Meteos and still have a few bucks left over. Meteos will 
 only run you $19.99. $20! It's a steal. If you act now, you can even own your DS Lite before games 
 like Zelda or Final Fantasy III come out. Wait, FInal Fantasy III is already out on the DS? Hurry 
 it up will you! You are missing so many great games! I hope you listen to this advice, it will 
 do you well.
  
  Sincerely,
  
  Blu3
  
  Well, what is there to say? You are a master gamer if you can keep a Meteos game going longer than 
 about 7 minutes. The puzzle action is intense, frantic, and compelling. And it will keep you coming 
 back for more. And more. And more. This is a killer title if you have any interest in puzzle games 
 at all. Please buy screen protectors if you want your DS screen to look anywhere close to new. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangeseraph
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Heck, a puzzle game like Meteos should be a required pack in with every DS. This game personifies 
 the Touch gaming genre, and Puzzle fun!
  
  Each planet is a UI that has its own block shapes, its own rules of gravity and its own difficulty 
 level, and you control it all. Unlock planets through the mission levels, collect meteos to 'buy' 
 planets in the store and rare metals to create more planets, then play as your rare unlocked planets 
 and more! Plenty of unlockable, the gameplay just rocks, and even after you unlocked every single 
 thing, the unlocked content is replayable to its maximum.
  
  This game would have been the ultimate game with Wifi! Just trying to unlock planet Meteo and pay 
 for him was the work of an entire week of play. Great great GREAT title! Don't even know how many 
 hours I've played this game since I've bought it, must have been over 100 hours...
  
  Add this to your collection, you won't be dissappointed. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zomgieee
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Meteos is the best puzzle game I have played on any platform. It combines traditional puzzle game 
 elements with its own unique flare and imagination.
  
  The goal is simple: Line up 3 or more of the same colour Meteos horizontally to launch them off 
 the screen. If they stack up and reach the top Tetris style, its game over.
  
  The first thing that you will notice is that Meteos is *FAST*. From the get go the bricks ( Meteos 
 ) start raining down at startling speed, which can be initially quite intimidating.
  
  However, thanks to the DS's intuitive stylus, you are soon able to keep up with the amazing speed 
 of the game. I could go on about the unlockable planets, various game endings, and the awesome 
 music, however they are all nice to haves . The important thing to know is, if you are looking 
 for a crazy fast and addictive puzzle game, this is the one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Next_In_Line
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  The gaint planet Meteos is attacking! Help us! We don't want to die-*BOOM* Help yourself and your 
 home planet to stop these falling blocks from destroying the planet! We are DOOMED! Wait! When 
 you line up three or more blocks they will launch into the air as a counter attack! We aren't doomed 
 after all!
  
  Gameplay: Blocky 
  Blocks... So many blocks... Like they say, the more the marrier! The more blocks the easier. All 
 you need to do is line up three blocks then they launch into space, but some times it doesnt work 
 like that. Some planets have different types of gravity that will slow or speed the process of 
 launching.
  
  Sound: Say WHAT?!?! 
  The sound occurs along with how your doing and what you are doing. That will make each time you 
 play sound different, and each planet has different sounds to it.
  
  Graphics: Ahh!!! 
  Terrible! They look terrible, but still, graphics don't matter that much any way, the only thing 
 that looks good is the top screen.
  
  Extras: Awesome! 
  When you finish the game, there is wireless play with your friends, if they do or don't have the 
 game. There is fuson where you use the meteos you launched into space or at a planet to make planets 
 or items.
  
  Overall: Go away! And go get it! 
  Fun for all! Easy to learn! Very addictive! Instantly fantastic and original! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reptileszz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  This game is simply awesome. I have only had this game for 24 hours but I can't put it down. I 
 didn't read the instructions and the first couple of times I had no clue what I was doing but then 
 I got the hang of it and WOW IT'S ADDICTIVE! You have to line up the colored meteos by dragging 
 them up and down with your stylus. When you get 3 matched up side by side they rocket up to the 
 top and some of them disappear. Keep lining them up on the rocket platform and they go away even 
 faster. GREAT fast paced fun.
  
  I highly recommend this game for anyone. It only take a couple of minutes to learn and then you 
 can't put it down until you keep outdoing your score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Releasing fairly early in the DS's lifetime, Meteos was an appealing option for those who felt 
 that their early DS libraries were not big enough. The Metroid Prime: Hunters demo could only hold 
 gamers up for so long. With a large library of games, many DS owners turned to Meteos. If you know 
 one of these gamers, congratulate them. Meteos is a very entertaining and innovative puzzle game 
 that anyone can enjoy. Though many might think that it looks like another cheap Tetris rip-off, 
 it is far from it. You use the stylus to drag blocks up and down, and, when you line three up of 
 the same color, they launch into the sky, taking all meteos above them with them as they soar into 
 the heavens, bound to cause destruction on your enemy planets. Fun, innovative, and extremely addicting, 
 Meteos is an amazing game I can recommend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ismakun
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  For all you people out there with a DS, Meteo is a must have in your collection. Its an excellent 
 puzzle game. Although you wont be playing it for hours at a time, this is the game you'll be playing 
 until Nintendo throws a new system. Every time I have to wait between classes I start playing through 
 the various difficulties and the campaign. It has plenty of things to unlock too.
  
  The multi player is great with up to 4 people plying separately on their DS. I always like to do 
 LAN PARTIES at my house but I must say I never thought of that from all the DS games we had, including 
 Metroid, we couldn't stop playing Meteos. That's how good it is.
  
  So if you have a DS, you got to have this game, its a never ending challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantes_Monkey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up for my DS recently, and let me tell you it was worth it. So far the DS puzzle 
 games had been pretty uninspiring, sure Zoo keeper is great but i have played it all before. Then 
 along came Meteos. The story is centred on destroying the evil planet meteos which threatens to 
 destroy existence as we know it, as would be expected of an evil planet. The only way to do this, 
 obviously, is to launch colourful blocks into space.
  
  It quite literally flips the puzzle genre on its head, the aim of the game is as always to chain 
 together matching blocks, so far so good, and then cause rocket boosts to send them up to the top 
 of the screen, what now?!, which then disintegrates them into little pieces which then attack opposing 
 planets. Madness, utter madness- but definitely different.
  
  This is most effectively done using the stylus, although more conventional methods can be used. 
 Unlike games such as zoo keeper you can move any piece anywhere as long as it is in a vertical 
 column. This makes it almost impossible to run out of moves, but the game is still very difficult 
 as the pace in which it is played goes into warp speed. Before you know it blocks will be piling 
 in and, just as in tetris, your screen will fill up ending your game. The only way to stop this 
 happening is by chaining the blocks together. This can be done in two ways : vertically or horizontally. 
 When stacked vertically the rocket boost will usually send the meteos straight off of the screen 
 and into space, however this only clears one column whereas launching them horizontally can take 
 up to 5 columns into the air. But with all this extra weight the rockets fail to leave the bottem 
 screen. meaning you have to try and create more propulsion by chaining more meteos. If done correctly 
 you can send almost an entire screen of meteos into the stratosphere. There are a couple of different 
 modes to play through the first being a normal time attack with the aim being to amass the highest 
 score possible in a given time limit. There is also a mode called Deluge where you basically keep 
 launching meteos until you can't launch anymore or until your stylus wears away. The main mode 
 is Star Mode where you play through a series of planets to reach Meteos at the end and attempt 
 to destroy it. the wealth of modes here add to the lifespan of the game and there is also the fusion 
 room, where meteos that have been launched are recorded and can then be traded in for new planets, 
 items, sounds etc. The game is good for quick bursts as well as longer sessions so should have 
 frequent trips into your DS cart slot. Each individual planet has its own properties, for example 
 on some of the water based stages the meteos launched appear to move as if in water. This is a 
 nice touch and keeps the gameplay varied, causing you to have a slight rethink on how to approach 
 each planet. The game is hard though, especially to beginner players, due to the speed in which 
 the meteos rain down but practice makes perfect. Graphically it could be any puzzle game really 
 functional, bright blocks; apart from the backgrounds which match the type of planet and give the 
 game a little character. Overall a great puzzle game easily up there with tetris and Zoo keeper 
 although it is held back by its lack of WiFi Online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draqq_Zyxorian
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Combining three like objects somehow never loses its appeal, as long as there is a twist, and for 
 Q? Entertainment, that twist was probably found by wanting to reach the stars. With rockets in 
 hand, Meteos lights a fuse under a puzzle concept that has been worked to death and blasts it off 
 into space. Instead of evaporating into the pixilated void after forming lines and assorted shapes, 
 Meteos blocks turn into incendiary squares with fire jets flaring underneath, propelling any blocks 
 above them into the sky. At least that is what the remaining planets have discovered.
  
  The evil planet Meteo has become an extraterrestrial cancer, threatening the universe with streams 
 of phantasmagoric matter suffusing from Meteo's surface. One by one, planets have fallen to the 
 life-crushing blocks of Meteos, but then by chance of a here's-the-point event, three Meteos of 
 the same type aligned and ignited.
  
  Blast off!
  
  Though the rather hard-boiled storyline continues with the impression that the player is piloting 
 the Metamo Ark, a warship tasked with defending a chain of planets until facing Meteo at the finish 
 line, it serves as a passive, quirky thread through what could have been clich&eacute; gameplay. 
 How blocks are fired off the screen, stylus in hand, hits multiple sweet-spots that hone in on 
 just the right difficulty and complexity. With the restriction that blocks can only be moved up 
 and down a column, turning Meteos into rockets is fairly simple, particularly when compared to 
 chaining complex launches. Removing blocks, as they drop more and more feverishly, requires small 
 launches to be made across the width of the board, so that rockets connect by stacking above and 
 below each other. This element of strategy, combined with a dynamic system in which something is 
 always moving in real-time, just adds to the already frantic hands-on action.
  
  Surprisingly, while this puzzler is of the general pick-up-and-play mold, its appeal lasts longer 
 than a quick burst. Lending more significance than just common blocks, any Meteos that are sent 
 into space are stored in a fusion room and can be transformed into weapons, rare Meteos, planets, 
 and even music. The main storyline mode Star Trip is grueling on the highest difficulty setting, 
 so forging weapons that can destroy chunks of Meteos will probably take first priority. The other 
 game modes Simple, Time War, and Deluge don't benefit from weapons as much, but they allow for 
 spurts of play that, courtesy of the variety of planets, still remain addictive.
  
  Each planet offers an experience that is fresh and compact, minimizing the game's flaws by keeping 
 the action in motion. Akin to competing against a CPU player, defeating planets requires launching 
 piles of Meteos over to their game board in the hope that they will overflow and be annihilated. 
 Given the three-minute time limit, holding down the accelerator button to speed up the drop rate 
 occurs often, essentially compelling the player to quicken the pace despite the risk. Since each 
 planet has its own sound effects, music, block skin, sound effects, Meteos distribution, and gravitational 
 pull, the brisk tempo of play relieves some of the unavoidable loss of impact that happens after 
 playing the game multiple times.
  
  Once five different endings are reached and enough planets to recreate Earth's solar system are 
 fused, there's not much reason to continue. Mastery of the game in particular is not clearly defined, 
 emphasizing column management and luck more than skill. Groups of launched Meteos act independently 
 when they are suspended in air, so especially for planets will low gravitational pulls, there will 
 be large spans of time when only one or two columns will be left standing to take all the Meteos 
 drops. Sometimes this comes at no fault of the player since three Meteos occasionally align without 
 any assistance at all. Put in this situation, this luck backfires, and no amount of stylus-swiveling 
 will prevent annihilation. Fortunately, this only becomes a problem during the highest drop rates, 
 and control still largely remains in the hands of the player.
  
  Meteos has a fair share of irony. Many puzzle games have the lasting interest of a rocket - few 
 hours of play are enough to enjoy all the sights. But actually insert rockets and a fusion room 
 into the formula, and the game will last longer than most any flight. It takes a certain level 
 of audacity to combine something as atypical as rockets into a rule-heavy genre that is rather 
 formal and turn-based. For breaking the clich&eacute; barrier, Meteos aims for the stars, and though 
 it lands somewhat short, the moon is nice enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is not only innovative in its gameplay but also satisfies in many other ways. Firstly the 
 games graphics do meet standards for a puzzle game, the games opening sequence for one has to 
 be very much commended for its graphics but there are also suitable graphics for each planet (background, 
 style of blocks etc.) . The look of the planets and their natives are also very imaginative although 
 if your looking for good quality 3D in a puzzle game the overall graphics may not satisfy. The 
 gameplay is really what gives this game its kick of course, firstly the stylus gives you a new 
 way to puzzle, moving blocks (or meteos) with your stylus is quick and simple but the game is fast 
 paced and although scratching crazily at the screen will be okay most of the time for the first 
 two difficulty levels youll need your wits about you and a keen eye to really start going at it. 
 This said the stylus style of gameplay compared to the size of the blocks means you will sometimes 
 select the wrong block which can be fatal in such a rapid-moving game but touch-puzzling is still 
 a fun and mainly practical system. The game is your traditional match-3-blocks puzzler but with 
 a big twist, once you match them they wont just disappear, they will in fact combust and propel 
 all blocks on top of them into the air. The aim is to rocket the blocks off of the top of the screen 
 to clear them and so you dont get bored each planet has its own gravity and width so you may have 
 less space to move blocks or it may be harder to get them really taking off. On top of the fun 
 multiplayer mode (although you really only get the full excitement of this with a friend who owns 
 the game) there is also a simple vs. CPU mode (Simple) , a deluge mode, a challenge-style mode (Time 
 War) and a story-style mode (Star Trip) . The meteos you earn while playing can also be used to 
 unlock (or fuse) new things, you can fuse rare meteos, new planets, sound tracks for planets and 
 new items. The sounds of Meteos are unlike any other puzzle game, each planet has its own music, 
 each track is suitable and although repetitive the game often has you so caught up and emits so 
 many sound effects that you dont notice. The sound effects of the game are more like small snippets 
 of music, the more meteos you launch the greater the effect and it is quite nice to have the game 
 respond in such a way to your efforts. I must also make a mention of the main theme of the game 
 which is a surprisingly well done classical tune. There is also some back story to the game although 
 I wont mention it here and as you unlock each planet you can also get a little information on 
 it and/or its inhabitants. Overall Meteos has everything youd want it a good puzzle game and more, 
 the game provides constant excitement, diversity and replayability as well as being sorted for 
 puzzlers of all levels of skill. P. S I apologise this is not paragrpahed but tht it due to a paragrpahing 
 glitch I am having. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is one of those games that get lost b/c people want samus and mario, but this is one that 
 everyone should play. Action-puzzler games are usually not that good unless they have something 
 totally innovative, meteos delivers with innovation everywhere.
  
  Gmeplay- 9
  blocks of different colors fall from the sky, when they land you can move them in the columns they 
 are in and if you get 3 in a row they will ignite and go upwrds, your goal is to push the metoes 
 of your planet. sounds easy? well they fall from the sky and you want them to go to the sky so 
 if you ignite a batch they may get pushed down by other faliing blocks and then your efforts will 
 be wasted. so when you ignit a stack you can ignite another under it to give it a boost or u can 
 ignite other meteos within the stack in the air to boost it up. with different gravity strengths 
 and varying field sizes and block falling rates, the game's simple premise gets pretty chaotic 
 and fun. When your struggling to clear a screen filling stack and trying to get an ignition with 
 a smoke screen item in your face... well those moments are ation-puzzling at its best.
  
  Graphics- 8
  you play on different planets and each one has a distinct look and items, inhabitants 
 and whenever you get rid of blocks all look neat. overall the graphics get the job done although 
 some interface options are kinda small, such as when you pick which planet to luanch your metoes 
 at in ultiplayer.
  
  Sound- 10 for a puzzler the music and effects are really catchy and unique. each planet has different 
 sounds when you ignite blocks and when the falling rate gets really high the music picks up in 
 tempo. in the end you will be tapping your foot and may find yourself humming the tunes of your 
 favorite planet.
  
  Value- 9
  a ton of unlockables which are fused in the fusion room with launched meteos add to the value. 
 u dont really beat the game, its a puzzler, but there is a startrip mode which is the best mode 
 to play as you will launch a lot of meteos to use in the fusion room, have a chance at unlocking 
 new planets and get the witness one of the many endings of the mode. 100%-ing will take at least 
 30 or so hours, i have 16 hours logged in and i have about half the planets and around 2/3 of the 
 items created.
  
  Tilt- 10
  i really dont know why i gave tilt a ten... probably b/c this game has the potential to overthrone 
 tetris as top puzzler, yet one factor hinders it... no wi-fi. also the new meteos version (which 
 i dont recommend getting, get this one) doesn't have wi-fi either so the new version isn't really 
 any better and it is also much easier and has been disneyfied which just feels weird. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shidohari
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  My reviews tend to be short, and this is no exception. As many of you know it takes quite a bit 
 to get me to buy a game but when i went into the store, this wasn't even the game i was originally 
 planning on getting. However i'm very pleased with the result. Meteos takes tetris like games to 
 a whole new level. While saving the worlds from destruction you must move rows of blocks vertically 
 up or down to line them up in like rows of three or more. The lines you make can be horizontal 
 or vertical but you can only move the blocks vertically.
  
  Once you gather enough Meteos from gameplay you can fuse them together to make new items to help 
 your game, new planets to challenge you, or even sounds and rare metals. Sound and graphics are 
 great and the learning curve is only as long as you can get your stylus to move the blocks where 
 you want them to be :)
  
  Get this game it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguru43
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  meteos is about this planet that is trying to take over other planets. As you beat through the 
 starship mode, you see the different endings after you destroy meteo. This game started out hard 
 for me because i didn't understand how to play it. you have to line up four meteos, that are the 
 same type, horizontally or vertically to launch them into the sky to attack the other player u 
 are playing against. The music is great. there is a whole lot of songs here. that are creative and 
 catchy tunes. Each planets that you play have their own characteristics. that you have to use against 
 the other opponent. There is also a wide variety of items that just pop up on your screen to help 
 you .You'll be playing this game for a while if you want to unlock everything. but when your trying 
 to launch the things in the air, its sometimes hard to touch the right one. They also need to get 
 some more modes to play also. But thats pretty much it. this game will test how fast you really 
 are at the touch screen. and yes, this game will frustrate you at times, but overall its a really 
 good game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mytharis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Classifying Meteos as a puzzle game is a hard thing to do. Why? Because meteos is one of the most 
 frantic, exciting games you'll ever play. It's a portable puzzle game that keeps you on the edge 
 of your seat. Like Tetris, Meteos is based on falling blocks. But instead of arranging these into 
 'lines', in Meteos, you must blast them off the screen. You can do this by dragging them up or 
 down with your stylus, until you have three aligned horizontally or vertically. This creates a 
 'raft', which launches some Meteos up into the air. These may go off the top of the screen, and 
 be destroyed, or only make it half way, and need another mid air alignment to be destroyed.
  
  If the blocks make a vertical line to the top of the screen, they'll begin to flash and the 
 game will make a sort of beeping noise. If you leave these blocks alone, they'll cause the destruction 
 of your planet, and you'll lose the round.
  
  Which brings me to the story of the game. It's rather weak, but, hey, this is a puzzle game. You're 
 trying to save your planet from the launching of these blocks, or Meteos off of the screen. If 
 they pile too high, its ARMAGEDDON. Travel the galaxy! Save some planets!
  
  There are a variety of planets with a variety of different gameplay differences. There's different 
 looks and blocksets, different music, and different rules and gravity between planets.
  
  The sound in Meteos is superb. The music, though a bit repetitive, matches what's going on, and 
 if you create a spectacular raft you get congratulatory music and applause. If things aren't going 
 so well, the music becomes very tense. The audio itself is repetitive, but you won't get bored 
 of it any time soon.
  
  Graphics are pretty good, they're basically all they need to be. Still, meteos could use a bit 
 more visual flair. Check out some screenshots or videos if you want to see them.
  
  The game uses the DS interface relatively well, using the stylus brilliantly and making some use 
 of both of the screens.
  
  What really stands out is the addictive multiplayer in Meteos. Ever played Bubble Bobble in multiplayer? 
 Remember how when you destroyed a clump, some bubbles would be placed into your opponents screen? 
 Meteos works like that, and the blocks you obliterate become problems for your competitors. It's 
 a lot of fun, and it has Download Play in case your friends don't have it. Meteos is a good purchase, 
 at around 30$, and is well worth your money and time. Any DS owner should have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokentrash
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I'd give this game a perfect score if it had wi-fi. Now I might not be the best at puzzle games, 
 nor played a great deal of them too, but a puzzle game with great multiplayer assets, unquie visuals 
 for each individual stage, a nice way of unlocking things, and an ending that involves meatballs... 
 the game sounds great and I haven't mentioned gameplay!
  I decided to get this due to the other reveiws said, purely 'a great puzzle game for the DS.' And 
 its been worth it. A puzzle game where the story actually gives meaning to all your actions in 
 the game ( send meteos out of your planet to avoid destruction while at the same time taking out 
 other planets. ) Each planet you play on handles distinctly enough to make chosing a planet more 
 than just 'the coolest looking' though I have to admitt thats pretty hard becase they are all pretty 
 cool. Love chains? find the planet where the meteos fall down the slowest, hate vertical send offs? 
 find the planet where they don't move at all, this mean nothing to you right now? Good, buy the 
 game and find out what I'm on about.
  So it took you a day to to get all the endings huh? And a week to unlock all the planets? Good 
 for you, with a difficulty that can be customised enough to always make you feel like you suck, 
 its gotta be a sign that you have to keep playing so... now turn up the difficulty. I've seen the 
 videos on Youtube with the million+ scores so untill you get there, practise ( this has gotta to 
 take a while to do.. ) Why does this game need wi-fi? well didn't I tell you that your competing 
 against other planets to rid themselves of meteos? With and already solid multiplayer wi-fi would 
 just mean real people 24/7 something I know I'd jump at the oppertunity to play. Still reading? 
 Go! Find this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyebrowless
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game that takes seconds to learn and hours to master!
  This is true for the whole game. I still find myself learning new strategies to get the most meteos 
 launched as i can. The graphics are nothing spectacular, just blocks. But the sound is incredible, 
 every world (about 32 of them) has its own sound effects, main song, winning song etc. Truly top 
 notch. And the ability to go and listen to the music whenever you want to is a great addition. 
 I still have yet to unlock everything that this game has to offer, and i have spent over 20 hours 
 with it. If you own a DS, do yourself a favor and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Meteos comes to us from the same people who brought Lumines to the PSP and the XBL Arcade. Three's 
 the magic number in this puzzler, which is one part tic-tac-toe, one part Tetris, and one part 
 bizarrely quirky. The question remains, though, is it worth while? Anticipating myself a little, 
 I'd say yes, but look for it used or in a bargain bin. As a puzzler, Meteos is fairly intense. 
 Players bring falling blocks into horizontal or vertical groups of three using the stylus to move 
 a given block up or down within its column. Blocks don't move horizontally. When three like blocks 
 come together, rockets fire and those meteos, along with any that have piled up on top of them 
 blast towards the top of the screen. The barrage from above is ceseless, though, and new metoes 
 falling onto the screen will often weigh down the blocks as they rocket off, causing the group 
 to descend slowly back to where it started. The trick at this point is to creat additional matched 
 groups and aplly some added boost.
  
  Metoeos is a fast-paced game. If the more relaxed pace of Lumines or tetris is your stlye, you 
 may not enjoy this game. I can lay back on the couch with Tetris for an hour; playing Meteos, though, 
 I'm always sitting up, tense, trying to figure out which blocks to move next and watching the screen 
 quickly filling with new pieces. One flaw in the Meteos mechanics I noticed, one that will rarely 
 work in your favour in games like Tetris or Lumines, is that under high-stress situations, when 
 a games nearing the end, randomly drawing the stylus up and down the screen can do a lot to save 
 you. Easily saps the challenge out of the game, but can be hard to resist when your screen's nearly 
 full. Meteos is a good game. It's perfect for short bursts of DS entertainment. The audio is fairly 
 mediocre and the visuals aren't stunning (think GBA quality) , but it's exactly the sort of game 
 this console needs. Should you buy it? Not at the 29 dollar price-point, I don't think. But for 
 17, which is what I found it for at a local GameStop, the price was right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sphinx-shadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun and addictive you just keep playing. This game is easy to learn
  and there is lot of replay vaule. Good graphics for a puzzle game. This is a must own for a DS owner. 
 The only nock on this game is there is no wi-fi.
  other then that it is a fun and addictive game. So what are you waiting for go get this game
 
  
  end end end end end end end end end end end end end end end end end
  end end end end end end end end end end end end end end end end end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanbandy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Meteos, the game were you launch metoers in the air, and you try to destroy your enemy's. Cool! 
 This game is so fun! There's so much to do in this game. I'll write the rest of the review in sections.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  There just dazzling. It's awesome, there are so many pretty colors, and the dark and dull colors 
 fit in place. I have never seen any glitchy marks in this game whatsoever. The details are well 
 put in, all the unique shapes and sizes the comets are. The backround is just a masterpiece too. 
 It's as simple as that.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  One of the best parts of the game. All the music, is cool, very intresting beats, and odd songs. 
 But I like all these music's, becuase I never get annoyed of them! I love to just lishen to a simple 
 beat on the soundtrack, I could lishen to it for hours. It's all perfectly fit in too.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Lots, and lots of it. The object of the game is to survive, and destroy your 
 opponent, the other planet. Speaking of planets, there's lots of them. What you do is, you start 
 out by choosing a planet, then choose how to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  If you have not purchased this game yet what the heck are you waiting for? You will not find a 
 more addicting stacker puzzle type game and when you play against some one your heart races madly 
 because you never know when somone will smack you down with massive pile of bricks. you just have 
 to play it to beleive it. i would say this game starts out just right and then gets increasingly 
 harder as you level through it. But the tilt is absolutely marvelous because you can play this 
 game differently again and again. Go get this game it rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_dusk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Meteos is an amazing game. Its probably the best DS and the best Puzzle game ever made. This is 
 my favoriot DS game, and it is deffinitely a must for any DS owners.
  
  STORY (SPOILERS?) : The story is a simple, semi-generic one; The evil planet Meteo is basically 
 shooting indestructable meteorites (aka Meteos) at other planets which build up and eventually 
 destroy the entire planet. All hope is lost; many planets have fallen, until, by chance, on 1 of 
 the planets being attacked by Meteo, 3 meteos fuse together, igniting and firing the other meteos 
 into space back at Meteo! The planet contacts the other planets and soon all the planets are igniting 
 meteos in their own way back at Meteo...
  
  GAMEPLAY: Simple and easy to learn, unless the DS is new to you, (which it was to me, meteos was 
 my first game, by the way, meteos makes a great first DS game) Meteos are constantly falling, the 
 longer you play, the faster they fall. (Example: at first, meteos will fall nice and slow but after 
 4 minuits, you'll find it difficult to even find a match in all the chaos!) Using your stylus; 
 line up rows of 3-5 to ignite! You can line up vertically and horizantally, but not diagonally. 
 The gravity on each planet is different, so the effort it takes to ignite meteos and the way you 
 do it both vary on different planets. There is also a Speeder in the lower right corner of the 
 touch screen (this switches sides if you tell it you're left handed) while you touch the speeder, 
 the game goes super fast, giving youextra meteos to work with, but be carefull; to many meteos 
 stack up and you're history! The top screen will allow you to spy on your opponents a little. Also, 
 Items will ocasionely fall from the sky along with the other meteos, tap 'em to use 'em! Items 
 include: smoke you can send at your enemies to blind them, rockets that blast meteos into the air, 
 huge hammers to smash meteos and bombs to blow 'em up.
  
  MODES: Meteos has several different modes, they are all listed below:
  Star trip: Complete a 
 series of levels and missions on your way to face meteo. This is the primary mode, you will find 
 yourself playing it often.
  Simple: A single level of meteo solo or against compters.
  Deluge: Launch as many meteos as you can! play 'til you drop!
  Time war: complete 1 (or all) 
 of 4 specific missions.
  
  GRAPHICS: Pretty good, sometimes the planets floating around can look a bit choppy though. Certain 
 planets look better than others, but for the most part meteos has great graphics.
  
  SOUND: Meteos has amazing sounds; you won get tired of hearing your favoriot music in the sound-test. 
 Each planet has its own short music loop, but when you ignite meteos it playes a sound adding to 
 the background music. The bigger the ignition, the better the sound.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: Fantastic! In both multiplayer and singleplayer the meteos you launch are sent to 
 the other players. You can play a game with limited options with a player who does not have meteos, 
 play witha player who does have meteos, or send someone a demo of meteos that will not exist after 
 the system is turned off.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: Great replay value! With many different endings and tons of unlockables, this game 
 will keep you busy and addicted for a long, long, time. (Lockables include: sound test stuff, items, 
 planets)
  
  All-'n'-all, Meteos is an amazing game; a masterpiece. If you have a DS, you need this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  For a long time, I heard meteos this, meteos that. Well, I got it, and its good, but not great. 
 I played tetris attack for thousands of hours on the SNES, and I'll still play it over this.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  You drag stuff to create lines. Its a typical puzzle game with the stylus. 
 To its credit, using the stylus is fluid and controls well. In game you try to launch your blocks 
 off the screen and at your opponent. The more meteos you line up, the bigger the push.
  
  As a Tetris Attack loving gamer, I found the gameplay average at best. I'll go back to playing 
 my SNES any day.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Feels like GBA graphics with a good backdrop. That is not an insult. The game does look nice for 
 a puzzle game, and I completely think the graphics fit the game. I feel the DS could do more, but, 
 it hasn't shown much potential anyway in the graphics department.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music was forgettable, explosions average, and I really don't remember much else.
  
  Though 
 the music was forgettable, I don't remember them (lol) being bad or anything. I doubt it will impair 
 the game experience.
  
  VALUE
  
  Its a short game with multiple paths. I'm giving this game a high value because it has so much 
 to it, though I doubt many people will trudge through it all.
  
  TILT
  
  The game has no grab. I remember some subpar story about evil meteos. I know puzzle games don't 
 need good stories, like Tetris Attack had a crappy story. Its just that Tetris Attack had a grab 
 this game doesn't for me. Maybe its because I played Tetris Attack way toooooo much.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Meh. For a puzzle game I found it distinctly average. I play Tetris Attack to this 
 day and have yet to find a replacement. I know that affected my score, but I have to compare it 
 to my favorites because they are in the same genre. This puzzle game is good for people who need 
 a puzzle game, if you don't then you can pass this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  You've played Tetris. You'd be lying if you said you didn't. But have you played Meteos? Maybe 
 not. But hey that's ok because maybe you don't have a DS. But that's what makes this game so great. 
 Even with a revolution such as the Wii it is hard to copy this gameplay onto anything else. This 
 game is so reliant on the DS touch screen that you cannot possibly put it onto any other console. 
 The graphics of the game are simplistic but yet beautiful. The gameplay is revolutionary. Sliding 
 your tiles in order to launch them in excess towards the enemy planet is something that cannot 
 be duplicated on anything but the DS. This is a great game to get used to using the innovative 
 feature of the DS touch screen. The replay value in this game is amazing because it is one of those 
 titles that out of nowhere you can just pick up and enjoy. Since I'm not very sure what tilt means 
 I won't bother trying to figure it out. Though I think it's along the line of how responsive the 
 controls are and they're dead on. The touch screen works well with little trouble. Now I'm sure 
 many of you have played the game and thought "This isn't that great." and well I thought that at 
 first. But this is one of those games where you have to play a couple rounds before you get the 
 hang of the touch screen controlls. Now you might have noticed I've avoided talking about the sound, 
 the sound in this game is amazing! The sounds are wonderfully played together and sometimes you 
 just want to lose to hear the losing theme for the planet you play as. By now you can get this 
 game cheap. So if you own a DS do yourself a favor, pick this up, play it for a hour, if you don't 
 like it I just conned you out of twenty bucks :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Global_Nexus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a puzzle game in many, many years. Not since Tetris Attack for the Super NES, 
 actually, and that one I got rather bored with after a while. I'm not a puzzle playing person, 
 basically. Tetris was fun for a while, but I could never get addicted to it, nor could I Dr. Mario. 
 I had heard good things about Meteos, however I had difficulty finding the game when I had money 
 to spend. So when I discovered it on the shelf of a game store last weekend I immediately snapped 
 it up. To be honest, I wasn't expecting that much from it. Not only was it a surprise how fun it 
 is, it was a surprise how consistantly fun it is!
  
  But I digress. A proper starting point is most definitely the presentation. Meteos is a scifi-ish 
 game in its design, involving various alien races launching deadly Meteos pieces away. These hunks 
 of rock come in various colors and, when they stack up enough, cause a Planet Nova -- basically, 
 your planet blows up. Your mission, as one of numerous alien races, is to line up the Meteos pieces 
 either horizontally or vertically and launch them away from your world. Each race's home world 
 is unique, with varying gravitational effects that make it easier or harder to launch those Meteos.
 
  
  There's a "story mode" of sorts in the game, called "Star Trip". This chronicles the adventures 
 of the Metamo Ark, a starship constructed a Meteos ore, and its war against the evil planet Meteos, 
 which is launching the aforementioned hunks of apocalyptic rock. Three modes of play within Star 
 Trip are available: Straight, Branch, and Multi. Straight is obvious -- you advance in a straight 
 line towards Meteos. The planets along the way are random. Branch is exactly that -- a branched 
 route to Meteos, choosing one of two planets to advance to. Multi combines branching with missions, 
 such as "Launch 200 Meteos" or "Win in under 1 minute", and also pits you against multiple opponents 
 at one time. Depending on the route you take to Meteos in Branch and Multi, there will be a different 
 ending talking about the aftermath of the battle with Meteos. Straight mode only has one ending, 
 though.
  
  For more basic games of Meteos, there is Simple Mode, which lets you decide the ruleset [stock 
 or time] , the number of opponents, the difficulty, the AI level, among other things. It's basically 
 a single game of Meteos. Time War modes place you in a predetermined environment and have you aiming 
 for the highest score possible within a certain length of time -- two minutes and five minutes, 
 respectively. Meteo War modes, located also under the Time War menu, have you aiming to see how 
 quickly you can launch a certain number of Meteos -- 100 and 1000, respectively. The final single-player 
 mode is Deluge, which is basically an endless mode in which you play until your world is Planet 
 Nova'd.
  
  Oh, did I mention the stylus? Very intuitively used. Unlike Tetris Attack, you can only move Meteos 
 vertically -- that is, up and down. Whilst the game does come with an option to use the D-pad, 
 I wouldn't recommend it. The speed at which this game moves can become extremely frantic, and it's 
 much faster to use your stylus to move pieces around. Also, this game's stylus mode -does- come 
 with Left and Right handed settings, though it doesn't change a whole lot.
  
  There are two multiplayer modes -- a single card and a multi card. I sadly haven't anyone to play 
 against, so I cannot review these features with any level of honesty. There's also a demo download 
 option, in which you can send a demo of Meteos to someone else's DS. 
  
  One of the more interesting things in the game is the high level of unlockable content. Starting 
 the game, you only have four races to play as: The Geolytes, the Firims, the Oleana, and the Anasaze. 
 It's extremely easy to obtain more, though. A menu called Fusion allows you to take the Meteos 
 you've launched and fuse them into new playable worlds. Also, you can fuse new items, music for 
 your sound test, and rare metals that can be used for further fusing of rare things.
  
  The last interesting feature of note: this game keeps almost every statistic imaginable. Including 
 how many times the game has been activated! Everything from Meteos Launched to number of Simple 
 Games played is stored in the statistics section. Not very useful, but it is a neat feature.
  
  Audio-wise, this game has an amazing variety of different sounds, music, and otherwise. It's 
 truly impressive how different everything sounds. Each world has its own music, its own sound made 
 when Meteos are launched, and varying speeds of the music depending on how well one's doing. A 
 great deal of work was definitely put into the audio experience of the game.
  
  Graphic-wise... it's a puzzle game. The graphics are fine for it, though they won't blow your mind. 
 Each alien race is represented by a simple stick figure-ish thing of differing colors. All are 
 well animated and rather cute-looking, but each is most definitely unique. The blocks of Meteos 
 have different appearances depending on the world, which is neat. All in all, the graphics are 
 sufficient for the game.
  
  To summarize: Meteos is a puzzle game with scifi elements. Its basic plot involves cute little 
 aliens facing apocalyptic destruction at the hands of an evil, eye-shaped planet called Meteos. 
 The gameplay is fast, often frantic, and intuitive, making excellent use of the stylus. Sound is 
 great, graphics are pretty good for a puzzle game, and the overall presentation is very polished. 
 Fun, addictive, fast, unique, and most definitely DIFFERENT for a puzzle game.
  
  Final verdict? Buy it. Whether you're a puzzle fan or not, this game offers a unique puzzle experience 
 that is exceptionally entertaining and definitively delightful. Unless you want slow gameplay or 
 lots of blood and gore, this game will probably entertain you for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Meteos is one of the Best Puzzle games ever made because....
  
  The Stroy the Galxy is in trouble and all the planets have to work together to defeat a new therat 
 Planet Meteo
  
  Gameplay - Simple easy to learn and use controls slide 3,4, or 5 pieces of the same color Verticly 
 or Horizontaly even if u can only switch pieces around verticly the game has power ups that change 
 the gameplay for a little also some get rid of a little Meteo (blocks) on the screen where the 
 Smart Bomb takes all of all off your screen the difficulty ranges from "Cute Cuddly Warm Teddy 
 Bear Easy" to "To A Ninja is chasing u down in the heat of the Night and will eventually slit your 
 throat Hard" an amazing up to 4-player mode and hope u dont have a supernova (die or when all the 
 blox get to the top of the screen)
  
  Graphics - are nicley colored and smooth 3-d graphics for the opening
  the colors blend together 
 seamlessly with the other planets
  
  Sound - an awesome soundtrack but not better than Sonic Rush's of course :P anyway in the Sound 
 Test mode u can pretty much make your own song
  
  the Value of this Game is Platinum a perfect score of a.... 10! 
  
  the Tilt well i cant put 
 it down the Game is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornissues111
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  THis game is the greates DS game to date 
  
  Gameplay- You move the meteo blocks up and down to match the colors. Then they shoot off to space. 
 It sounds dull but is so addicting youll be hooked on your first play. Theres also Deluge which 
 is basically survival were you set a different high score with each planet. Time war is wat it 
 sounds like. and star Trip is the adventure mode and with missions. And last is single game just 
 a good old fashioned game of meteos. The 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are beautifal I beleive they are the best on the DS the opening sequence 
 is flawless in terms of graphics the planet inhabitants dont look blocky or anything
  
  Sound- The sound is awesome not to mention eventually youll be able to unlock the sound to listen 
 to them whenever you want. But in terms of music type its techno and funk and watever u want to 
 kall it its awesome.
  
  Value- This ame never gets old with the Fusion mode which allows you to use the meteos youv shoot 
 off into space to fuse items, rare metals, planets, and items. Theres alot of the 4 things to fuse 
 so youll be here for a while. The multiplayer is Dwnload and multi card so have fun
  
  In the end this is the perfect game and if your not a puzzle game fan this will make u one so go 
 ahead and get it its only 20 bux. so stop reading and go!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Canti32
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Easy, but a bit frantic. But in a good way, not a "you gotta be on crack to pass DDR 
 in Heavy Mode" way.
  Graphics: Not the reason you'll be playing (they're not terrible, they're average!) , but still 
 are a great addition to the space theme.
  Sound: 7 words -- "ONE OF THE BEST DS SOUNDTRACKS EVER!!!"
  Multiplayer: It dosen't give you much 
 freedom, but it really depends who you play it with.
  Story: Evil Planet Meteo tries to destroy the Universe, and you and the crew of the Metamo Ark 
 need to stop Meteo once and for all (plus, funny and diverse endings) .
  
  FINAL JUDGEMENT: I never really liked puzzle games. In fact, Meteos was the first one that ever 
 grew on me. It combines many of my favorite things (Quirky gameplay, Space & Planets, Destruction, 
 Touching, etc.) into one game. To be honest, I was originally searching for Advanced Wars: DS and 
 this little game kept popping up everywhere. I couldn't find it so I gave this a shot. I still 
 haven't bought AWDS, but thanx to this game, I'll never regret that.
  
  --- Lord_Canti32 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kriptonzz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is a great game that I only picked up because it was the only game still on the shelf when 
 I went to the store. Fearing that I wasted my money on a stupid puzzle game I didn't play it for 
 3 days. But with nothing else to play I opened it up and I played that game for nearly 2 months 
 straight afterwards. 
  The storyline opens up with a spectacularly done cinematic opening explaining the name of the title 
 and your objective. After that you get to the title you can choose what you want to do. Star Trip 
 (main storyline) , Deluge (play until you fail) and a slew of other things to do. There are also 
 unlockables upon unlockables for you in the game, but even cooler is just how you unlock them.
 
  The music in the game is also catchy and speeds up, slows down, and changes from planet to planet. 
 You'll also hear guitar strings and small sound bytes when you do things like launch your meteos 
 up in the sky. The Sound Test groups all of these together for you to hear later on. 
  Multi-player is also present in Meteos. With another DS you can go head to head and see who can 
 launch the most Meteos at each other. An additional feature allows you to send a (simple) copy 
 of the game via DS download.
  All in all, this game was worth it, this is truly a wonderful game that every DS owner should have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheik026
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  There are many developers who strive to create games based on music. Their products include Karaoke 
 Revolution, Dance Dance Revolution, and Guitar Hero, which are all quality products for sure, but 
 one developer, Tetsuya Mizuguchi, has devoted his entire career to the fusion of games and music. 
 His pieces include trippy PS2 shooter Rez, techno-heavy puzzler Lumines for the PSP, and his latest 
 triumph, Meteos, for the Nintendo DS.
  
  An evil planet, Meteo, rains terror down on all other planets in the galaxy, releasing deadly meteos 
 that cover the planet and turn it into phantasmagoric energy to feed their producer. When all hope 
 seems lost for the planet Geolyte, three meteo lined together, fused, and shot back off into the 
 stars. A plan was set forward, an amazing space ship was built, and now, you are on a mission to 
 save the galaxy from an ever growing threat. It's a pretty cool story for a puzzle game, isn't 
 it? And with eight different endings that range from shocking to comical, it is a story well worth 
 listening to a second, third, and eighth time.
  
  Like any good puzzle game, the gameplay of Meteos is deceicively simple. Line up three matching 
 blocks in a row or column and make sure they shoot off into space. Now throw in dozens of varied 
 items from smoke lines that hamper enemy vision to smart bombs that clear all the meteos on your 
 screen. And don't forget about different air resistance and gravity conditions for each unique 
 planet, all 30 of them. The fast and frenzy pace hooks you instantly, and the fact that you can 
 use meteos that you blasted into space as currency to "buy" new planets, items, and music for the 
 sound test area (!) and you have no reason to ever stop playing this game. The game modes include 
 Deluge (endurance challenge) , Time War (fight for high scores for four different conditions with 
 their own planets) , Simple (just playing a game of Meteos on any planet you have unlocked) , and 
 Star Trip, which follows the potentially epic quest of the Metamo Ark (depending on which path 
 you pick.) They are all individually unique and always strangely fun to play.
  
  The visuals for the game are of an incredible quality for the DS hardware. The bright and vibrant 
 blocks look great, especially on planet Meteo. The backgrounds for each planet are detailed to 
 a delightful level and each contribute to the individual mood of each planet. The effects are also 
 astonishing featuring some nice smoke and explosion effects that really put your DS to work.
  
  Meteos truly shines, however, with its beautiful music and sound effects. Each planet has individual 
 music pieces ranging in styles from the acoustic guitar "Wild West Cowboy" on Anasaze to the techno-flavored 
 beats of "Eurorockitude" on Layazero to the soft beating sound of a heart in "Inner Bubbles" on 
 Globin. Each piece is fantastically orchestrated for the game and, in Mr. Mizuguchi's style, is 
 fully customizable based on how well you play. Say, a whole bunch of meteos fall onto your screen 
 at once, then there would be a few dramatic notes to accentuate the moment. Or if you manage to 
 push all your blocks off the screen in one fell swoop, a triumphant tune rings. It's all very entertaining 
 and makes the game different and fun every time you play it.
  
  Multiplayer for Meteos is of an exceptionally high quality. With up to four player support and 
 one cart multiplayer support, Meteos is very entertaining with a group of friends. The ability 
 to decide who you're launching your meteos at increases the level of startegy involved in playing, 
 creating key opportunities in which survival of the fittest rules apply. Alas I would have loved 
 to see this game support Wi-Fi online play, but what's available is very good and you really can't 
 beat single cart gameplay.
  
  This is by far the killer app for the Nintendo DS and is a great choice for anyone looking for 
 a cure to the common Tetris knockoff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Meteos takes elements of Tetris, but ups the ante in almost every way!
  
  Gameplay: The just of the game mechanics involve using the stylus to move the same coloured and/or 
 looking blocks together. After three or more are lined up (you can only move the blocks vertically) , 
 these blocks become a big rocket, and fly off of the screen. It controls perfectly, there is lots 
 of variation including different play modes. Lastly, the total chaos required for a puzzle game 
 to be fun is there.
  
  Sound: The music is amazing. All the tunes are very catchy. They are a bit repetitive, but not 
 annoyingly so. The sound effects are fitting as well.
  
  Extras/Unlockables: Meteos has tons of stats tracking, which is great for competition as well as 
 marking progress down. You can unlock a ton of different features in the game. As you launch different 
 types of blocks, they're counted, and then you can use them in the 'store' to buy new items, planets 
 and even soundtracks!
  
  Overall, Meteos is an almost perfect puzzle game. The only negative thing I can really think of 
 is that sometimes it seems a little too difficult, especially in the beginning. Either way, this 
 is a must have DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraZanta
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  While puzzle games still seem to be stuck on the idea that blocks are the second coming, they can 
 still produce some quality games from this basic falling block formula that has stood the test 
 of time. And along comes Meteos to add to this repertoire of game, though this ones use of the 
 touch screen and an interesting game premise raise it above that standard puzzle games but it is 
 still not in the league of Lumines or Tetris yet. That said this is by far the best puzzle game 
 out for the DS and probably one of the DSs better titles.
  
  The gameplay builds off of the basic formula introduced by Tetris way back when, and yet it twist 
 this feature in interesting and new ways. First the basic premise of the game is this, there are 
 falling blocks and you have to use the touch screen to move them vertically up and down to line 
 up three meteos that then turn into rockets that can push up other meteos above them. Using this 
 basic set of rules you can make some pretty cool combos that make lots of noises ( sort of like 
 what Lumines does) and then shot off into space. The one thing to note though is that like Lumines 
 this game has different tiles which in this case are called planets and each planet 
 has its own gravity and set or rules that make it easier or more difficult to send meteos flying. 
 As an example on planet only lets you shoot meteos that are vertically aligned, another planet 
 makes it so that it is eaier to lift a rocket by flicking meteos ( a cool feature in which you basically 
 just flick a meteos into the air) into the rocket. Things like these make meteos a fun a varied 
 experiences, that said there are some flaws in the design. The most noticeable, and this comes 
 into play quite early, if you are running out of space you can just start rubbing up and down with 
 the stylus to make combos start happening, this obviously involves no skill, but it is easy not 
 to do this and get by without encountering this problem. Also this game tracks how many meteos 
 you have launched, which you can use in the Fusion room to unlock new songs, planets and other 
 things. The gameplay in Meteos is really fun and fast paced, you will enjoy every moment playing 
 this game and the multitude of unlockables, from new planets to new items, are a great pleasure 
 to find and use.
  
  The graphics in this game are functional and a delight to watch but like most puzzle game, there 
 is no high-def particle explosions with bump mapping and HDR lighting everywhere, rather they are 
 there to serve a purpose and they serve that purpose will. In this case the main purpose is to 
 make it so that the player can easily identify each block and recognize patterns, for if you couldnt 
 easily tell the different between each of the blocks the game would have already failed, luckily 
 they are easily distinguished and bright and colorful. The FMV movies that play after beating each 
 mode in the campaign are very nice and prove that the DS screens can play some nice videos. Other 
 than that the menus screens are inventive, you can slide the icons around and stuff and generally 
 the game has a smooth and consistent polish to its design.
  
  The sound in this game is great, then many tracks that are included are varied and fun to listen 
 to, but none of them really have any voices or anything like that but they are a great collection 
 of songs none the less. Each planet has its own soundtrack and sounds to go with launching the 
 pieces, which is nice and make the game that much more enjoyable. While the game might not have 
 a track like Brash or Lights like Lumines does but it is still a great soundtrack. Not much else 
 can be said about the sound track other than that it is great, fun and keeps the game moving along 
 at a brisk pace.
  
  This game is very fun and has a lot of replayability, from its multitude of game modes, like Simple 
 in which its just like a quick mode, to Deluge in which you just try to survive, there are many 
 things to keep you occupied. While this is all good, something about the game is so frantic and 
 the style of the game is made as such that after a couple of months you could grow bored, but if 
 you just pick it up and play it every once in a while then you are in for a treat, and I think 
 the game is at its best as a pick up and play, rather than a long and involved gaming experience. 
 In the end this is a good game, though it just misses the mark to reaching greatness but it is 
 so fun to pick up and play that it is more than made up for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  What could be better than another puzzle game by the people who made Lumines? Not to mention one 
 for the DS? Well.... another Lumines would have been nice, but I suppose this is only a step down, 
 still pretty good. 
  
  Meteos is all about quick short runs. A good game lasts less than 5 minutes. So coming off of Lumines 
 in which I could go for 3 hours straight, playing Meteos wasn't exactly what I was expecting. My 
 initial reaction was to just leave it go and go back to Lumines, however, after a bit more work 
 with it I started to dive deeper into the world of Meteos and deep down it's a pretty cool game. 
 
  
  Meteos is a puzzler which is played all on the bottom screen. Blocks will fall from top to bottom 
 and stack up. Its your job to use the stylus to move them up and down (there is no left and right 
 movement) and line in up with other blocks of the same color in rows of 3 or more. The meteos will 
 them "ignite" and launch up towards the top pushing everything above them up. However, depending 
 on the weight of the meteos and the gravity of the planet you are currently on they may not make 
 it all the way in which you will need to use some more advanced techniques to get them launched 
 up. 
  
  The goal is to destory other planets before they destroy you. As you launch meteos they attack 
 the other planet you are currently up against and the computer launches meteos at you. There are 
 several different paths you can take through the main mode that put you up against different planets, 
 but the final showdown is always with planet Meteos itself. 
  
  There are a few different game modes you can partake in. There is the story mode I mentioned above 
 along with a quick play mode where you can set your settings and play one quick game, a vs mode 
 for playing other friends (with or without a DS game card) , a timed mode for seeing how many meteos 
 you can destroy within time limits and also a fusion mode. 
  
  Fusion mode is how you'll unlock things in the game; of which there are plenty. Everytime you launch 
 a meteos it gets added to your "stock." You can then use these meteos to fuse planets, sounds, 
 and items. There are a ton of planets to fuse and some of them will take a lot of meteos play time; 
 some are worth it some aren't. For the most part though, it's worth playing to fuse these planets. 
 The sounds are not quite as worth it though. The items are pretty cool for multiplayer mode to 
 make it a little more interesting. 
  
  There are also planets that you can't fuse and you'll need to unlock through different means that 
 will require some extra effort. 
  
  Meteos is definitly a worthy addition to the DS's library, it just wasn't quite what I was expecting 
 when I loaded it up that first time. However, everytime I put it in to play it I can't stop for 
 about a week. It's fairly addictive once you get going. With it's large amount of unlockables (fusions) 
 it will eat up quite a bit of time as well. Try it out first to see if it's for you, but if you 
 enjoy be sure to pick it up cause chances are you'll be spending quite a bit of time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotsabacon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very fun and very addicting. The DS is great and this game has nothing but the touch 
 screen which is great. So if you lose your stylus then your pretty much finished and you will have 
 to buy another or find your stylus. Meteos is like tetris but it has a little bit more skill to 
 it. You need to get three of the same meteos (which are little blocks in the gameplay but are minerals 
 and such in the story) . Sounds easy but when you get three in a row they get rockets and blast 
 upwars. All the levels, which are planets have different types of meteos's on them and the planets 
 have different strengths of gravity. So sometimes the meteos go up really fast or you have to get 
 combos to push them up to the top of the screen. Then they disappear and you can use the meteos 
 to fuse (unlock) new things. Like items, planets, special meteos which are time and soul. They 
 are super rare! and you can also fuse new music. So in order to play this game you have to have 
 a quick eye and a fast hand. Very good hand eye coordination. Like most video games. So if you 
 liked tetris you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Meteos is brought to you by Q Entertainment, a development studio founded last year by Tetsuya 
 Mizuguchi. The name should set bells ringing; he gave the Dreamcast Space Channel 5 and the PS2 
 an infamous little title named Rez. Qs only other game was also a handheld puzzle game; Lumines 
 has wowed PSP owners since release. With this sort of pedigree behind it, Meteos was always going 
 to be something special. 
  
  Meteos is a really unique game. There isnt any other puzzle game around that is like this and 
 that is mainly all down to the Nintendo DS and the use of its touch screen. The game was designed 
 with a fast pace and fast reactions in mind, a point emphasised when you try playing the game with 
 the D-pad. You just wont keep up with the blocks. 
  
  Blocks? Yes, like countless other puzzle games, Meteos does feature falling blocks, but the way 
 they are used is very different. As the blocks land on the bottom screen and stack up, the player 
 has the ability to move them up and down in a column. If you manage to set up three or more of 
 the same blocks in a horizontal or vertical line, then the blocks will be shot up the screen by 
 rocket boosters. If the blocks are pushed off the bottom screen, they will be shot into the planet 
 you are battling against. These are the basics of the game, but its so much deeper when you crack 
 open the shell. 
  
  Planets have a huge factor on the way the game will play. Each planet has its own type of music, 
 blocks and gravity. The fire planet Firim has blocks that glitter like liquid and very strong gravity 
 that will make pushing blocks back into space harder than it normally would be, on the other hand 
 you have planets like Vubble that have hardly any gravity, this makes blocks just simply fly away. 
 To make things a bit more twisted for the player, youll have to make sure you fully push the blocks 
 off the screen, if you dont then the blocks go black and you have a stack of worthless blocks 
 coming back down at you. 
  
  The games presentation is fantastic and extremely colourful. Masahiro Sakurai (of Smash Brothers 
 fame) was the designer for Meteos and it really shows. The menus tab up at the side and the game 
 even comes with a stat page that is just ripped right out of SSB. The graphics are simplistic but 
 really are beautiful works of art. Every planet has its own style of block. Everything is distinctive. 
 
  
  Mizuguchi is well known for sticking extraordinary soundtracks into his games. Lumines was highly 
 praised because of the way it fused music into the game and Meteos is no different. As with Rez 
 and Lumines, Meteos combines actually gameplay into the music. Making a successful connection of 
 blocks sets off the boosters that result in a sound effect that mixes into the music; all done 
 flawlessly. Its the same for every planet - and it will take you a good time to eventually hear 
 the last one. 
  
  Meteos will last you for pleasingly lengthy period of time. And its not just because its awfully 
 addictive; there is a titanic amount of unlockables for the player to grab and the only way you 
 can get these is by playing the game. Every single Meteos block that you shoot off the screen is 
 stored in your Meteos bank; with these stored you can use them to unlock music, planets and weapons. 
 Not all unlockables are done through buying; some are also unlocked through the stats page, which 
 contains some unusual recordings too (how many times youve booted Meteos etc.) . Then you have 
 your standard stats like how many certain blocks you have launched, how long you have played and 
 how many multiplayer games youve played. 
  
  Multiplayer can be played with either a single or multiple carts, although the former limits you 
 to just four planets. Multiplayer is virtually the same as the single player; there isnt anything 
 different except that you are playing with other people, if you want to be sneaky you can even 
 look at your opponents stack by changing the view on the top screen. Stats are also only collected 
 with multiple carts, so if you want the full experience of multiplayer Meteos, tell your friends 
 to go buy the game. 
  
  But how does Meteos stack against the greats of the puzzle genre? Extremely well: the innovation 
 advances the genre. The use of the touch screen is put to maximum effect and you never seem to 
 have any problems using it. Reports have appeared that you can just randomly doodle on the touch 
 screen and youll get through the game fine, but really when it comes down to it, its all just 
 a bit of luck and you wont get rewarded with it. 
  
  The DS has had a lot of puzzlers in a short space of time, but none quite as amazing and unique 
 as this. And really its not just puzzlers that Meteos kicks in the teeth; it is probably the DS 
 game to own right now. Id even put it up there past Nintys floaty pink hero. I just cant emphasize 
 enough that you must own this title; miss it at your own risk. Because a risk it would be. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 30, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  The universe is threatened by an evil planet named Meteo, the only way to stop it is to fuse blocks 
 known as Meteos together and send them rocketing towards the hostile planet in the hopes of defeating 
 it once and for all. OK this isnt exactly the most believable of plots but since when did the 
 story behind any puzzle game ever make the slightest ounce of sense. In order to fuse these blocks 
 and save the universe from almost certain doom you must align at least three of the same colored 
 blocks either horizontally or vertically within a Tetris-style grid. This may sound incredibly 
 simple and somewhat tedious but many said the same thing before experiencing the Tetris phenomenon 
 for themselves. 
  
  Meteos makes perfect use of the touch-screen. You essentially drag blocks around with your stylus 
 which can be fiendishly tricky at first; however once you continue through the game your hand will 
 become more accustomed to throwing blocks across the screen with a small flick of the wrist. This 
 makes for a more rewarding gameplay experience especially when you compare it to the classic retro 
 D-pad method of press and rotate. The stylus also just feels right; it really does fit in perfectly 
 with the games frenzying pace. On some of the harder levels your hand will become a blur as you 
 battle to clear the screen and counter-attack your opponent. You do have the option of using the 
 systems D-pad however this takes away what I feel the game sets out to achieve. 
  
  This just like the majority of its puzzling counterparts shines in the multiplayer department, 
 up to four players can scrap it out for control of the universe with just one copy of the game. 
 While luck does play a big part in Meteos this only adds to the frantic action the game works so 
 hard in creating. Sometimes a block will fall into the ideal position and save your whole game, 
 other times you will be left in the dark as to what actually went wrong and this will test even 
 the most patient of gamers. The action never seems to tire but does reward those a little more 
 skilled at the game; so while this is fun for all the family the person with the most experience 
 will usually be crowned the winner. 
  
  The Meteos experience is enhanced by the addition of gravity, each planet is assigned their own 
 unique attributes which ultimately determine how fast your blocks fall and how fast you send them 
 back up. Some of the tougher levels will see blocks pummeling down like its monsoon season yet 
 as you attempt to fire them back towards the heavens they will suddenly become reluctant to move. 
 This is only one of the factors that contribute to each planet having their own personal look and 
 feel. They will also contain their own sets of blocks which range from your bog-standard square 
 blocks right up to some pretty unusual coral shapes found on some of the eerier planets. 
  
  The single-player is surprisingly good, the game tracks every block fired off-screen and if 
 you rid a set number of one or a multiple of specific Meteos you will then begin unlocking a whole 
 host of new features. New planets, items, soundtracks and other equally cool rewards are all on 
 offer, each becoming readily available within the single-player and multiplayer portions of the 
 game. There are also a fair few modes to sink your teeth into; the main one being Star Ship mode. 
 This sees you battling a series of menacing planets; eventually leading up to the predictable final 
 boss Meteo. There are a total of 9 alternative endings to unlock here, each obtained by playing 
 though the game in a variety of unique ways. If youre a sucker for finishing games off entirely 
 you will need them all and some of them are a little tricky to get your paws on. Other options 
 include your standard practice and survival modes that pretty much play like youd expect. 
  
  This game doesnt exactly push the DS system to its graphical peaks yet it does just enough 
 to create a sense of atmosphere unseen in any other puzzler to date. Every planet has its own look 
 and feel which keeps things interesting for the gamer; the same can be said for the sound which 
 plays host to some pretty freaky soundtracks. An impressive array of tunes can be found here and 
 offer just enough variation to prevent you sliding that volume bar all the way to the left. The 
 sound effects while frighteningly simple merge perfectly with the chaos playing out on-screen. 
 
  
  In conclusion Meteos doesnt try to follow the trends set by previous puzzle games before it; it 
 implements features never before seen within the genre and personally is a welcome change. Unfortunately 
 the game doesnt make full use of its potential and at times feels repetitive and somewhat uninspired, 
 the electric pace while occasionally exhilarating can also be equally frustrating as the game is 
 essentially based on the luck of which block falls where. 
  
  Gameplay - Addictive puzzling action which brings fresh elements to a somewhat stale genre, unfortunately 
 these arent implemented quite as well as they might have been. 
  
  Graphics - Not the greatest of graphical achievements but it does what it sets out to do and thats 
 the priority in a game such as this. 
  
  Sound - Every planet has a different feel, a major part of this is the down to the great use of 
 varied soundtracks the game throws at you. 
  
  Value - Great multiplayer value which is almost expected from puzzle games now, the single-player 
 holds up surprisingly well too offering a whole host of unlockables. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -starter-
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is, by far, my favorite puzzle game ever. It's that good. And it's so addictive you'll easily 
 get your money's worth.
  
  So, the main story of Meteos is that the evil planet Meteo has sent multi-color blocks called Meteos 
 to destroy the universe. If one planet builds up too many of these Meteos, the planet is destroyed. 
 But, if you align three or more Meteos in a row, vertically or horizontally, they blast off back 
 into space. This is where you come in. You and the Metamo Ark set off to save the universe from 
 the evil planet Meteo.
  
  Now the object in the game is to send the Meteos back into space. By aligning three or more in 
 a row vertically or horizontally, the Meteos (and any Meteos above them) will shoot to space. But 
 sometimes the Meteos don't make it all the way. Then they'll slowly fall back to earth. This is 
 where the game gets interesting. You're able to launch Meteos in mid air, shoot off Meteos under 
 another group of Meteos falling back to the planet to lift them up again, align the Meteos so when 
 a group of Meteos come back down that they shoot off again with even more Meteos, or throw Meteos 
 up at groups of Meteos to give them an extra push into space.
  
  There are many different modes of single player in this game. There is Star Trip which is the story 
 mode, Simple which is where you set the rules and face other planets attempting to destroy each 
 other, Time War is were you try to blast the most Meteos into space as fast as possible, and Deluge 
 where you keep playing till your planet gets annihilated. The best part about Star Trip is that 
 for every different mode/path you take to get to planet Meteo, you get a different ending. This 
 makes for a lot of replay value.
  
  Then there's this little feature called Fusion which adds even more replay value. In the Fusion 
 menu you can fuse the Meteos you have gathered in Single Player and Multi Player to create new 
 planets, items, rare Meteos, and music. This keeps the game fresh for a long time, and takes a 
 lot of play to get the Meteos to fuse everything. I mean A LOT of play.
  
  Moving on to Multi Player. Meteos is a great Multi Player and Single Player game. It's very similar 
 to Simple mode but you're facing other players instead of the CPU. It's a lot more fun and competitive 
 when playing with your friends. Plus you get to choose which planet to use against your friends. 
 This game is a definite for anyone who knows someone with a DS. The only bad part is it doesn't 
 support WiFi. The only glaring flaw of the game in my opinion.
  
  Now on to technical side of this review. The graphics in Meteos are clean and have tons of variety. 
 Though some backgrounds on certain levels aren't as good as they should be and I noticed a slight 
 frame rate drop on planet Meteo (only one that shows slowdown) , Meteos offers a pretty looking 
 game. The music and sound are pretty good! There is a different theme song to every planet. Plus 
 the tunes can be pretty catchy. And by fusing Meteos you can unlock these tunes so you can listen 
 to them at any time. All in all Meteos is a nice looking and sounding DS game.
  
  To wraps things up Meteos is a fun, addictive puzzler that you'll be playing for weeks. A must 
 have for anyone's DS library and the best puzzler on the DS. I give Meteos for the Nintendo DS 
 a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  The developers behind such great puzzle games as Rez and Lumines have come up with another great 
 puzzle game for the Nintendo DS. Many DS games do not take full advantage of the touch screen, 
 but Meteos does a great job of using it, making for one of the most original and addictive puzzle 
 games to come out recently.
  
  Unlike other puzzle games, Meteos actually has a story. It is nothing deep and complex, but the 
 setup for the reason behind the gameplay is there. All these different planets are being attacked 
 by an unknown force. Many different elemental blocks come crashing into the planets, but when three 
 of the same elements are lined up either horizontally or vertically, the blocks ignite and launch 
 back into outer space. The inhabitants of each planet realize this is the case, and team up to 
 save each other from the falling blocks, and you go from planet to planet in search for the source 
 of it all.
  
  Thus, you have the gameplay. All of the action takes place on the bottom screen, the touch screen. 
 Colored blocks fall one by one into an empty space, like Tetris, Dr. Mario, or Lumines. As the 
 block stack up, you have to click and drag each block using the stylus to line up with other blocks 
 of the same color. However, you can only move the blocks horizontally. Once three or more colors 
 are lined up, they will shoot upwards, taking any blocks on top of it along. Any blocks that fall 
 off the top of the screen are used to attack the enemy planets. As the game progresses, the blocks 
 come down at a faster rate and if the screen fills up, the game is over, and Armageddon happens.
 
  
  Each planet has its own style of blocks, music, and gravity, with gravity being the most important 
 to take note of. When the blocks are ignited, they do not just fly off the screen. The strength 
 of gravity for each planet varies, and if there are blocks on top of the ignited stack, they will 
 weigh it down. This is where combos come in. As the gravity is pulling the blocks down and the 
 blocks on top are weighing it down, you have to quickly match up another three blocks in the stack 
 above to launch the entire stack from where it is. If you continue to keep the stack in air, it 
 will launch higher and higher with every ignition and rack up huge combos and points. Meteos is 
 a very easy game to pick up and play, but will require much practice to be able to pull off huge 
 combos and even be able to launch the entire stack of blocks off the screen. You can also speed 
 up time a little by pressing a button in the bottom right of the screen or by pressing a shoulder 
 button. Speeding up time will make the blocks fall faster, or make the stack come down quicker. 
 Skilled players will make full use of it, while the amateurs might not get it at first.
  
  Items also drop into the screen occasionally to mix up the action. There are several different 
 items that can either hinder your performance or help in a big way. Examples include bombs that 
 destroy some blocks, a hammer that breaks apart sets of blocks on the screen, smoke that covers 
 up a small section of the screen, and rockets that ignite the entire stack of blocks. You can set 
 which items you would like to use while you play and if you want them to appear often or not.
 
  
  Meteos has several different modes, but the most important one is the Star Trip mode, or the single 
 player campaign if you prefer to call it. All you do is advance from planet to planet, clearing 
 the blocks and trying to make the competing planets lose by throwing as much garbage onto their 
 screen. Once you reach the last planet and defeat it, the credits roll and you return to the main 
 menu. There are three different ways to play the Star Trip mode. You can go to each planet in a 
 linear map, you can choose which planets to go to in a branching map, or you can do a branching 
 map with missions for each planet. The missions will have you do things like defeat the enemy in 
 less than two minutes or clear thirty water blocks before you win.
  
  Other modes include Divulge, which is like a marathon mode, VS, which lets you play against up 
 to four players wirelessly, and Time Attack Mode, which has you playing Meteos under a certain 
 time limit and you have to get the best score, or it will time how long it takes for you to clear 
 a certain amount of blocks.
  
  The first thing I did was try my hand at Star Trip mode. After losing, I realized I can retry the 
 very planet I lost on, which means you do not have to start all over if you lose in the single 
 player campaign. The only thing that happens is your points get halved, but points are not even 
 important unless you want to get one specific ending. This means you can clear through several 
 endings rather easily, especially if you set the difficulty to very easy. However, the variation 
 with the missions will be hard if you intend to unlock the three endings that you get from it. 
 You can only choose a path if you win and complete the mission. If you win and fail the mission, 
 you will be forced to follow a specific path, and the different endings come only when you arrive 
 at specific end planets on the map.
  
  It must be noted that simply playing through Star Trip mode once and seeing the credits roll is 
 not what Meteos was designed for. This has some of the best replay value in puzzle games, because 
 there is so much to unlock. Along with the Star Trip, Vs, and Time Attack, there is Fusion. In 
 Fusion, you can use any elemental blocks that you have cleared throughout your play to unlock extras 
 like planets, items, sound, and music. Each block represents an element, like water, air, or fire. 
 As you play through Meteos and see different endings and achieve certain goals in Time Attack, 
 there will be more things to unlock in Fusion. For each item, there will be a specific requirement 
 of each element, and when you use them to fuse the extra, they will be deducted. This means that 
 in order to unlock everything, you will have to play a lot of Meteos.
  
  Another great thing about Meteos is that it really does do a great job of making use of the touch 
 screen. Sure, you can try to use the D-Pad and move a cursor around the screen, but you will never 
 be able get far when the block are coming down fast and your opponent just dropped a boatload of 
 garbage into your screen. This is, after all, the main reason why Meteos is so unique and separates 
 itself from the rest of the puzzle games out there.
  
  There is a small problem with the game, though. If you are not the type of person who likes to 
 unlock everything in a game, stay far away from this one. It takes no time to set an easy difficulty, 
 wade your way through a few planets, and "beat the game". If you are in it just to see credits 
 roll, move on.
  
  Many people say that anyone can get into a puzzle game, and if that is the case, then I recommend 
 everyone to definitely check this little gem out. However, if you are a big puzzle game fan, Meteos 
 offers a very original experience that cannot be matched on any other platform and is a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3oHellAz
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Meteos is a fun, addictive, cool, tetris like game , but its Not even near a tetris like game. 
 is a puzzle game with a story about an evil planet sending blocks of meteos. a small race fights 
 of to defeat the meteos, making the races join force and finally destroy the evil planet meteo.. 
 a rather funny story in some way. there are loads of different planets you can play on with different 
 gravitational pull, music and presentation on all.
  the game has plenty of modes, stroy, time, even an infinative mode kinda. if you like puzzle games 
 you will love this. 
  NEEDED IN YOUR DS COLLECTION
  
  PROS
  -ADDICTIVE
  -Really good multiplayer
  -Replayability
  -Cool music and presentation
  
  CONS
  -DS needs 
 to be calibrated well
  -Althought there are loads of modes, some see the same.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Easy to use. but gets anoying at times, sometimes you press on the wrong meteo block.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  Simple graphics, but nothing flashy is needed. has a cool intro.
  
  SOUND
  I love the sound. evry planet has there own music genre. hip hop, pop, rock, RnB, Techno 
 etc. my favourate part of the game infact. has its own DJ room thing, kinda fun. would have been 
 good if they expanded on that feuture althought its unnesisary but could have made it like electroplankton.
 
  
  VALUE
  Worth it because of its modes and fun multiplayer
  
  OVERALL
  cool game, multiplayer makes it that extra addictive. if you dont now what game to get out of tetris, 
 magnetica, pokemon trozie. get this game. addictive and just ... cool.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psiphor
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say?
  
  Any game capable of inspiring previous non-gamers (and especially girls) into picking up a DS on 
 a regular basis gets my vote and this is one such game.
  
  Meteos excels in everything it attempts to provide. Gameplay inspired no doubt by the grand-daddy 
 of this genre: Tetris. I. e. Blocks fall from the top of the screen to the bottom and it's your 
 job to stop the blocks building up to the height of the screen... 
  
  The blocks vary depending on the level you're playing/ Their style ranges from a blocks of different 
 colours, to different symbols. The stylus on the touch-screen is all you need (and concentration/dexterity) 
 to perform the task at hand. By touching and dragging (Vertically only) individual blocks, you 
 must align at least 3 of the same colour/symbol. At this point, jet thrusters erupt from the base 
 of the blocks and they make their way to the top of the screen, pushing any blocks above them as 
 they go. The different levels are based on planet themes, so naturally, some have stronger gravity 
 than others, so blocks don't always have enough energy to get off the screen... You can help their 
 progress by aligning more blocks in the stack into groups of three or more, as they move up the 
 screen.
  
  Simple premise, but it gets really challenging as time goes by and the rate at which blocks fall 
 increases. 
  
  There are about 40 planets to unlock . Each block you successfully launch off the screen, represents 
 an element. Many elements can be combined in the menu screens to effectively purchase the new planets. 
 
  
  Special item blocks occasionally fall. These range from useful exploding blocks that take out entire 
 screens of blocks, to less helpful smoke-screens which stop you seeing what you're doing. Such 
 blocks though are useful in multiplayer games. I've not played against another human yet (Not have 
 any facility to do this) , but you can assign up to 3 cpu controlled opponents. The four of you 
 can shift your unwanted blocks to your unsuspecting opponents, thus speeding up their demise.
 
  
  Graphics throughout the game are bright, colourful, functional and clearly defined. Sound plays 
 an important part of the game too, the (catchy) music tempo increasing as blocks get close to the 
 top of the screen and sound effects add to this tension.
  
  The stylus is very accurate and intuitive.
  
  Overall, a brilliant game in every respect. Longevity 
 is guaranteed as you desperately try to better your scores and unlock the extra planets/sounds/items.
 
  
  9.2 out of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiblam
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 7, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Meteos is a fun and challenging game. Its pretty much a story mode with over 30 different levels 
 so th madness never stops. One of meteos greatest features is the ability to unlock over 30 things 
 such as items to help win your game, soundtracks, and other bonus features such as planets. You are 
 also able to unlock rare meteos which unlock rare planets and rare items. Meteos's music is very 
 catchy and has a different soundtrack to each different planet. Meteos is also a great game to play 
 in multiplayer, withe new ds download play it lets two players play even kthough one only owns the 
 game. I would recommend meteos to everyone, not the best ds game but its still up their. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBros
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Clearly one of the best DS games yet, for many reasons.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  The meat of the game....
  Is fickin' awesome. Simple, yet complicated.
  Sliding the blocks 
 is very easy (except in the credits) and the multi-launch system is ingenious. Items help mix it 
 up, but they're not used much...
  It's highly addictive blowing stuff up and making HUGE screen covering launches. Throw in gravity 
 diffrent fronm each planet and you've got fun.
  
  Graphics: 9
  The planets all have their own unique look for the Meteos blocks themselves, the backgrounds are 
 cel shaded and super stylized, and the little dancing aliens are very cool.
  The opening cutscene is probably the most gorgeous cutscene on the DS to date. (Right up there 
 with MP: H's cutscenes)
  
  Sound: 10
  Effects are cool, but that music...
  Sometimes you feel like you're composing music. All the planets have unique music. (Yooj's is my 
 fave) and you can even buy music with Meteos you've launched. Score.
  
  Value: 10
  This will last you a loooooooooooooong time.
  
  Overall: 9.6 (BUY) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is the story of a few species of aliens trying struggling to fire back these destructive 
 fragments called.. well.. meteos.. back to the fragment's evil planet of Meteo.
  
  This game is almost identicle to either Pokemon Trozei or Tetris DS. These meteos fall down on 
 the screen, you must line 3 or more of the same color up by moving a line up or down, and they 
 fire back off into space. The kicker is this: sure, after you line them up and they begin flying 
 up, but if they dont have enough power it comes back down slowly. The trick is to simply line more 
 up on the one thats flying into space, and jucie it up so it goes completley into space. Understand?
 
  
  There are mini-games like time trials, custom games and stuff like that, but after running through 
 the main game once you really wont want to do any of the side games. However, if you do play either 
 the side games or the main game and win any stages, you earn points. With the points you can buy 
 or known as "fuse" in the game these items that can help you beat stages faster.. like bombs.. or 
 axes.. yeah. You can also build/fuse planets which you can play in.. I believe they are added to 
 the main game, I dont remember.
  
  For a DS title, and a puzzle game at that, Meteos has some pretty decent graphics. With colorful 
 blocks, and pretty detailed planets, I would say that this may be the best looking puzzle game 
 on the system. The music and SFX were pretty nice sounding as well. I especially like the satisfying 
 "boom" Meteos makes when you send some fragments into space.
  
  What is really dissapointing in my eyes for this title is the fact that not only is it extremley 
 easy, but very (and I stress very) short. I beat the game in literally less than a half hour.. 
 not to mention it was my very first time playing.
  
  To finish it off, if you own a DS and want to play an interesting (but very short) take on a Tetris 
 styled game then get this game. It is worth playing, I'll admit, but like I said- after you run 
 through the game once, you'll be bored with Meteos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venom-Carnage
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is full of unlockable extras. Like cool music new playable Charcters, all with there 
 own styles and music and themes. It takes very little time to get used to how the game works. The 
 game may seem very easy at times but at higher difficulty it can be very challanging. This game 
 is a great game to buy first when you get your DS because the game is really depended on the touch 
 pad and the game can really show of it's crystal clear graphics that the DS has to offer and will 
 get the owners used to what the DS is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Meteos, is the best puzzle game available on Nintendo DS. Well, it's only competitiion is Polarium, 
 but it is still the best puzzler on DS. In fact, it's one of the best puzzle games ever. I was 
 hooked on Lumines, and when I found out it was the same developer that made Lumines that made this, 
 I instantely tried this game out. After playing the crap out of both games, I have decided that 
 my favorite is Meteos.
  
  In the game Meteos, an evil planet called Meteo launches material into space. This material, called 
 Meteos destroys planets and the life on them. To destory Meteos, three Meteo blocks must be alligned 
 in a side ways posistion, or a top/bottom posistions. They will then launch into space as you try 
 as fast as you can to destroy these blocks.
  
  The gameplay will take some getting used to because sometime you miss the block you are trying 
 to get because they are small. Also, the game is one of the toughest puzzle games you'll ever play. 
 But what's weird with Meteos is that it actually gets easier when there are more blocks because 
 then there are a lot more Meteos to destroy. But still, you don't want to get the area to full 
 or it will result in failure.
  
  This game isn't a game you'll start playing non-stop for five hours, but it is one that you will 
 be playing for months. Your play sessions will probably only be maybe 10-20 minutes at a time, 
 unless you are playing in the story mode which may keep you hooked until you beat it. Also, the 
 multiplayer matches make you keep on wanting to play. Overall, depsite the short amounts of play 
 time at a time, this is one of the longer lasting Nintendo DS games.
  
  While the graphics are colorful, they need more pizzaz. Lumines had some pretty crazy backgrounds. 
 I wish that Meteos had some of those. For puzzle games there is not really too much to expect, 
 but as I said before, it's a pretty colorful game. The presenation of the game looks great, it's 
 just really well put together but at the same time it needs a lot more to help it from having an 
 even better graphical showcase.
  
  The music is great but at the same time it may get on your nerves. With the volume full up, it 
 sounds kind of metallic, but with the volume about half way, it sounds the best. The music on the 
 main menu is far from repetitive and is great at that. Actually, about all of the tracks in the 
 game are very good but you'll hear the song for about five to ten seconds and then it just repeats 
 that over and over with about every song in the game except for the main menu music. At the same 
 time there is a wide variety of tracks in the game and if there is a certain one that you like 
 a lot you can go to the extras section and listen to it in the "Sounds" sub-menu.
  
  For your friends who do not like puzzle video games, and will probably ot buy them unless they 
 really like the game, will Meteos has a download demo option which is a cool addition. There is 
 also download play for multiplayer but it is better when you have friends with the game cart because 
 then your options are not limited.
  
  If you are a doubter about Meteos, honestly I suggest that you try this game out because it is 
 one of the best puzzle games I have played in a while. If you've played, and liked Lumines than 
 you are going to love this game. Actually, Meteos is a lot different than most puzzle games out 
 there so everyone is in for something new and refreshing. One of the better games on Nintendo DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawcan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  This is a great puzzle game. Nice looks, mechanics and sound. Great multiplayer. But...
  
  It has not got a decent highscore list. Thats bad. I find the most entertaining things that can 
 happen with a puzzler is when the whole familly is involved and set on bringing their name oe symbol 
 at the highest rank. This game wrongly assumes that each game is individually bound. The highscore 
 in Lumines works far better. 
  
  Still a great game with lots to do. For example you have sevaral gaming modes (even a story mode) 
 and each of them allows you to unlock new planets (levels) , items and music scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Captain_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  would just like to clarify that just because this game features falling blocks doe NOT mean that 
 it is Tetris. The blocks fall one at a time here, rather than in clusters. The blocks fall without 
 your control at rapid speeds, again NOT like Tetris. So don't stereotype this game as another Tetris 
 clone, please.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  This game has the best puzzle concept I have ever seen. Basically, the blocks fall one at a time, 
 and once they land, you can then move the blocks up or down (with the stylus) to line up three 
 or more same-colored Meteos horizontally or vertically. Once this happens, the Meteos fuse together 
 and turn into a rocket, sending them into space. However, all planets have completely different 
 gravitational forces. Some feel as though the Meteos are moving underwater, while on another, the 
 gravity is so strong launching a rocket does virtually nothing, until you launch one on top of 
 it. The simplistic gameplay can evolve into all sorts of strategies and skills, and can get very 
 interesting on the higher difficulty levels. The game has 4 modes: Simple, where you set up a normal 
 match against whatever planets you choose; Time attack, which puts you in a situation where you 
 have a certain amount of time to clear a certain amount of Meteos; Star Trip, a story mode which 
 pits you against a series of planets; and Deluge, where you pick a planet to see how long you can 
 survive. There is also a number of items used to help you or torture your opponent. These appear 
 randomly, and are a nice twist to the game.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  
  I love the colorful style of Meteos, but some of the effects are grainy. Each planet has its own 
 distinct style, from Gravitas' swirling black hole to the raging fires on Jeljel. This game was 
 designed by the creator of Super Smash Bros., so you may notice that the menus and game setups 
 are surprisingly similar to SSB. The planets themselves are awesome to look at, and some say that 
 there are subliminal messages in the shape of some planets...
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  This game has some of the best video game music I've ever heard. Each level has its own backbeat, 
 launching sounds, and landing sounds. Each of these sets gives each planet a distinct feel. However, 
 each backbeat (other than two planets) is just a 3-5 second recording playing over and over and 
 over... But the sound effects make up for it. This game also features a sound test, which I love. 
 As I mentioned before some people believe there to be subliminal messages on the shapes of planets, 
 and there are subliminal messages in the sound test. Some sounds that can only be heard in the 
 sound test, such as a crowd screaming, "HELL NO!!!" or "HELLO!!!" There are a couple others, but 
 I won't get into those.
  
  Replay- Variable
  
  The reason I say this is because I have heard many different opinions about this game, from saying 
 that they can't stop playing it to not being able to play it for a day. I, personally, stopped 
 playing this game after buying Mario Kart DS, and whenever I pick up Meteos anymore, I just don't 
 feel the addiction. Before that, I played it about one and a half hours every day. I was completely 
 and utterly addicted. One strange thing about being addicted to Meteos is what's called "Meteos 
 vision." This is caused by extended Meteos playing, and causes you to literally play Meteos when 
 your eyes are closed. I played this every night before I went to sleep, so this affected me a lot. 
 You will actually play a game, by yourself, with your eyes closed. It is a little creepy, and hard 
 to get out of your head, but it'll eventually go away.
  
  Overall- 8/10
  
  This is one of those games that you won't play for extended periods of time, but will want to pop 
 in every once in a while. I strongly suggest this to any and all puzzle fans, and hope this review 
 helped you!
  
  ~Cap'n
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergioalb64
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Puzzles aren't that popular, right?
  Well I'm not sure, but Meteos is awesome. Simply put, one of the best DS games to date.
  Puzzle 
 games don't need a story, but Meteos has one, and it ain't bad either. An evil planet called Meteo 
 is trying to destroy other planets by sending Meteos [or colored blocks] to them to destroy them. 
 You take control and play the game to make sure these Meteos don't destroy the planets. How? Very 
 simple; you slide your stylus verticaly [up and down] to match three or more Meteos of the same 
 color / type [either horizontally or vertically] to make them propel back to space. Any Meteos 
 above the ones you make fly will fly too, but the weight and gravity itself might drive them back 
 to the planet's surface.
  What's very creative and special about this is that every planet in Meteos [a total of more than 
 30] has different Meteos, music, sound effects, and gravitational laws! This makes every planet 
 different from each other, greatly extending the replay value of the game.
  So of course, you can make chains by calculating where falling blocks will land, but this is a 
 little hard to explain if you don't play the game.
  Single-player mode is very extensive and challenging. You can go on some sort of Mission Mode where 
 you go from one planet to another until you reach Meteo. This level has five different difficulty 
 levels. You can also play Time Attack, Marathon, or simple matches against CPU oponents, up to 
 three.
  Multiplayer is here too, and it's great! You can play single-card or multi-card with up to three 
 of your friends. The only drag about this is that if three or more people are playing, the game 
 slows down a bit, but not enough to make you not want to play multi.
  Another very cool fact about this game is that it keeps track of many records. For example, you 
 can see how many times you have turned on the system with the game on, how much time you've played, 
 how many Meteos you have burned, etc. A very nice and interesting addition indeed.
  The graphics are smooth and great-looking, the sound is simply top-notch, addictive and fun gameplay, 
 great multiplayer and long-lasting game. You don't have it? What are you waiting for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiniLord
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This Game might look kinda boring but once u pick it up u will find out how great is the power 
 of Metoes. I never believe a game involving flying blocks will be so addictive until i bought it. Its 
 juz plain fun! The game play are so innovative and there are so many different planets to Unlock, each 
 planets has got its own unique attributes-Like Gravitional pull , how a blocks will blast off is 
 lined up differently ... there is so much more.
  It will do even better in Multi-Player, Plummering ur opponent with consistant rain of Meteos. Try 
 it out guys, this game is really worth collecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Meteos brings old schol puzzle games like Tetris to the future using the DS's innovative technology 
 to create the best puzzle game since Tetris many moons ago. It all starts with the stylized graphics 
 and odd soundtrack and it ends many hours later with the inability to move your hands because of 
 the fact you've been playing for so many hours you've lost the ability to control bodily functions. 
 The pure addiction begins with the wide variety of modes at your disposal and huge amount of unlockable 
 content, from more planets to play on from new types of Meteos to launch there is a massive amount 
 of content to be found in Meteos. So in conclusion if you are a fan of puzzle games or just a casual 
 gamer Meteos is pure gaming Nirvana. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbrisevac
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is an extremely addictive, pick-up-and-play game. A lot of the time you will find yourself 
 thinking, 'ah, I'll play this for ten minutes to pass time' 1 hour later you are still hooked.
 
  
  In Meteos there are bricks or 'Meteos' that fall from above landing in your bottom screen. These 
 blocks land anywhere, you cannot help where they land. The point is to match 3 colours of meteos 
 together, so they fire into space (off the bottom screen) , In deluge mode you just keep firing 
 until the blocks fill to the top of the screen. In star strip mode you battle against other planets. 
 Different planets have different weaknesses. There are different types of meteos which these planets 
 are weak against. Some of the types are water, electricity, fire and so on. The only way to move 
 and match meteos is by sliding them verticlly, up or down. In a horizontal or vertical line.
  
  The visuals in this game are bright and colourful, though there is not much detail. There are 
 the usual catchy puzzle game tunes that play throughout the levels, some of them may eventually 
 get annoying. As for gameplay, it is extremely addictive, there are 4 different modes that will 
 keep you playing for dozens of hours.
  
  Sometimes you get frustrated, if you lose when you are trying to beat your high score and come 
 within and hare's breath of it. This doesn't stop you from playing though. Oh, no, you gotta go 
 back and try to get that high score!!!!
  
  All DS owners who are even slightly interested in a puzzle game should get Meteos, even if tetris 
 DS is here. You can get Tetris for much less on your gameboy colour!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duudeV2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Alright, when I first got Meteos, it was a blast. But really... only because I haven't played a 
 game like that since pokemon puzzle league. Which was a while before I first played it.
  
  The gameplay is a "it's been done before" for me. Although, when you first get you won't notice 
 with all the great stuff they add. Instead of the average "put three in a row and win" you have 
 a lot more. Put three in a row, and you not only blast those three pieces into space, but you blast 
 everything above that three into space too. Then you can do the three in a row thing when the pieces 
 are in the air for extra points and meteos.
  
  I've never seen a "3 in a row" puzzle game that makes you move it up and down instead of left to 
 right. And it's pretty cool concept. Especially with the stylus, which you basically need, because 
 the gameplay is very fast paced.
  
  Okay, let me explain these "meteo" things. The story goes like this. An evil planet attacks good 
 planets. Good planets figure out away to defeat evil planet with meteos. Meteos good.
  
  Yeah, the story ain't that great, and I have no clue why they put it in. Maybe to add the story 
 mode?
  
  Meteos can do a number of things once you send them into space during a level. You see, there are 
 different types of Meteos, different color meteos. And you save each meteo you launch up into space 
 after the level you beat. So, you can buy new items that pop up during a level, new worlds (levels) 
 and extra things. It's a fun thing that was added to keep the gameplay longer.
  
  Graphics are really good. Each world has different shaped meteos, and some worlds may hold rare 
 meteos so you can buy rarer stuff. So, you won't get bored of seeing the same graphics over and 
 over again.
  
  But, sadly, all good games must end. And for meteos, it ends in a very short ammount of time. It's 
 great for maybe the first couple of days, but every time I try to play it now I just put it down, 
 becuase it just gets old.
  
  Overall: You should buy it if you are a really big puzzle fan, but I think the hardest core puzzle 
 fan would put this game down after not too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackwater154
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Meteos is a highly addictive puzzle game. it has a lot of game play mode and wireless capabilities. 
 it is a very easy game to understand just match up the squares and they shot up into the air. i 
 also figured out it is possible to cheat if you rub the stylus across the screen really fast you 
 will get alot of matches. the graphics where ok but the music gets on your nerves after a while 
 it is still a great game. the wireless gameplay is pretty good and it also supports DS download 
 play and it supports up to 4 players. in conclusion I give this game a 9.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Meteos is indeed a fantastic DS puzzle game. It is equal to tetris, but has certain qualities that 
 make it unique. The game is very addictive, once you make one planet you just can't stop wanting 
 to have all of them. Meteos shows difficulty not in how the game is played, but by the planets. 
 Each planet in Meteos handles differently and playing up against other people who have Meteos is 
 also a challenge because you never know what planet your opponent will choose. This game is solid, 
 fun, and a good puzzle game. This game is non stop fun for puzzle game fans and DS owners alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is a confusing game for people who don't appreciate puzzle games, or for people who don't 
 know what to do. You'll catch on though, and it's a wonderful battle based puzzle game when you 
 do.
  You basically select a race that you want to be (though this has only strategic impact, not visual 
 impact) , and you play through a campaign mode. Unlike other puzzle games, you drag the blocks in 
 vertical columns only, and when you lign up three or more of the same color, the meteos take off, 
 and they carry anything on top of them with them, so you can cause new takeoffs from that (lets 
 say you line up 3 blues on the bottom, and you have 2 purples near the edge of a group of columns; 
 if there is a purple on the takeoff pad, and it is connecting to the others, then you will have 
 the three purples take off) . Your main goal is to put so many meteos on an opponent's planet that 
 (like Tetris) they can't stack anymore, so they overload.
  See what I meant? Meteos is very confusing, and you unlock more planets to play as and more music 
 to listen to as your reward. The soundtrack is of amazing quality, from the tense battles, to the 
 relaxing ending, it all fits. The graphics are rather cute for a game of this kind, and they work 
 well. If you're looking for an engaging strategy game that is challenging and very rewarding, then 
 you can't go wrong with Meteos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foondeman1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  meteos is an exellent puzzle game and should not be passed up. The gameplay is nearly perfect, 
 as you get used to the flawless controls in a matter of seconds. You can either control the game 
 with the stylus or buttons, but you will surely find the stylus controls to be much better. The 
 graphics are very crisp and vibrant, but are not outstanding. The game's soundtrack is one of the 
 best I have ever heard, varying on each stage. The game will not last forever, though. Eventually, 
 it will get slightly boring over time. Overall, this is an excellent game with a few very minor 
 flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Euphoric_Rider
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  The thirst thing that I thought when I read Gamespot's preview on Meteos was: this game is just 
 a sort of Tetris clone. When I watched the videos of the game in action I was immediately proven 
 wrong, and repented for my foolishness. This game is far from being a simple copy of Tetris. The 
 fact is that the only similarities between the two games are that there are blocks falling from 
 the top of the sky and that you have to get rid of them. The rest is totally different. Calling 
 Meteos a Tetris clone would be like calling any platformer a Mario clone. I believe that this game 
 is the game on the DS that uses the touch screen best. Without the touch screen this game could 
 not exist. It would simply be unplayable because of its speed. 
  
  Story:
  
  Believe it or not, this game has a story. It isnt very elaborate but its just what you need. 
 If it were any longer you would be distracted from the game and if it were any shorter it couldnt 
 be considered a story. The story is the one of the universe. Somewhere in space a planet called 
 Meteo is created. This planet sends meteors (called Meteos) to other planets in order to destroy 
 them. Its ultimate purpose is to extinguish all life in the universe. By chance a planet discovers 
 how to ignite the meteos before they reach their land and send them back into space. By grouping 
 the meteos they can send them away from their planet. With the support of all the planets in the 
 universe they make a spaceship named Metamo Ark to go to planet Meteo and destroy it, hence saving 
 the universe. The story is passable even if you find that some parts of it do not make much sense. 
 Every time you beat story mode in the game you will get a different ending that is selected at 
 random. Some are good endings, others are apocalyptic.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay in this game is very complex and it would take me pages to explain it fully. Basically 
 meteos fall from the top of the screen and accumulate at the bottom. You can group meteos of the 
 same kind (air, fire, H2O, soil, iron, zap, herb, zoo, glow, dark, soul and time) by moving them 
 up and down the screen (you cannot move them sideways) . If you group three or more meteos of the 
 same kind they ignite and rocket upwards. You can group meteos horizontally and vertically. If 
 they have enough energy they will leave the atmosphere of the planet (the top of the screen) and 
 be destroyed, if not they will fall back down. Meteos that have been ignited lift all the meteos 
 accumulated on them when they fly off, hence destroying all the meteos they lift. If there are 
 many meteos accumulated on top of the meteos that have been ignited, it will be harder for these 
 to lift everything up due to the total weight. The power of the meteos when ignited depends on 
 which planet they are on. The gravity of the planet also affects how fast they fall back down. 
 When piles of meteos are falling back down you can ignite meteos within the pile and they will 
 go shooting back up. There are many items which fall randomly that affect your game such as bombs 
 and hammers that destroy your meteos. If there are too many meteos on the screen the planet will 
 be destroyed. After some time it seems to be raining meteos and the game becomes much more frantic 
 and fun. The first few attempts to play this game are really hard but when you get the hang of 
 this game, it becomes much easier, almost instinctive, to play it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are simple, yet good. You shouldnt expect something too complicated graphics. They 
 are clean and the frame rate is smooth as can be but they will not make you stare at them. The 
 games interface is imaginative and intuitive, as you can change it to fit your mind. While playing 
 you see a background behind the falling meteos. These backgrounds are unique for every planet and 
 look gorgeous, although they are quite simple and are not animated. However on the top screens 
 you see the image of the planets you are fighting against and the people of your planet dancing 
 as you ignite meteos and send them shooting across the top screen. Again the little people dancing 
 are different for every planet. The meteos are clearly visible although there is sometimes some 
 confusion between the common dark meteos and the rare time and soul meteos. What is impressive 
 is that the meteos have a larger/smaller trail depending on how fast they are falling. So at the 
 beginning they have no trail at all and at the end they have these huge trails and the fire meteos 
 look like fire arrows falling from the top of the screen. The opening trailer looks amazing considering 
 this is a DS game. It tells the story of the game and shows you a little narrative of what is happening. 
 I was really impressed the first time I saw it and watch it every time I play this game. Whats 
 best concerning the graphics in this game are all the little details that make each planet better. 
 Every planet has their own theme (cloud, techno, volcano, jungle and even an astonishing horror 
 movie themed planet that is my favorite) , and the background, shape and inhabitants of the planet 
 are in accord with it.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is definitely the best part of Meteos. The music and sound in Meteos are not complicated 
 but are outstanding. They are really gripping, and are in perfect harmony with the planet they 
 represent. The opening and end theme songs are also very well done. The noises that accompany the 
 launch of meteos into the atmosphere are different on each planet and it is easy to understand 
 that this is the same team that made the game Lumines for PSP. All the sounds are engaging and 
 do not ruin the atmosphere as sound does in most games do but create an atmosphere all by themselves. 
 They enhance the game so much that it would be difficult to imagine playing Meteos in mute. You 
 would be missing such an important part of the game. The speakers of the DS, although they are 
 great and more powerful than the ones of the PSP, sometimes lack of the quality that the music 
 in this game can give and its worth plugging your headphones to fully enjoy the scope of the sounds 
 you hear while you play. There is also a sound room option which is a great add-in to the game. 
 Ive spent hours listening to meteos music with my headphones and working on something else while 
 my DS was constantly on and that I was on Meteoss sound room. I wish that the developers would 
 have been a bit more consistent when making the sounds, as the music of some planets are much better 
 than the repetitive sounds of others. However this problem is only minor as the music is affected 
 by the way you play, and that you switch from one planet to another so fast that you sometimes 
 will not even notice that the music of one planet is dull and repetitive compared to the previous 
 one.
  
  Value:
  
  If you want it, Meteoss replay value is infinite. Its fun just playing this game over and over 
 again. The concept is just so innovative that you never get bored. You easily find yourself spending 
 hours playing this game trying to increase your high score per planet. To do so there are many 
 different modes to play in. Theres the Simple mode where you choose the planet you want to play 
 on and your enemies. You can choose whether you want to make it a time trial or have a certain 
 amount of lives. You can also make teams between the planets. Theres Star Trip, the games story 
 mode, which has in its turn three different modes: straight, branch and multi. In straight you 
 go directly from one planet to another, in branch you choose which planet you want to go to and 
 in multi you are given a challenge to complete during your game. If you complete the challenge 
 then you get to choose which planet you want to go next and if you fail the computer automatically 
 chooses for you (it always seems to choose the hardest one) . Theres a Time War mode where you 
 can choose whether you want to accomplish a 2:00 time war, a 5:00 time war, a 100 meteo war or 
 a 1000 meteo war. And last but not least theres the deluge mode which is the high score mode by 
 excellence. Basically the meteos never stop falling and they become more numerous and faster as 
 time passes. Your aim is to launch the highest amount of meteos possible and stay alive for the 
 longest time. What makes Meteos one of the best puzzle games ever is that its a very rewarding 
 game. The more you play, the more it rewards you by letting you unlock new planets to play with, 
 new in-game items and new tunes to listen to in the sound room. Its very simple; every meteos 
 you destroy is counted and added to your total amount of meteos destroyed for that kind. You can 
 fuse these meteos to unlock new stuff; simple yet easily addictive. The amount of things that you 
 can unlock is huge. It will take you hours to unlock everything, and once youve done that you 
 will still be playing to improve your high scores and for the sheer fun of playing this game. When 
 you add the multiplayer to all of this, Meteos truly becomes a game that you will pick up, and 
 never put down again.
  
  In conclusion Meteos is one of the best puzzler games ever made since Tetris and will get you addicted 
 on your first try. Theres so much to do that this game will keep you playing it for hours without 
 you even noticing. Even if you are not a puzzle game fan (I wasnt one before I played this game 
 for the first time) , you should give this game a try, and you will soon see just how wrong you 
 were not to be interested in puzzle games. Theres no escaping, but why attempt to do so? Its 
 just so much fun giving in to this games addictiveness.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  The block mechanic is all these games share. After that you find the depth and beauty of what this 
 game can offer, that no others can.
  
  You move blocks vertically to form 3 in a row, though if you plan it right you can do 5 in a row. 
 After you get 3 or more in a row they blast off (along with all the blocks on top of them) , the 
 goal being to shoot them off screen. They don't usually fly offscreen after you match those intial 
 few blocks together once they're up in the air you have to often match other blocks in that mass 
 your trying to shoot off-screen.
  There's a few neat twists that add alot of strategy, however the use of these tricks are not necessary 
 at all to enjoy the game they're only there if your going to get competitive with it.. First of 
 all the top screen lets you view your points but push select and you can then view the other players' 
 screen showing how filled their screen is (but not the colors of the blocks. If you can't find 
 any matches push the bottom left of the touch screen and it speeds up the rate of the falling blocks 
 (for as long as you tell it to) so you can send more off screen. When playing multiple opponents 
 you can choose whether you want to send your blocks shot off-screen at a particular opponent or 
 spread it out evenly amongst all the players. (up to 4 can play) You do this by pushing the button 
 on the left side of the touch screen which also shows you a mini display of how full every characters 
 screen is. Blocks are sent at the other players every few seconds but if you wish to send them 
 fast the mid right button on the touch screen sends them sooner. It sounds like a lot of buttons 
 are cramping the touch screen but they don't at all you have to play to see what I mean
  Multi-card you get the full list of options single card is pretty limited but still fun.
  
 
  Graphics are fine they stay show some nice backgrounds, and explosions when blsting off are kinda 
 neat. It does its job though to keep you playing the game and not focusing on anyhting else. The 
 menus look alot like Super Smash Bros. menus. (that good it gives a Nintendo feel. Which is always 
 to say a fun feel.)
  Sounds are great too if your not playing they get really annoying because some sounds are purposefully 
 repetitive I guess, but mentally those few sounds are processed in your mind as a good sound and 
 get you more pumped. Again nothing too great but that's the point.
  
  How many friends do you have and how often do you play DS with them? That's a decent way to determine 
 value. However the vast array of single player options as well as playing a computer opponent keep 
 things rolling really well single player. And there's always stuff to unlcok in the Fusion Shop. 
 (provided your playing starship mode, which is the main game mode)
  Puzzle fan or not you'll very suprising enjoymeny out of this. I wasn't sure if i was a puzzle 
 gamer when I bought this but i guess I am. Also worth mentioning is my mom who played Pac-Man about 
 20 years ago and nothing since picked this right up and did great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  When a rain of meteors starts falling from the sky and it seems like the world is going to end, 
 you'd probably think of environmental catastrophes or alien invasions of giant proportions. None 
 of that here! In Meteos, planets are under attack by an evil planet named Meteo, the cause of the 
 violent meteor showers. It's up to you to save the world by playing a series of "match three" puzzles.
 
  
  The gameplay is simple and very similar to Columns, except the pieces are single blocks. You are 
 bombed by a series of falling blocks, which you have to arrange to form combinations of three of 
 more of the same color. You can create vertical or horizontal combinations, but you can only move 
 the blocks up and down. Creating color combos will ignite the meteos and launch them into space. 
 While the large ignited stacks are being launched or falling back down, you can still move the 
 colored pieces to make additional combos. The longer you manage to survive, the faster the blocks 
 will fall. If the stacks reach the bottom of the screen, the game ends.
  
  If you're wondering what is so great about another "match three" puzzle, it's the game mechanics. 
 Meteos makes really great use of the stylus to slide the pieces on the touch screen (although you 
 can make use of the D-pad, but it only slows you down) . On the top screen, you get to see your 
 score, the number of meteos launched and a couple of cute dancing aliens belonging to the planet 
 you are saving. 
  
  There are at least 30 planets where you can play on, each with its own set of rules and blocks. 
 For example, in a certain planet, only horizontal combos will launch the stacks while horizontal 
 combos won't help you clearing blocks. The different gravitational laws make stacks fall slowly 
 or faster from planet to planet or they may let you launch single blocks up in the air or slide 
 the to the top of a column with a quick movement. Basically, you have to adjust your style of play 
 to each planet.
  
  Each planet also has distinct background music and sound effects. You have everything from urban 
 sounds (like a police radio) to birds chirping, plus a range of other musical scores such as oriental, 
 medieval, techno, tribal and more. Music is a very important part of Meteos, since as you play, 
 each combination you create makes a sound, adding to the background rhythm, turning into a more 
 complex melody. When the blocks start really pouring, then the music stops making sense and becomes 
 a cacophony of crazy sounds.
  
  Not all of these planets will be available to play right away. Many of them are created through 
 Fusion, which is where you get to use all those meteos you have launched. Combine certain types 
 and quantities of meteos to obtain planets, items, music, sounds and rare metals (which are needed 
 to create other planets as well) .
  
  Meteos offers a good variety of gameplay modes: Simple, Time War, Deluge and Star Trip.
  
  
 Simple mode lets you play a single puzzle board with customized settings such as difficulty and 
 planet, making it a good beginner's tool. Time War has two rule sets, Time War and Meteo War, respectively 
 get the highest score possible within the time limit, and how quickly you can launch the required 
 amount of meteos. Deluge is basically a survival mode to see how long you last against faster and 
 faster waves of falling meteos. Score is awarded according to the time you lasted and the number 
 of meteos launched.
  
  Star Trip is basically your story mode, where you set a course and battle planets until you reach 
 the final challenger, Meteo itself. Aside from the four basic modes, there are also the added multiplayer 
 and DS Download Play options. 
  
  So yes, you can bet Meteos has a lot of options to keep you busy and extremely entertained for 
 either long periods of time or a quick match wherever you are.
  
  A good and addictive puzzle game will always make my delights, and Meteos is no exception. At only 
 $18, it was one of the best video game purchases I've ever made.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=meteos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is a simplistic game that has a terrific learning curve and a great design scheme where 
 each level has a different 'gravity' which makes winning more or less difficult.
  
  The main principle is simple: get 3 like squares in a row/column to fire the boosters. Like I said 
 eariler, the gravity will deceide how easy it is to get the blast-offs to get beyond the screen. 
 It sounds easy, and it is at first, but things get progressingly difficult as the speed increases. 
 The game has a near perfect curve of difficulty, regardless of the gravity on the planet.
  
  Music is simple without being droning or annoying, but it's nothing special overall. Controls 
 are simple, unless you're hard of seeing... the blocks are kinda tiny and can be hard to pinpoint 
 sometimes, especially if the action is heavy. Beyond that though it's simple and intuitive.
  
  Gameplay is addictive, as all puzzle games should be. I've had the game for months but it's 
 simple enough to pick up and play for a few minutes at a time... but it's also not out of the ordinary 
 to be able to pick it up and marathon it. There are unlockables to play for, and several modes 
 to play through.
  
  Multiplayer is simple enough, you only need one game to play with another person and you can battle, 
 so to speak. It's fun if you have a friend with a DS that you wanna own on the go.
  
  Overall, puzzle games are usually hit or miss with me, and this is a definite hit. It's got everything 
 a good puzzle game should have, and it's a must for puzzle fans that have a DS... Or even reason 
 enough to buy a DS... Hell, that's why I got mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This is the best puzzle game on the DS to date (3/1/2006) . It's a unique twist on the traditional 
 "match 'em up to make 'em disappear" idea. You can only move blocks vertically (up and down a column) . 
 Get 3 in a row and and launches everything from there and above up into the air. Launch them high 
 enough and they go off the screen earning you metoes. Trade in certain amounts of all the different 
 meteos to unlock other levels, special items, and sounds. There's many different planets to play 
 on each having different types of meteos on them, as well as different gravitational pull. Some 
 planets one launch is enough to send it all off the screen, and some you'll have to launch things 
 twice to get them to go away - so there's different strategies for different levels! There are 
 also a few single player race modes (i. e. launch X number of meteos in a given amount of time) 
 so the variety and amount of unlockables lasts quite a while. Also this is a fun game to go back 
 and visit from time to time even long after you've beaten it, not to mention it's multiplayer capabilities 
 are ALWAYS fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComicalGamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Meteos is yet another variant on Tetris, but it has an "explosive" quality lacking from most puzzle 
 games. As various colored blocks rain down, you rearrange the columns formed on the bottom by "dragging" 
 them with the stylus (up or down) . Once you line up three or more of the same color, that set of 
 blocks "launch", pushing any blocks above them towards the top of the screen. Any blocks that clear 
 the top are instantly destroyed. Often these groups of blocks don't clear the top however, and 
 slowly drift back down. You can then launch another set of blocks from below (to push up the first 
 set) , or even launch a subset of the drifting blocks. It's quite innovative, and the flashy launch 
 effects provide instant gratification. I especially like how you can accidentally launch blocks 
 while in the process of rearranging them. While novel in concept, Meteos is a one-trick pony, and 
 it gets old after a while. There are several play modes and colorful "stages", but the gameplay 
 is always the same, and it didn't reel me in like Zookeeper did. The only music I really enjoyed 
 was the "steel drum" music of the water planet. Still, if you're into this style of game, Meteos 
 is probably a safe choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benihana7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Making it's prime-time debut on the DS, Meteos may well be the most addictive and crazy puzzler 
 to come out in the past 10 years. It's perfect use of the touch screen and over the top gameplay 
 are what make it stand out from the reast of the puzzler pack of 2005. The main premise of Meteos 
 (yes there is actually a story mode in here!) is that the planet Meteo has sent out trillions and 
 trillions of tiny particles called Meteos. These objects have one sole purpose, and that is to 
 destroy all life in the universe! All of the planets in the known universe lend their support once 
 they figure out that grouping Meteos in similar packs of three sends them back away from the planet. 
 They send off a vessel known as the Metamo Ark, whose duty it is to defeat the Meteos and their 
 home planet, the evil and sinister Meteo. And that is how the story begins....
  
  -- GAMEPLAY -- 
  
  The Gameplay in Meteos is actually quite simple to understand. All you must 
 do is continually align similar meteos in groups of 3 or more. This can be done by lining them 
 up horizontally or vertically. This results in the grouped meteos to lauch off of the screen, taking 
 all of the currently dormant meteos on top of them with them. Of course it doesn't end there, not 
 by a long shot. See if you launch a massive pack of meteos off, it will be very slow, and therefore 
 wont make it off of the screen with just one blast; so while the meteo pack is in mid-air, you 
 have to again align 3 or more meteos to finish up the phase and finally get that dastardly cluster 
 off of your planet! All of this is done by using the stylus to switch meteos around horizontally 
 (you can only switch meteos that are on the same column though) until you get your desired set-up 
 of a trio of them. Meteos by features the best use of the stylus on any DS game yet. Simply put, 
 the game is near impossible to play without a stylus, for the speedy, precise control you need 
 to adjust meteos can really only be achieved with the stylus. Of course you could use the the D-pad 
 to play, but in the end that type of control is too slow and clunky to really keep up with Meteos 
 extremely fast-paced gameplay. Speaking of fast-paced gameplay, Meteos gives it to you in spades. 
 It takes a pretty keen eye to keep up with the game at some times, and at first it's a tad overwhelming... but 
 once you get into the Meteos groove, it's quite easy to keep up with it until the difficulty and 
 dropping speed of the meteos automatically increases. But depending on what planet you are playing 
 on will vary how fast and how many meteos fall upon the screen at one time. And while we are on 
 the matter, Meteos features about 3 dozen different planets, or more, "stages/levels" to play on. 
 Each one does have it's own unique feel to it, and it's really all up to the player on how they 
 go about picking their home planet. Nearly all the playable planets in the game are featured in 
 the Story mode, or Star Trip, as it is called in-game. Star Trip is basically you, the player, 
 picking a certain home planet, and then systematically playing across each and every other planet 
 in hopes to reach the main baddie, planet Meteo. There are 3 different ways you can acheive this 
 goal: Straight, Branch, and Multi. Straight is the shortest and most basic of these modes, with 
 just 5 stages in succession until you reach Meteo. The next, Branch is probably the longest of 
 the two, for it features all of the playable planets in a sort of "branching" (hence the name) 
 gauntlet. For example, you defeat one stage, and you get to pick from the next two that show up, 
 and so and and so forth until you reach your goal. The latter of the three is Multi, in which the 
 main goal on each stage is to complete a certain mission, bet it a timer or combos. Failing one 
 of these missions won't exactly mean defeat, for you'll just be automatically sent to another stage, 
 losing all points from the previous level. Another mode of Meteos is the Time War. Time War consists 
 of 4 smaller modes, each with their own specific goals. Like 2:00 Time War for example; the goal 
 is to basically survive for two minutes. The others beside this are 5:00 Time War, 100 Meteo War, 
 and 1000 Meteo War. The Meteo War option challenges you to lauch 100 or 1000 meteos without being 
 defeated a single time. There isn't a time limit in these two modes, and the 1000 Meteo War becomes 
 quite a challenge in once you near beating it. Another mode is Simple. Like the name implies, Simple 
 mode is basically just playing one round with whatever circumstances to apply, be it difficulty, 
 CPU level, number of computer opponents, and if it will be a timed game or a stock match. Stock 
 matches are setting the amount of times you can be defeated for the match actually ends. Like if 
 you set the stock to 3, you can only lose three times during that stage before you lose entirely. 
 Simple mode basically winds up being a mode for people that don't feel like playing the other 3 
 modes or just want a quick game of Meteos. The last mode featured is Deluge. Deluge mode challenges 
 you to survive an unlimited stream of meteos with an unlimited amout of time as well. The main 
 premise of this mode is survival; see how long you can last until you are literally overwhelmed. 
 There is a fourth mode featured in Meteos, if you can call it one that is. This mode is of course 
 the Tutor, which lasts about a minute and explains the bare basics of the game. It's recommended 
 that the beginners at least watch it once to get a general understanding of what you are in store 
 for! There is also a mulitplayer option to Meteos. [Sorry I haven't tried mulitplayer so I wont 
 comment on it any further, hope you understand -Benihana7, the reviewer] . Overall Meteos gameplay 
 is some of the best around, on a puzzler at least. The controls work great and the touch screen 
 is used to it's fullest. 
  
  -- GRAPHICS -- 
  
  Meteos graphics aren't the greatest around, but they do quite well for a DS game and a puzzler 
 (whose interface and looks are quite simple to begin with) . There is more than just standard sprite 
 work in play here though. Some of the highlights include the opening trailer, which is done with 
 some really great CGI (for the DS) ; and the varied and unique look to every planet and their inhabitants. 
 Each of the 3 dozen or so planets in Meteos do feature their own look, and while some run the gambit 
 from being very whimsical to gritty and mechanical... all of them fit together to form a really 
 colorful feel and look to Meteos. And with each planet, as said eariler, is their own race to go 
 along with it. Each alien will resemble the overall theme of the featured homeworld. Like the industrial 
 planet of Grannest features a more techo-esque alien, while the Waterworld type world of Oleana 
 has a fish-like inhabitant. The little aliens are all fun to look at and each will feature their 
 own look and tiny animations. During a stage, the graphics are fluid and everything seems to fit 
 the look of the level you are playing on as well, which is a nice attention to detail you don't 
 see in many games today. Overall, the bright, almost floursecent theme to Meteos makes it a really 
 charmful and delightful game to partake in. 
  
  -- SOUND --
  
  The sound is Meteos is probably one of it's strongest points. Each and every planet/stage you play 
 on will feature it's own track, which is a great boost, so you won't been hearing the same song 
 over and over again while you play throught the Star Trip mode or even just playing regular modes. 
 That makes it about 3 dozen unique tunes that range from classical to heavy metal and country, 
 there is just about something for everyone's tastes in Meteos' music, and that's quite a good feature. 
 Also during a stage, when you unite 3 meteos together, you'll hear a special chime that corresponds 
 with the the current music that is playing in the background. And while this is more of a subtle 
 touch, it nicely compliments the overall quality that went into the music. But alas, there are 
 bad points: some of the songs will have no real coherence to them, so in some stages all you'll 
 hear are bashing cymbals over and over again and there is no real way to just turn off the combo 
 chime, for in long matchs like Time War or Deluge, those constant repetive rings will really being 
 to hinder gameplay to the point of just lowering your volume all the way down. 
  
  -- VALUE -- 
  
  As a puzzler, Meteos practically features unlimited replay value, and when 
 I mean unlimited, I mean unlimited! You can spend nearly endless hours trying to best the top score 
 on each individual planet and even set your own impossible tier. And the more you play the game, 
 the more features you will unlock (such as new planets, tunes, and items) . Such as playing through 
 the Star Trip 4 or more times will unlock a unique tune that's not featured anywhere else in the 
 game. Another mode that fits well in this category is the Fusion option. In the fusion menu you 
 have the ablity to use all the meteos you've accumulated in every stage and use them to create 
 new playable planets, tunes, metals, and items. This is one of the bigger points of Meteos' replayablity, 
 for you can also spend limitless hours trying to fuse just about everything together to form some 
 really cool and great Meteos releated extras. It's easy to top over 50 hours in this game, seriously. 
 
  
  -- END THOUGHTS --
  
  Meteos could quite possibly be the most addictive puzzler since Tetris, and it's quite easy to 
 see why. It feature rock solid and crazy-fun gameplay, excellent graphics for a puzzler title, 
 some truly great sound and music, and literally endless replayablity. This is a puzzler fan's dream 
 come true, and even if you don't have any respect for games like this, you will once you get your 
 hands on Meteos. Easily one of the most addictive DS games yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  this was one of the first games i got with my ds that i coudl not put down. the levels are very 
 diverse, each planet having its own gravity and other effects keeps the game very fresh feeling 
 no matter how much you play. and as you unlock special items that even make the game harder it 
 increases the fun because it changes it up even more as you play. 
  the music is fun and fitting.
  the graphics while not as amazing as lumanis are fitting of the 
 game and even the story is kind of funny with all its endings. kind of makes me think of a douglas 
 adams story shortened to the basics. 
  i played it for a full two weeks every night loosing sleep until i had unlocked everything.
  
 and after that i put it down and said enough is enough... i need to get some sleep.
  that was until my freinds got ds's also and it is one of my favortie multiplayer puzzle games to 
 play. there is so much stratagy to beating one another. we loose track of time playing this multiplayer.
 
  i fully suggest getting this game if you like puzzle games and you like multiplayer challenges. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moonbank
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  For those of you that don't know, Meteos is a puzzle game, a lot like tetris. the objective of 
 the game is to pull "meteos", using the stylus, into a aligned row of three or more, vertically 
 or horizontally. Once this is accomplished the Meteos fly into the air and attack a planet. When 
 you launch a large number of meteos into the air you will need to keep lining up meteos to continue 
 the launch. Whats great is each level you play has its own gravity and speed, and basically unique 
 features. So some planets might have a stronger gravity than that of another planet. Also their 
 are items that can destroy meteos or help you launch meteos. For instance, if you see a hammer 
 'icon' and you tap it, a hammer will come down and destroy meteos. 
  
  The Game play and Execution is what really matters in this game. Technically this game is flawless 
 their are no glitches, or really and problems in balance. The art and graphics are also really 
 pleasant and good looking, and the sound is also great with awsome sound effects and some cool 
 songs/beats. When playing the game, the meteos fall relatively slow and eventually start increasing 
 in speed, which makes for frantic metoes launching. The game does get repetitive after a while 
 due to the fact that the objective is always the same, but their is also multiplayer which increases 
 the challenge and fun.
  
  This really is a great game for puzzle fans and even for some one who would like to try something 
 new, your most likely going to enjoy this game no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishamuffypuppy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic music, a fresh and new puzzle game, highly addictive, plenty of content to 
 keep you addicted.
  
  The Bad: The graphics, while not necessary, can get a little stale, the enjoyability of different 
 levels varies.
  
  Introduction: Meteos was one of the first titles released in the era of the DS; meaning that this 
 was one of the titles to be released where the Nintendo DS actually had some very good games. Well, 
 this game was quite beyond decent. This game may well be considered a masterpiece, and it quite 
 frankly couldn't be done on any other system. Best yet, this game was developed by one of the creators 
 of Super Smash Brothers, so you can expect some hardcore action. Along with Lumines, Q Entertainment 
 created a puzzle masterpiece that is qutie high among the ranks other titles available on the hand 
 held market.
  
  Story: To begin, this game actually DOES have a story. It is however very basic, but makes sense 
 nevertheless. The story is that the planet Meteo is released asteroids known as Meteos throughout 
 outer space. They are colliding into planets and are decimating anything that stands in its path. 
 Well, it is the the inhabitants of the planet known as Geolyte who find a way to stop these Meteos. 
 They find that when combining energy, then can stack the Meteos together by moving them vertically 
 through the air. When three colors of Meteo align, they are hurled back into space carrying along 
 any other Meteos with it. Thus, the Geolytes travel the universe on a space vessel, traveling along 
 so they as well can stop Meteos from destroying the galaxy.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics in Meteos are basic, however, they deliver all that is necessary for this 
 style of game. The graphics are as simplistic as they can be, but there is alot of action going 
 on screen so it can be quite complicated. But the game has a really nice opening CG sequence which 
 looks great on the DS. You would think that this system cannot provide such smooth looking media, 
 but it can and it all looks great.
  
  Sound: Now what can I say, this game has the best sound I have heard on any DS game so far. The 
 music in this game is absolutely astonishing, and there are many different themes in which you 
 can experience. The music actually sounds like it is orchestrated and just sounds amazing. The 
 sound effects are top notch as well, and each one is generated so that it is in tune with the music. 
 As well, there is also a Sound Room where you can listen to some of the different tunes you have 
 unlocked. Gameplay: What can I say, this is probably the most addicting puzzle game I have ever 
 played. The game is extremely easy to learn, however there is much that needs ot be realized and 
 this game is very deep. Well, you all know that this is much like Tetris, falling blocks raining 
 down at speeds and magnitudes that are incomprehensible among the human experience? Well unfortunately, 
 this game can get much quicker. There is much more to Meteos than meets the eye, and here is the 
 reason why. Well basically you have to align three blocks on the Touch Screen by maneuvering the 
 Meteos up and down using the Stylus. It is very easy to get into, and they also have an optional 
 control scheme where you use the standard D Pad but the Stylus has a more controlled feel to it. 
 When three blocks are vertically or horizontally aligned (four or five blocks can be aligned as 
 well) , the blocks burst into the sky and carry the Meteos on top of it. When the Meteos reach the 
 top of the screen, they fly into space and crash; into guess what? Your opponent/attacker, pretty 
 amazing huh? Well you send Meteos back and forth until the the Meteos stack to the top of the screen 
 and your planet explodes. But it gets more complex than that, to say the least. Each planet has 
 its own gravitational limitations. For example, some plants have a larger amount of gravity, so 
 your Meteos will not fly as high, why others will soar unto the sky and never be heard from again. 
 But the catch is, that you can create combos by doing so, your Meteos will score even higher into 
 the sky. Combos are the key to winning in Meteos, and are vital to the planets with a high amoung 
 of gravity. There is also another way by which you can gain an advantage (or disadvantage) in Meteos. 
 Meteos has items. These items can become extremely useful and help you throughout your game. They 
 have different abilities like some may destroy stacks of Meteos, while others will launch stacks 
 into the sky. However, items activate in a time limit of usually three seconds. This means that 
 you can activate your item, and then hurl it at your opponent, where the effects, whether good 
 or horrible, affect your opponent. There are about 20 items in the game, and they add a lot of 
 depth to the game. They can be turned off as well to those who would rather play a more skillful 
 and old fashioned version. Ok, now that we have covered the basics of how to play Meteos, lets 
 cover the modes. First their is a Star Trip Mode, which is where you travel across the galaxy and 
 battle planets. The final battle is always the planet Meteo, but there are three different journeys 
 and six difficulties so the options are quite limitless. The next mode is Simple Mode, where you 
 can set any rules you would like for a battle between four AI Computers. Different difficulties, 
 as well as a limitless selection of planets to choose from; this mode will keep you coming back 
 for more. The next mode they have is a Time Attack mode, where you race against the clock; and 
 another mode added on where you try and defeat 1000 Meteos in the fastest time. Sounds easy, but 
 believe me it can get tough. The final mode is Deluge; which is basically where you play until 
 you die. But it is quite tough, as it lasts for only 10 for even the most experienced players. 
 Now that you have some basic gameplay modes, lets talk about the Fusion Mode. In the Fusion Mode, 
 it accounts the number of Meteos you have launched into space for all of the modes you have played 
 in (excluding Star Trip) . There you can purchase new items, sounds, or even planets with the Meteos 
 you have collected. Keep in mind that every planet has its own assortment of Meteos, so its there 
 is much gaming to be done on each of the different planets. There are many things to unlock here, 
 and the gameplay is very addictive so it will keep you coming.
  
  Mulitplayer: One of the key features of any game, is the game's multi player. Well the Multiplayer 
 in Meteos is the same as it is against a AI Opponent. You can play against four opponents at once 
 (as with Single Player) , with Multi Card or Single Card Play. The Multi Card play lets you do almost 
 anything, while the Download Play has a limited selections of planets. Either way, the aspect of 
 Multiplayer is probably one of the biggest highlights of this game. So whether you have friends 
 or am just a loner, you can't skip the Mutliplayer. The only downside is no Wi-Fi Internet, but 
 that is reasonable as this game released five months before DS Internet was established.
  
  Value: What can I say, this game is well worth your money. The flawless gameplay, as well as the 
 limitless amount of replay value, this game will keep you coming back. The solid Multiplayer and 
 the sunning soundtrack,, there is much more to Meteos than meets the eye. This is a solid edition 
 to the Nintendo DS library, and it will remain at a top spot for puzzle and DS games alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billygoat100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  METEOS
  
  This game is SOOO addicting. once you start playing, you cant stop playing it, even if your arms 
 get tired of holding up that DS, i just gotta write a review on this thing, it's a revolution on 
 a portable, the first 5 out of 5 on Xplay (on G4 tv) all i can really say is WOW, man, i thought 
 tetris was fun, but this is freakin' GROUNDBREAKING, BUY IT NOW!!!! phew... well, whenever i get 
 home from school i star playin this thing it so fun, funally, a game thatsperfected for the DS, 
 you gotta get this, its gonna be a classic.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _honcho_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is an addictive puzzle game, but the game play is new to gaming because of the NDS's touch 
 screen. The concept is to align 3 of the same meteos in a row (horizontal or vertical) to launch 
 them into space. You can do this using the stylus to drag them, or you can use the face buttons 
 (much slower) . The game actually has a story to it, which is pretty cool for a puzzle game to have. 
 The story is pretty simple but cool, your planet is in a battle with other planets, and to attack 
 them you launch meteos at them. Single player has a bunch of game modes which is really sweet. 
 A few are Simple mode, which you set either the amount of time to play or # of planet novas (when 
 you screen fills up with meteos) till the game ends. You can select a planet to play as also. When 
 the time is over or you reached the number of selected planet novas the game is over. Star Trip, 
 which is consistent battles of planets, this mode unlike the others have you playing as different 
 planets each round. At the end of Star Trip you will get a different ending, and you can collect 
 all the endings. Every time you launch meteos into space the element (type of meteos) is recorded, 
 and over time when you acquire enough meteos you can fuse them together to create a new planet, 
 songs, or items. Each planet you fuse will have different characteristics, different gravity which 
 will affect how fast the meteos rise and fall. The method of launching meteos, some planets will 
 launch meteos better if you align vertically/horizontally, other will require you to perform a 
 combo to launch the meteos. The multiplayer is awesome as well, its very crazy and fast faced. 
 Meteos is an awesome DS game and its a must buy, weather you love puzzle games or think there okay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is a great game. It is from the same developer as Lumines, Space Channel 5 and N3 (Ninteny-Nine-Nights 
 not released yet) . Meteos is a evil planet that has blew up some other planets. The other planets 
 has discovered if 3 meteo line up toghther will go back into space.
  Now for my review. 
  The gameplay on this game is great but some gamers might find it too short. You can also unlock 
 new planets.
  The graphics are impressive and amazing for a puZZle game.
  The sound is great with plenty of music you can tell this game is Lumines' brother. 
  The value 
 of this game is great. With 4 gameplay modes and items in your disposal.
  MY SCORE: 8.4 GREAT
  GoB Newsletter SUMMER SPECIAL 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParkCarsHere
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best DS games made. Period. Whether you like puzzle games or not, you NEED to 
 pick this up.
  
  This game is amazing. While you may be looking at screenshots and thinking "Ugh, another Tetris 
 clone. I'll just wait until Tetris DS comes out and get that instead." you are totally wrong! This 
 is not a Tetris clone... the only thing very similar is the fact that blocks fall from the top 
 of the screen to the bottom of the screen.
  
  The main goal is to group Meteos (the blocks) into groups of threes. This may seem easy, but, unlike 
 Tetris, you can't move blocks before they fall down: they are meteors, they move on their own schedule! 
 The only way you can move them is vertically and horizontally once they've landed. This makes it 
 somewhat harder to align them.
  
  This game is very fast paced, and it can be even faster if you turn up the speed controls. It can 
 get very hectic while playing, as the Meteos move faster and faster, plus all the Meteos that your 
 opponents launch (send back up to the top by grouping them in groups of 3 or more) are sent onto 
 your screen, or another opponent's. This adds to a difficult element in the gameplay, as it is 
 hard to get them all off in time, without having them all stack up to the top.
  
  When you start a game you usually get to choose what planet you start on. The planets are very 
 different from one another. Each planet has different Meteos that fall, and you'll want to collect 
 each kind (you gain every Meteo you successfully launch) in order to unlock other things, such 
 as other planets, sounds, and other extras. Each planet also has different gravity levels and bonuses, 
 such as one allowing for no vertical launches but very fast horizontal (groups of three across, 
 no groups of three up and down) launches. On some planets the Meteos fly down very quickly, as 
 well as rise quickly, but on others they fall down slowly and rise slowly, sometimes requiring 
 multiple launches in air in order to send them up.
  
  This game has many modes, a "play until you die" mode, where you play until... you die :) . Another 
 one is a time attack, "stock" attack, where you play until you die a certain amount of times (or 
 your opponent dies first) , and last but definately not least is the story mode. Each mode can be 
 played for a few minutes or many hours, depending on how much time you want to play... however, 
 this game can take over your life! It is a highly addictive game.
  
  When I first picked it up, I didn't really like it, and was mad because it got such great reviews. 
 I kept telling myself "Ok, I'm shutting it off in a few minutes and going back to Mario Kart." 
 The next thing I know, it is 3 hours later! It is a highly addictive game with so many modes to 
 give you amazing replay value, as well as TONS of unlockables.
  
  This game will last even the most hardcore DS gamer MANY hours of play... I doubt you will get 
 bored of this game for a very long time. I'm not normally one for puzzle games, but I love this 
 game. I recommend anyone with a DS to pick this game up, as it is one of the best DS games out 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumpy500
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  Line up the blocks to get a line of them to disappear. Sounds like something you've played?
  
  Nope.
  
  Meteos takes this basic concept and adds immensely to it. Lining up three blocks 
 by dragging them with the stylus doesn't make them just disappear, they launch into the air by 
 turning into rockets. Depending on what planet you're on, the height they reach and how quickly 
 they descend varies. That aspect can make the game seem very different depending on where you're 
 playing it. Launching them to the top of the screen sends the blocks (Meteos) to another planet 
 that you are 'fighting'. The style is innovative and incredibly addictive The sound is amazing, 
 with a catchy tune for every planet. Replayability is high, because there are tens of planets to 
 unlock and several different game endings. For just a pick-up-and-go game, it's perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  If Lumines is portable gamings figure skating, then Meteos is snowboarding in an avalanche while 
 trying to control a full bladder.
  
  Meteos leaves an impression entirely opposite from Lumines, developer Q? Entertainments first 
 portable puzzler, by throwing everything under and including the sun at you. The premise is that 
 Planet Meteo is raining down death, destruction and debauchery upon its neighbors by shooting down 
 uncontrollable fragments called meteos. But hark! Only YOU can save the universe! Drag meteos into 
 magical chains of three! This rockets them upwards to drive away evil rock! Create happy for those 
 want peace! Congraturation!
  
  As nonsensical as the story may sound, it actually helps to setup the various gameplay aspects 
 that Meteos offers. These meteorites are recklessly pouring down, so it makes sense that you cant 
 control them directly. Similar to Tetris Attack for the Super Nintendo, Meteos only lets you vertically 
 move meteos that have already landed in the play area.
  
  Arranging a horizontal or vertical chain of at least three like-colored meteos will rocket them 
  and any meteos stacked above them  into the air. Let the play area fill up, and you cause a 
 Nova  meaning you fail. Youre meanwhile able to rearrange the meteos contained within an airborne 
 stack. The idea is to create enough of these chains within a heavy stack, building up enough momentum 
 to fully blast it off the screen. As you do this, the stack slowly but surely floats back down.
 
  
  Well, not always slowly. Meteos takes place across planets with different properties, the most 
 notable one being gravity. High gravity forces you to build up many chains for enough momentum, 
 with the reward of large and satisfying chain opportunities. Conversely, low gravity (usually easier) 
 planets rarely offer those opportunities; stacks clear the screen too fast for you to react. Also 
 varied are the rate at which meteos drop and the actual behavior of chains. Dont say I didnt 
 warn you when, on one planet, you form a horizontal chain and NOTHING happens.
  
  Each planet has a different audiovisual presentation. The colorful graphics are impressively clean 
 and sleek in some cases, but oddly funky, awkward and hard to navigate in other cases. The music 
 follows suit. Aside from some choice hectic songs, tends towards the simple and sometimes drab 
 variety. Sound effects are specific to each theme  the Caribbean theme, for instance, rewards 
 success with the sound of steel kettle drums. Though a nod to Lumines music-mixing oriented audio 
 style, this dynamic sadly sometimes sounds more like cacophony.
  
  Still, the presentation entertains given the right situation, and the variety must be commended. 
 Meteos is more heavily about innovative and intuitive gameplay anyway. Learning your way around 
 is simple, as controlling Meteos is very natural with the touch screen. Thus, youre expected to 
 handle the cascading torrents even with so little at your disposal. Sounds unfair, but the tactile 
 interaction makes it too devilishly inviting to care. Youll quickly adapt and learn how to effectively 
 vary the speed of your strokes, and youll naturally discover that you can flick meteos into 
 the bottom of an airborne stack.
  
  The game comes packed with value, as piles of director Masahiro Sakurais Super Smash Bros. influence 
 abound. Sakurai-sama infuses Meteos with several gameplay varieties: story modes; single-planet 
 timed, Nova-limited, or endless modes; options to adjust the Nova limit, planets you combat, special 
 items that you can activate; the list refuses to die. While toying with modes, youll discover 
 a plethora of unlockable planets, special meteos, and items. Each can be bought with a bankroll 
 of the meteos that youve launched during gameplay. When something you want costs too much, youre 
 suckered back into the game. Get your new toy, and youll be lured in to play with it
  
  This amalgamation and strong execution of many concepts  the traditional color-matching, the intuitive 
 tactile interface, and the overall torrential sensation  make Meteos a new, varied experience. 
 Lumines grace and triple-axels are great, but its time to chug twenty gallons of water, head 
 to the most volatile snowy mountain you can find, and strap on that proverbial snowboard for an 
 absolute puzzle-game rush. Screw the Dew. Do the Meteos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiccanPoet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  From the briliant mind that brought us all the classics Rez and Space Channel 5 comes Meteos. This 
 is an extremly addictive, and very face paced, tetris style puzzler. The objective is to line up 
 three of the color meteos and rocket them off into space, a feat that sounds at first to be rather 
 easy, that is until the rockets run out a steam and start decending back down. Add to that basic 
 idea 28 worlds with different themes for the meteos and radically different gravity rules and you 
 have a game worth playing and playing and playing and playing. And we haven't even gotten to the 
 multiplayer yet. When you add three other people in on the mayhem, things get insane, blank grey 
 meteos fall like tears as you battle to save yourself while vanquishing your enemies. The game 
 has an insane number of unlockables and tracks almost everything you do in the stats. Deffinatly 
 one of the ones that will go down as best of the system for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  If you like those old-fashioned Tetris rip-off games like Doctor Robotnik's Mean Bean Machine or 
 Doctor Mario then you'll probably like Meteos (a pretty bland title) but I finished playing it 
 re-eally quickly and I wouldn't recommend buying it. Just rent it.
  
  There's really nothing that new about the gameplay either. If you've played any one of the above 
 mentioned games then you pretty much know what's in-store for you as it's almost exactly the same 
 only with a nonsensical, who-REALLY-cares story behind it and some touch-screen interaction. Despite 
 the colorful graphics and the fancy bells and whistles this is old-fashioned stuff and doesn't 
 show off the Nintendo DS to it's full potential. I wouldn't recommend using this as a demonstration 
 game to those unconvinced by the DS coolness.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hullaballo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Meteos couldnt be done on the PSP period the stylus is what makes this game one of the most frantic 
 puzzle games you will ever play. The stylus gives you the ability to quickly align blocks verticaly 
 and horizontaly allowing the game to be much faster. Packed with tons of worlds and dificulty and 
 cpu settings as well as many different ways to play, this game will keep you coming back for more 
 time and time again. The soundtrack to this game is classic and new at the same time and increases 
 the franticness of the gameplay with its techno beats. Items that randomly apear during gameplay 
 add to the fun with items such as smart bombs and war axes. Even if you are not a fan of puzzle 
 games you should check this game out it is easily one of the most addicting and fun ds games I 
 have played so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brasslvlonkey55
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Upon hearing about Meteos from a friend, I wasn't too excited. I'm not a very big fan of puzzle 
 games, so I was ready to criticize. However, my friend continually insisted that I play it, and 
 when I did, I was hooked. I immediately bought the game myself to fully enjoy the amazing multi 
 player that can't be truly enjoyed through simple download and play.
  
  I wouldn't have expected the simple art of moving blocks to form rows could be so addicting (and 
 trust me, it is indeed an art) . Scoping the screen as quickly as possible for the biggest combo 
 as more blocks fall can indeed be very challenging, but very rewarding when you finally crush your 
 opponent after a true test of skill. The graphics are quite simple on the touch screen, but that 
 is to be expected from a puzzle game. I have to admit, the array of colors and shapes can be pleasing 
 to the eye. The top screen displays the other planets you are battling, and the graphics in this 
 display are actually quite impressive. The planets are touched up and look really nice, and it 
 can easily handle the hundreds of glowing lights that result from large combos on the bottom screen. 
 The frame rate is excellent, except on some occasions when the action is just so hectic that the 
 DS can't handle it, and it does lag just a bit, but this doesn't bother me too much. Each planet, 
 of which there are many, has its own theme music, accompanied by many other little riffs that play 
 whenever you create combos.
  
  I found the game to be especially challenging at first. The first time I played was against my 
 friend in download and play (which isn't quite as good as having two cartridges, but that's pretty 
 much a given) . He had played the game quite often, and was much better than I was at the time, 
 so I had quite a bit of trouble keeping up with the huge array of blocks he would send onto my 
 screen. However, after about 30 minutes of playing and watching him, I started to pick up on the 
 tips and tricks of the game that are almost needed to be able to survive the harder difficulties.
 
  
  Basically, Meteos is an excellent puzzle game, that can churn out many hours of gameplay from what 
 seems like a simple design. As I stated before, a must buy for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game is a nice fun and frantic puzzler. I like that I don't have to put a huge time committment 
 into it in order to have fun with it too. I can play for 5 minutes and have a fun game, or I can 
 play for an hour. The game can be as engaging as you want it to be.
  
  The use of the stylus is what sets the game apart in my opinion. It really provides an interactive 
 feel with the puzzle elements that I think would be lost and would make this an average at best 
 game if it didn't have it. 
  
  The game starts out at a very moderate pace that eventually builds to frantic, and before you know 
 it your eyes are dodging all over the screen looking to make the last ditch effort to save yourself 
 from total annihilation.
  
  I am not disappointed with this purchase. On an aside, it's not tetris, so don't expect that. I 
 think this experience is unique enough to set itself apart from tetris, though tetris is still 
 king, and always will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vakama116
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best game in my DS game collection so far! The puzzle like game is great! I 
 love the of how you have to get rid of the meteos. The goal is like tetris, you can't get the blocks 
 stacked to high, but yet it ressembles super smash bros. melee whith all the modes. I love the 
 music of the game not one wold is the same, one meteos run down fast, other worlds your playing 
 field is narrower or bigger, in other worlds it would take more than on ignition to send your meteos 
 into space or may be you just need one ignition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  It is hard for me to really describe this title clearly. In some instances, I want to love it, 
 I want it to be the new TETRIS and evoke that same spirit. On the other hand, I just can't focus 
 on this game long enough, after awhile I just get lost and I get Annihilated! 
  
  This title is revolutionary take on TERTIS. You move puzzle blocks around the enclosed area of 
 the touch screen with the stylus and match up similar objects to blast them into space (top screen) 
 to create stars and universes and stuff like that. There are different types of games within this 
 game and a story mode. But I found myself playing the single mode, cause everything else seems 
 to really drag this title down. Maybe you like unlocking every single thing, I normally do, but 
 it's pointless to unlock harder stuff, when the easiest level is challenging enough for most people! 
 
  
  There are several difficultly levels to choose from, but until you get the hang of it, 2 stars 
 is good enough. This title gets very confusing very fast. 
  At first its simplistic matching, shooting, ect. But once the pace picks up you will be looking 
 around the board and not even noticing the combinations needed to blast off your tower of blocks. 
 Than out of desperation you start violently stabbing the stylus on the screen hoping to save your 
 life, but sadly, nothing really gets accomplished using this technique, so you might as well put 
 your head between your legs and kiss your ars goodbye!
  
  There is some strange story with Aliens and stuff, but no one really cares about that, nor will 
 you even attempt to think this game has a story. cause it really shouldn't...
  
  The graphics are basic and enjoyable, nothing too overpowering. Thought, I can complain about the 
 "Aliens" right? I know they didn't care to stress on the characters cause the game play is so immersive 
 but again, it looks cheap and there really isn't any need for them. If someone likes to look at 
 stick figure aliens bouncing back on screen, not really adding anything to playability, than go 
 ahead and enjoy with all your heart, I would have settled to do without em. This title doesnt 
 need any more distractions! 
  Also, the top screen is useless (like in most DS games) and most of the time you are straining 
 your eyes to find matching pieces you won't even notice the wonderful universe you are preserving 
 above your eye line! Nor will you care!
  
  There is music, but it gets annoying really fast! But the good thing is that each stages repetitive 
 sound is different, so annoyance is bountiful! Strikingly the FX are top notch! The rocket sounds 
 is cool and is followed by a congratulatory chirp of sorts! Not too shabby on the FX.
  
  This title is worth owning if you have cat like reflexes and are willing to devote alot of time 
 to building those stick figure alien worlds, but that is all it may appeal to. Yeah, it's a challenging 
 puzzle game in the vein of TERTIS, but an original stays an original for that reason only. ORIGINALITY!
 
  
  ANNIHILATION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-The interface for the actual gameplay is very familiar as it looks like your average puzzler, 
 but once you start playing this game, yuoll see that it isnt your average run of the mill puzzler. What 
 makes this game so great and addictive is the excellent way of using your stylus with the frantic 
 puzzling action. To launch "meteos'", you have to align 3 or above matching color blocks. Simple, 
 yet oh so satisfying. This puzzler doesnt test your brain as much as other puzzlers do , but it 
 can get very frantic and a little frustrating, but not too frustrating. There are several modes 
 to contend with as you play Meteos, such as Star Ship, where you go through a route of planets 
 which is somewhat a story mode. It adds tons of replay value because you can take alternate routes 
 and play against different planets. Some other modes are Deluge which has you staying on for as 
 long as you can, and there are several other modes that youll have to see for yourself. All of things 
 wrap to make Meteos a really addictive and enertaining puzzler that youll be playing for months 
 to come.
  
  Graphics-Theres really not that much to the graphics persay. You really wont be paying any attention 
 to the background art as you will be contending with the frantic gameplay, so not much in the graphics. 
 There are some really coll block designs like weird little symbols to flaming blocks. So being a 
 puzzler, its not real loud in the graphics department.
  
  Sound-The music in this game is very good if your one of those who likes a little techo with some 
 weird little bells and whistles here and there. If your not one of those people, you could still 
 find yourself humming along a bit. There are some neat little sound effects such as the blocks high 
 tailing themselves out of the screen with the rocket boosters. Overall, its a pretty good sounding 
 game that wont dissapoint.
  
  Value-For 30 bucks you really cant go wrong with Meteos as it combines addictive puzzles action 
 with a massive slew of modes that will have you playing for quite along time. You really cant go 
 wrong with Meteos. Not at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worshyr
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was so frustrating that I was only able to play it for 10 minutes. Garbage thy name is 
 Meteos. The point of the game is to run the stylus frantically over the screen to lauch colored 
 blocks into outer space by matching said colored blocks. Eventually somehow you uncover rocket 
 engines in the piles and lauch everything in what appears to be the milky way utter and complete 
 crap.
  
  sometimes the blocks turn to metal and fall back onto the screen bringing all of the unlaunched 
 blocks back with them. The music in this game gets annoying real quick, It sounds like a european 
 discotech except none of the drugs and dancing. Then again you'd need to be on drugs to have fun 
 playing this game. At least the graphics were slightly above sub-par
  
  over.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acekicka
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game I was thinking I would get a mellow Tetris-like puzzle game that 
 I can zone out to for hours, but I was sorely mistaken. First off the game is great, so dont take 
 my disappointment as a negative against the game, its just that this game is sooo much faster than 
 tetris, it keep you on your toes, I cant really zone out like in Tetris. The basic idea behind 
 the game is to blast the falling meteos out of the sky and into the atmosphere, you do this by 
 vertically aligning similar designed meteos into horizontal and vertical lines of three or more. 
 It doesn't sound as fun as it plays, plus replay ability is increased by an option called fusion 
 where you can fuse created meteos' into new weapons, planets ( the stages you play on) , and into 
 new meteos. Overall the game is pretty addictive once you learn the basics of gameplay. Great game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickTheMayor
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  Good game, good concept, good execution. The porblem is, I find myself playing it often, but only 
 one stage at a time: I turn on the DS, play meteos once, and then shut it off when I either lose 
 or win. I think it can get too easy too quickly and it doesn't leave you asking for one more round. 
 Two of my friends never played it before, tried it once, got good on their first try, and then 
 when it ended, they were satisfied at best. The career mode is also a let down. If you want to 
 quit in the middle of it, it doesn't save you progress, you have to start all over. Once you get 
 the concept, it's a short-lived game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aphorix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Meteos is yet another item to put on the FDA's list of controlled substances. Yes, it's that addictive. 
 Like Tetris, Meteos' design is deceptively simple: random colored square blocks fall onto the playing 
 field, and you must line up three or more blocks, called "Meteos," of the same color, either horizontally 
 or vertically. The matched blocks then transform into rockets that launch all blocks above it into 
 the air. The goal of Meteos is to launch as many blocks off-screen as you can, preferably in one 
 shot. The catch is that the blocks can only be moved vertically. Gameplay is accomplished using 
 the stylus, although the laughably unplayable option to use the D-pad and buttons is present. Precise 
 stylus control is needed to achieve some degree of skill in the game; however, in an unfortunate 
 side effect of this control scheme, a player can simply move the stylus up and down across the 
 screen quickly and match blocks with a surprising degree of success. Granted, this technique will 
 not work well at higher levels of difficulty, but a complete novice could defeat someone with four 
 or five hours of Meteos experience using this technique. In fact, after using this technique in 
 a timed challenge, I could not achieve a better time playing "skillfully." I should note that this 
 challenge spans about ten seconds, little time to carefully consider combos. The other gameplay 
 point was deducted for occasional slowdown when the screen is filled with blocks, lessening otherwise 
 spot-on stylus detection. Multi-player Meteos is a blast (except for the "scribbling" technique) , 
 ensuring many hours of near-deaths and squeals of glee after launching an entire screen of blocks 
 at your buddy. The most addictive puzzle game since Tetris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredinuyasha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  i think meteos is a great game the only bad thing is when people sorta .... shall i call it cheating???? 
 well when people slide the styleist up and down randomly around the screen and get crazy points 
 and stuff but then again no one does that much.... (i did a survey about only 1.36% of ppl outta 
 500 said they cheat) anywayz it ruinze all the fun so that *cheat* is not used anywayz so basically 
 u got to slide the stylist up and down to match 3 or more meteos horozontoly or vertically to rocket 
 them off the top of the screen and ull send the blocks to 1 of ur competing planets if ur duking 
 it out agaisnt other planets or they just disappear in 1 playuer modes thats basically it. this 
 game is addicting so uhhh if u dont like getting addicted to a game than stay away from this one 
 lolz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Greg Kassavin said ,
  
  "The fate of the entire universe straight-up hangs in the balance in Meteos, a frenetic, fun, and 
 innovative puzzle game exclusively for the Nintendo DS. It's somehow strangely appropriate that 
 the game is the work of none other than Q Entertainment, designer Tetsuya Mizuguchi's studio that 
 also gave the PSP one of its first, best titles, the puzzle game Lumines. After all, the incredibly 
 hectic and cleverly envisioned Meteos is pretty much a perfect counterpart to the trancelike, rather 
 relaxing feel of Q Entertainment's previous game. And on its own terms, Meteos offers up a great, 
 original experience that's plenty of fun whether you play it against the computer or against some 
 friends. "
  
  I agree with his entire review. I think this puzzle game is great. Buy it for sure.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_mirage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game is great. When I first got the game I spent 4 hours straight just playing it. The only 
 problem is, once you've played for about 15 hours, it kinda gets repetitive. If you love puzzle 
 games though than the replay value is almost limitless. Fun game while it lasts.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 - It's fun. It's new. It one of the only game to use the touch screen right so far. 
 Even if you're not a fan of puzzle games you'll still find it fun.
  
  Graphics: 7/10 - Meh. They look good and crisp, but they're just not enough jazz. Though the intro 
 movie looks great. I just wish the game looked like that.
  
  Sound: 10/10 - Tons of music. They're is easily 45+ unqiue songs in the entire game. Plus a lot 
 of the tunes a really catchy.
  
  Value: 9/10 - You get your money's worth. Around 15 hours of play, possibly more.
  
  Tilt: 
 8/10 - Good game. I definate addition to anyone's DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  When this game first came out, I was interested but not enough to warrant me going out to buy it. 
 I regret that move. My brother recently got the game for Christmas and I'm the one that hasn't 
 been able to put it down! 
  
  At first, you may think that the fact that the game is a puzzle game that has story would make 
 it a horrible failure. You'd be wrong. Though slightly lame, you'll quickly get over it once you 
 start actually playing. The game is absolutely incredible. There's so much diversity and so many 
 unlockables that it suddenly feels as though you're just playing an ordinary puzzle game. 
  
  The gameplay is awesome. This game perfectly utilizes the stylus and the touch screen. Though 
 you can play the game with the buttons, it's definitely not as effective or as fun. The diversity 
 keeps you interested, providing differently shaped Meteos and gravity as well as different music 
 and backgrounds depending on which planet you're on. The music is alright in general, but stellar 
 when you consider that this is after all, a puzzle game. The replayability of this game is immeasurable. 
 The learning curve depends on the individual playing the game. Personally, I was good to go in 
 about half an hour. Regarding the graphics, watch the opening video. Enough said. The graphics 
 are sweet.
  
  All in all, this game is absolutely amazing. It's a puzzle game but don't let that turn you off. 
 This game is definitely worthy of your attention and your hard-earned money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:02 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of puzzle games out there, and many of them fail to be as great as the one that 
 started it all, Tetris. Then, along comes Meteos, the one puzzle game that tries to follow in it's 
 footsteps, and succeeds miraculously.
  
  On paper, Meteos looks like a relatively simple, but fun, little puzzle game. But it doesn't really 
 do justice if you were just to watch someone else play it and assume that, because Meteos is nothing 
 short of fast, erratic, and completely off-the-wall crazy. Why?
  
  The objective of Meteos is to try and clear the whole screen of blocks which are named, well whaddaya 
 know, Meteos! To do this, you must simply align three meteos of the same color horizantally, therefore 
 creating some sort of shuttle making the other blocks on top fly towards the top screen. This may 
 sound pretty easy to figure out, and it is, but as you progress through the game many levels, you'll 
 have to rely on your quick reflexes (if you have any) as more and more Meteos blocks rain down faster 
 and faster.
  
  Everytime you launch Meteos through the top of your screen, you'll collect them as a type of currency 
 as you progress through the game. You can use this "currency" to "fuse" them, making things like 
 planets, other blocks, different types of sound, and items to aid you when you start a level. Such 
 an example of these items in the hammer, which can wham away at multiple blocks, thereby clearing 
 the room out a little bit. They aren't just there to be "there", though. You will actually need 
 to use them to get yourself out of a mess.
  
  It isn't really fair to judge a game's gameplay by their graphical quality, and Meteos is no exception. 
 While it may look dull and bland, it actually looks pretty crisp and polished when going through 
 a level. Backgrounds are fun to look at, although I doubt you'll have time to look at them at all, 
 since several blocks wil be covering it.
  
  The sound is one of Meteos' highlights. The music is pretty fun to listen to, and depending on 
 the planet you're on, there is a lot of variety, including certain sound effects as well.
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a great puzzle game to fill in some of your free time (maybe 
 more) , then Meteos will not disappoint, at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Here's the biggest problem with Meteos - no matter how long your last game was, there always seems 
 to be time for just one more game. It's a total time killer. No matter how well you play, you think 
 to yourself that if you just try one more time, you can do better. That, my friends, is an addiction.
 
  
  Other reviews have nailed it again and again - this is one of the "must have" games for the ds. 
 You absolutely must use the stylus making the touch screen an integral part of the game. There 
 are a ton of options in which you can change practically everything from gameplay to graphics to 
 sound, depending on which planet you choose to play.
  
  Don't hesitate to buy this one and make sure that your battery is charged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hothead3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is a well-crafted game for the average puzzle player. It has many features and can also 
 excite people without an interest in puzzle games. If you have a DS, i recommend you at least try 
 this title, even if your not in to puzzle games. Its worth it.
  
  Meteos has a slight resembence to tetris. Use the stylus to align three of the same color meteos 
 in a row to launch them up into the sky. Sound simple? It is, until the number if meteos falling 
 from the sky, start to rain down upon you to the point where you panic and lose. Once meteos have 
 been completely filled to the top, the game is lost.
  
  It can be slightly repetitive, because thats all that is done in the game; however, it is also 
 unually addiciting. The mulitiplayer mode is cool, because anyone can play against anyone with 
 a DS, reguardless as to whether or not they own the game as well. The meteos you launch into the 
 sky, fall back down as large blocks onto your opponents screen.
  
  A player can play through a story mode against a computer opponent. Once you beat a level, earn 
 meteos that are launched. Use the meteos to fuse new plantes. Each planet has its own different 
 features, ex: how fast the meteos launch into the air, what the meteos look like on each planet...
 
  Even fuse meteos to get sounds from each level.
  
  The game can be occasionally frustrating, especially when it is play for the first time even by 
 an experienced gamer. There will be levels on the game that will take much practice to complete.
 
  
  A well crafted puzzle game, it makes good use of the stylus and it is worth the money. Simple, 
 yet addicting and well worth the money. Not much to it, but its great for passiing the time and 
 is sure to give you many hours of a fun experience. Don't pass up this DS title, especially if 
 your into puzzle action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impex
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Meteos starts you out pulling blocks into rows of three, trying to launch them into the top screen. 
 Once you align three meteos in a row, the bottom ones will turn into rockets, and blast off into 
 the air. Different planets have different 'gravatational pulls', so sometimes it might go all the 
 way to the top screen, or you might need to align three more meteos while it's in the air, to shoot 
 it all the way up. There are many planets, sounds, and new items to collect by launching meteos. 
 The more meteos you launch, the more you'll have in your inventory to purchase more of these things. 
 There are also plenty of different endings, after you beat one of the three main selectings. All 
 of the endings are brightly colored, and seem like solemn reward. If you're a fan of puzzles, you'll 
 be sure to plug in plenty of hours into this wonderful game. With more and more DS games being 
 brought to the table, there needs to be some sorting of which ones to get, and which ones not to, 
 and this one is definately in the 'get' pile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron_Eye
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I loves all the unlockables and and all the things i could do. This game has amazing grapics it 
 a weird and fun. g4tv gave it a 5 out of 5. That saying something. this game puts lumines to same 
 lumines i good but shrink next to Metoes. (Just like ps2 2 X-Box) If U love hours of fun at a time 
 get this game i promise ull love it. This is a true puzzle game so use ur mind. I love all the 
 colors and having to careful play game. Just like tetris only 100X more addictive. Get this game 
 NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBeast90
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I got this game today and at first I didn't know what to do so I didn't know yet what to think 
 about the game.
  
  The concept is simple but just plain fun and addictive.
  
  I played this game for 2 hours on one sitting and unlocked a couple of things. Once you start the 
 game you'll hear the fantastic SSBM like music. The game is fast, incredibly hard on highest difficulty 
 and just a blast to play. 
  
  Still, I might be too quick at reviewing the game as there are still things I particularly do not 
 understand like: Why like that ... are the bunch of meteos launching in the sky with more power 
 than usually ... was there a bomb or something because I know there are items.
  
  The graphics are clean, the action is fast and smooth and for a 2-D puzzle game, the details are 
 just great.
  
  The sound... the music is just boring sometimes and in some other planets it fits the action perfectly. 
 This is seriously why I prefer planet over another, not because of the gravity, the launch speed 
 etc... The music will do it for me. Then again, I saw that I unlocked a couple of music .. or sound? 
 Can I set them on a level I still don't know.
  
  For the value of the game, I think that the concept will remain good for a long time. This game 
 is like tetris, it will never die. However there could have been a lil' more items or unlockable 
 but the game remains incredibly fun and will remain so for a long time.
  
  I can't put my final judgment on the game, it's a blast up to now, it's very hard and you must 
 stay concentrated on the action, this is the key to win against other more experienced players. 
 This game is superb and definitively deserve the 9.0 I'm according it. If you hesitate whether 
 you should pick up the game or not, if you like tetris and other puzzle games, you have no idea 
 what you're missing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shtjyi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  It's good, buy it!!!!!!!!!! a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a aa a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdude9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is the best puzzle game ever made. the fast paced puzzle action is truly brilliant. the 
 games graphics are bright, and colorful. its great how every level has its own type of meteos. 
 the music in the game though not that great on its own, grows on you and is enjoyable to listen 
 to. the multi player great as well. playing vs wtith someone else is fun and so fast that no matter 
 long it goes on it feels like only a few seconds. Its that u can host a demo of the game for other 
 people that dont have it. the only problem is that their is no definitve single player mode in 
 it. if however their was better single player the game would be a perfect model of a hand held 
 puzzle game. another version of the game should be released with support of the nintendo wi-fi 
 connection so u could play against skilled gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I got this game over the summer because I was bored and Summer is like the time of the year with 
 the least new releases. Normally most puzzle games are sooo boring, but this one is the exact opposite. 
 The music is the best I've ever heard for the DS and is fun to listen to. I also like the looks 
 of the scenery for each of the planets; in addition, each planet has its specific strengths and 
 weaknesses like gravity and speed of which the blocks fall to the ground.
  
  The main objective is to connect three or more similar blocks to launch them at the competing planet. 
 It takes a little while to work under pressure with the falling pieces, but it is fun just to use 
 the stylus. By sending Meteos into space, you can unlock more music and planets depending on which 
 colored blocks are hurled.
  
  Anyways, I got a kick out of this game and if you want to try a puzzle game for the DS look no 
 further. Whether you want to try something new or exotic, this is the best choice handsdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BM2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  After having one of the worst afternoons in my life and arriving home wanting to disappear from 
 the face of the Earth, I got a present: Meteos DS.
  At that time, the only DS game I had was Nintendogs.
  My bf Lumines for his PSP and I found it 
 cool, although I just touched it once or twice, but I am totally into puzzle games. That is why 
 he got me Meteos DS.
  I won't say that I forgot all my problems, but it did help.
  In the first week I had already all the sounds and items.
  I played it for at least 7 hours a 
 day and it was not just because I couldn't do it, but because I was enjoying it.
  I don't think it is fair comparing Meteos DS and PSP's Lumines, but if you are looking for a game 
 which difficult you can easy adjust and with which you can have both fun and challenge according 
 to your mood, go get Meteos DS now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gundala324
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have a ds you should get one for this game. this game has a unique but amazing gameplay. 
 At first it may seem weird if you haven't played the game yet but when you play it is is absolutely 
 addicting. I could play this game for hours straight without getting bored. I suggest that this 
 game has no match in the puzzle game district. Even if you don't like puzzle games you will definetly 
 like this game. This game is made even more fun because of the DS's touch screen. This game has 
 some of the basic ideas of Tetris but is made to resemble this century is what is fun and acceptable (technology 
 wise) . I would definetly reccomend this game to any fun loving gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirreltakos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:01 pm PT
Review:  DS has a lot of puzzle games and this IS the best of all of them. Multiplayer is awesome fun. A 
 ton of unlockables. And many more great things about this game. It's sort of like tetris except 
 you shoot the blocks back at other planets. The touch pad was really used to it's greatness in 
 this game. Graphics on the one cutsceen are awesome and there is a lot of cool music on this game 
 also. It's is in the top ten DS games in my list if you ask me. Plus it is sooo addicting. Even 
 if you don't like puzzles that much this one is really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSageCola
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I was very uncertain about this game at first but when you start playing it it is simply addictive 
 and fun. The concept is simple enough, pairs of three or more, and you can move blocks vertically. 
 The graphics are great, or at least better than some games. The gameplay is addicting and you can 
 never stop. For thoose people who do not like puzzle games you probably wont enjoy this game, but 
 for people who like games in general will. The fussion mode in this game is quite fun, like fusing 
 planets. Some planets that you fuse have diferent gravity levels and make it quite unique. Some 
 work for certain people. I as a player like instantblst planets, but some dont move so fast and 
 allow for combos. Not a lot has to be said about this game except it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  If you havnt bought Meteos yet....*Smack* do it!! this game rules! it may look like another tetris 
 ripoff but dont be fooled by appearances. this badboy kicks butt. the storyline is kinda childish 
 but who cares. if youve ever played Lumines, its made by the same dude. except this game is totally 
 different, Lumines is all about chillin and relaxingly playing with falling blocks. and then... theres 
 Meteos OMG!!!! RED BLOCK, BLUE, GREEN, BLACK! WHATS THAT?! OMG! GO GO GO GO GO GO!!!! THEYRE ALL 
 GONNA DIE IF YOU DONT STACK THE FREAKIN' BLOCKS RIGHT NOW!!!!! OMG!!! MOVE MOVE MOVE!!!! Yeah its 
 basically the fastest, most hardcore adrenaline pumping rush of a puzzlegame ever. buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artanis666
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  When i had first heard of Meteos, it sounded like a boring puzzle game that could have been made 
 10 years ago. I thought it was some guys version of Tetris. But when I got the game and played 
 it for the first time I was dumbfounded! The graphics were incredible! Better than any other game 
 for the DS (except Nintendogs) and the sounds are worthy of a Hollywood movie! Although the story 
 was sort of shot and kind of boring, it still got it's point across. i would recommend this game 
 to ANYONE with a DS. This game is a true classic for the Nintendo DS. it may be a partial remake, 
 but it will always be the game of this video game era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Simple, yet fun. The gameplay is pretty basic as a puzzle game should be and this game is easy 
 to pick up and play. It differs becuase when you first align the blocks to be sent off, it does 
 not send automatically, but rather, it just shoots up and waits for a secondary launch. This secondary 
 launch allows for awesome combos. The modes on the game are plentiful. There are many planets to 
 choose from with their own music and are greatly diverse since they each have their own block gravity 
 and different number of columns and range of blocks. The game relies more on speed rather than 
 thinking, which I think is different than other puzzlers like Tetris. But instead of mere brain 
 power you will need both speed and quick thinking. 
  
  Sound:
  Sound is unique for each planet and it's not too bad overall. The music could be better for the 
 planets, but the menu song is pretty cool. Not too much expectation here because its a puzzler 
 and relies more on gameplay.
  
  Value: 
  For a puzzle game it will last a long while. It is very addicting and you will find that you will 
 be playing for a long while. It never gets boring and once it does, you will find yourself playing 
 it again a little later.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 
  I was never a fan of puzzlers, but I thought I would give Meteos a try and I thought this game 
 is the best yet. This game will get you interested in puzzlers and Tetris will seem like a mediocre 
 game compared to this one. The game has alot to offer and reasons to keep playing. The game is 
 completely underrated and deserves this score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Puzzle games are always fun, and Lumines is one of the best ones out there. The creators decided 
 to release a puzzler on DS too, named Meteos. Meteos is much like other puzzler, though deeper, 
 more absorbing and smarter than most other puzzle games. 
  
  The graphics aren't incredible and won't blow you away. They are nice, and you can clearly see 
 what happens. The game has a nice overall design featuring those small Meteos guys! There are different 
 planets to be bought that each has its own design, which is cool. The graphics aren't a reason 
 to buy Meteos, but they are pretty nice.
  
  The sounds are very good, with different songs on each planet. There is also a sound room where 
 you can listen to effects and tracks from the game, which is nice.
  
  The gameplay is always the best reason to buy a puzzle game. If the gameplay doesn't work, the 
 game is nothing. But it is. Meteos is a very good game that's very absorbing and entertaining. 
 There are a ton of different play modes that all play very well. The stylus is the only thing you'll 
 use in the game, and it works great. And later on you'll be handling it as if it's always been 
 a part of your body! Meteos is a very good game for the DS, and easily takes the DS puzzler throne 
 away from Zoo Keeper. 
  
  +
  Nice overall design. Many game modes, including a fine story mode. The stylus works great. Different 
 planets and items for you to buy. 
  
  -
  Will make your brain beg for mercy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krosbykat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is a thrilling puzzle game. You play any 1 of 32 planets. You unlock planets by fuseing 
 the meteos youve launched. You can also unlock the planetary sound sets and items to use against 
 either a CPU or up to 3 of you're friends! There are 12 types of meteos. The evil planet "meteo" 
 is luanching phantasmagoric matter or "meteos" which destroys planets. In startrips you choose 
 you're home planet and then choose a streight path, a branch-route, or a multi-route. you pilot 
 a ship that copies exactly the opposing planet's abilities with meteos, play the CPU at meteos 
 and eventually win (I hope) . That "seals" off planets. You continue this until you get to the evil 
 planet meteo. You face off the evil planet and if you win you watch 1 of 12 different endings. 
 The particular ending depends on the path you choose. Good multiplayer and great game play make 
 this a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  Every single puzzle game that comes out people ask 'How does it compare to Tetris?'. Usually, people 
 are let down by the puzzlers being no-where near as good as Tetris. However, this game is different.
 
  
  This game was destined to only be on the DS. It wouldn't work on any other console. 
  
  The aim of the game is to line up blocks of three. The complexity of this game is the key to 
 its success. The game is highly addictive too, and you find yourselve picking up your DS again 
 and again to play this game.
  
  This game is a must have for all DS owners. Especially Tetris fans and puzzle lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chibi-acer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  Meteos is a really addictive, fast moving puzzle game. The pace is fairly similar to Tetris, except 
 that the biggest twist is that the basic gameplay is to face off against 1 to 3 opponents. The 
 computer opponents are easily scalable, from really easy to super hard. You can play solo matches 
 as well, but much like Tetris, after a while it get's monotonous.
  
  The difference between different boards also adds a ton of variety. Some boards (planets) have 
 different types of gravity, or require you to complete various types of launches in order to get 
 meteos off the screen. Even if you've mastered one planet, another one can provide a fairly different 
 challege. It's also another way to provide different handy-caps, though most planets are fairly 
 balanced. For example, there are some planets where your meteos are likely to pile up quite a bit 
 before you can launch them, but then this means you will be attacking your opponents with a huge 
 burst rather than a dinky attack.
  
  My one complaint is that it took me a really long time to figure out why the computer scores were 
 always way higher than mine. There's a tutorial, but it doesn't give you much more than the basics. 
 Anyway, the key is to link up all your meteos along the bottom row and clear off the entire screen. 
 I wish they had made this more obvious, as it changes the game mechanic at that point. This is 
 quite similar to the thrill of Tetris, holding out for a 4-line clear (a tetris) , running the risk 
 of losing in order to go for big points.
  
  A great game overall, and an easy way to burn anywhere from 5 minutes to an hour (at your disgression) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a game for the DS that makes full use of the touch screen. Considering this game makes 
 use of only the touch screen, it should make all of you out there wondering why the DS has one, 
 happy. The game's general idea is relatively simple, and reminds me of tetris. You must line up 
 at least 3 of an element to rocket it into space, and onto your opponent's planet. Simple idea? 
 Yes. Tons of strategy? Heck yes. While you think you may be good at this game a couple hours in, 
 you then bump it up a difficulty and realize you have much to learn. Many of the more subtle strategies 
 to victory are not realized till 10-15 hours into the game. The multiplayer is excellent, allowing 
 a lot of customization and providing hours of fun. Being a major RPG fan, this game also appeals 
 to me. All these hours playing a puzzler would be less rewarding without tons of unlockables. Playing 
 this game through randomly, all the unlockables take a good 30-40 hours to obtain. Planets, Items, 
 Sounds, etc., this game rewards you for becoming better. Plenty of stats to keep you number heads 
 occupied. 
  
  Overall, if you like puzzle games, especially Tetris, buy this. A great game that can be played 
 for many hours, and takes full use of the DS touch screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrystalBlade12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is one of the newest puzzle games out on the market, and it's also currently one of the 
 best games for the Nintendo DS. Meteos was developed by Q Entertainment with a lot of help from 
 Masahiro Sakurai (who is now a freelancer) , a large helper with the devolpment of Super Smash Bros. 
 Melee (and it shows- confirmation screens and bonus messages are very similar in design to those 
 of SSBM's) . His help with SSBM may have been the key to making the great game that Meteos is today. 
 I've finally gotten my hands on this game, and I must say, it certainly lives up to all the hype.
 
  
  At first glance, Meteos looks like your conventional falling-block puzzle game such as Tetris. 
 But once you play it, you'll find it is much, much different than any puzzle game you've played. 
 Instead of controlling the falling blocks (called Meteos) first-hand, you must line up three Meteos 
 of the same type by moving them up and down throught each column. But doing that won't get rid 
 of them- it'll send them and any Meteos above them rocketing up to the sky. And yet, chances are, 
 they will not get cleared. Here, you can do two things; you can throw Meteos still on the ground 
 up at the burning rockets might just force it through the atmosphere. Or, and most likely, you'll 
 have to create a second row or column of the same color Meteos from the group being lifted by the 
 incinerating Meteos to create a second launch, giving the blocks enough force to propel themselves 
 out of the field. It's quite an original concept.
  
  But, there's more complexity to Meteos than meets the eye. There are over 30 different planets 
 to play on, each distinctively different from each other. In one planet, Meteos are only fired 
 up so far; you'll have to launch high to get the whole group up and over. On another, single launches 
 don't go anywhere; you'll need to create another group in the area to lift them off. The different 
 planets create a lot of innovation in Meteos that you don't see in many games, especially ones 
 of the puzzle genre.
  
  The graphics in Meteos are basic, yet effective. The different feels of each planet captures you 
 inside it. The look of the Meteos and the backgrounds and feels of each planet are different and 
 a real nice detail to make the game more enjoyable overall. The only real flaw is that it can be 
 hard to distinguish tiles from each other in some worlds, but overall the graphics are pretty top-notch. 
 And, I have to say, the opening cutscene has to be the best on the DS, period.
  
  All of the little sounds of Meteos really contribute the experience that Meteos captivates you 
 in. Each planet has their own sound effects and music to go with their theme. The music is great 
 and fits nicely into each world, from western rhythms to fast techno beats. The sound and the music 
 really compliment each other. Meteos does a good job in that respect as the sounds keep you on 
 your toes, but in a very pleasant manner.
  
  This is where Meteos really shines. This is a game that never gets old. With all the different 
 modes and the planets to add more uniqueness to the game, Meteos takes the, "Easy to learn, hard 
 to master" phrase to a whole new level. You'll have to adapt to each planet as you play, making 
 you have to unlock, or fuse, new planets to practice on and call your own.
  
  The Fusion Room, a unique area in Meteos, allows you to fuse different types of Meteos you've already 
 launched during gameplay. You can fuse together Meteos to create planets, sound sets, items, and 
 more. This adds another twist that conveys you to keep playing.
  
  Meteos also brings us Star Trip mode, in which you must play through many different planets to 
 get many different endings. Just another thing that can hold your interest for a while.
  
  The multiplayer mode in Meteos is also one of the best there is. You can play on the worlds you've 
 unlocked and try to survive against your friends while simultaneously lauching Meteos at them to 
 put them out of commision. It's a surprisingly fun concept that sucks your free time (and those 
 of your friends) away.
  
  All in all, Meteos offers a fresh twist on the puzzle genre that certainly does not dissapoint. 
 It's a game that any gamer can pick up and have fun with for hours on end or just a few minutes. 
 I suggest anybody, whether your a puzzle gaming freak or someone who has never delved into its 
 realm, to try this game out. It's very likely you will not be dissatisfied with this gem of a game 
 that is Meteos.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ybrik222
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  A big mistake many people make about this game is, they look at a screen shot and say it's a run 
 of the mill puzzle game. But it's more of an tense action game than that! 
  
  If you've got this game on your Christmas list and play a demo, you might regret it! This game 
 is addictive. Period. I was so addicted that I unlocked everything in a week! Now you're probably 
 thinking that you beat the game too quickly and it becomes boring, but it doesn't! You can try 
 to beat your old high scores, play your friends, blow up your friends (not literately) , get blown 
 up yourself, check out the sound tests, and much more!
  
  In Tetris when you make a row of blocks, they disappear. In Meteos when you make a row of three 
 meteos of the same colour, they turn into rockets. There's a pretty big difference there, but that's 
 not it! When the rockets shoot up they carry meteos on top of them with them. Then if there's too 
 many meteos, the rockets start falling. So you have to make a row of three more.
  
  This game is definitely breaks new-ground in the puzzle genre. It's an amazing game with beautiful 
 art in the background and has a lot of detail in the music. This game is a must buy for any DS 
 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameplayer2105
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  this is an excellent puzzle game that will not dissapoint unless you have crappy reflexes or a 
 sour taste for puzzle games. its pretty much only played with the stylus, which makes the control 
 scheme simple. the objective of each game is to vertically move blocks (meteos) into groups of 
 three or more to launch them off of the screen. The sound is excellent, and the cute little tunes 
 go along nicely with each level. The graphcs arent anything amazing, but they wont quite make you 
 gag. Each level is full of color .Its very addicting and fun. the multiplayer is also an excellent 
 addition to an already awesome game. if you need a puzzle fix, look no further than meteos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Meteos's core gameplay is simple enough. Blocks will fall from the top of the screen, 
 and you simply have to line them up in rows or columns of 3. These blocks, called "meteos", will 
 then shoot up, and when they reach the top of the screen, they are removed and added to your meteos 
 bank. You can then spend the different-coloured meteos on various unlockables in the fusion room.
 
  
  There are several modes to choose from, including Time Attack, 1000 Meteos match, Deluge Mode (pick 
 a planet and go for a high score. My personal favourite mode) , Star Trip (which is kind of like 
 the "story mode" to the game) , wireless multiplayer, and a couple more. All of these different 
 modes keep the gameplay fresh and prevent it from getting monotonous.
  
  The gameplay is pretty amazing, and this is the first puzzle game that I've ever really enjoyed. 
 It can get VERY fast-paced, especially once you hit the 3 minute mark in Deluge Mode. No other 
 puzzle game's gameplay even comes close to comparing to Meteos.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Meteos are good, and are perfect for this type of game. The only bad 
 thing is that when there's alot going on at a time, the framerate takes a dreadfull plunge. Luckily, 
 this doesn't happen too much. Still... although Meteos is graphically good-looking, there isn't 
 much here that couldn't have been done on the GBA. Even so, from a 2D standpoint, this game is 
 visually impressive.
  
  Sound: Wow. That is the word that best describes the music in Meteos. To put it bluntly, Meteos 
 contains one of the best video game soundtracks. Ever! There is so much variety between each of 
 the planets as well. One planet might have a calm, soothing beat, while another will have a heavy 
 techno rhythm. Meteos's music the best that I've seen from a DS game so far.
  
  Value: Meteos is a long game. You will definatly get your money's worth from this one. It took 
 me just over 30 hours to unlock everything in the game. That's a long time to spend on a puzzle 
 game! However, even after you unlock everything, you'll still re-visit Meteos, whether it's with 
 a friend in multiplayer, or by yourself in an attempt to increase your high scores. Either way, 
 you're going to be busy with Meteos for a long time. Up this category's score to a 9 if you've 
 got a couple of friends who are also Meteos fans that you can play multiplayer with.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Meteos is a phenominal game. It is hands-down the best puzzle game ever created. 
 Everything about it is amazing! This is also the best DS game that I have played so far, which 
 is quite an achievement considering I've had my DS for about a year now. I'm not even a fan of 
 puzzle games, and yet I still loved Meteos. Whether you're a puzzle fan or not, you must get this 
 game. This is definatly one of the DS's sleeper hits, and should not be missed by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Henatrice
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is definitely an excellent puzzle game.
  
  The graphics... well, they are slick, but they could be better. Not much stretching of the DS hardware, 
 but has good cutscenes.
  
  The sound is dissapointing. The music and sounds are fitting, and obviously have work in it, but 
 most of the time, its plain awful.
  
  Anyways, the focus is gameplay. The point is to move the blocks up and down to create 3, 4, or 
 5 in a row. This can lend to alot of strategy, as the blocks are shot up and are brang down depening 
 on the planet (the equivalent of a stage) you use, and the amount of blocks, which lends to some 
 strategy. Only problem is the game is easy to cheat simply by scratching the game up and down. 
 Don't do this in front of your friends, its n00bzors. All in all, a solid game, with the one flaw.
 
  
  Replay value? Planets to unlock, sounds to unlock, and items to unlock. How do you unlock them? 
 By playing. And after you unlock those, theres the replay value still, because it's a puzzle game. 
 A good puzzle game NEEDS replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takeo_miyazaki
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  The first time you load up meteos you might be shocked by the Sci-fi setting but the styling is 
 so cute and utterly charming you'll fall in love with it! the control system is perfect and the 
 gravity changes from planet to planet making the game way more varied than tetris (the previous 
 best puzzler out there!) 
  when you connect three blocks together they shoot up to the heavens with such satisfying sounds 
 you'll get hooked! ah yes the sounds! Meteos is from Q Entertainment and as a result has some of 
 the best music to hit a handheld! form techno beats to bird calls it all adds up to an amazing 
 audio experience further enhanced by the ability to buy and unlock sound sets from different planets 
 to play back anytime! the game has soo many unlockable bonus! from the many different planets to 
 the afformantioned sounds sets and music. this game will keep you laucnhing those blocks for years 
 to come!
  
  the multiplayer also deserves a mention as it is simply fantastic! upto 4 people off one card can 
 cause a lot of rivalry and many hours of great gaming which will only increase once your friends 
 get hooked and go out and buy their copy's of the game allowing you to play any of the levels! 
 
  
  the game is as satisfying as Residant Evil 4, as nerve wrecking and stressfull as any game out 
 there, has the best music to grace a handheld and is so utterly addictive-worth buying a DS for 
 because you must own this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaneBeck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:20 am PT
Review:  Meteos is by far the best puzzle game I've ever played. Blowing up planets and makin' pretty music 
 is as cool as you'd think it would be. Although it takes a little while to get used to, the rest 
 of the game is solid. Besides the multiplayer.
  The music is fantastic and sound effects can be creapy or cool at times. The gameplay is pretty 
 basis, you drag meteos down and try to make a line of three, four or five either diagonally or 
 horizontaly. Graphics are nice. You'd want no better graphics on a puzzle game. The value is great. 
 Even after you've finished the game, you'll crack it out and give 'er another go.
  So overall I give Meteos a 9.1
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupid_06
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2005 12:28 pm PT
Review:  First off... this game is better than Lumines in my opinion. I have both and I haven't played Lumines 
 at all since I've gotten this game. Lumines is still a great game... but I just think this one was 
 underappreciated.
  
  The gameplay in Meteos is solid. Move blocks on the touch screen vertically to allign 3 of the 
 same colored blocks in a horizontal or vertical manner. If a column is filled with Meteos too long... you 
 lose. Occasionaly a few "weapons" may drop... but they don't really help much in most cases. The 
 gameplay actually has more depth to it... but I'm not a professional reviewer... so I just felt like 
 covering the basics.
  
  Soundtrack is great..... that's all I have to say
  
  Graphics are good.... but this is a puzzle game... Tetris didn't have good graphics and I still loved 
 it.
  
  This game is worth the pricetag. I bought mine used for $20 because I wasn't sure how I would like 
 the game... but this game would have been worth more. I have spent many hours playing this game... and 
 I still am playing it after buying it about a month ago. There is a bunch of stuff to unlock in 
 the game... so if you want to unlock everything it will take you a long time.
  
  I'm rating this game a 9.0 just because I thought Lumines was slightly overrated. I think Lumines 
 should have been an 8.8 or an 8.7 (I thought the gameplay was lacking compared to this.) This is 
 a definate must-have for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBAGB
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  You may say that Meteos is just another puzzle game but until you play it, you have no idea. I 
 literally stayed up till 3 A. M just trying to beat all the levels and unlock all the music and 
 that was just one part of the game! Anyone who loves these kinds would definitely want to buy this 
 game. Now that I've said what I think about the game generally I will break it down into a few 
 categories I think are important:
  
  Gameplay: I basically liked the game play in this game because if you are really doing bad in this 
 game you can always redeem yourself by launching a huge stack of Meteos right into space!
  
  Music: Definitely good. It has many unlockable tracks for all the planets and most of them 
 have highly immersive sounds.
  
  Story: While it was lacking a little in this department you cant really expect a puzzle game to 
 be that plot-filled and as a puzzle game it did have enough for me.
  
  Unlockables : A + + + in this department there must be at least a hundred to 150 unlockables in 
 this game and I only at least have 40 at the most, and I've had it for 2 months!
  
  Well I've told you what I think of the game. What do you think?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordgubbs_fil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:17 am PT
Review:  When i first played meteos at a friend I directly felt "I gotta get this game really bad" So lucky 
 for me he also works in a gamestore so I got the game with a 25% discount. YAY!! And this game 
 must be the best game so far to NDS. With its good graphics psycadelic sounds and music. And because 
 of the unlocking rewards you get for like beating up Meteos (the evil planet) you gotta send some 
 more meteos out there to be able to buy the planets, sounds and weapons you can use in the game. 
 It also has a great wireless play for up to 4players. So just get this game and play until you 
 get it all and then play some more itll be worth it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecookiecrew
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Meteos came as a complete shock to me when I first played it. I was expecting a fairly competant 
 puzzler with little variety or replayablility. I got a new addiction. Seriously, this game is my 
 drug.
  
  The gameplay of this game is so simple, yet so deep at the same time. At the beginners level, lining 
 up 3 meteos seems very simple and easy. In reality games very rarely last more than 3 minutes. 
 If you can keep a planet from destruction for over 3 minutes, you're doing very well. For a more 
 experienced player, more advanced tactics are possible. For example, should I speed time up to 
 get a better score? Shouls I line them up now or wait for more meteos to drop and try and make 
 a bigger combo? Moments like this are very common in Meteos, and give a great feeling of satisfaction 
 when you managed to clear an entire screen in 1 launch, or beat your high score on the 14th attempt. 
 Then there's the tactic of creating more boosts while a stack is in midair. The possibilities are 
 endless, and no 2 games are ever the same.
  
  Graphically, Meteos looks sharp on the DS screens, but doesn't really push the boundaries of the 
 console. Having said that, the game presents the different planets stylishly and uniquely, and 
 admiring the graphics is damn near impossible anyway.
  
  The sound in this game is downright strange. The tunes all compliment the themes of the planets, 
 and sound good enough on the DS. The effects during the game are also well done, and the cheering 
 which is played after a particularly good move is very helpful in judging progress.
  
  This game is far more varied than you think. The differences between planets almost makes it feel 
 like you're playing different games. For example, 1 planet has virtually no gravity, so blocks 
 vanish instantly on ignition, and another has so much gravity that only combos are strong enough 
 to launch the meteos. Then there are the weapons, which appear randomly during games, and can either 
 aid or cripple the player. Even if you'll never use the multiplayer (I don't) , there is infinite 
 replayability here. 
  
  Overall, this game is the reason I treasure my DS at the moment. It is a truly unique game that 
 could never be done on another system, and, unless an online sequel is announced (PLEASE!!) , I'll 
 never need another puzzle game. Buy a DS to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riff60
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Very addictive, tons of unlockables, great sounds, and eye catching graphics. The best puzzle game 
 in years, and yes its better than Lumines, but by a slight margin. I rate it higher than lumines 
 because it hase a better replay value, and more to unlock. 
  The use of the 2 screens is awesome, and ground breaking. The DS has finally set a new standard 
 for handheld play. The game forces you to think vertically rather than horizotaly which may take 
 som time to get used to, but once you do you'll be blasting planets in no time. If you own a DS 
 you have to own this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetFighter01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The only puzzle game I liked was Tetris. But that changed after playing Meteos. First off it uses 
 the touch screen well, Nice catchy music, very good
  replay value, and fun multiplayer. It gets addicting after a while and
  you probably start seeing 
 flying blocks when you close your eyes.
  After playing the game 27 hours I manage to unlock all 30 planets.
  Thats what I call good replay 
 value. You can also send a demo to your
  friend or play them with only one copy of the game. Mutiple endings in the
  game is a pretty 
 cool idea. Just wish they had more use of the top screen.
  You should really pick this one up! You won't be dissapointed only if
  you hate puzzle games 
 that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lando_Griffin9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Ohh man to think the hours i wasted on my life playing this one (but then again i suppose you could 
 say that about any game) .
  
  If your looking for a good ds game that'll keep you busy and has a lot of replay value look no 
 further...
  
  Graphics: nothing too pretty, but by no means bad either. Colorful and smooth. The shapes or squares 
 look o. k for the most part, except for when its the little dancing thingy's or squiggly lines gets 
 kinda annoying. not much to say about the graphics, look at a screenshot if your really interested.
 
  
  Gameplay: Perfect. The game is co-designed by the maker of Super Smash Bros Melee so i'd expecting 
 nothing less then perfect. The main idea is that you line of 3-or more of the same color or pattern (i 
 know doesnt sound too original) but, thats not all thats to it, after you have lined up the three 
 next to eachother little rockets will come up from the bottom, and while blocks are constantley 
 falling down sometimes your little "spaceship" wont make it out of orbit and you'll have to give 
 it a second boost or so by repeating as before. This may not sound like much be it makes for some 
 really crazy and hectit gameplay, that youll keep you hand swirwing around while you grip on the 
 stylus.
  
  Sound: not bad. Each planet (yes i forgot to mention you can fuse meteosto unlock new planets, theres 
 a total of 20 or something) had its own little beat, that mixed with the sound effects of each 
 time you shoot some meteos in to space sound O. K. Its not bad its still far better then some games.
 
  
  Overall: The game is great and addicting! If you've been craving a good puzzler, or ds game in 
 general i highly reccomend it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nes4life13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  Meteos & Lumines are the best puzzle games since Tetris. Q entertainment is giving the puzzle genre 
 the life that it needed. Meteos is a pretty simple game, it follows the easy to get in to yet difficult 
 to master category. The gameplay is perfect, it is very simple, however it can get tricky at certain 
 times. Wi-fi multiplayer is another thing that makes this game so addictive, you and a friend can 
 stay up all night playing this game. Story mode is another reason to keep on playing, you can unlock 
 all sorts of new things playing it. If you own a DS you simply HAVE to have this game, it is essential 
 to any DS owner's library, in my opinion any gamers library should have at least one good puzzle 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordhector1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  To me Meteos is just a plain good gaming exeperiece you won't find a puzzle game like this ever 
 again it just got me addictid in minutes the difficuelty can chalenge any gamer and it has great 
 endings. The story is simple yet compleling its aboput a planet called meteo and the cut scene 
 before the start menu has incredible graphics while it show's planet going one by one. Now all 
 we need is a internet wifi version. To me meteos is probably the best DS game availeble and the 
 overall game is just plain great. If i had a choice to play this game or a zelda tp demo id pick 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution2k6
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  when i first heard of meteos i thought ... wtf! is this. until i accually played it. meteos is 
 an amazing high speed pluzzler. one thing that also caught my eye is that even though it is fast 
 past i expected some framerate issues but i never experienced one! also the controls are outsanding 
 with the stylus it akes it much easyer. and the sound is amazing it sound like its a consle game!
 
  
  
  in conclution i just want to say that even if oyou dislike puzzle games at least give this game 
 a shot (personaly i cant stand puzzle games) but i still cant get enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortenjohs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 6:27 am PT
Review:  The game might be considered part of the ongoing series of What happens if we add physics in some 
 sense to an old genre? This has proven to be a successfull path for games like Gish and BreakQuest. 
 Meteos toys with gravity in what basicly is a game of falling blocks, like Tetris. This has been 
 done more directly before by ChronicLogic in Triptych - fun and bouncy analog Tetris, but I must 
 say I like Meteos aproach even better.
  
  In Meteos single blocks, the meteos, are raining into your, oh so familar, Tetris-well. (There 
 is ofcourse a storyline here - a reason for the meteos to rain, but I wouldnt spoil anyones fun 
 seeing that firsthand) You get rid of them by aligning and thereby fusing three (or more) meteos 
 of the same type together so they start a propulsion outwards - pushing every meteo on top of them 
 out aswell. To accomplish this you move the blocks that have landed in your well around vertically 
 with your stylus. Depending on the gravity and other factors of the planet you are defending a 
 set of three meteos can lift so and so many others, so one constantly has to change playstyle for 
 each planet one encounter. Maybe youll have to see to that you can make a second ignition among 
 the meteos being propulsed outwards before they fall to the ground again. 
  
  The meteos you send out of your playfield end up in the playfields of your opponents, for him to 
 get rid of/send back to you. Youre dead meat in a classic Tetris-like fashion if you cant get 
 rid of your meteos. The meteos are thus your primary weapon against your opponents as well as your 
 worst fear so you have to constantly choose between just getting rid of the meteos you have and 
 trying to lauch gigantic attacks. This serves as the basics for both quest mode and multiplayer 
 mode. Multiplayer-mode receives recognition in the press but I havent had the pleasure of trying 
 it. You have another mode called Deluge, where youre just trying to survive the ever increasing 
 rain of meteos as long as you can on a planet of your choice.
  
  I must say its close to dangerously addictive And so quick and easy to start a match - each being 
 so short and rewarding. One constantly improves ones play, finds new tactics and strategies for 
 optimal play on the different planets involved. So easy to fall for the one round more-syndrome 
 that CivAnon is warning the world against nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  Meteos
  The blocks fly up even higher than my score
  
  Graphics (12.5%) - 10
  Controls (15%) - 10
  Variety (25%) - 10
  Replay (25%) - 10
  Sound (7.5%) - 10
  Depth (15%) 
 - 10
  
  OVERALL - 10
  
  Graphics - 10
  For a puzzle game, the polish, crispness, 3D rendered scenes and sheer variety in the backgrounds 
 and falling pieces is extraordinary. There are many different designs of blocks and the backgrounds 
 change in images, and those rendered scenes at the beginning to illustrate the story about the 
 evil planet Meteo look incredible.
  
  Controls - 10
  I actually managed a respectable score using the directional pad option -- a testimate to the job 
 the developers did on that option -- but it's the flawless stylus control that amplifies the whole 
 Meteos experience. If you question at all that the stylus doesn't work quite right, finish the 
 short story mode of going through the planets and defeating Meteo, then play the version that runs 
 during the credits with tiny blocks -- everything still works perfectly, only it's a little harder 
 to see.
  
  Variety - 10
  In gameplay modes, there isn't a great deal more than you'd expect, but is definitely ample. There's 
 the endless mode, a story mode to defeat planet Meteo, and Time mode where you try and blast as 
 many blocks as you can in the amount given or the amount of blocks set before the time runs out. 
 It will store your high scores in a table and is really what makes the replay so great. But what 
 makes the variety so perfect is along with all the graphical and audio disparities from planet 
 to planet, each planet has different gravity, size and ways to launch blocks. Some planets will 
 even allow you to blast blocks only with horizontal combinations and not vertical which is much 
 tougher than it would sound.
  
  Replay - 10
  I can't put it down. If I do, I'll go into a haze and start playing it in my head. I've gotten 
 right into collecting elements to fuse new planets and items; I've been completely enthralled by 
 the 100 meteos time trial and trying to make my best possible time; I can't stop.
  
  Sound - 10
  The soundtrack is really amazing. Every planet has its own unique and catchy tune 
 that makes all the more fun to play. Usually you would drown it out and focus in on the puzzle 
 aspect, but the audio rather gives an enhancing spark behind your stylus.
  
  Depth - 10
  The depth in play comes from the many unique planets and the fact that the initial propulsion behind 
 the launce is not sufficient to carry all the blocks into the atmosphere and secondary combos are 
 needed.
  
  Overall - 10
  Was I expecting a solid puzzle game with Meteos? Yes. Was I expecting a candidate for my personal 
 game of the year? Not a chance. While compared to my other two perfect 10's of Mario RPG and Perfect 
 Dark, Meteos may not seem like a proper fit, I do sincerely find Meteos better now than Tetris 
 was when it arrived nearly twenty years ago, and for creating the best and perfect puzzle experience, 
 I award Meteos the honour of my third perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sungodra2005
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  this is my first review, so i'll start you out with my ratings system.
  i rate games based on these qualities:
  story,
  graphics,
  sound,
  controls,
  gameplay.
 
  the final score is an average of all the parts, plus tilt from overall enjoyment.
  
  METEOS:
  story: well, generally a puzzler dosen't have to have a story, period; but meteos goes 
 for it and i think it hit the mark. for a puzzle game, the story is strangely interesting and also 
 kinda cool. i give it an 7.5 out of 10.
  
  graphics: the graphics for meteos are colourful and detailed, but also not over done. simplicity 
 is the key. also, the cut scene in the very beginning is beutiful, and makes great use of the ds's 
 capabilities. i give the graphics an 8 out of 10.
  
  sound: the music is what brings even more fun into an already great game. each planet has it's 
 own music, so it dosen't get tedious. i give the sound a 8 out of 10
  
  controls: the touch screen is used for primarily the entire game. it's easy and pretty intuitive. 
 the only complaint i have is the block are a bit small, so sometimes it's difficult to hit exactly 
 what you want; but it's really not much of a problem. i give the controls an 8 out of 10.
  
  gameplay: the gameplay in meteos is frantic, and awesomely fun. at the end of each level, you 
 can't wait for the next. i give the gameplay a 9 out of 10. 
  
  over all, i give this game an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2005 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is the most addicting game since Tetris, and it may be even better. The premise is that 
 you need to move blocks up and down untill three similar blocks line up and launch themselves and 
 everything above them into the air. From there you need to continue to work on that section untill 
 it is off the screen. There are many different advanced techniques and combos to do making the 
 game sort of complex while being still sort of somplistic. The graphical style and the sound and 
 music is nice although not spectacular. The variety of environments to play in is impressive. Each 
 map represents a different world with different physics and in each place the moves you can do 
 have varying effectiveness. I have not often been so addicted to a game and this is possibly the 
 best game on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilinla
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Tetris was never really my thing, I must admit. But when I popped this little DS card into my system, 
 I must say I was impressed. The game uses the touch screen extremely well, though without its faults; 
 and it also builds a new puzzle experience unlike any other. 
  
  Gameplay: In Meteos, you must simply line multiple Meteos (three or more) either horizontally or 
 vertically by sliding your stylus up and down on the screen. It is extremely well done and very 
 entertaining. The gameplay in Meteos would have been perfect if it were not for a couple of little 
 problems. It is sometimes difficult to aim at the correct meteo with the stylus. It is not a big 
 problem, but it does get frustrating at times when you miss the piece you were aiming for. Also, 
 in Meteos, you can "cheat." It is much less fun, yet much more eficatious, to simply randomly run 
 the stylus up and down the screen to match the meteos. While it does work, it is not very fun. 
 
  
  Graphics: Nothing special, but they get the job done very well. 
  
  Sound: There are tons of unlockable songs in Meteos, and very good background music. All planets 
 have different musical themes, which makes for a great score. 
  
  Overall: If you do not cheat, Meteos will be pretty fun. But, like most puzzle games, you won't 
 play for very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpareTire
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 19, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I have now put in 100+ sessions of Meteos. As a fan of puzzle games I've found alot to like about 
 Metos. The concept and graphics are wonderful - they back story is... well... who cares about the 
 back story anyway!
  
  I highly recommend this game for puzzle nuts.
  
  My one negative observation is that there seems to be a weakness in the implementation of the game 
 that allows for a "gamey" tactic to increase one's score.
  
  No that I've noticed this, the game has lost a bit of it's luster. 
  
  **** Read no farther 
 if you are enjoying Metoes - and don't want to hear about any 'tricks' for improving your score 
 *****
  
  I noticed, while franticly playing in the Single mode, that later in the game the blocks start 
 falling at such a speedy rate, I'd invaribly be defeated at about the 5-6min mark.
  
  During a recent session, when I reached the later part of the round, instead of trying to match 
 the Metos properly, I simply began quickly down-stroking, left to right, along each column of the 
 screen.
  
  Because the Metos will launch immediatly when 3 ( or more ) are lined in a row, the down stroke 
 on a random Metos , alomst always will find either a 3-across or 3 vert match.
  
  By quickly stroking downward, rapidly, left to right, I was able to "find" numberous matches and 
 continue to launch Meteos even with my screen 3/4s full.
  
  With this method, I'm able to add between 1 to 2 mins to my time ( with commensurate Meteo production 
 ) .
  
  My problem with this is that the strategy element flys out the window and the game becomes a 'stroke-fest'.
 
  
  Now, even of more quite parts of a level , I can do this and slip into an auto-pilot mode.
  
 
  Yes... I know I can force myself *not* to use the tactic, but knowing it's there weakens the game 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 19, 2005 2:48 am PT
Review:  As far as puzzle games go, we all know what the "main" games are that we compare them to. Is this 
 a tetris clone, a Puzzle Fighter clone, or a bejeweled clone? This is closest to a bejeweled type 
 game than the other two - and that is the introduction. If you hate the "matching 3 or more" premise 
 of that game, you probably won't like this game.
  
  So - that being said - why is this game getting good reviews? 
  
  Mayhem is the easiest way 
 I can describe why this game is a better game than the classic (and free) version of this puzzler. 
 Meteos takes itself too seriously at times. The story mode does it best as you realize this puzzle 
 game HAS a story and a universe ending one at that! 
  
  "The meteos are coming! The meteos are coming! Save the Universe!" And that you do... by lining 
 up 3 different colored meteos and shooting them towards other attackign planets - effectively getting 
 them off Earth or whatever planet you happen to call your home planet (yes, you do get to choose 
 a home planet if you want to!)
  
  Basic gameplay involves the matching 3 colors mechanics. The difference is, that instead of disappearing 
 - it litereally starts to lift everything above the matching 3 out to the top screen. If it reaches 
 the top then it shoots off onto the opponents playfield causing damage. However, the more pieces 
 on top of the 3 that you match, the slower it moves. Oftentimes there is TOO much and you need 
 to do a second match from below to help push whatever pieces are on top. This is a lot harder to 
 describe than to see - but it effectively makes things a LOT more hectic for a puzzle game which 
 is why I think most people adore this game. 
  
  Aside from that - gameplay doesn't vary too much. One you get the basic idea of the game you are 
 ready for whatever happens. There are items that drop that add variety (Bombs that blow up part 
 of the board or convert meteos into rockets to help propel the other meteos higher, etc) and each 
 "World" you play on has different rules which can be very confusing the frist time though.
  
  For instance - Planet Gravitas has more gravity - so it takes a combo of 3 to effectivly break 
 gravity and shoot pieces up. A water planet allows for "blue" type meteos to fly away faster while 
 fire type matches (red) ones shoot up slower or don't fly up at all. it is these little twists 
 that make each match different and harder (and more fun when you play against people you know on 
 other DS's) for a varied game experience.
  
  The DS itself makes this game even more fun. You have to play with the stylus. It feels just perfect 
 and comfortable. I honestly think that the whole touchpad-stylus way of approaching games will 
 be a huge thing for the future as in some instances it makes things much easier on games - and 
 Meteos is a perfect example of that.
  
  Meteos - however - is no Tetris or Puzzle Fighter. I would say it is more on par with Puyo Puyo 
 Pop (Dr. Robotnics Mean bean machine) but a lot more hectic as so much is going on at once. 
  
  This game also has some unlockables (that to me I don't quite fully understand yet, hopefully 
 it becomes more worth it) and full stat tracking. Also the Duluge mode is pretty nice too. I wish 
 they used the wi-fi for some sort of highscore ranking, but alas.... 
  
  Definitly worth playing. Now I have to try Lumines..... 
  
  
  
  ~ Wakasm ~
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  For all my other reviews - Check my Profile
  or mirrored to gamespot at http://www. wakasm. com/videogamereviews. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 18, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game really has alot of good points. I really can't describe this game. It's so perfect! It 
 has no faults whatsoever! This game is only a puzzle game, but even thoughh you can get it on the 
 internet for free, you HAVE to play it on the DS, this is pure perfection!
  
  First of all, the music is legendary, every time to make a combo, vertical launch, horizontal launch, 
 and the whole planet has it's own music and song. When you win, when you lose, the simple huge 
 number of planets, each is different, you never play the same game twice in the story mode. The 
 music is pretty small, normally you get sucked up into the game enough, but when you launch something 
 off, the music gives it weight.
  
  
  The challenge in this game can be nothing, to incredible. There are some planets where a launch 
 may to nothing, but a combo makes it blast of so hard no matter what's on top. You have to create 
 your own strategy, because after a while the game gets pretty insane. When you face off against 
 meteo the sheer adrenaline rush, it's so fast paced, the matches can get intense fast. Really it 
 can be enthralling.
  
  Now what's special about this game alone is that you only need one card to play multiplayer against 
 all your friends. You can unlock different things by "fusing" the rock types you launched off. 
 It can get a little deep, but it's nothing special really. Just a normal unlock mode.
  
  Every planet is different, all the songs are different, all the planet types are different. This 
 game has alot of signs that people worked very hard on it, and they deserve alot for it. Buy this 
 game, you won't regret it, and you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaolinKilla
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Although i mentioned Tetris already, Meteos really isn't like Tetris. It is similar but it is entirely 
 unique at the same time. Let me explain, yes peices fall from above, no you don't try to place 
 bricks to clear pieces. In Meteos multiple "blocks" will fall from the skies, you need to match 
 3 of the same "blocks" vertically or horizontally in order to send the "blocks" flying off the 
 screen. However each level/planet has different gravity, so sometimes it will be difficult to launch 
 the pieces off screen other times it is a piece of pie.
  
  This is basically all you do, you save planets by sending the "blocks" back up into space, usually 
 to battle another planet. In Star Trip Mode (story mode) you go from planet to planet either in 
 a linear or non linear format is up to you, ultimately fighting off The planet Meteo, who is attacking 
 all the planets. One of the great parts of this game is that you can unlock new planets, sounds, 
 items, etc which keep making you come back for more, and trust me you'll be coming back as soon 
 as your DS's battery is charged back up!
  
  Gameplay: 
  Well as stated above it is very simple, match three or more blocks to launch "blocks" off screen. 
 Plainly as that sounds, its what you do, but this is not a plain game it is an action oriented 
 puzzle game LARGELY focused on action. Quickness and perception is the key. There is a ton of gameplay 
 to be found with Star Trip (story mode) , Deluge (survivor mode) , Time War (Time Attack mode) , Simple 
 (Exhibition mode) , Tutor Mode, and Wire-Less Mode. I Have not been able to play wireless mode but 
 i do know it supports single card play and multi card play. Multiplayer does play like cpu battles, 
 each "blocks" launched is launched to your opponents so it can be hectic!
  
  Graphics:
  Not the biggest thing in the game, but it isn't bad or anything. The only bad thing is that every 
 once in awhile the small "block" pieces can be hard to move, but a little practice and you will 
 hardly feel that it is that bad. The menu presentation and the videos are nice. The overall designs 
 of the different alien races are very neat, and have a unique look. I like how each planet has 
 its own "blocks" it keeps things interesting. There really isn't any drawbacks, personally the 
 game has a very nice style in its graphcal details but this game is not a graphic Powerhous.
  
  Sound:
  If you have played and enjoyed Super Smash Bros. Music you will defiantely recognize 
 the main theme music. Each planet comes with its own set of musical sounds, and there are about 
 +20 planets several need to be unlocked. The music is so good you will find yourself wanting to 
 purchase/unlock the sounds for each planet just to listen to them in full. The sounds range from 
 techno, rock, Famicom sounds, to classical like tunes. The beats are wonderful and add a lot of 
 polish to the games overall presentation.
  
  Value:
  For a mere $29.99 or $34.99, It is defiantely worth it, as you will be playing this one as long 
 as some consoles games tend to last, if not more. If you have friends to play this one i think 
 the replay value could get bumped up a notch as I can see this as a hectic multiplayer battler.
 
  
  Last Comments:
  If you don't have a puzzler for the DS, this is the one to get, its got more gameplay than Polarium, 
 and it has all the flash and polish of a best seller. Scratch that, it's not a best seller its 
 a down right future classic puzzle game. Get this game you won't be dissapointed, unless you are 
 hoping for an intense brain teaser or replica of Tetris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00KevinMZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2005 5:33 am PT
Review:  When I got this, I knew it wasn't going to be a tetris remake, but not being able to move the pieces 
 as they fell kind of surprised me, which led to some confusion on my part. I was so confused while 
 playing this, i was just rapidly hitting the screen with my little pen thing which appeared to 
 work, so this is what I did for the majority of the time I played it. Of course I eventually learned 
 that I'm supposed to move the pieces up and down to find matches of three of the same kind of meteos. 
 
  Meteos offers several different types of gameplay, all of which are fun, but i spent most of my 
 time just playing battle mode (i think that's what it's called.) It also has a couple of other game 
 modes, the only one which i can remember of the top of my head i belive is called deluge, anyways 
 they're all fun. The game also has all the stats anyone would need to know, and has new items that 
 can be gained by playing a lot. These items help to destroy a row of meteos if they ever get to 
 close to the top of the screen. (I should have explained this earlier, but when any of the collums 
 of meteos reach the top of the screen you lose, but you all the attempts you want at beating the 
 level) Finally, you have the option of fusing meteos. I'm not quite sure what it does, but it gave 
 me the satisfaction of completing something. All in all meteos is a great way to eat up some time, 
 and i would recommend it to anyone who has even just a mild interest is puzzle games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keldorek
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  Quite simply, "Meteos" is a modern puzzle masterwork. It's up there with the great puzzle games 
 of yore (obviously it's unfair to compare anything to "Tetris," but you catch my drift) due to 
 so many factors, but the most obvious (and most important reason) is its addictive nature.
  
  Once you begin to see exactly how to launch not just three columns, but four, then five, then 
 six, then the entire screen's width of blocks all at once, the brilliance of the game becomes crystal 
 clear, and you will be hooked for life. I'll leave the detailed explanations of how this would 
 be possible to the in-depth reviews.
  
  From the soundtrack (which, admittedly, at times, could be better) to the graphics to the CGI opening, 
 the game exudes depth and professional sheen, as opposed to the fun but too-darn-sparse "Polarium." 
 Every block ("meteos") you successfully launch off the screen gets stored in your inventory and 
 used to fuse new items (used to great effect in multiplayer like smoke screens, block-destroying 
 hammers, rockets that do the launching for you, etc.) , to unlock level music, and to build new 
 planets where different block-sets and gravitational factors change the game far more than you'd 
 expect.
  
  As good as the reviews have been for this game, I'm willing to bet that you'll find the game is 
 even better than the critics let on. And that's obviously saying a lot.
  
  Buy without a moment's hesitation, for all that is holy.
  
  (Note: the heated debate about 
 "scribbling" to win in this game is absurd. In a panic, you may scribble. You might even get lucky 
 and launch some meteos and save your sad, sad life. But it's not reliable by any means, and a skilled 
 player will wax the floor with a scribbler any day. Imagine button-mashing against a master in 
 Virtua Fighter 4, and you'll see exactly what I mean.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmas
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-You can move the blocks up and down to try to blast the Meteos up to the sky. The plot 
 of Meteos is that Planets have been being hit by Meteos and it is up to you to save them. The game 
 is highly addictive and can take your life. The first day I got it I played it for 2 1/2 hours 
 straight. And each planet has its own way to blast/get rid of them. There is a good amount of planets 
 and challenges to be seen.
  
  Graphics- A space themed game has little stick aliens and beautiful backgrounds fill the game.
 
  
  Sound- Out of this world! (really) Each planet has music about what there planet is (say water-you 
 hear tropical Bahamas music) and the beats can tell you how close your planet is to being destroyed, 
 also when you blast Meteos you hear something that goes with the music.
  
  Final notes-GET IT. If you like puzzle games and a challenge, or Lumines, get this game. And it 
 is a good game to get you hooked on Puzzle games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetravman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Meteos really surprised me. Puzzle gaming wasn't my style until I played this. It is simple, fun, 
 addictive, and..... very intense. I easily got into it the first 10 mins. It's easy to master, but 
 mastering it just makes u want to go faster until ur hand gets sore. With the use of the stylus, 
 u touch blocks on the screen called Meteos and move them up and down a column, not left and right. 
 Align 3 or more vertically, or horzontally to launch off the screen. The amount of meteos launched 
 goes to the opponent's planet (if there is) . There is a Simple Game, where u set ur own rules, 
 and pick ur own planet. There's deluge where u play until u fail. There's Time War where u play 
 different kinds of modes where u must survive a certain time limit or launch a certain amount of 
 meteos. And of course there is kinda a story mode called the Star Trip. U travel through planets 
 to save them and find ur way to the dangerous planet threating the Universe, Planet Meteo. 
  
  Planet Meteo is responsible for releasing all of the Meteos that is destroying each planet 
 it touches. All the remaining planets found a defensive maneuver that can save their planet, and 
 destroy planet Meteo at the same time. They found that same coloured Meteos have the power fire 
 back up and sent them back to once it came.
  
  There is so many different planets in the game, and each are very different from each other in 
 some way. Each have their kind of tunes playing while ur hand goes all crazy on the screen. Many 
 tunes in this game are very catchy that u would not want to stop hearing. I spent about 20% of 
 my time in this game listening to some unique music..... ya... it's that good. Game's graphics isn't 
 a sight to see, but the opening cutscene is somethin to look at. The graphics were very great............. and 
 that's the only place in the game where it looks good.
  
  This part may be confusing for newcomers to this game. After every game u play, the amount of Meteos 
 u launched is recorded elsewhere. These meteos are actually points that will allow u to unlock 
 many things in the Fusion room. There are many different kinds of Meteos, and each unlockable items 
 requires a certain amount of meteos of different types to become available. U can unlock some sounds 
 u can listen to in the sound room (very cool room) , unlock planets, and unlock items that will 
 help u win in a match.... and this part is akward. U can use ur collection of meteos to get a rare 
 meteo. Some items require rare meteos to be unlocked. So u must purchase these meteos to get certain 
 items. There are only 2 rares anyway, but require alot of meteos to earn 1.
  
  I believe right now this game is 2nd place to my fav. DS games list behind Mario DS. So I suggest 
 everybody give this game a try. It's up to 4 players, all 4 of u can battle it out until ur hands 
 get sore. But u also dont need 4 game cards, just 1 is good. But with more game cards, u can play 
 as more planets. Every way, this game is still very fun. Check it out!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clearacell
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 29, 2005 6:42 am PT
Review:  Meteos caught my interest when someone posted a flash demo on a forum I read. The idea of sending 
 blocks up instead of them merely disappearing seemed like an interesting take on the genre. When 
 I finally bought the game and popped it into my NDS, I realized I was not prepared for what was 
 in store...
  
  This game could easily be renamed to "Puzzle Smash Bros." because everything from the menu, the 
 interface, the crowd cheering, and mutliplayer feels like it is the cousin of Super Smash Bros. 
 Melee, which should not be suprising since the games creator (Masahiro Sakurai) also made Smash 
 Bros. The way the music and sound effects are utilized in the game can be attributed to the influence 
 of Tetsuya Mizuguchi of Rez and Lumines fame.
  
  The game starts off with a really dramatic intro movie quite uncommon for puzzle games. Even the 
 tutorial uses this dramatic effect. It really gets you in the mood to play, because in the back 
 of your mind you're not only rocketing meteos into the sky, but you're saving a planet!
  
  You play the game by lining up at least three meteos in a row, either vertically or horizontally. 
 The meteos can only be moved up and down. Mastring a method of writing with the stylus for this 
 game is a must, since moving the meteos around isn't as instantly responsive as we'd all like it 
 to be, but it's as close to instant response as a touch screen can get. Doing combos on the ground 
 and in the air is fun, but screen-clearing combos are what this game is all about. When acheiving 
 this task, the presentation of the game gives you almost a sense of pride for saving the little 
 people on the planet's lives. 
  
  The graphics in this game are alright for a puzzler, but some of the planets have meteos that are 
 simply too basic or ones that are animated that cause a bit of confusion to the player. The animated 
 meteos have the added misfortune of causing a lot of frame dropping issues in the game. 
  
  The sound in this game is implemented in such a fasion that there is no way you should ever play 
 the game without it. The background music has some pretty basic, looping tracks, but as you launch 
 meteo combos of different sizes you are making music to go along with the loops. The music also 
 changes as it seems like you're about to lose, adding to the dramatic effect of the game, and if 
 you're fortunate enough to save the planet from it's imminent doom, the game rewards you with a 
 sort of jubilant fanfare. 
  
  I've played this game for many, many hours and I see no end to my enjoyment. All the unlockables, 
 the multiplayer, and the "I wanna beat my high score!" feeling gives this game uncanny replay value. 
 
  
  Meteos is exactly what a DS game should be. Easy to pick up and play, great multiplayer, innovative 
 gameplay, and ultra addictive. I highly recommend this game, and it is a must have for every DS 
 gamer, and if you don't have a DS, you should get one to just play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cswizard1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  Meteos comes to us from developer Q! Entertainment the developer of the PSPs Lumines. While this 
 can lend itself to moments of De Ja Vou Meteos dodges this trap by going for a different type of 
 experience then Lumines. Lumines goes for more of an audio visual experience Meteos is after more 
 of a gameplay driven experience. Theres even a story to boot. Yeah its not a very original story 
 and its generic but its a good attempt at a story none the less. 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The game by still screen shots deserves maybe a 7 but the game performs without any slowdown even 
 when there are metoes raining down from everywhere and there are 3 computers trying to annihilate 
 you there still isnt any noticeable frame loss. Thats why the graphics in Meteos succeed even 
 though they arent as crisp or stylish as its PSP counterpart.
  
  Sound- 8/10
  The in-game sound effects are really good from the sound of the meteos leaving the ground to the 
 musical score in the background as a huge stack of meteos leaves the screen. The only thing I didnt 
 like about the audio was the menu music which only served to annoy me its of low quality and they 
 throw the audio too much in your face and not keep it as background noise.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Yeah Meteos isnt quite as deep as Lumines but its actually the more fun of 
 the two from a gameplay standpoint due to its fast nature. What you do is move blocks up and down 
 to form 3, 4 or 5 in a row either horizontally or vertically. This sends them up but not necessarily 
 off the screen. This brings me to one of the more brilliant parts of Meteos gameplay the gravity 
 which is different on each planet so you cant relax just cause you lined up 3 in a row. It may 
 all come crashing down on you (no pun intended) . The meteos you do manage to launch off the screen 
 matter more then you think because you get them at the end of the game and you can use them to 
 make items sounds and even new planets. The meteos are sized perfectly so its always easy to pick 
 one out of a pile.
  
  Meteos also has multiplayer which you can play with only 1 copy of the game but you lose all the 
 stat tracking and you are limited to only 3 levels. Its a good way to show your friends how much 
 fun the game is to play though and they may get themselves a copy in due time.
  
  Conclusion: 9.5/10
  Meteos is the perfect couterpart to Lumines since the two are so different 
 but I can easily see fans of all types of games liking Meteos. In short if youre looking for the 
 best DS game available Metoes is your game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9ar9oor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Ready to fire back Meteos?
  
  Meteos is a Puzzle game, but unlike any other. Meteos is the best DS game yet. Features new way of 
 playing Puzzle games. The game is to fire up Meteos (Mysterious blocks) on your opponents and to save 
 your planet from Destruction, and to do that you must line up 3 to 5 Meteos blocks Horizontally 
 or Vertically (You can move them Up and Down only) in order to make them fly to your opponents. When 
 lining up 3 Meteos blocks they turn to a rocket, but there is one thing that makes the game challenging, and 
 that thing is gravity. Meteos blocks can't fly too much because of the gravity, but you can help 
 your rocket by lining up 3 more Meteos blocks to make a stronger rocket that penetrates gravity.
 
  
  You'll spent too much time to unlock all Planets, Items, Rare Metals and Sound Sets. Many Modes 
 are in the game.
  
  Meteos:
  A mode that you can play features: Simple Game, Star Trip (main game) , Deluge, Time War, Tutor.
 
  
  Wire-Less:
  Multiplayer that links up to four player by One Cartridge play or Multi Cartidge Play.
  
  Fusion:
 
  Use Meteos to create new matter. Planets, Items, Rare Metals, and Sounds.
  
  Option:
  Features: Planet Registry, Item Switch, Hand Choice, Sound Balance, and Erase Data.
  
  Extras:
 
  Surprises and mysteries of space...
  
  The game is fun (Specially in Multiplayer) , the graphics are good, Sound are Perfect and It's worth 
 30$. Trust me it's fun and going to last you too many hours. It took me 50 hours till now and still 
 playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_of_yore
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2005 3:04 am PT
Review:  I went into Meteos expecting a solid game and that is what it delivered. The addition of a touch 
 screen makes meteos quick to learn and great to turn on just to play a for a few seconds. Although 
 this game was good it did have its flaws, one of them being you can just scratch across the screen 
 and beat everyone else playing. If you can get past this fact you get a solid puzzle game with 
 decent graphics.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is quite good as well. You can play with multiple cartridges or through 
 the DS's download feature. The latter gives you fewer options but can still be enjoyable for a 
 quick game with your friends. Over all Meteos may not be the best game for the DS, but its definitely 
 far from the worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhomerun
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 21, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Despite the awesome reviews, I found this game to be a little bit of a letdown compared to how 
 many people found it so addicting. To me, the game is very good, but as with all puzzle games, 
 the question is whether you can play it for and incredibly long period of time without getting 
 bored.
  
  Meteos passes this test... kinda. It is a good game, and for sure every time you pick it up it's 
 fun for about 30 minutes to an hour. after that, though, it's time to turn it off. Of course this 
 game doesn't match to the puzzling bliss of tetris, but the game is somewhat close. The problem, 
 I think, that's hampering the gameplay is that there are only two actions you can really complete 
 in the game, and that is making a vertical line and a horizontal line of three meteo. It makes 
 the gameplay similar to Bejewled (a. k. a. Zoo Keeper) , but the game is definatly more interesting 
 than that by far. Tetris was great because you had a bunch of different pieces that you could rotate 
 four ways each, making for a more engaging experience, whereas Meteos is more of minldess lining 
 up of three squares.
  
  The graphics and sound are good. The graphics are 2D (which isn't good or bad) and are very clear 
 and to the point. Prerendered videos are a nice treat, even though there is really only one, it's 
 still a pretty long one considering that the N64 really couldn't even do prerendered scenes. Anyway, 
 the sound is also good, there are a ton of sound effects going on at the same time as the music, 
 and it really immerses you most of the time.
  
  Overall, though, you can't expect a game to surpass tetris, and this is one of the better puzzlers 
 around there, and definatly the best puzzler on the DS. It makes great use of the touch screen 
 and really shows off how the DS can play very similar games to the PC. I do recommend picking it 
 up, as it is not one of the more expensive DS games around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowPik
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Chances are that your Ds has been either sitting somewhere in your house, or playing GBA games 
 since you beat Super Mario 64 Ds. Well now the wait is over. Coming from the creators of Super 
 Smash Bros. and the company that gave you Lumines, comes yet another awesome puzzler that uses 
 a handheld's features to its fullest. This game is Meteos.
  
  Unlike other Ds games Meteos doesn't use the touch screen as a gimmick. Instead it incorporates 
 it into the gameplay perfectly, giving you a game that plays like no other could. Although it doesn't 
 use the mike or second screen much, it doesn't force them into the game either, like some others 
 have. The goal is simple. Connect three blocks of the same color together and they launch into 
 space along with the blocks on top. However it may take more blasts for it to reach the top depending 
 on the amount of blocks on top.
  
  Though Meteos may look like it's a shallow game it has a ton of extras and different modes that 
 make you come back to it. Each planet has a different gravity that makes the games play different. 
 Though you can play all the planets on star trip mode right away, you can't play them when ever 
 you want. To unlock then you must make them using the meteos you have launched into space. After 
 you are done with that, the game also gives you the chance to unlock sounds and items. 
  
  What is really impressive about the game is the graphics and sound. Each planet has different sounds 
 that when combos are pulled stream each of the into a beautiful almost music like sounds. The result 
 is a game that rivals Electroplankton in a sound maker. Thought eh graphics arent that impressive, 
 they work and make each planet feel different. 
  
  If you own a Ds you should get this game. If you want a Ds you should get this game. If you dont 
 own a Ds this game might make you think about getting one, and with the upcoming games you should 
 defiantly consider it. 
  
  Meteos for the Ds gets a out of 10. Blast off. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: volumebker
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2005 11:42 pm PT
Review:  The game, meteos, is made by the makers who made the samsh hit, Lumines for the Sony PSP. Now, 
 they made another one of the best games to date, Meteos. The minute i bought this game, i could 
 not keep my hands off of it, which is really surprising, because I have never been addicted to 
 a game this much since super mario RPG for the SNES. I highly recommend this game to anyone who 
 likes puzzle games, even if you dont like puzzle games, this game and Kirby are the best ds games 
 out.
  
  There are several options at the title screen, Meteos, Fusion, Options, Wire-less, and Extras. 
 Of course, Meteos is the actual game and I will explain the sub-options later. Fusion is where 
 you have all the Meteos you have collected to fuse them together to make new planets, items, sounds, 
 and rare metals. Options are the typical options, controls, sound, etc. The Wire-less option allows 
 you to play multiplayer with one card to up to four people. And last is the extras room, a room 
 where you can listen to sounds from different planets, view your, or other peoples, stats, and 
 you can send a demo to someone elses ds.
  
  There are several sub-options for the Meteos option. The main objective of Meteos is to save your 
 planet by alligning 3 or more similar colored Meteos vertically or horizantally to make them shoot 
 up into the sky and hit the opposing planet. 
  
  The first sub-option under Meteos is Simple mode, where you create your own rules, time or stock, 
 difficulty, CPU (optional) , and team color, and also home planet. The Star Trip option is the main 
 game, you choose a home planet, difficulty and route and pursue your journey into space. Time war 
 is where you have to achieve a high score in the time limit or destroy a certain number of Meteos 
 before annihalation. Deluge is simple, just keep going until you lose. And finally, the tutor which 
 teaches you how to play.
  
  In conclusion, Meteos is the most addictive game since The Mario Bros themselves. I definately 
 recommend this game to anyone, even if you are not a huge fan of puzzle games, like myself. I give 
 this game a 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zeff-
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is a recently released, falling-block puzzler which you blast square blocks (called meteos) 
 up into the sky. To gain points, you will launch meteos up into the sky by moving the blocks vertically 
 to match up in a row of three (vertically or horizontally) , and all above them will blast off too. 
 However, as you become more skilled you will end up launching screens-full of meteos. Trust me; 
 it's harder than it sounds. In the bottom right (or left depending on your hand preference) of 
 your screen there is a ball, and when you rotate your stylus around the ball meteos will fall faster, 
 allowing you to pull off even more amazing combos to keep your screen clear. One of the great things 
 about Meteos is the fact that you don't have to sit down for hours on end to have a good time. 
 You can sit down for a couple of minutes and have just as much fun. 
  
  Meteos does have a story, but it ends up feeling like more of a theme than anything else. Basically, 
 the existence of all planets is threatened by the planet Meteo, which somehow endlessly oozes out 
 little comet/block things that rain down upon different planets. Weird, I know, but it definitely 
 works; at least it has a story to begin with, which is pretty rare in puzzlers nowadays.
  
  Each planet has its own properties, the gravity will be different, and the multitude and colour 
 of blocks will change with each coming planet. Some planets will have you slowly pushing stacks 
 of meteos into the sky, where as others will disappear as soon as you make the combo.
  
  The sound is crisp, clean, and very unique. In a nutshell, you really can't play Meteos without 
 the sound. The DS's speakers don't do this game justice, you're best off buying a nice pair of 
 headphones (if you don't already own some) to truly experience the outstanding music and sound 
 effects. As you progress, you'll be able to attain all the music and sounds for each level to play 
 whenever you want.
  
  Meteos has quite a few different modes, these modes include:
  
  Simple: the name says it, you simply set your own rules and play. You can play either a stock match, 
 or a time based match, in which you can play through up to 99 planets. You also get to choose the 
 difficulty setting, CPU level, how many CPU play, and your respective team.
  
  Star Trip: The heart of the game is here. You can opt from 1 to 5 star difficulty, all of which 
 have three different modes; straight, branched, and multiple. The straight mode lets you travel 
 straight through space saving each planet, with no option on which planet to go to next. The branched 
 mode has split pathways, that start you off on one planet, and let you choose from two others after 
 that, then three, ect. Multi starts you off on one defined planet as well, in which you will have 
 to perform certain tasks on each forthcoming planet to qualify for the next round. Some of these 
 tasks include launching 30 aqua meteos, clearing the entire screen, and being the last planet alive.
 
  
  Deluge: play until you fail, meteos fall faster and faster as time goes on, your success depends 
 on how long you survive.
  
  Time War: Pick between a 2:00 or 5:00 time war, or a 100 or 1000 meteo war. The time wars will 
 leave you to fend for yourself until the defined amount of time runs out. Meteos come down at a 
 hectic pace, leaving you uptight and shaky. In the 100 or 1000 meteo war, you'll have to pile up 
 meteos, and be forced to set the chosen number off whilst they rain down faster and faster.
  
  Aside from the actual game playing, you'll have the option to fuse aquired sounds, planets, 
 items, and rare metals to create new ones. The wireless mode lets you play 2-4 player matches. 
 If you only have one friend to play with, you can add CPU's to the match if you so choose. You 
 can play with multiple game carts, where you'll be able to pick from more planets, or use the download 
 play function to play with people without the game, but you're restricted to three planets.
  
  The controls are smooth and accurate; which is all that you can ask for in a fast paced puzzle 
 game like Meteos. You'll frequently miss the right block as they come down the screen, but that's 
 part of the learning curve. After a few hours you'll get the timing down, and then it's up to you 
 to gain strategies to outdo the enemy.
  
  The in-game graphics aren't anything special from a technical standpoint, but the artistic style 
 definitely makes up for it. Not to mention it sports a few amazing cutscenes that will leave you 
 wondering how powerful the DS really is. The games replay value, without a doubt, is one of the 
 highest calibers out there, in which you can dive into the story mode time and time again, along 
 with every other mode in Meteos. Sometimes you might get bored of the repetitiveness of the game, 
 but once you actually turn it on and start playing, all those thoughts will be crushed as the tons 
 of meteos begin to fall.
  
  To sum it up, Meteos is a fantastic game, and currently the best DS game as well. If you have a 
 Nintendo DS and are up for a challenge, there is absolutely no reason why you should turn this 
 game down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natiko
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Sliding blocks up and down. Sounds boring right? Well, that's what I thought before I played it 
 but, this game is truly amazing!! The concept is simple. Slide blocks up and down to make matches 
 and they'll rocket off the screen. Have to many blocks and you'll either need to make a new match 
 to take off some of the load or the blocks won't escape the planet's orbit. Ultimately your goal 
 is to fire enough blocks at the opposing planet to destroy it. Well, that may sound simple enough 
 but, there's other factors in the game. All the planets have different things you have to adjust 
 to whether it's the size of the field or the gravity for that planet. This means that you'll have 
 to play differently depending on what planet your on. There are a whole lot of collectibles and 
 unlockables for completing different objectives much like in Super Smash Bros. Melee (Masahiro Sakurai 
 was the creator of both games) . The game has a remarkable soundtrack that varies to match each 
 planet's look. It offer "cool" sounding beats along with faster techno beats. The single player 
 is great but, there's even more fun to be had in multiplayer. Playing against your friends in Meteos 
 is a blast that everyone should have a chance to experience. Especially when you destroy their 
 home planet.
  
  Gameplay 10 - It deserves the ten big time with it's amazing multiplayer and addicting gameplay.
 
  
  Graphics 9 - Nice and polished especially for the DS but, nothing mind blowing.
  
  Sound 10 - Offering such a varied sound for the different planets helps add to the uniqueness of 
 each planet. Absolutely brilliant.
  
  Value 10 - Offering a multitude of unlockables and great multiplayer this game will last you a 
 long time.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - I just love this game and I will be playing it for a long time.
  
  The bottom 
 line is that this is a great game that everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonmad
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2005 2:12 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best DS game to date. The gameplay is very simple and easy to understand, but 
 it's still not an easy game. The graphics are very well done for a DS game. And the sound is amazing. And 
 surprisingly it has a good story. But my favorite part of the game is the verity in the levels and 
 the different gravity in each level. The gravity makes it so that each level is not the same so 
 your always trying to unlock the next level. And this game has loads of unlock-ables called Fusion. You 
 can buy different Fusion by all the meteos you get from launching them into space each time you 
 play. This game is a must buy even if your not a puzzle fan like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdriccio
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:47 am PT
Review:  Man, I was curious about this game b/c it was getting great reviews everywhere.
  
  I watched some videos on Gamespot and said, "MAN that looks awesome."
  
  So, I did it. I went 
 out and bought a DS for Meteos. And man I have no regrets of any type!
  
  This game is really freakin' fun. From the screens, you may think it looks like any other Tetris 
 type block game.
  
  BUT IT IS NOTHING OF THE SORT!
  
  The blocks (Meteos) fall from the sky one at a time and you have NO control over them until they 
 hit the ground. From there, you can move them using the touch screen up and down the column they 
 are in. The point is to get 3 or more in a row across or up and down. When you do that, they ignite 
 and shoot into the sky, including all the blocks that are on top of them. How far up and for how 
 long they stay in the sky depends on the planet you are on. Gravity makes a difference, that sort 
 of thing. You get an initial burst into the air, then, the blocks will fall back down to the ground. 
 The gravity of hte planet you are on controls the speed of how fast they fall back down. When a 
 block goes off the top of the screen, it is shot off into space (the top screen) and if you are 
 battling, it gets shot to one of the opposing planets.
  
  Sounds simple right? WRONG! This game gets quite challenging. Some of the cool stuff that you can 
 do like igniting more meteos that are already in the air to form a combo. This usually will send 
 the entire stack above the second ignition off the screen. If you get 3 up and down, they usually 
 shoot of the screen right away since it's more concentrated. Another thing you can do is set up 
 your meteos so that as soon as a set hits the ground, there is a row of 3 waiting for the ones 
 in the air to hit. The instant the ignited set hits, it ignites again. This also usually sends 
 all of them off the screen.
  
  Gamespot's Guide does a GREAT job of explaining these things. Much better than I did.
  
  The 
 speed of this game starts to get really really fast. I have a lot of trouble keeping up. I haven't 
 played it enough to be a pro yet, but I'm getting the hang of it. I have yet to beat the game even 
 on the easiest difficulty. Of course all the times I have sat down to play it have been in short 
 periods. So we will see.
  
  The only issue I have with gameplay is that sometimes it seems as if the touch screen is picking 
 up the wrong meteo to move around. But that was probably just me getting used to the size of the 
 stylus and using the touch screen in general since it was my first game for the DS
  
  You can play up to 4 players, including CPU players. I can see where this game would be a lot of 
 fun 4 players and it would probably be really hard too.
  
  Well, most of the puzzle games that were coming out on DS weren't to wonderful to me. Nothing really 
 stood up to Lumines. I mean Lumines was the best puzzle game I've played since Super Puzzle Fighter! 
 Then Meteos comes around.
  
  I have to say, it levels the playing field for the DS vs PSP fight in the Puzzle genre.
  
  
 If you have a DS, and you like puzzle games, BUY THIS. I'm having a great time playing it.
  
  On a different note, For others that have this problem. I am partially color blind and I'm 
 having no problem playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  Presenting: Meteos. A game that's not too difficult to describe. Basically, it looks like a Tetris 
 Attack knock-off at first glance. However, your goal in this game is to take the pieces that are 
 raining down from the top of the screen and send them back to where they came from, a process that 
 never seems to become repetitive, no matter how much you do it. In Meteos, you have the task of 
 rearranging a group of blocks that are raining down from the sky so that they form rows of three 
 or more of the same block. Once you do so, they will launch off like rockets, carrying themselves 
 and any other objects located on top of them towards the top of the screen. However, you can only 
 move blocks vertically, and as you proceed, the number of objects raining from the sky increases 
 until it becomes a near deluge.
  
  The fun in this game, as in all good puzzle games, comes from the challenge of creating combos 
 to gain even more points and eliminate more blocks from the screen. Once a group of Meteos are 
 in the air, you can arrange more of them to cause them to launch even higher into the sky, towards 
 their goal at the top of the screen. The ability to do this becomes very important if one hopes 
 to achieve truly high scores, as Meteos usually don't reach the top of the screen the first time 
 that you launch them. You'll eventually end up playing on different planets, each of which has 
 it's own unique gravitational pull. On some planets the blocks may move as though they're underwater. 
 On other planets, blocks may reach the sky quickly, but they'll then fall down much more slowly. 
 The desire to create more and more bigger and better combos is what makes this game so repayable. 
 Once you figure out that doing so is the best way to get a higher score, you'll find yourself working 
 harder and harder at it to see just how high you can get your scores to go.
  
  There are a few different modes of play to be found in the game. "Simple" works like the multiplayer 
 mode, only you play against CPU opponents. There's the "Star Trip" mode, which is a basic one-player 
 game in which you face off against a computer opponent and work to make them lose by launching 
 your Meteos off of your screen and onto theirs as you travel from planet to planet towards your 
 final goal. Then there's "Deluge" mode, where you attempt to earn the highest score possible in 
 an endless game of Meteos on the planet of your choice. Time War is a selection of four different 
 games that revolve around time limits. In two of them, you must try to score as much as possible 
 within a time limit. In the other two, you have to launch a certain amount of Meteos as quickly 
 as possible, the time in which you do so being your score. There's also a multiplayer mode for 
 up to four people. You can even download a demo version of the game to another person's DS through 
 DS Download play. Finally, you get to use all the Meteos that you launch in the "Fusion" area to 
 create new things to play around with, like more planets or items to use during the game. As a 
 final bonus, the game keeps track of several different statistics, such as how long you've been 
 playing, or how many Meteos you've launched since you started playing the game.
  
  Meteos is a fine-looking game, with in-game visuals that are on par with any of the best looking 
 games for the DS. Each different planet has it's own unique look to it, which gives the game a 
 good deal of visual variety. There's even a bit of variety among the blocks, as they take on different 
 forms on different planets. Of note however are the cutscenes that play at the beginning of the 
 game. Oddly enough, they appear to be on a level with the sort of graphics that you would expect 
 most current-gen consoles to be able to put out. Not that you'll see that much of them outside 
 of the intro sequence, but they're still a sight to be seen on a system like the DS. 
  
  The game sounds very good. Every planet has it's own music, which works very well with their different 
 settings. Often times most of the music only plays when you launch a group of Meteos into the air. 
 Otherwise, music usually sticks to a simple rhythm. It does change and get louder when the stacks 
 of Meteos get closer to the top of the screen though, which is a very nice touch. The sound effects 
 are all the basic crashes and explosions that you would expect from a game where your goal is to 
 launch a bunch of space rocks back into the sky. It's all very well done, and there are never any 
 moments where you notice any audio problems or anything like that.
  
  Meteos is a must-buy for the DS. It's the absolute best puzzle game that the system has seen so 
 far, and it's gameplay is so fun that it looks to stay that way for a long, long time. Not only 
 that, but it's very easy to learn when you start playing it, but shows more depth if you continue 
 to play it. With the kind of replay value that it has, this game is not to be missed by anyone 
 who has a Nintendo DS. You really owe it to yourself to pick this one up, as it's a real treat 
 for anyone with a taste for puzzlers, or for fast-paced games that reward practice and dedication. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yokofox33
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 9, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  To quickly summarize Meteos: Basically the inhabitants of numerous planets are being attacked by 
 the evil planet of Meteo. Meteo is launching "Meteos" at these planets to destroy them, so it's 
 up to you to save the innocent planets by defending them from the falling elemental Meteos. Meteos 
 at first glance may seem like the average puzzler, lining up three or more alike pieces, either 
 horizontally or vertically, to vanish them from the screen. But what sets Meteos apart from the 
 normal "Tetris-like" puzzler is the fact that once you align, or "fuse," your pieces, they will 
 launch into the atmosphere and hopefully into the DS's top screen colliding with your enemy or 
 just into space depending on what mode you choose. In order to get rid of them, they must be launched, 
 but sometimes they won't go all the way, therefore you need to align more pieces so they can launch 
 up again before they fall back down and create a mass of unwanted Meteos. This element about Meteos 
 creates one of the most engaging titles for the Nintendo DS and one of the most creative games 
 to come out in awhile.
  
  Gameplay: Meteos' gameplay is very deep and entertaining. There are numerous modes you can choose 
 from. Startrip is basically the story-mode of Meteos allowing you to battle certain planets while 
 launching Meteos back at that planet. Deluge is the neverending gamemode that I find myself playing 
 the most. The difficulty increases the longer you play and it can get pretty hectic if you have 
 numerous rows that are near the top leading to your demise. Time attack allows you to play for 
 a specific amount of time and it gives you certain objectives to obtain, such as survival modes 
 of 2 and 5 minutes, and a timed mode that allows you to see how fast you can launch 100 or 1,000 
 Meteos. The multiplayer mode allows you to face up to 3 opponents, either CPU or friends, to battle 
 it out and see who survives the longest. And it gets even better with single card download if you 
 have a few friends who don't have the game. The extras in Meteos are a nice addition to the gameplay. 
 Each time you launch certain elemental Meteos, you get to keep them and use them toward some nice 
 goodies. The Meteos are "fused" to obtain more planets, sounds, items, and even some precious metals 
 that are very rare in the modes of play that are necessary for fusing certain planets and items. 
 The difficulty of Meteos is very challenging, it's no cake-walk. Luckily there are difficulty settings, 
 but even the easiest setting can become hard if you take awhile to beat your enemy. The longer 
 you survive or battle, the faster those Meteos come down resulting in panic and ultimately the 
 end of your game. The touch screen is very easy to get use to, basically drag the Meteos up and 
 down - you cannot move them sideways - and align them accordingly. It is very precise and rarely 
 do you grab the wrong Meteos, but it does happen and that could eventually lead to game over. But 
 it just gives you more motivation to start over and launch more Meteos. Overall, the gameplay of 
 Meteos is so deep and rich, it's hard to put down the game. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nicely done for a puzzler. The opening movie is very impressive and 
 the close-ups of the planets are very clear and crisp. The actual game is good, and the pieces 
 are nicely rendered, however, some planets distinct Meteos are less appealing than others, a minor 
 detail. There is no slow-down whatsoever. For a puzzler, the graphics are very solid. 
  
  Sound: From the catchy planet themes to the galactic-themed menu music, Meteos delivers a nice 
 soundtrack. Although the menu music can become a little repetitive, the planet themes make up for 
 it. Overall, the sound adds a nice rhythm to the game while you're busy launching Meteos.
  
  Value: This is a must game for the Nintendo DS. If you're not a puzzle fan, find someone who 
 owns the game, and download the free demo that comes with it. It really is a gem, and a much needed 
 title for the DS. You will have well made the 30 dollars you spent for the game worth it in a short 
 amount of time. This game is one that you will come back to in years time. So lift off to your 
 local game provider and start launching those Meteos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Eagle
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  There is not a thing wrong with this game. It is very fast and never gives you a chance to take 
 a break. Everything fits well and it even has a FMV opening.
  First of I will talk about the sound. It is all very good and fits the different stages. You can 
 unlock all of the different sounds by fusing Meteos. You can also unlock planets, items and rare 
 metals. If you listen carefully to some songs they sound familiar...
  Now the graphics. Just like the music they all fit very well with the game. It's not hard to tell 
 the difference between the blocks at all. Each level has it's own unique type of block, too. There 
 are a lot of details in the graphics that make them look great. Like I said earlier this game even 
 has a very well done FMV opening. Every planet and character also has different characteristics 
 in how they look. 
  The gameplay is very fast and challenging. The game is best played with the stylus but can be played 
 using the D-Pad. The blocks are easy to move and guide. You can speed up the blocks and do different 
 combos to make the blocks leave the screen. At the end of the game they even have a small meteos 
 game you can play while the credits are going. This is one thing i really like. You can hook up 
 with 4 friends sing one card or multi cards and send them demos, too. There is a lot to unlock 
 in this game. It also has incredible replay value.
  I know this review is short and there is a lot more to be said about this game but I am just starting 
 to give reviews so I will get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecheeta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  Meteos is a great addition to anyone's DS library. I am not a fan of puzzlers, but decided to give 
 this game a shot, and I am glad I did. The overall package is just superb. It is hard to find a 
 weak point in Meteos. The graphics are bright, clean and easy to distinguish. The sound has a nice 
 variety and matches the action on screen perfectly. The controls are masterful. Playing this game 
 with the stylus is amazing. The game controls perfectly, and easily. This really feels like a reinvention 
 of puzzle games. The stylus makes the frantic speed of the game that much more fun. If you ported 
 this game to any other system (and lost the touch-screen capabilities) this could be a very mediocre 
 game. But fortunately this game was made for the DS, and it works perfectly. The only downfall 
 I can find is the lack of WiFi play over the internet. The game does support wireless play using 
 a single cartridge, which is great, but you don't always have an extra friend or extra DS around. 
 All-in-all this game is worth buying a Nintendo DS for. It is simply that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Meteos, a puzzler that has you doing one simple thing, sliding tiles up & down columns to line 
 them up in vertical or horizontal rows of three, along the backdrop of saving planets from falling 
 Meteos. Sounds simple and boring at first, but once you pick this game up, you won't be putting 
 it down for a LONG time.
  
  As stated, Meteos consist of tiles up & down columns to line them up in vertical or horizontal 
 rows of three, along with using some items that can really help to advance your game. There are 
 many playable modes, the single player versions being Simple (play alone or against cpu players) , 
 trying to keep any of your columns from getting too high, starship, where you follow a light story 
 of moving from planet to planet saving them from Meteos (dealing with the different planetary physics 
 that exist) , Time War, which is a few preset battles, where u go for a record, and Deluge, which 
 as far as I can tell, is just one player Simple mode (I havent seen the difference, please inform 
 me if there is) dressed up differently. During play, you get the Meteos you destroy and they can 
 be used to buy extra planets, items, and even make special Meteos.
  
  The multiplayer mode has many different options & play changes, due to planet choices and player 
 options, but if you don't have friends to battle, the cpu players more than do the job.
  
  Gameplay- 10- Deserves every point. The gameplay is simple, easy to understand, but opens up a 
 lot of variety during play. One thing you can do is toss top row Meteos at launched Meteos to make 
 them fly further. Using such a move, when used correctly, can help boost your launched MEteos count. 
 This is just one variability that can change the way the game is played.
  
  Graphics- 9- The graphics are absolutely brilliant. I'm still amazed by the detail of the videos 
 in the game.
  
  Sound- 9- Some places have anoying track & sounds, but overall, the sound adds nicely to the game's 
 atmosphere.
  
  Value- 10- You will get HOURS of play time from this game. Value up the wazoo.
  
  Tilt- 9- 
 Nearly perfect, just some of the sounds & the near-useless, IMO, Deluge mode bugs me.
  
  In conclusion, if you have a DS, buy this game, if you don't buy a DS, then get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falco1029
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2005 7:27 am PT
Review:  Take doctor mario, warp it a bunch (for the better) , add rockets, funny sprites, and battle-type 
 play, then tie in an addictive adventure mode and you've got Meteos.
  
  The basic concept behind meteos is that these tiny bricks called meteos are falling onto your planet 
 from the master "Meteos" (and if they stack too high your planet goes boom) . In order to fight 
 back, you need to take those meteos, line them up into rows of three of the same color (by only 
 moving them horizontally) , and then blasting them back. But it gets much more advanced. The rockets 
 wont always make it on their first try.
  
  There is a lot of variety in the different stages, though it seems similar at first. The first 
 differences you'll notice are that stage size and block falling speed differ. But that's just the 
 beginning. Each stage has differing amounts of each color block, for one. Also, they each have 
 a specific "gravity" that you need to accommodate to. That's where it gets tricky.
  
  For instance, you're in a large level with slow falling meteos, and you feel that all is fine. 
 But what's this? Your rocket doesnt even lift off! At this seemingly "easy" level, you need to 
 get several rockets going, quickly, in a row, all touching, in order to successfully get those 
 dang bricks out of there. And of course, on the other hand, you may be at a level with a thin play 
 area and quick falling bricks, thinking you're doomed. But then you realize that one rocket at 
 the bottom of the heaps of bricks can carry them all up with ease. It's the gravity variable that 
 makes it interesting.
  
  Now, take that gameplay, and add a cute adventure mode to it, where you travel through space having 
 meteos battles with enemy planets, until you get to the master meteos. There are three variations 
 of this. There's a linear mode, where you go one on one with a predetermined order of planets. 
 There's the webbed campaign, where you get to choose 1 of 2 levels to go to next, with about a 
 dozen or so different endings (though those are just some text and a picture) . And then, there's 
 the most advanced one. You end up facing 2-3 planets at once (which can be a challenge even at 
 low difficulty levels) , with an optional mission (like, say, launch 30 water meteos bricks) which 
 will allow you to go to an alternate level next round. It makes it a bit interesting.
  
  I myself havent done much with the multiplayer, but it is quite fun. even with a single pack, you 
 can challenge 3 other people to a short (or long, depending on settings) battle. Of course, not 
 all of the areas and options are accessible through this type. For those, you need a pack each. 
 
  
  Now to the less important parts of the game. The graphics, for one. They are actually pretty good 
 for a 2d puzzler, though based on the DS' capabilities, it should have been better. Of course, 
 it doesnt get a bad score, and that's because of the amusing little planet "inhabitants" that dance 
 around and such whilst you battle others. Good for a laugh. Sound is amusing, and doesnt get annoying. 
 The music is good too.
  
  Replay value is way up there, you can go through at different difficulties time and time again, 
 and not get bored. Quite worth the 35 dollars some places charge for it. You won't be sorry.
  
  
  In conclusion, Meteos is a great game that even a puzzler hater can enjoy, with some innovative 
 gameplay, and a ton of replayability.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Meteos was developed by the creators of the highly acclaimed and very popular Lumines for the PSP. 
 This game is just as addicting!
  
  It's a puzzle game that isn't just a luck-based game to pass the time like Zoo Keeper. The concept 
 is simple, yet difficult to master. Colored meteors fall from the sky into your playing grid. You 
 must move the block vertically (not horizontally) to form a row or three or more of the same colored 
 blocks (although these can be vertical or horizontal) . 
  
  When you do this, the blocks shoot up a distance depending on your current planet, and if they 
 go high enough, they are eliminated or go to your opponents. The trick is learning what moves to 
 do to increase the boost, and there are several of them I'm not going to explain.
  
  It's simple, it's fun, and the mulitplayer is addicting. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowy2004
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  Meteos stands alone. Unlike any puzzle game you probably ever played, Meteos drops tiles from the 
 top of the touch screen, you line the tiles vertically and horizontally by sliding them up and 
 down to make three of the same kind of tiles align. They then become rockets and them and all the 
 tiles above them get launched upwards where, if they get to the top of the screen, they disappear 
 from your playing field. It's as addicting as the GBA and DS WarioWare games and it's more hectic 
 than any of those. No easy going to hard here, or at least it takes less time to become hard.
 
  To top the shear fun of the game, there are many modes and variations of it. You have ''Simple'', 
 which is simply a round of the game, but you can play by yourself or against up to four computer 
 players, where your wasted tiles get sent to the computer players' playing fields, on a time limit, 
 at a difficulty level, etc. You have ''Star Trip'' where you travel though the universe, battling 
 other single or groups of planets to arrive at the final planet, Meteo, the planet who is sending 
 the tiles (knows as ''Meteos'') . Here you can choose three different travel patterns and in two 
 of the three, you can even choose different paths. There are even different endings! There are 
 many more modes, like the multi-player mode, but why spoil it all for you! To top off the variations, 
 different planets have, among other things, different backgrounds, music and sounds, and even how 
 easily Meteos get launched off the screen varies from planet to planet. On one planet, doing so 
 is so hard, launched Meteos disappear before they can leave the ground! Other nifty features are 
 ''Fusion'', which lets you fuse the Meteos you collect after battles to create planets you can 
 play in some of the modes, in-game items, game music and sounds you can play anytime and more, 
 and the game credits, where you can actually play Meteos during the credits!
  The thrilling yet entertaining Meteos is must-have for puzzle fans and would be at home in any 
 DS collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Okay, here's my Meteos review, it is a really awesome game and here is why...
  
  The gameplay is really great, you can choose to use the stylus or the buttons to control the movement 
 of the blocks. Basically the only thing you need anything for is moving the blocks and selecting 
 the different options at the start up screen.
  
  The story to put into simple terms is that the planet called "Meteo" is destroying all the planets 
 so the other planets are trying to stop it.
  
  The intro graphics are simply amazing, i couldn't believe how good they were when i saw them. The 
 puzzle graphics are still really good, a lot of nice colors and everything. Also the planets are 
 very detailed as well.
  
  This game has a lot of nice catchy music, but most of it you much unlock though, however it's not 
 hard to do so, basically as you connect the blocks, whatever type you connected gets added to a 
 count of that type. Once you get enough of a certain kind you can sort of, i guess purchase the 
 song, as well as other things like weapons for the puzzles.
  
  This game is definitely worth every penny, it will bring you a lot of joy and have you addicted 
 to your DS for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctsamurai
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2005 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Meteos is another one of those games we have seen a surprising number of recently, its quirky, 
 simple, and a puzzle game. Few would have predicted such games to do well in this day of graphics 
 and high sequel numbers. Another game by Q entertainment, the same team that brought us Lumines, 
 this game works on a different premise than its Tetris inspired brother. Blocks fall one by one 
 and the player uses the stylus to move single blocks up or down. If you line up 3 or more blocks 
 either vertically or diagonally the blocks launch carrying the ones above, but there is a catch. 
 Gravity plays a part, and here is where the game become more than just a "line up and remove" child 
 of Tetris. You can choose to do a vertical line which almost guarantees you will be rid of the 
 blocks but you may be wasting certain types of blocks which may be better used to launch a horizontal 
 group. Even more satisfying is once you launch a huge horizontal group it will hover then drop 
 back down, but before it does you can launch a second one just below or slightly to the side of 
 it clearing nearly the entire screen in a few strokes. Basically its Lumines but diffrent.... just 
 as fun though. In the end, it is a must by for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostbyte1120
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  Before you start reading this review, take into consider that the review expresses the criticism 
 and enjoyment I experienced from playing the Japanese import for several months. Marks are not 
 deducted based upon the language barrier and therefore my review will revolve around the modes 
 of play and veer away from the story. 
  
  A long awaited stateside appearance of Meteos has finally arrived. So what is to expect from this 
 chaotic puzzler? Does it deliver the same quality of Q Entertainments PSP puzzler, Lumines? Such 
 questions and the in-depth look into the play mechanics of Meteos will be covered in the following 
 review.
  
  The game has four basic modes of play though additional intricacies can be set and perimeters to 
 customize your gameplay experience. The first type you will most likely experiment with is Simple 
 play. In this mode, you set every boundary from opponent artificial intelligence to the difficulty 
 in block speed and the stages complexity. 
  
  The second mode is Star Trip. In this form, you travel through space and complete your given 
 missions. You may be demanded to clear an area or defeat enemies within a time restrain. You are 
 capable of configuring the aggression of the stage and your opponents. If you fail to complete 
 your task, there will be a point dockage and at the fork of the path, you will be unable to choose 
 your direction. 
  
  The third mode, Time War, is the mode that you will spend the least time with. It has four challenges 
 for you to complete and all can easily be done and there is not much incentive to return to these 
 tests. The first is a two-minute run on a fixed planet where you try your best to score as many 
 points as possible. The second challenge is the same as said first except you have five-minutes 
 and you play on a different skin. The third and forth are similar tasks where instead of having 
 a time limit, you are trying to accomplish the task in the least amount of time so your score is 
 registered by a time whereas with the first and second tasks, your scores are the actual scores 
 you achieve. In the third, your goal is to clear one hundred blocks in the least amount of time 
 and the forth is to clear one thousand blocks.
  
  The last major form of play in Meteos is the most replayable. Its known as Deluge. Here you 
 choose your skin you wish to play on and then you go at it. It is a test of how long you can last, 
 how many blocks you can clear and your final total score. There are in the end thirty-two different 
 planets to play on which you will unlock throughout the course of the game. 
  
  At this point of understanding what the game has to offer, you are still left wondering how the 
 whole game flows together and of course, the gameplay mechanics. 
  
  Q Entertainment has created a unique experience for the Nintendo DS and the gameplay uses the DS 
 touch screen as its main control scheme (the d-pad can also be used but is not suggested) . As blocks 
 fall from the sky, you are forced to plan ahead as you rearrange them vertically along their column. 
 You are also able to rearrange block formations in midair to send them clear off the screen. To 
 clear blocks away from the field of play, you have to create a minimal of three identical blocks 
 either vertically or horizontally. It is a simple chain that you will grow to love and anticipate 
 to happen. 
  
  When creating your lines, you will accumulate points and the larger chains you create, the more 
 points you are rewarded. So when you send a section of blocks into the air, they are most likely 
 going to return back down so to create chains, you have to think spontaneously and anticipate the 
 arrival of the falling block formation. Sounds chaotic, doesnt it?
  
  The gameplay doesnt stop there. Meteos offers a variety of item weapons that affect the game. 
 With sixteen items ranging from bombs to summoning axes, you realize that this is not your ordinary 
 puzzler. You are able to turn items on or off and set the general item frequency as seen in the 
 Super Smash Bros. series. Items can be pivotal factors in your match and that is why they are not 
 used in Deluge as that mode is a true test of your skill. 
  
  The whole game is tied together with flawless cohesion through the menu known as Merge on the 
 Japanese version. It is the shop where you buy new music, new planets and new items. Before something 
 is purchasable, you have to unlock it by accumulating enough of their currency. Your currency is 
 the blocks that you clear from playing any of the modes other than Time War. 
  
  The visuals are not breathtaking, but they are something you have never seen before. The game has 
 a unique look to match its unparallel gameplay and with the fast paced action, you do not want 
 fancy blocks, as it is better to keep things basic for easy deciphering. 
  
  The audio is a love or hate aspect of the game as you will either be annoyed or you will enjoy 
 the diverse original soundtrack. Meteos sound excels with headphones and is definitely a large 
 influence in the games style. Each planet has its own background music, which is another treat 
 in this game. 
  
  Each round you play will last from three to six minutes depending on your experience. This is something 
 discouraging but with time you will appreciate the complexity the gameplay has to offer. 
  
  Q Entertainment has created a gem that will remain a treasured game by those who have invested 
 in a Nintendo DS and for the others, they will wonder along the sidelines at a godsend they are 
 too ignorant to appreciate. So yes, yes it does deliver and excel past the quality of PSPs Lumines. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NDSfan1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2005 10:25 pm PT
Review:  The DS is an amazing peice of hardware, with great power and a bulk of features it truely is the 
 future of gaming. Unfortunately many of the games made for the DS are poor and mediocre. Luckily, 
 now the tides have turned and with them comes Meteos.
  At its core, Meteos is one of the best puzzle games ever made. A noticable similarity to the PSP 
 title Limunes is there, but trust me, Meteos is a much better game. the gameplay is this: You must 
 protect the games planets from falling meteors, which come from an exploding planet. To do this 
 you must take advantage of the meteors, which will start an explosion if grouped. This may seem 
 like your average puzzle game, but there is much more. After you have grouped three of one color, 
 they will start to propell into space, but they will lose momentun depending on how many blocks 
 are on top of the rockets. You must be fast to save the planets before time runs out.
  Not only is the gameplay outstanding, but the graphics are superb as well. Every level you go to 
 has a different graphical style, from fire to ice and everything in between.
  The sound is just as unique, from fast techno tracks to slow spacy music.
  The multiplayer is 
 probably the most fun part of the game, with two to four players racing to win, and impeding eachothers 
 efforts by throwing items at eachother.
  Overall, with amazing graphics, superb sound, and perfect gameplay, Meteos is by far the best puzzle 
 game ever made. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
