-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Metroid Prime Pinball
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/metroidprimepinball/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Convincing pinball physics and a good number of well-designed tables.
 Plenty of signature Metroid touches will quickly stand out to fans.
 Attractive visuals and great audio.
 Rumble pak helps mimic the feel of a real pinball table.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only two main single-player tables and one multiplayer table.
 Bumping the table via the touch screen is a little awkward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 59 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,228 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Fuse Games
Genre: Pinball
Date: Oct 24, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Metroid Prime Pinball successfully pulls off the insanely ingenious concept of merging the distinct 
 look and feel of Nintendo's sci-fi adventure series with a great game of pinball. 

  Not since The Pinball of the Dead has a concept of Metroid Prime Pinball's caliber become a reality. 
 Seriously. Well, sort of. But the idea that the game of pinball may be used to simulate virtually 
 any other challenging struggle is a good one (since pinball is cool) , and Metroid Prime Pinball 
 pulls it off very well -- both by being a fun and great-looking pinball experience, and by being 
 a faithful spin-off of one of the best Nintendo games of the past decade.  

          Samus Aran's been knocked around plenty of times in the past, but never quite like this. 
     

  Those familiar with Nintendo's interstellar bounty hunter Samus Aran and her series of Metroid 
 action adventure games will of course know that Samus' power suit is capable of rolling up into 
 a spherical morph ball. Samus in morph-ball form becomes the ball in Metroid Prime Pinball, and 
 you get to knock her around a half-dozen different tables, earning big points and bumping off some 
 of Samus' familiar foes in the process. What's great about Metroid Prime Pinball is that it behaves 
 very much like you'd expect from a pinball machine -- namely, in terms of the physics of the ball 
 getting bounced around. But at the same time, there are tons of familiar Metroid touches to be 
 found here, both from a presentational standpoint and even in terms of gameplay. In some instances, 
 Samus actually busts out of morph-ball mode and opens fire on her onscreen enemies, letting you 
 direct her firepower towards the foes. These are brief, fun-filled moments.  

  Metroid Prime Pinball features several modes of play: multimission, single mission, and multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer mode is simply a score competition for up to eight players (only one copy of the 
 game is required) , and it stresses mastery over the one competitively focused level. Multimission 
 mode is the primary way to play; it lets you choose from a couple of starting tables and gradually 
 work your way into new ones. This handful of additional tables is then unlocked for use in single-mission 
 mode, where you can play on any table to earn the highest possible score. Metroid Prime Pinball, 
 like any good pinball game, has a complex scoring system that works well to entice you to keep 
 trying to push your point totals higher and higher, into the millions. Your high scores are automatically 
 saved, as you'd expect.  

  The funny thing about Metroid Prime Pinball is how carefully it captures the feel of the original 
 Metroid Prime for the GameCube. The two starting tables are the pirate frigate and the Tallon overworld, 
 and these areas are pinball-style spitting images of the equivalent places in Metroid Prime. On 
 the Tallon overworld level, for instance, rain showers occasionally drench the playing field. The 
 attractive visuals are highly evocative of Metroid Prime, making this a great way to rekindle some 
 nostalgia for that game. And yes, you can look forward to battling some of Metroid Prime's most 
 notorious bad guys and bosses, such as the Omega Pirate and Meta Ridley. The boss battles invariably 
 involve trying to smack the villain with the ball as hard and as often as you can, while taking 
 care to avoid attacks that threaten to push the ball past your flipper defenses and into the gutter. 

  The multi-mission mode offers a good challenge and a nice amount of variety. By shooting Samus 
 into various ramps and targets, you'll open up a variety of quick minigames, in which Samus needs 
 to beat down some bad guys or wall jump to reach an artifact. Collecting enough artifacts is what 
 lets you finally engage the final boss of the game, who's quite a tough nut to crack. Successive 
 levels of difficulty for the different tables also create a variable challenge. What's also pretty 
 cool is that Samus can collect power-ups just like in a typical Metroid game, giving her access 
 to missiles and power bombs, which help cause greater damage to enemies.  

  The game is easiest to control using the left and right shoulder buttons on the DS, which work 
 well to emulate the feel of hitting flipper buttons on the side of a pinball machine. The only 
 issue with that is trying to bump the table (usually to prevent the ball from going into the gutter) , 
 which you do by dragging across the touch screen. After a while it becomes easier to quickly use 
 your thumb to do this, but it takes getting used to. You might as well get used to this ability, 
 too, since it seems to be impossible to tilt the table. Also, since all the tables in the game 
 contain action linked on the top and bottom screens, initially it's a little disorienting when 
 the ball passes through the gap between the screens -- but not for long.  

          You'll be thrilled to know that the Omega Pirate is still a complete bastard in this version 
 of the game.     

  For good measure, Metroid Prime Pinball comes bundled with a DS-compatible rumble pak, which looks 
 like a black Game Boy Advance cartridge and fits into the system's bottom port just like a GBA 
 game would. The rumble pak causes the system to vibrate gently but noticeably as Samus bounces 
 off of bumpers and stuff like that. You can play the game just fine without it, but it's a nice 
 way to get the sort of tactile feedback you'd expect from playing a real pinball machine. The only 
 thing about the rumble pak is, it makes sort of a weird twittering sound whenever it kicks in, 
 so if you're trying to play the game at a low volume, it can be pretty annoying.  

  Speaking of volume, Metroid Prime Pinball's audio is at least as good as its graphics. It features 
 great remixes of familiar Metroid musical themes, and more voice-over than there was in Metroid 
 Prime.  

  This is a fun, simple game that you can keep coming back to. It's a great way to kill a few minutes 
 if you're playing games on the go, but the tables in Metroid Prime Pinball are also genuinely challenging 
 enough that it's tempting to want to keep pushing your highest score even higher. That the game 
 looks and sounds so much like Metroid Prime is just icing on the cake. So, can we get Metroid Prime 
 Hunters already?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (90 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball has the original Metroid Prime game go into the way of pinball. Although 
 the game has no story, it features some familiar environments from the orignal Metroid Prime on 
 the Gamecube in pinball form. Samus Aran does appear in this title, but mostly in her Morph Ball 
 form, but there are times where she'll get out of that form.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the pinball gameplay is solid. Good graphics. Cool Metroid 
 style modes in the game. Nice Metroid Prime environments and well put out in pinball table form.
 
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the pinball mood somehow dosen't suit the Metroid series. 
 Not all Metroid Prime environments are in the game. Awkward moments. Omega Pirate and Thardus are 
 still pains of bosses like they were in the first Prime game.
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime Pinball does bring a solid pinball experience to the Nintendo DS, but there 
 are some awkward moments and somehow Metroid and Pinball don't mix well in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Samus, where on earth have you been? You're a year and a half late! "Yeah, sorry about that, guys. 
 I forgot to pack my Gravity Suit and you know how useless I am in water without it. Getting across 
 the Atlantic was a nightmare."
  
  We imagine that could be the only reason why it has taken Samus' pinball outing a full 18 months 
 to reach us Brits after it was released in the US. Not that we're bitter.
  Metroid Prime Pinball is a sweet pinball quest wrapped in a Metroid Prime overcoat. Everything 
 from the worlds and enemies, to the missions and music has been ripped straight out of the GameCube 
 series and Metroid fans will love it. 
  The tables are full of your usual pinball tricks - bumpers, flippers, rails and those infuriating 
 slip-gaps on the sides that the ball always seems to go down. But that alone wouldn't do, so the 
 game uses the Metroid theme to throw all sorts of enemy-based challenges at you, and that's what 
 makes this one of the better pinball games of recent years. 
  Hitting certain targets within the detailed tables cues different events and challenges for you 
 to complete. One, for example, makes a swarm of parasites appear on the table and gives you a minute 
 to kill them all without dying. 
  Another spawns tough-as-you-like Metroids that have to be bashed multiple times to defeat. But 
 if you roll past these Metroids slowly they grab you, just like in the main adventure games, and 
 can spit you to your death. 
  
  
  Great Balls Of Fire
  
  But best of all are the challenges that take you away from the pinball altogether. In one challenge, 
 you have to defeat a swarm of attacking aliens, but not by rolling into them - Samus morphs back 
 into her normal form and stands on a fixed point shooting her arm cannon while you press the L 
 and R buttons to rotate her and blast your enemies into oblivion. 
  Beyond all that, you also have the equally as hectic eight-player versus play, which has you link 
 up with your friends to compete for the highest score on a multiplayer-only table. 
  The US version of the game came with a Rumble Pack not included here but even so, like we said, 
 this all comes together to make for one of the best pinball packages of late. 
  But, as with most pinball games, its ultimate downfall is in its tiny selection of tables and it 
 could have done with a more fleshed-
  out single-player quest to keep you hooked. It's a good effort but all over far too quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheesecakeMania
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I'm just going to say this straight out, I've never played a better pinball game! How often do 
 you go to the arcade and play a pinball game and suddenly see the ball morph into a humanoid creature 
 that starts shooting little bugs that crawled into the machine? Zero, that's how many.
  Mertoid Prime Pinball mixed the traditional gameplay of the usual Metriod Prime game and the everyday 
 pinball game and threw it into one game card. Oooooh, fun! Sure is! I also like that you can play 
 against up to seven other people. The only problem that I have with the game would be the lack 
 of more multiplayer tables; you can only battle on one, Magmoor Caverns. Aside from that small 
 problem, the game is just entertaining. If more pinball games were like this, I'd spend more time 
 on pinball than anything else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Now, there are many reasons why this game is so great, and one of them is that they actually decided 
 to include a rumble pack, and the game is still a mere $20! Not only does this game include the rumble 
 pack, but it also is compatible with one (actually, that's pretty obvouis) . Another great feature is 
 the fact that it's only single-card play, meaning that your other player is not missing out on any 
 features, and you can just play a full game with everything possible. The multi-player is great, mainly 
 because it's competitive and also fun. There are mini-games that you can play by doing certain things 
 on the level, and after beating it, then you get an artifact. This does very well as an arcade game, which 
 is cool because there aren't a lot of arcade games on the DS. I mean, whatever happened to just picking 
 up the game and playing? Games like this, Contra 4 and soon to be released on the Nintendo DS, Metal 
 Slug 7. This game is also appropriate for children, which is a change for Metriod Prime games, because 
 all the 3D games are violent, and a little bit gross for the young ones. And although it is fun for 
 little kids, it's not unappealing to adults, so it's just a good family game, I guess. Well, there's 
 not much left to say, because I've said pretty much everything I can say about this game. It's great, you 
 should just go out and buy it if you're a fan of Metriod Prime games and also pinball games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Few games cross the genre divide without losing some sort of vital elements. Sonic Spinball for 
 example, undoubtedly inspired by Sonic's quasi ball-like nature, was not really the best Sonic 
 game, nor was it the best pinball game. Mario Pinball on the Gameboy Advance saw an even stranger 
 conversion. We can accept Mario as a basket baller, a golfer, a tennis-star and even as a doctor 
 of medicine. I found it a little more difficult to accept Mario as a perpetually squashed and spheroid 
 spinal-victim - it just seemed forced. Also, the game itself was a sparse, almost minimalist take 
 on pinball, with little environmental interaction, and suspiciously flat surfaces. But enough about 
 these preliminary pinball particulars, proceed promptly.
  
  So, could another lovechild of platform and pinball pay-off? Or is this questionable, (yet highly 
 repeated) , Frankensteinian experiment doomed to pervert the laws of nature, like so many others?
 
  
  Well, truly, Metroid Prime has been converted into a successful pinball title. The reason it works 
 so well is that the core game play is built around a great physics engine. The ball (Samus) is 
 fluid, controllable, and retains that feeling that you are in fact smashing a little bounty hunter 
 around. The flippers control great, and give that addictive sling-shot feeling that all good pinballers 
 give. All of these elements are heightened by the included "rumble-pak". This slots into the GBA 
 port, and gives a satisfying rattle and rumble effect on a hand-held system. It's brilliant, and 
 goes to show that some extra care and thought has gone into this title.
  
  Graphically, this title is beautiful. The tables draw upon Metroid Prime series locations, and 
 the heart and essence of these exotic and varied locations is rendered nicely and above all, accurately. 
 Tallon Overworld is a monsoonal, volcanic and earthy table. The ramps and gutters twist and around 
 the steaming vegetation and rocky outcrops. Samus looks at home here, and players of the Prime 
 series will no doubt identify with this unique location. Again, the Pirate Frigate, is the well-worn 
 insides of the industrial space-ship manned by the pirates themselves. Their battles cries are 
 straight from the bigger-brother console series. Phendrana Drifts, and others that I won't spoil, 
 make an equally significant impression, and offer their own dangers and environmental traps.
  
  Criticism of this game usually notes the lack of tables, with only six being ultimately available. 
 This is a valid view, but, there is a lot to do on all of the existing tables nonetheless. Each 
 table presents you with little missions to accomplish. Each one levels up individually, and before 
 long, they are pretty difficult. One of these missions gets Samus to unroll into her human form, 
 all while firing the beam at ever increasing numbers of bugs or bats. This gets very frantic, and 
 I don't think anyone out there's ever hit much farther than level five. Further criticism is usually 
 on the tilt system (you know, when nudge the machine so the ball takes a more favorable direction) . 
 This action is made by swiping the touchscreen left or right, and it's not always that effective. 
 Neither is it that convenient, as I find that your hands must have unusual dexterity or flexibility 
 (seeing as you've got them tied up on the trigger buttons) .
  
  The Metroid series really is one of the more stylish and maybe even misunderstood games. Samus 
 is an understated hero-figure, with next to nothing to say (is she Link's aunt?) and a very isolated 
 existence. This impenetrable facade that she has means she can be a flexible character for experimentation, 
 and this pinball game does capitalise on her flexibility. Samus as pinball may sound silly if you're 
 imagining a digitised version of a real table, but this game gives it a more natural and sort of 
 inevitable feel. The inclusion of the regular foes, environments, music, weapons and art makes 
 the experience more than a mere Metroid spin-off - it's more of a missing Metroid chapter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrush000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  If youre looking for a game that combines pinball and Metroid, this is your best (and only) choice. 
 However if you are a great fan of pinball and is looking for a game that will keep you busy for 
 a long time, youd better buy another game. Thats because there are only 5 different tables. Ok, 
 ok, they all have interesting challenges and some of them have boss battles. In most of the times 
 theyre interesting, but fighting with them again and again is kinda boring.
  
  The graphics are acceptable. The animations are horrible, but the look of the tables is interesting.
 
  
  The sound effects are very well-done, and the music is... well, Metroid-style.
  
  The Rumble Pak is a terrific new addition, and it works very nice with the game. And the "shake" 
 is stronger than you think.
  
  Overral: nice (and shallow) gameplay, good to play when you dont have nothing to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RossMan14
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, Metroid Prime Pinball looks like another great Metroid spin-off, and to some degree, 
 that's right. The tables in the game are detailed, each one has tons of features and minigames, 
 and the morphball concept is pulled off brilliantly. But thats about where it stops. After you 
 play through the "story" mode which has you progress through a few levels and beat some bosses, 
 that really is it for the game. There are no special unlockable levels, and there are only 2 levels 
 that have nothing to do with bosses. Don't get me wrong, these levels are fun, but this game could 
 have used at least 5 regular tables to keep the variety going. Ok, am I forgetting anything? Oh 
 yes the multiplayer (if you can call it that) . The multiplayer for this game has you playing on... drumroll 
 please... one stage!!! Yes thats right, set on Alinos, this one stage is about as bad as it gets. 
 Its so bad, i'm not even going to waste my breath. In all this game is o. k., but could have used 
 more tables to keep the replay value up. This game is great if you want a quick play game, or a 
 game like the one you find lying in your closet after 9 months and you've forgotten about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is one of the oddest concepts in the history of pinball... something I figured 
 would've sucked horribly. After good reviews, I decided to check it out. After recieving it as 
 a birthday present yesterday, I must honestly say that I was dead wrong.
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball has all you need for a fun experience... excellent controls and a great idea. 
 It may take a while to get used to the experience, but it is honestly addictive. The only MAJOR 
 fault in the gameplay section is the lack of boards... there are only 2 single-player boards and 
 one multiplayer board. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  The graphics are some of the flashiest pinball graphics ever... for pinball, of course. It's limited, 
 but what could you expect for pinball?
  
  GRAPHICS: 7.5/10
  
  There is a lot of sci-fi like tunes and good sound effects that fit the theme of Metroid Prime 
 Pinball.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  While there isn't a lot of boards or characters, Metroid Prime Pinball offers an addictive experience 
 that includes a free Rumble Pak (a cool addition in DS accesories) .
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 7.5/10
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 8/10
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball is an immersive 
 game that I highly reccomend. Very addictive!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  One of the best things Nintendo did was take one of their greatest game creations and make it into 
 a fun pinball game for all people and ages. Take all the rules about pinball and throw them out 
 as Metroid Prime Pinball has broken new ground.
  
  This is not only a game where you hit a ball around with flippers, but you can gather high powered 
 weapons and even stand up and shoot enemies with the collected powerups! The reason I labeled this 
 game as hard was because of the difficulty of many of the sublevels and also the Bosses you have 
 to defeat. yes, thats right I said Bosses!
  
  Basicaly you have to collect the 12 artifact pieces by completing missions throughout the game. 
 The missions consist of destroying Metroids that fly around the screen, bombing tricepts, shooting 
 shreekbats &amp; beetles, running over burrowers and even wall jumping. As your rolling around 
 and trying to prevent Samus from falling through to the bottom of the screen (like in every pinball 
 game) you can open different bonuses which include force fields and multi-balls. There are opportunities 
 to advance to different levels in order to defeat Boss characters and even the Metroid Prime itself. 
 You can continue playing the different levels but once you collect all 12 artifacts you can advance 
 to the Temple level where Ridley attacks you as you try to hit Samus into 12 different columns. 
 Once this is accomplished you can once again advance to the Impact Crater to fight another Boss 
 followed by the Metroid Prime. Defeating the Prime ends the storyline but the game continues and 
 basically never ends untill you run out of balls. The fun factor is what makes this game so addicting. 
 Because a regular pinball game can be boring but because of all the side missions and enemies that 
 attack you this puts this game well above and beyond all others. Plus you can be playing for hours 
 and not even realize it.
  
  Thank you Nintendo for making this incredable game and please feel free to make more pinball games 
 based on exclusive characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankand007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  Its an increidble adaptation of a pinball game with metroids theme, the music is excellent and 
 so are graphics, i would have love to give this game a superb score, but 5 stages dont feel a gamer 
 up. they should come up with a longer version a metroid pinball game and have tons of theme song 
 and stages cause i couldnt get enough of pinball when it comes to having metroid theme sonng in 
 my head.. its beatiful... a 4... out o 5
  
  Its an increidble adaptation of a pinball game with metroids theme, the music is excellent and 
 so are graphics, i would have love to give this game a superb score, but 5 stages dont feel a gamer 
 up. they should come up with a longer version a metroid pinball game and have tons of theme song 
 and stages cause i couldnt get enough of pinball when it comes to having metroid theme sonng in 
 my head.. its beatiful... a 4... out o 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yovanovich3
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  MP Pinball is the perfect use of the dual screens of the Nintendo DS. The graphics are lush, and 
 the environments are very alive. But just like any pinball game, luck has a lot to do with your 
 success. If the ball comes down the exact center, there's not much you can do to save it. That 
 being said, it took me about 6 months after I bought the game to complete it. That was on and off 
 play... I only have so much patience.
  Rewarding at the end with the unlocking of expert mode. The ability to replay the final stages 
 after beating them in the campaign is nice, too. Most of the bosses are quite tough, and getting 
 all 12 artifacts will not be easy.
  The multi-player is decent and downloads fast onto other players without the cartridge. Only one 
 stage is available, though.
  A solid buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  How on Earth do you combine the pinball genre with the Metroid series? THIS is how you combine 
 the two. This game is a rough retelling of the Metroid Prime story, except in pinball form. Read 
 on.
  
  Gameplay (7/10) : The first thing to notice is that this is a pinball game, so the controls are 
 very simple. You have left flipper and right flipper, set to different buttons so that you can 
 get comfortable how you wish. You also slide across the touch screen to tilt the table, it makes 
 perfect sense (though tilting the table is difficult to do in a heated situation, which makes it 
 unwieldy and should have been programmable to the buttons) . There are some added twists though. 
 Along with the standard pinball fair of bonus multipliers, jackpots, bumpers, etc., there are also 
 Metroid things added in. There are enemies that you can attack by hitting, you can lay morph ball 
 bombs, you can shoot missiles once you get into combat mode (a mode where you stand up near the 
 bottom flippers and shoot at a bunch of enemies for bonus points) and you can use a power bomb 
 for quick screen clearing. All this adds up to make the pinball game a little more interesting 
 than the plain old pinball we are all used to (there are enough 'normal' pinball games out there, 
 so it is refreshing to find something unique) . You will even be able to 'fight' some of the bosses 
 from Metroid Prime, and your main 'objective' is to collect all the Chozo Artifacts so that you 
 can get to the Impact Crater and fight against Metroid Prime itself. It all makes for an interesting 
 diversion, but the fact remains, this is still a pinball game.
  
  That being said, the extra features are neat and mix things up, but the truth is, you really only 
 have two proper tables to play on. The other four tables (that I have discovered) are all boss 
 battles and aren't just mindelss fun pinball tables. Having only two proper tables is a little 
 unnerving, but I have played for hours on the Tallon Overworld table and still haven't gotten tired 
 of it for some reason. As said, in the end, this is still a pinball game... albeit a very fun pinball 
 game, but it is still the monotonous, high-score acquiring type of game.
  
  Graphics (10/10) : Actually, this game loos GREAT. All the stuff is fluidly animated, well crafted 
 and each area looks unique. For a pinball game, a lot of work was put into making this game look 
 beautiful.
  
  Sound (9/10) : The music is top-notch. They are remixes of various Metroid tracks (mostly Prime, 
 but there is at least one old-school Metroid track) and fits each table perfectly. The sound effects 
 are very much like a pinball game while still retaining the wonderful Metroid sounds. Overall this 
 is a great sounding game, though the sounds that come out of the included rumble pak don't have 
 a controllable volume and can get annoying sometimes.
  
  Value (8/10) : As said, with only two real tables, there isn't much to do here. You can try doing 
 the boss tables at fast times, get high scores in the normal tables or just go through the 'Multi 
 Mission' (aka story mode) mode and try to get a high score before you have to defeat Metroid Prime. 
 It isn't bad, and the inclusion of single pak 8-player multiplayer is really nice (on a table I 
 haven't discovered in single player yet: Magmoor Caverns) , though it would have been better if 
 there was a multipak so that you could play on ANY of the tables.
  
  Overall though, if you are a pinball fan, casual or hardcore, this game will likely entertain you 
 for a long time to come. For all others, try before you buy, because pinball is not for everybody. 
 Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0starter0
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is a pinball game tailored after the Gamecube hit Metroid Prime. There are 
 two main pinball boards with a few special boards, and one multiplayer board. It plays realistically 
 and implements Metroid Prime into pinball quite nicely, but overall it's lacking in substance. 
 It's fun to play through the Metroid Prime story but once you do that, the only thing to keep you 
 coming back is to beat your own high score. And while the game has realistic pinball play, there 
 are too many times when there is nothing you can do to stop it going down the middle. All in all 
 Metroid Prime Pinball is a buy for pinball or Metroid fans, but for everyone else, rent it or wait 
 until the game in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Branzolis
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prim Pinball is a great game for a little while then you still like it but dont play it 
 as much as you did when you got it.
  
  The Good- The good thinks about Metroid Prime Pinball are that it comes with a rumble pack and 
 the rumble pack suits it well, it has some good ways to earn points like when Samus comes out of 
 her morph ball and you can steer her gun to shoot the enimies.
  
  The Bad- Some bad things in Metroid Prime Pinball is that it does not have a very big selection 
 of places, and after a while you never fell like playing it very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is what you get when you mix a pinball game with Retro Studios&acute; Metroid 
 Prime franchise. There is not much of a story here, but instead there are a handful of different 
 pinball tables and lots of minigames in them. Pretty much everything is inspired by Metroid Prime, 
 so it would be advisable to first play through that on the GameCube. You can still enjoy this games 
 without knowing anything about Metroid Prime, but knowledge of it adds a lot to the experience.
 
  
  First impression starting from the title screen is amazing. You see a colorful title and hear great 
 music from a game I consider to be almost perfect. Practically all music and sound effects are 
 recycled from Metroid Prime, but that is not a bad thing in any way. In fact this is the reason 
 why Metroid Prime Pinball&acute; s music and sound effects are just brilliant. Same can also be 
 said about the graphics: they are gorgeous. Lots of details in different pinball tables and also 
 weather effects in some of them. Frame rate stays solid all the time. This is a very good looking 
 Nintendo DS game.
  
  Gameplay is actually pretty simple since this is a pinball game. You need to use only the shoulder 
 buttons and the stylus, which you use to shake the table in order to prevent your ball going down 
 the gutter. Controls work just like they should work. Both DS screens are in use and of course 
 there&acute; s a blind gap in between them. Luckily the psychics are solid so the ball behaves just 
 like you would expect it to behave so you get used to this blind gap after a while.
  
  There are 13 different minigames which you trigger pretty frequently during gameplay and they help 
 to bring at least a little variety into otherwise pretty standard pinball game experience. All 
 minigames of course have a name with Metroid spice in it, for example Wall Jump, Phazon Multiball 
 and Metroid Mania.
  
  Difficulty is surprisingly high if you are not used to play pinball games. There are no save stations 
 anywhere so when you get Mission Over the game always starts from the beginning. This can be 
 annoying since you need to play and play and play using those same a handful of tables before you 
 can proceed. This is where that great first impression wears thin actually pretty quickly.
  
  DS Rumble Pack is included and it makes your DS rumble occasionally during gameplay. It works 
 well and is a cool little feature, but by no means you are missing something vital if you decide 
 not to use it. Luckily there are other games supported by DS Rumble Pack so you can use it for 
 example in Metroid Prime: Hunters and Starfox Command.
  
  There is also a wireless single-card download play for up to 8 different players. The object in 
 this mode is to score 100 000 points before your opponent does. Battles are fought using Magmoor 
 Cavers table and just like everything in this game it works just fine, but gets boring very quickly.
 
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball is a worthy of purchase because of its Metroid theme and the DS Rumble Pack. 
 It would also be advisable to be at least a little fan to different pinball games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonamy4ever
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is basically a remake of the first Prime, but in a pinball form for the DS. It 
 works like your classical pinball game, you hit the ball into some power ups with flippers, you 
 get a new high score, you cheer and brag to your little sister. The game does fulfill the needs 
 of metroid fans by including some shooting here and there. But the main attraction of the game 
 is the graphics, I was stunned by the graphics that almost surpass the GCN when it comes to detail. 
 But that's pretty much the only good feature about this game. When you start the Multi-Mission 
 mode (with no tutorial) , you will find the 5 levels going from stupid easy, to extremely hard. 
 The bosses are almost a little too challenging. Considering you have almost no control over the 
 ball. And there are only 5 levels, that right, 5! Even once you beat all of them, get them all 
 in single mission mode, and get 5.2 million points in each one of them. You will find yourself 
 BORED TO DEATH! The game soon gets repetitive with the same 5 levels over and over again. This 
 is where this game falls, and you will soon question yourself as to why you spent $30.00 bucks 
 on 5 levels and 1 multiplayer map. All-in all, you might like this game if you are a metroid nerd 
 like I am, or if you jsut like pinball, but if you aren't a fan of either, just leave this one 
 on the shelf at EB Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bibblebobbyson
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy Metroid Prime Pinball. It's the best pinball game made yet.
  
  The game has missions in it. For example some missions make you shoot beetles and another makes 
 you hit a metroid. They make the game have more sense than just getting the high score.
  
  The sounds are great. You hear classic Metroid tunes as well as some new or remixed ones. The sound 
 fxs are really great, from the noise Samus creates to the screeches of the creatures, it sounds 
 very good. Except for one thing. I hate the voice you hear that narrates your game.
  
  The game's graphics are the best for any other parlor game. What else can I say?
  
  I love 
 the rumble pak that comes with the game. It makes you have a way better experience.
  
  This game I bought for $30 and I didn't waste my money on it.
  
  I really recommend this game 
 if you like a good game of pinball and you ran out of quarters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great table design, traditional style (and the gap between the two screens doesn't bother) ; 
 amazing sound for both a Metroid game and a pinball game, besides the good voice acting; rumble 
 pak included.
  
  The Bad: The game is short, and ends fast; bumping the table through the touch screen doesn't work.
 
  
  Nintendo picked Samus to star the first pinball game in DS, and even though it sounds weird it's 
 really a great game, that can be a reference to the next pinball games with two screens.
  The main tables (Tallon Overworld and Pirate Frigate) have excellent traditional design, emulating 
 real tables; all the other tables take some kind of advantage of good ideas from pinball games 
 that had bosses to defeat, and everything here is OK. Add great sound effects (including voice 
 acting) , beautiful coloring and light/shadow management, the rumble pak working fine (for free) , 
 and the result is an enjoyable pinball game, even if it wasn't a Metroid game.
  But it is a Metroid game! And that's the big deal. It becomes really interesting when you see that 
 two different universes were merged without any harm to the playability; on the contrary, it's 
 good to listen to that classic melody when you get a new item, or hearing the terrifying music 
 in the Artifact Temple battle, or placing bombs while you're in morphing ball state (most of the 
 time, but you can also stand up and shoot some metroids away) .
  The game doesn't hit the jackpot because of two things: 1) it's really short; and 2) bumping the 
 table through the touch screen is worthless. But after all it's a great work, with its objectives 
 achieved.
  (It's time to forget the fever about using each and every DS feature. We already know it all by 
 heart, and it's amazing; when used wisely.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jose-Javier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball...
  I enjoyed playing this game. I really recommend this game. Reasons:
  1. Good graphics. Even though 
 it is A Nintendo DS it looks realistic.
  2. You get to fight bosses. Some of the Metroid Prime bosses are here !!!
  3. Many minigames. 
 You can play minigames like: Phazon Frenzy, Metroid Madness, Clone Multiball, etc.
  4. Up to 8 players can play in the multiplayer.
  5. 6 different tables inspired by Metroid Prime.
 
  
  Single Player Mode
  Maybe this is the best part of the game. You play through various tables collecting Artifacts. 
 Also you fight different bosses along the way.
  
  Multiplayer Mode
  This mode is pretty good except that you can only play 1 table (Magmoor Caverns) . In this mode you 
 race to collect 100,000 points before the others.
  
  I enjoyed this game because it is simple, but very good. That is why I give it a 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  This game is basically Pinball but with a Metroid Prime twist to it. You play the ball as sumas 
 and play basic pinball but with shooters and metroids and other crazy stuff from the metroid universe. 
 Theres 2 main areas and the rest are either boss fights or a bonus area to battle and earn big 
 points. The graphics are top notch just like the metroid games for the GC and the sound comes from 
 the metroid soundtrack not sure from what one, but probly the original music they use through the 
 whole series. Theres not alot to go into, so its basically if you like pinball and metroid prime 
 well get this game for sure! If you don't like pinball then don't get it. Its simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  i grade using the 10 level thing that gamespot uses. then explains them
  
  gameplay - 9 while this is a pinball game, its got, a mission , collect 12 artifacts, defeat the 
 metriod prime, yadda yadda yadda.
  in each level, tallon overworld, pirate frigate, phazon mines, phendrana drifts, artifact temple, 
 and impact crater, you must do missions, ranging from destroy all the metriods in the area, to 
 get a x10 multiplyer.
  
  sound - 10
  i usually don't play a handheld with the sound on, this is the first game ive played that has voice, 
 and nice music. the backround music from each of the levels you play in are direct from metriod 
 prime and the sound effects aren't annoying, like most pinball games, they are toned down
  
  value - 8
  its a pinball game, of course there is replay value. but its a pinball game...
 
  
  reveiwer's tilt - 10
  i don't understand what this is, so i use it to change the score to what i think it gets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball for the Nintendo DS is a great Pinball/Action game from Nintendo and developed 
 by Fuse Games, the same people who made Super Mario Pinball Land on the GBA. Metroid Prime Pinball 
 plays a very good game of pinball with 7 distinctly different tables. (You start off with 2 table 
 in Single Mission mode and Magmoor Caverns in multiplayer.) The graphics were well made and the 
 sounds and music is great. When you buy Metroid Prime Pinball you get a Rumble Pak with the game. 
 The Rumble Pak adds the feedback you would want in a pinball game. The multiplayer is good you 
 can have up to 8 players off of 1 game card which is nice. All in all Metroid Prime Pinball is 
 a realistic pinball game and I would recommend it to anyone who loves their pinball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reptileszz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball could simply have been a great pinball game. But they put in a bunch of monsters 
 presumably from Metroid to do battle with periodically. I never played the Metroid game so am unfamiliar. 
 Whatever they are they really break up the game play and it never gets monotonous.
  
  I have probably only played it for about 2 hours all together so far so good. One small complaint 
 is that there are only the 3 tables. Perhaps I have not played it enough and more tables will open 
 up. But each table has so many things that pop up and whatnot that it is not boring.
  
  Another complaint is the split screen makes it hard to see the ball and the monsters sometimes. 
 I think they did a good job of utilizing the dual screens and there's nothing to be done about 
 it but it is a minor annoyance when the ball is sorta in between screens.
  
  I can recommend this to anyone who enjoys a great game of pinball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluezy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is, simply put, a pinball version of the GameCube gem Metroid Prime. The 
 pinball in the game is Samus, who conveniently is in her morph ball for most of the game. Youll 
 find out later why Ms. Aran isnt in the morph ball the entire game. Included in the game is a 
 nice little rumble pak for the GBA slot in the DS, which works with, coincidentally, Metroid Prime 
 Hunters. And right from the title screen, the shooter-to-pinball transition is as smooth as anyone 
 couldve wished.
  
  Right at the start, you are presented with a choice of tables to go to, Space Frigate or Tallon 
 Overworld. Both are good, and throughout the game youll be able to travel to other locations found 
 in Metroid Prime such as Phendrana Drifts or Phazon Mines. The level of detail in the graphics 
 is fantastic. Each table looks like the area of Tallon IV its modeled after.
  
  The sound in the game is another area where Metroid Prime Pinball really shines. If you can remember 
 the theme music from the title screen in Metroid Prime, you can bet its in the title screen for 
 the pinball game for it! Its incredible what Nintendo did for this game sound-wise. There are 
 plenty of sounds that come straight from Metroid Prime, such as when you get an artifact or when 
 you use a morph ball bomb.
  
  As Ive said before in this review, the shooter-to-pinball translation is incredible. There are 
 the locations from the actual game, and you even have to collect 12 artifacts in this pinball game, 
 just as you do in Metroid Prime. There are bosses to fight, like Thardus, and you can move from 
 area to area, like from the Frigate to the Tallon Overworld. Just because its pinball doesnt mean 
 the other buttons on the DS are ignored. Throughout the game, youll break away these glass barriers 
 around power-ups, which are added to Samus power suit. You can collect the power-ups like missiles 
 and the power bomb during your journey.
  
  Of course, pinball isnt the only thing youll have to do while playing. There are various minigames 
 to do in-game, and most involve Samus coming out of her morph ball. These minigames are very short, 
 and include things like wall jumping with the L and R shoulder buttons, and eliminating all metroids 
 on the table. Each of these minigames rewards you with a Chozo artifact and a nice points bonus.
 
  
  The only problem I had with the game is that its very short. You can collect all twelve artifacts 
 in a good 10 or so minutes, and it feels kind of like, man, thats it? However, the fun factor 
 of the game easily beats the small amount of time it takes to beat the game, as youll find yourself 
 playing it over and over again.
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime Pinball is a great way to pass some time, albeit only a short amount of 
 time, and its a great way to experience the locales of Metroid Prime in a game that finally realizes 
 Samus potential as a pinball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happy_dude63
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  This game is a really great game, for what it can do for you. Its a pinball game, witch I bet everybody 
 knows what pinball is. But instead of a casual ball its Samus in her morph ball. The maps for the 
 game are all part of the Metroid world. The only sad thing this game offered me is that its pretty 
 hard, so unlocking other maps has been a difficult task. Even though I cant get other places to 
 play the game, it is still a great DS game. Its still my favorite pick up and play DS game at this 
 moment. And for 20 bucks its a steal, especially because it came with a rumble pack! I encourage 
 people to buy this game for its FUN not because it kinda lacks a story line. This pinball game 
 goes in deeper than any other pinball game of all time. You must get upgrades for Samus, like missiles, 
 bombs, etc. (metroid stuff) . And the great thing I love about this game are the boss battles, there 
 just awsome to look at. There isnt much else to say besides its a great game so go out there and 
 buy it, its only 20 bucks or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark_blend
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Just to start out, I didn't get this game just because it was a rumble pak was included, but because 
 of this very curious feeling of what the game was like, and because I'm a Metroid fan. (The price 
 tag covered where it said Rumble Pak Included! so I didnt know I was getting that too) .
  
  If youve ever played Metroid Prime for the GameCube youll see many things that are familiar 
 in this game; the levels, creatures, abilities, weapons, and items. It kind of gives you this feeling 
 of, Oh! I remember that! once you see them. Almost like a time warp of the first 3D Metroid game. 
 It really does capture the originality of this game.
  
  When first playing this game, I found that this was an instinctively creative way on using Samus 
 curious Morph ball; as a pinball. Seems Nintendo wanted to extend the use of the morph ball that 
 just getting though small spaces and escaping from you enemies as youve done in Metroid Prime 
 for the GameCube. In this game, you play as Samus when she is in her morph ball mode (although 
 Samus can go out of her morph ball mode and use her arm cannon during a few minigames) , trying 
 to gain the high score or best time. Simple right? Well, yes and no. Getting high scores are challenging, 
 which is good, but not just by hitting the ball back and forth through the levels. It requires 
 obtaining items, defeating enemies and the game has a good amount of activated special modes. Thats 
 the fun part. Trying to score higher and higher, boosting your confidence and abilities. But the 
 thing is, it can be a little weird trying to use the controls on the touch screen.
  
  I dont think Metroid Prime Pinball was designed for the use of the Nintendo DS touch screen but 
 for its dual screen. Both screens combine as one large pinball table for Samus to bump around in, 
 instead of having to use one. Though there is a little space between the screens, Samus moves around 
 realistically enough for you not to worry and make you forget that the gap is even there.
  
  The controls are very simple and easy so you dont have to mash the buttons around trying to 
 figure out how everything works like you would do when youre at your friends house playing against 
 him/her on their new fighting game. There are a few ways to move the flippers to bump Samus around, 
 but my favorite would be using the L and R buttons, where I can use both my hands to get the actually 
 arcade pinball feel and enhance my gaming experience. Im guessing thats what the rumble pak was 
 included for.
  
  The rumble pak wasnt really a great feature in the game, even if it is optional to use. It doesnt 
 really change the feel or the way you play the game. It often becomes useless since you later on 
 forget that its even rumbling. It can be an annoying noisemaker as well, if youre playing it 
 on low volume or in a mute area.
  
  The graphics were perfect for the game. I loved how the regions in Metroid Prime were designed 
 as a pinball level. As you unlock more and get deeper in the game, you cant wait to see more. 
 Also, I liked the remixes of the music that youd here in, yup, Metroid Prime. I think you will 
 be surprised to hear the music in the Pirate Frigate level all you hardcore Metroid Fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  the game is realy cool only the gameplay isnt so good what i thought because its to hard for a 
 pinball game but the bosses are realy good!
  they are hard to! but its a creative pinball game! whith al pinball elements but it isnt a realy 
 cool game as i know its only play whith a little ball and try to win that is nohting for me to 
 borred but the graphics are good nohting to say about that realy only it is for a nds i like it 
 to see it on 3d not 2d thats bad
  and borred to. but my opinion of the game is you cant better buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scifi_fan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Pinball is a very addicting game. The Graphic are cool, although it can be improved. 
 The Sound is awesome, because it sticks in your mind. The game play is addicting. The value is 
 mostly awesome, but it would be a good idea to add more boards for you to play on, and remove the 
 gap between the top screen and the bottom screen (the gap reduces the ability to anticipate moves) . 
 The Value is awesome; you get your moneys worth out of this game. This has very few flaws in it, 
 which contributes to the addictiveness of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrx331
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  If this is your first Metroid game, you wont understand the story at all. If youve played Metroid 
 Prime (the original version) you already know what its all about. Samus Aran (that ball you hit 
 around on the flippers) investigates the deadly substance called Phazon. The Space Pirates are 
 using it to enhance their species powers and defenses. While Samus goes deeper behind the origin 
 and the uses for the Phazon, she learns of an incredible Phazon producing creature (Metroid Prime) . 
 Even though the game comes without a story there still is one... Just play Metroid Prime to find 
 out.
  
  Its a pinball game. Need I say more? Same pinball elements... Flippers, bumpers and of course 
 a ball (Samus) . A great thing that Fuse left in was the Morph Ball bombs. Besides hitting Samus 
 with a flipper in order to kill an enemy, you can also lay bombs to harm them too. Thats not all 
 though. There are mini-games to go along with it. In Combat Mode, Samus switches to human form 
 and you can finally shoot enemies with the Power Beam (its green?) and Missiles. One of my favorites 
 is the wall jump mini-game. You also switch to human form, briefly, and jump against walls to acquire 
 an Artifact.
  
  Most of the time you just use the flipper to move the ball around. Is that it? Nope. You can still 
 shoot and lay bombs. Where the buttons were placed for the certain actions, are perfect and couldnt 
 be better. While you can still use the classic weapons, you wont be finding yourself to be using 
 them all the time. One more control which was kind of pointless. You can use your stylus to shake 
 the screen to slightly bounce the ball. Its easy to remember where the flipper buttons are and 
 those are probably the most important ones.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised with the graphics. Every aspect of the game is very detailed and has 
 nice vibrant colors (especially Phazon Mines, my favorite level) . Unfortunately, some parts of 
 the boss battles get a little choppy. The movement of the enemies skip some action sequences which 
 explains why its choppy. Fortunately though, I think the majority of the players will be happy 
 with the graphics and wont be too over critical.
  
  The music is exactly the same of Metroid Primes with a little more of a remix added in. It sort 
 of has that techno beat that makes it more of a catchier tune. I was very happy with the changes 
 of the music and the choices of spots where to put them in the game. For me and Im sure with other 
 people the music will have you humming it sooner or later.
  
  Closing Remarks
  If you like Metroid and pinball games you should go out and get this game now. Its a pretty decent 
 game overall. It will give you at least 7 hours of gameplay with learning the controls and getting 
 used to the game. I recommend it to mostly Metroid fans, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  This is why Nintendo is the king of innovation. Two seemingly crazy types of games fused into one 
 beautiful master peice.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Its a pinball game. You hit R for right paddles, L for left paddles. Touch to tilt. Yep, that simple. 
 But you will be fighting bosses, avoiding enemies, shooting out of morph ball form.
  
  I forgot to mention, you are in a morph ball for the majority of the game. The only time you get 
 out if to shoot stuff. Its on auto fire and you just turn with L and R. It sounds simple, is simple.
 
  
  The whole game is simple to play, but with all the bells and whistles of the 2 main levels, 2 regular 
 boss levels, and 2 final boss levels, there is so much to do and so much to accomplish its not 
 funny. This game will have you scratching your head as how they thought of that.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  I believe this is pre-rendered 3D. It looks great, runs smoothly. The camera never 
 moves though, that is the one problem. Since it is pre-rendered 3D you are stuck in one position 
 except for cutscenes and moving along longer levels.
  
  SOUND
  
  All of the songs are catchy, and sound like remixed MP1 music. I found some blaster effects to 
 get old, but most of the sound was top notch, and all of the music was awesome. That adds up to 
 a heck of a package.
  
  VALUE
  
  With 2 tables that you'll spend a majority of your time on, that wouldn't seem like much value. 
 The thing is, it is. There is a hard mode, 4 boss tables, and the 2 regular tables are so complex 
 with so much to do they offer hours of entertainment by themselves with no missions. The missions 
 are 3 levels each, it may take a few times to master them, but once you do they can get annoying. 
 Luckily, a table change and that can be sort of absolved. Of course when you go back it still won't 
 be fun, but its a pinball game, and with so much, one mission being boring won't annoy you too 
 much. There is a third table I almost forgot. The multiplayer table. Its not much fun, with no 
 missions. But with 8 players it is crazy to see who will win.
  
  TILT
  
  This game has no story to speak of, but it still has a grab. You want high score, or you want to 
 just beat the game. Its very fun to imagine what you were doing in MP1 compared to the pinball 
 game. Its sequence of tables is accurate to MP1.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Most enjoyable pinball game ever made. I say, buy it if you are looking for a good way to spend 
 a few days. If you want a game that will last you weeks, this game may fill that void if you are 
 a high score seeker. Once again, I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOBucky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is a great pinball game. True, there's a blank spot between screens that is a little unsettling 
 at first, but it's easy enough to get accustomed to this. The sounds are realistic, although the 
 music is a little overwhelming (which is true of physical machines now, too, imho) .
  What makes this game purely bonzo is the ball play combined with the rumble pack. The lively ball 
 play mimics a real machine as well as any I have ever seen, including the sudden burst of speed 
 and the teetering on an edge. It's so realistic that once I was sure my ball was about to get stuck! 
 Add the rumble pack and you have a nearly perfect pinball experience. Far from the mega-grind I 
 expected, this gives the subtle nudges and jolts of a physical machine. After a few games, it's 
 easy to forget the rumble pack just because it feels so natural.
  The nudge feature I don't use much. I don't have a thumb stylus so sliding across the screen means 
 letting go of my flippers. It's clear that it works, however, and I have used it in trying situations!
 
  All in all, I'd say this game is a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickgamer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  I'm not the biggest Metroid fan, actually I'm very casual when it comes to this series but I really 
 liked this pinball addition. The game starts you off with a couple options. You can play two boards 
 by themselves and try to get the highest score, or you can start the adventure mode where you advance 
 through the boards and unlock more to play in single board mode. 
  
  There are three bosses in this game. One being the final boss that was quite challenging. The whole 
 game was delightfully challening and you really get a sense of accomplishment when you advance 
 to a brand new board or beat down a boss because half of it is luck, the other half is skill. In 
 order to beat this game, it takes a little patience because you will have to redo the boards quite 
 a few times and extra balls are limited. But that is part of it's charm.
  
  Sometimes it is a little frustrating because you want the morph ball Samus to go to a certain part 
 of the board but you just can't flip her there on time, but that is the whole challenge behind 
 pinball games in the first place, dedication and control. 
  
  This game was very rewarding as you could sit down for hours just to get the highest score in the 
 boards but also, this is a great pick up and play game when you have a few minutes to spare. Very 
 colorfull, music was right on cue with the whole irrie Metroid feel, and the gameplay was solid. 
 The morph balls reacted like real pinballs do so it felt realistic. 
  
  One of my favorite parts of buying this game is the free rumble pack you get with the purchase. 
 It rumbled as you played through the pinball game, which added to the realism and fun. This rumble 
 pack also works for the Metroid: Hunters game on the DS which was a nice bonus to buying Metroid 
 Poinball. 
  
  I recommend this game for pinball lovers and Metroid lovers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendan253
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is a great game all together. Metroid Prime Pinball is a great game for people 
 who like Pinball and Metroid Prime games. Learning how to play the game is easy. In my opinion 
 this game is the greatest game I have. Ever since I got the game I couldn't stop playing it. Metroid 
 Prime Pinball has Wi-Fi, too. You can play against your friends and you only need one game card 
 to play with 2-8 in multiplay. I would recommend this to anyone who has a Nintendo DS, but do a 
 little research on the game before you buy it. I hope you enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Morzan7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  My brother owns this game. My brother and I are always trying to beat eachother's high score. This 
 game gets really addictive, especially when you have someone to share high scores with. I sometimes 
 spend hours playing to beat my brother's high score. Here are the pros and cons.
  
  Pros
  -good graphics for the DS
  -addictive
  -bosses from Metroid Prime
  -the rock version of the 
 Metroid theme song in the Space Pirate Frigate level is excellent
  -comes with rumble pak
  -enemies from Metroid Prime
  
  Cons
  -not many levels
  -only good song is rock version 
 of theme song
  -sometimes it gets repetitive
  -some bosses are ridiculously hard
  -minigames can get annoying
  
  Basically, this is a really great game. If you like pinball 
 and Metroid, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isayama
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was a bit disappointing to me, as I expected better out of this.
  ~Pros.
  1) Great Graphics -For DS-
  2) Nice sound effects
  3) Rumble Pack is a nice touch
  4) Good 
 environments
  
  ~Cons.
  1) Start off with only two levels
  2) When you gain an upgrade you do not keep it
  3) You'll get PO'd a lot
  4) You'll die/fail 
 a lot
  5) You cannot start on any of the other levels you been too besides the ones you start off with 
 -on multi mission-
  6) There is no point to playing single missions -only if you just want to have fun-
  
  Overall: 
 Prepared to play the same levels over and over again. Mostly played to get the highest points. 
 This game is mostly just for looks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberZero104
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid series was a great series. Jumping, shooting and finding upgrades. Now the Metroid 
 Prime series jumps in a new twist to the series with Metroid Prime Pinball for the Nintendo DS. 
 Unfortunately, this game is the worst in the series. The ball is way too fast and rarely slow, 
 you cannot hit the ball with the flippers at the right time. And most of the mini-games are frustrating 
 and boring, except for when Samus enters combat mode, where she rapidly fires and you use the Control 
 Pad to aim. You only start with two tables, and the only way to unlock more is to beat bosses in 
 Multi Mission mode. One of the welcomed features in this game is by playing by yourself in Multiplayer 
 mode. This mode that way makes the game relaxing, and getting yourself out of trouble from the 
 other modes. Overall, this game is downright garbage. I can't recommend anyone picking this game 
 up at full price, especially when games like Super Smash Bros. Melee, Mega Man Battle Network 6 
 and Gunstar Super Heroes outclass Metroid Prime Pinball in many ways. Newcomers to pinball may 
 enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is actually a really fun game. At first I thought it would just be like any 
 other pinball game, but it's not. There are many more things you can do with it. In this game you 
 do play it like pinball, but you can get special powers so that you can attack the monsters at 
 the end of each level. The only bad thing about this game is that you cannot save even the level 
 that you are at. So if you are in the end of a level and have to shut your DS off then you are 
 out of luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Now I have played the NES Pinball on Animal Crossing and both pinball games with the words Pokemon 
 in front of them but I can tell you that there is no pinball like Metroid Prime pinball. So yeah 
 pinball has had a huge letdown in video gaming but still is probably one of the most popular things 
 to do in arcades. Until now no other game has brought pinball to a console sucuessfully. First 
 off the game is pretty tough at first then gets easy enough for you to get good at. But then just 
 when you finally mastered it all and beat Metroid Prime herself, you unlock the expert mode andstart 
 all over from the begining. You might find it hard to keep track of the ball while looking at the 
 best graphics ever to hit a handheld. Take that PSP! But seriously I was amazed that the graphics 
 could be so amazing on the DS. But you know what I always say. Graphics are worth crap. Gameplay 
 is the thing that matters and belive me the gameplay is awesome. Most pinball games suffer from 
 the screen shape though this problem is easily resolved thanks to the 2 DS screens. The sound is 
 another remarkable leap in the DS's technology though you'll wish that there was a different song 
 every once in a while when you send the game to up to seven other players in the wireless mode. 
 Speaking of multi-player, that would be the most disapointing aspect of the game. Though you have 
 up to 8 players at once you have only one stage and game mode to do this on. If you want a great 
 pinball game, a great game in general, or just the free rumble pack then you should pick up this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinter4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  So your bored and you have 20 minutes. Well thats when metroid prime pinball should be played. 
 The game is a fun way to basically kill time! Nothing but your basic pinball game with a uh..... metroid 
 twist!
  If you like playing pinball at your local arcade then this is the game for you. The right and left 
 triggers are used for the left and right flippers (duh) , and the rest of the game (combat, mini games, 
 etc.) revolves around the triggers, leaving much less then expected! Also some of the mini games 
 are just stupid! I would hope they make the gameplay better for the next metroid prime pinball. 
 
  On the positive side, it is a time killer! It is an easy way to have some fun on those boring days 
 at the office! And who can argue with a good game of pinball, eh. So it is a fun game overall! 
 I give it a 7.6 out of 10!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 26, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  i admit that I love pinball, but this is above and beyond even what I would have hoped for. The 
 game makes great use of the two screens, and does a top notch job of keeping the perspective a 
 pinball table with the ball "receding" as it moves to the top screen.
  
  It also does very good job of keeping a "Metroid" feel to the game, with an identical grapics style 
 and sound as well as the items you pickup and use in the game. The enemies are the classics that 
 you would expect out of Metroid Prime one, and that includes a few bosses.
  
  Overall this is more than just a reat pinball game, it's a must have for any Metroid fan as well!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Metriod Prime: Pinball is a great pinball game by itself. Then add look a like levels from all the 
 metiod games, the ball, being Samus in ball form, and bosses and enemies scene in the other Metriod 
 games. Metriod Prime : Pinball also includes a rumble pack that makes the game feel more like a 
 real pinball game. The Game Play is very fun and will have you coming back to it frequently. The 
 thing that doesn't make the Game Play amazing is, there are only two tables to choose from every 
 time you start the game, which is very stupid. You can unlock more as the game goes on, but the 
 first two levels get boarding and repetitive after a while. The object of this game is to collect 
 artifacts that will unlock a new level. You can get artifacts by beating bosses, playing these 
 in game mini games where Samus comes out of the ball and goes into regular standing mode and you 
 shoot enemies or you will be jumping off walls to reach the artifact at the top. The Graphics are 
 amazing. The visual aspect of the game is probably the best part. It looks like you are actually 
 playing a small pinball game. The tables light up and do everything right. The table design is 
 great, but as I said before, the first two become boarding after awhile. The pinball physics are 
 mastered and could not be beat. The rumble pack also adds to the Graphical value to make it feel 
 and look as real as possible. There is one bad thing about the rumble pack, if you turn the game 
 volume off or very low, when it rumbles you will hear a jittery/shaky sound coming from the pack. 
 The sound of the game is another high point of the game. The sound you would hear at a real pinball 
 table you hear in the game. This adds a ton to the game and the all around experience of the game. 
 The value of this game is really not that high due to the repetitive first two levels, but there 
 is a mode where you just try to beat your high score, and in the regular mode once you begin to 
 unlock new levels it begins to get better. The amount of fun you will have in this game is up to 
 if you like metriod or pinball. I recommend this game to those who love pinball, Metriod, or metriod 
 and pinball. If you do not like any of those things this is probably not the game for you.
  
  Cover Artwork ~B-~ Samus looking over a pinball table, describes the game perfectly but is 
 missing something.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paronga
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  The Good: Awesome graphics, convincing pinball physics, fun nostalgic Metroid twists to the already 
 great pinball, Brings back memories of the best Metroid game.. Metroid Prime, Spectacular Rock n' 
 Roll Remix's of Music from the Metroid game makes for quite possibly the best sound track, can 
 be quikc pick up and play or can make for long marathon gameplay, Its Pinball with Metroid awesomness... Doesnt 
 get much better than that!
  
  The Bad: Only two main tables to chose from tho there are five other tables you can access by doing 
 certain tasks, may be too difficult for some players.
  
  Pinball has been in our arcade machines for decades and has wore such charecter skins like, Lord 
 of the rings, and House of the dead, and over the years nintendo has adopted the Pinball craze 
 and has applied some of its memorable franchises to the formula such as Pokemon Pinball, Pinball 
 of the dead, Sonic pinball party, and Mario pinball. Samus pleased us all with her first Nintendo 
 DS debut with Metroid Prime Hunetrs First Hunt, and now she brings us a new twist with total innovation, 
 by transforming into morph ball and kicking some metroid ass.
  
  For those of you not fermilliar with the Metroid series, Samus is an interstellar bounty hunter 
 who works for the intergalactic federation. SHE is equiped with the power suit provided by the 
 Chozo people of Tallon IV. This unique suit has several abilities in which samus has to her disposal, 
 such as her Morph ball ability, which is the form samus takes for the majority of the game since 
 it is Pinball.
  
  There are two different single player modes in this game. Multi Mission and Single Mission. Multi 
 Mission is where you'll be spending most of your time with Metroid Prime Pinball. You'll be able 
 to chose out of two tables... Talon Overworld or Space Pirate Frigate. You will notice that when 
 you pick your table there is a gigantic map, and the two tables only take up about one third of 
 it. The rest of the map is a culmination of almost a dozen extra tables which are accessible after 
 you get a certain amount of score, and are also playable in single mission mode. To get score (everyone 
 should know this) you flick the morph balled samus around either by using L for the left and R 
 for the right, or alternatively A for right and Left on the D pad for left, to hit bumpers, and 
 rotate flipers. Like most Pinball games Metroid Prime Pinball has a large, intracate scoring system. 
 You will be able to get high jackpot, and super jackpot scores with the clone multiball, and by 
 playing the small challanging mini games like space pirate panic, where you have to flick yourself 
 up to hurt and defeat three space pirates, revealing an artifact which will instantly give you 
 a large score bonus.
  
  Whats really great and appealing about Metroid Prime Pinball is not only is it incredibly immersive, 
 but the attention in detail refering to Metroid Prime. For each table it has remix's of the original 
 music depending on which location of the original prime game the table is based on, and for the 
 Space Pirate Frigate a new Rock n' Roll remix of the original games brinstar level theme. The graphics 
 are spectacular. The visuals bring back all your favourite memories from Metroid prime and is true 
 to the metroid environments. Not only are the graphics and soundtrack true to the metroid franchise 
 but so are the mini games. For instance, you get to shoot a whole bunch of parasite in Space Pirate 
 Frigate, and you'll be able to use screw attack to attain an artifact, and not only that but on 
 the secondary tables you will have a showdown with the rock monster in Phandrana drifts or the 
 Omega Pirate from the Phazon Mines. Of course it will take some practice before your good enough 
 to get tons of score and get all the artifacts and tables, but all in all it is an incredibly fun 
 experience
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball is a suprisingly fun experience that will almost never get boring striving 
 to getting all the artifacts, and unlocking all the tables and even once youve done all that, it 
 is still a fun pick up and play experience rather your catching the bus somewhere or your trying 
 to beat your high score it will always make for exhilirating Metroid fun. Not only that but if 
 you have a friend.... or seven... than you can play multiplayer with them and get the most score 
 you can get, but unfortunately only on one table.
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball is a game for anyone of any age, and can be played anytime any place. hopefully 
 they'll make Metroid Prime Pinball 2: Echoes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninguy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of pinball games. I'm also a fan of Metroid Prime, so I picked this game 
 up. To my surprise, it's actually pretty fun.
  
  There really is no story to the game. You use Samus's Morph Ball as the pinball. There are two 
 main tables you can choose from, which have different scenarios and different locations you can 
 warp to in each one. You can use the control pad or the R and L buttons to use the flippers.
  
  The premise sounds overly simple, but it's very addictive. You'll find yourself coming back 
 for more each time you play. It's very hard to put down. So, all in all, it's a fun and addicting 
 game for Metroid or pinball fans. At 20 bucks, at most places, it's a very good value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willdyer10
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime was one of the best and most popular games on the Nintendo Gamecube. Pinball was 
 one of the best and most popular games at bars, pool halls, and arcades during the later half of 
 the twentieth century. It therefore might come as a surprise that Nintendo and developer Fuse Games 
 have combined these games in Metroid Prime Pinball for the Nintendo DS. Perhaps the biggest surprise 
 at all is the success to which this ambitious concept has been pulled off. Rich in content, Metroid 
 Prime Pinball is a highly addictive game that perfectly portrays elements of both Pinball and Metroid 
 Prime.
  
  First and foremost, Metroid Prime Pinball is a pinball game. Samus Aran, the hero from the Metroid 
 series, rolls into her trademark ball-form and bounces around the inside of a pinball machine. 
 Most stages feature two sets of flippers (one at the bottom of the screen and one somewhere at 
 the top) which are intuitively controlled using either the L and R shoulder buttons, or the left 
 button on the d-pad and the A button. The action takes place simultaneously on both screens of 
 the DS, as the standard rectangular pinball machine has been stretched out over both the top and 
 bottom screen. 
  
  The primary objective, as with any classic game of pinball, is to amass as many points as possible. 
 This is done through traditional means (maneuvering through loops, bouncing off bumpers) as well 
 as through means undeniably Metroidian (fighting Space Pirates, collecting Artifacts) . While most 
 of the action is standard pinball fare, Samus can lay bombs to defeat enemies lurking around each 
 stage. In mini-games which crop up in the middle of pinball sessions, Samus will stand-up in a 
 stationary position to launch missiles and beam attacks at onslaughts of enemies and bosses. The 
 DSs touch screen is utilized as a tilt mechanism, as drawing ones finger across the screen 
 will slightly shake the pinball table in the same direction. Each stage is extremely well designed 
 with very natural physics and a great amount to do and see. 
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball is undeniably a Metroid game, despite this extreme break from its roots in 
 the adventure genre. Each stage is modeled after a locale in Metroid Prime, with each stage boasting 
 fantastic remixed tracks of music from the same game. Each stage looks gorgeous, with rich colors 
 and detailed backgrounds that help draw players into the game. All in all, there are 7 stages in 
 the game, each boasting a very unique feel and purpose (traditional stage, boss stage, multiplayer 
 stage, etc) .
  
  There are three different modes of game play in Metroid Prime Pinball. Multi Mission mode is the 
 campaign mode, where you navigate through a series of stages collecting artifacts and defeating 
 bosses, leading to a final battle against the Metroid Prime. Single Mission mode is a chance to 
 try to earn as many points as possible on a single stage that has been unlocked in Multi Mission 
 mode. Wireless Mission mode is the multiplayer feature of Metroid Prime Pinball. In this mode, 
 up to 8 players can compete using a single copy of the game, racing to amass a selected amount 
 of points before the other competitors. Playing against other people can be a lot of fun, although 
 only one stage is available to select in this mode. The level is a lot of fun, and different from 
 those found in the single player missions, but the lack of stages limits the replay value of this 
 option.
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball is an intuitive game that not only looks and sounds great, but captures the 
 essence of both classic pinball, as well as Metroid Prime. Extremely addictive, this game is perfect 
 for fans of puzzle games, pinball games, and those with a love of the Metroid franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played a pinball game before then you will probaly know what to expect from this 
 game. All the old stuff from the arcades and some other new features. Now instead of scoring the 
 highest score which is boring, you have monsters and bosses that you need to kill which is awsome. 
 The other feature is the ability to have a wireless battle against your friends.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are actually very good. The menues look unbelivible good, the 
 balls and the machines are amazing and bosses are kind of dissapointment but still it's really 
 fun.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game will be very familiar to the older gamers out there. The sound effects 
 are really good and the music is decent for a game that is on the Nintendo DS system.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The number of stages in the 
 game is really big and the ability to play wireless against your friends will make you come for 
 more
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is the best pinball game out there and if you are a pinball 
 fan or just a metroid fan then you should probaly want to go and try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Metroid. Prime. Pinball? This is an awesome game, and must have for ds owners and metroid fans 
 alike! Metroid translates suprising well into an arcade style pinball sim. Their are cool mini-games, 
 that let you solve platform puzzles, and even shoot stuff! This is a solid game overall. Nothing 
 is really wrong with it. Their is even wireless multiplayer that results only in pure awesomeness. 
 You can unlock harder difficulities, new courses and all sorts of great stuff. This should hold 
 any Metroid fan untill they can get their hands of Metroid Prime Hunters. What are you waiting 
 for, go out and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is a great pinball game, but sadly after a few hours of play IT ENDS. While 
 Metroid Pinball lasts it does offer up a fresh new spin on pinball with full boss battles and such, 
 but sadly it is still loosely restricted by pinball's restrictions. I'm not saying Metroid Pinball 
 is bad for the fact that Metroid is fantastic for pinball but that doesn't make that memorable 
 in the long run. Som ub conclusion Metroid Prime Pinball is a good, solid title that just doesn't 
 last long enough to recommend purchasing this game unless you are a huge Nintendo fan or just a 
 huge fan of Pinball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShenlongBo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Of all of Nintendo's mascots, Samus Aran of Metroid fame has to be the most no-nonsense, serious-as-a-heart 
 attack character of them all. Why it is, then, that Nintendo would allow for her to be dropped 
 into the care-free world of pinball (by a third-party developer, no less) was a very puzzling piece 
 of news to hear in '05. Still, we can't always help what the fat cats at the top of the industry 
 want to peddle to us, so all any of us could to was to watch and wait with cautious optimism as 
 the release date of Metroid Prime Pinball loomed ever nearer.
  
  There are four modes of play in Metroid Prime Pinball, though they don't vary one from the other 
 by much. In Multi Mission mode the idea is to perform feats of pinball badness across the Metroid 
 Prime universe all the while battling metroids, space pirates and boss characters like the monstrous 
 Omega Pirate and the mighty Metroid Prime. Depending on the table you choose to play, Single Mission 
 mode is either a standard game of pinball that takes place on a single table, or it's an attempt 
 to quickly beat down one of the bosses. With a beginning stock of three balls, the goal is to try 
 to earn higher and higher scores (or better and better times beating the bosses) so you can prove 
 once and for all what you've always known: that you are the heat. Finally, the wireless mission, 
 as expected, is this title's multiplayer option. Up to eight players can link up via LAN off of 
 one game card and play in a race to reach a goal score of 100,000 points. Players can send metroids 
 to each others' tables to try to interrupt their progress, but aside from lots of tash talkin', 
 that's about as far as actual in-game interaction gets, which is a shame. As fun as this multiplayer 
 selection is, some variety in the direction of a survival mode, team mode, or even a time trial 
 mode, for example, would have made it essential instead of just amusing. 
  
  Prime Pinball's single biggest success is in how it melds classic pinball convention -- keep hitting 
 the ball so you can earn big points -- with newfangled concepts -- stand up and shoot the shriekbats. 
 The flippers are commanded either by pressing the shoulder buttons, using the directional pad, 
 pressing the A button (right flipper only) , or any combination thereof. A nifty little Rumble Pak 
 is also bundled with the game when you buy it new, fitting snugly within the DS' Game Boy Advance 
 slot. As Samus bounds about the table, striking bumpers and bad guys, the Rumble Pak translates 
 the action into small bursts of vibration in a commendable touch of realism. The final effort toward 
 authenticity lies in the ability to slide your thumb, stylus, nose, or whatever else across the 
 bottom screen to "tilt" the table. All of these elements come together to make an unusually tactile 
 handheld-pinball package. 
  
  Regardless of any inventive twists a video pinball game allows, without believable pinball physics 
 like ball momentum, trajectory, and ricochet angle, a pinball sim is a lost cause. Needless to 
 say, the physics in this game are top-tier, with only a couple of rare quirks cropping up. In fact, 
 the authentic feel of Metroid Prime Pinball is so convincing that it could easily be mistaken for 
 a real pinball machine if not for the host of minigames that could only occur in a video game. 
 The minigames are infused into the game to increase potential point gain as well as to maintain 
 a constant frenetic pace. For example, tripping a set of sensors on a given table will cause a 
 special icon to appear dead center and just above the two main flippers that cues Samus rise to 
 her feet and blast oncoming swarms beetles for a brief period. Other times, metroids themselves 
 may float onscreen ghosting perilously in an attempt to either ricochet Samus down the hatch, or 
 grasp onto her and drain her energy. Phazon Multiball is a special mode of play where Samus splits 
 into two individual balls, one red and one blue, and darts around the board collecting like-colored 
 Phazon deposits strewn about it. Fast-paced enough to be engaging; brief enough to enjoy over and 
 over again, these new-school twists suit aged conventions with perfection.
  
  There are many video game counterparts to pinball, but in this particular one the action is split 
 up between two screens. The dual-screen setup is ideal because it offers a more convincing resemblance 
 to real-life machines, and also because it allows for a better volume of graphical detail. Any 
 concern for confusion during dual-screened pinballing can be dismissed here and now. Although there 
 is a momentary "float" that occurs as Samus barrels from screen to screen, the transition is so 
 fast and fluid that it's scarcely detectable. During the slower moments, Samus might dwindle in 
 the purgatory between the screens, but it's an uncommon occurence that only slightly diminishes 
 the flow of the game. 
  
  The menu interface draws its influence from Metroid Prime. Just as the tilt function and the Rumble 
 Pak magnify the authenticity of the pinball side of the game, the orange and blue approximations 
 of enemies and maps, drawn in thin, precise lines like blueprints, emphasize the Metroid in it. 
 Inside the game, all of the creature, ball, and flipper animations flow smoothly and quickly as 
 enemies amble, float, dig, and dance atop the incredible hybrid landscapes. But best of all are 
 the tables themselves, each of which boasts beautiful hand-drawn visuals whose detailed and colorful 
 artistry resonate with the ring of dedicated craftsmanship. There may not be much to gawk at from 
 a technical point of view, but artistically, these visuals rock. 
  
  There is quite a bit going on with the sounds in this game as well, and the aural presentation 
 is thoroughly impressive. If you don't have a decent headset to listen to your handheld games with, 
 now's the time to think about getting one. The Metroid n' rock tunes and the pinball sound effects 
 are so seamlessly grafted together that it's worth doling out a few extra bucks to hear them properly 
 -- in stereo, fully detailed, nice n' loud. The incessant chirping of the Rumble Pak is the knock 
 against Prime Pinball's audio. Even still, without headphones, and with the DS' volume turned all 
 the way up, the chatter is easy to ignore.
  
  Beat the Multi Mission mode, unlock all the tables, best the final boss, and finally wind up with 
 an almost-no-frills game of pinball. While the absence of a WiFi leaderboard is regrettable, the 
 natural inclination to play pinball and earn rad scores still provides massive replay incentive. 
 A more robust multiplayer component would have given the game even more lasting value, but it's 
 still tremendously addictive to play and comes as a welcome addition to the main game. There are 
 sure to be many games in the DS' bright future that will make some use of a rumble feature as well, 
 so having the Rumble Pak bundled in with the game for free makes this purchase a no-brainer.
  
  All in all, Metroid Prime Pinball is a gem. There are those of us who foresaw a disastrous 
 repeat of countless attempts at mixing mascots with pinball, and those who didn't care either way. 
 It's unlikely that any gamer believed Samus in morph ball mode could be made into a passable pinball, 
 that her world could be reduced respectfully to a silverball playground, or that this game could 
 ever be better than second-rate. Yet developer Fuse Games, care of Nintendo, made this unimaginable 
 duo work splendidly. It's not a perfect game by any stretch, but even for passing pinball fans, 
 or even pedestrian Metroid fans for that matter, Metroid Prime Pinball is a worthy DS selection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robio_basic
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball was quite a surprise. I never would have expected that video pinball could 
 come so close to emulating the real thing, but the developers Fuse did a fantastic job. With the 
 rumble pack the game comes as close to feeling like real pinball as a videogame can be. It's just 
 a shame that there's not more to the game.
  
  There are several pinball boards, but really only two of them offer much play-time. Others are 
 for boss battles that will require you to shoot Samus up to the second screen to hit the boss a 
 few times, and then back off while you wait for your next opportunity to attack. After you've beaten 
 the boss on those levels a couple times, it gets old and actually becomes the least enjoyable part 
 of the game. The two main boards are pretty good, but have limited features, and it doesn't take 
 long to feel like you've done it all.
  
  The game does look good though, and as I mentioned the physics are incredible. Flippers are controlled 
 with the L and R buttons, the touch pad is used for tilting the board, and the dual screen gives 
 the game the length/height that gives it that much more of a real pinball feel. The rumble pack 
 makes you feel the impacts right where you'd expect a real pinball machine to give you a jolt. 
 The only thing missing is the ability to launch the ball yourself (it's done automatically at the 
 start of each round) . 
  
  The gameplay is excellent, and something that all pinball fans should experience. But it's hard 
 for me to honestly say to go out and buy. Another 2 real pinball boards would have helped the game 
 immensely. Instead it's just a little too short and aside from beating your old high score, there's 
 not much to do after 10 hours of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusfreak01
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Pinball is a great game, nice graphics, nice sound, and great innovative pinball 
 gameplay. There's a lot of cool Metroid touches to this game that make it feel a lot like a Metroid 
 title should. For starters the levels can be recognized from Metroid prime, hence the title Metroid 
 Prime: Pinball. The ball in this game is also Samus in pinball mode, duh! It's cool though because 
 I don't think any other regular pinballs can lay . Eat that, Mario Pinball Land! And of course 
 there are other cool innovative features like coming out of that cramped up ball for a minute to 
 shoot some space aliens, bugs, and other traditional baddies from the Metroid series. You can also 
 get a missle and power upgrade to help you out in your time of need. This makes it sound like an 
 awesome game right? Well it's fun, it's well done, but it dosen't last long at all. While it has 
 quite a few nice creative Metroid touches to the gameplay, the length and small varitey brings 
 it down a noch. Fun or not, playing the same 7 or so levels over and over again gets kind of boring 
 after a while. I mean, I don't know if I did something wrong, (prrretty sure I didn't) but there 
 is only about 7 levels, none that challenging and it's over before you can blink. The features 
 are great but there's not enough game behind them to give you the whole experience you should get 
 out of a game. It's so short it feels like it's just a demo. Nintendo just kinda missed it here, 
 and unless you're an EXTREME Metroid aholic, you probably shouldn't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V_J
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is one of those games that is not out to break new ground. Its sole purpose 
 is to be a fun game of pinball, and to that end, it succeeds.
  
  All the tables throughout the game are based on the smash hit Metroid Prime, and converted into 
 some rather unique looking tables. As with any game of pinball, the main objective is to achieve 
 the highest score possible with a given number of morph balls. This number can be increased by 
 accumulating a certain amount of points or from random prizes. 
  
  The only drawback it has is that it is sometimes too easy to lose the ball. This can happen when 
 the ball is moving too fast, the ball falls where the flippers can't reach it, or one of those 
 pesky triclops grabs hold and drops the ball through the bottom. 
  
  Despite the frustrating moments, Metroid Prime Pinball is a great game that Metroid fans and pinball 
 fans will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arber91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This is the only pinball game I own, and ever pinball game I ever play will now be compared to 
 this game. It is just that much fun. 
  
  I the graphics, in my opinion, are on par with some PSP games. This game truely bring the DS's 
 graphical capabilities to a peak that will be hard to surpass. The gameplay is fairly simple. You 
 use 2 designated buttons for the flippers, and then you have the bombs, super bombs, and missiles 
 which will help you defeat enemies/bosses. It gives you that great Metroid music that you have 
 grown to love from playing ever single metroid game possible. The game isn't hard to just pick 
 up and play if you have an extra few minutes. My concerns are that the game is short, and that 
 download-play aren't too good. But the game does have an extra difficulty setting, as for the download-play 
 problems, there is no solution.
  
  Don't let those 2 minor problems stop you from getting this game. If you are one of those people 
 who finds themself waiting in the dr.'s office before your oppointment all the time, this game 
 is a must have to pass the time by instead of listening to the 3-year-old next to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  MPP is addictive. MPP is more addoctive than the  !
  If you want to get MARIO PINBALL LAND (8.9)   or
  get MPP! Even thou both games are great! Here 
 read my review. Of my 2nd game to get a perfect. 
  
  Gameplay: This game is highly addictive. Ther is plently of stuff to do in it. Collect artifacts 
 get the upgrades and battle the bosses. You can even go into "combat mode" and shoot some "METROID" 
 enemies.
  
  GRAPHICS: OH MY GOSH... These graphics are amazing. Fully 3D. The game looks like a GCN game. AMAZING!
 
  
  Sound: PERFECTION! ROCK'n roll. Metroid music is always awesome. Pinball isn't awesome.
  
  Value: Defentily lives up to the METROID name. Sets a standard for pinball games on the DS.
 
  
  I LOVE METROID! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I've been struggling with how to write a review for a game that isn't really a game. Sure, pinball 
 is fun and it is a game... but playing pinball on the DS is a unique experience. I have been skeptical 
 about this game for quite some time, but I finally got a chance to rent it and try it out for a 
 few weeks and I came off loving the experience overall.
  
  Like I said in the 'preview' text, the last pinball game I played at home was Devil's Crush for 
 the Turbo Grafx 16. I absolutely loved this game because I didn't get to go to arcades as often 
 as I wanted. Metroid Prime Pinball excels at everything it sets out to do and uses the Metroid 
 license very cleverly. The shoulder buttons act as the flippers and every once in awhile you'll 
 use the face buttons to use Samus' other weapons.
  
  Gameplay is simple enough, and it should come to no surprise to anyone that has even seen a pinball 
 game before. Beyond the basics, there are lots of little touches that make this game stand out, 
 though. There are multiple levels to go to once you've fulfilled your bounty in the current level. 
 There are even some boss-type battles, which cuts the droll of regular pinball action nicely. During 
 these battles you are sometimes given the opportunity to unroll and fire your normal weapons. It's 
 a really nice simple touch that makes the experience very fulfilling and will keep you coming back.
 
  
  One thing that I don't really like about the game is space between the paddles. Countless times 
 the ball would just shoot right between them with no way of me saving it. The developers obviously 
 knew this because most of the time you have a force field between the paddles to keep it from happening. 
 When the force field is gone, chances are you'll lose the life pretty quickly. While I realize 
 this is standard pinball etiquette... It seems like the space between them is too great. There is 
 almost nothing you can do to keep from dying. It's frusterating, but again, keeps you wanting more.
 
  
  Some other gripes I have are the times between screens. You just disappear for a half second or 
 something... It isn't a big deal but it is disorienting for a bit. The level of difficulty is kinda 
 high too, extra balls don't happen til 2 million, which doesn't sound like much, but it is. Pinball 
 games for me always have huge scores, but this game just kinda plugs along with a few hundred points 
 here and there. It's not really a bad thing, it's just kinda unpinballish.
  
  While the game is fun and it's a great game for the DS, it does have some problems. I don't know 
 if it's right for everyone, I'm not sure if I'm going to buy it right away, I'll probably wait 
 til it's under $30. However, if you're a DS owner looking for something new to play, I would highly 
 recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spudmaster28
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Back in the christmas of 2004, when i first got my DS, i popped in the metroid prime: hunters demo. 
 As i was enjoying the handheld metriod experience, i had no idea that two years later i would be 
 popping in a fresh copy of this game in pinball form.
  
  When i first bought it, i was skeptical. The reviews said it was great, but my gut told me to stay 
 away. I bought it anyway, and i have not regretted it since. It creates an addicting metriod-like 
 experience. The unique sense of playing metriod and pinball in the same game is exciting and new. 
 You start out with two tables, pirate frigate and tallon overworld, and two single player game 
 modes, single mission and multi mission. At first i tried pirate frigate, but i wasn't impressed, 
 so i tried tallon overworld, and that is where the awesomeness this game creates begins. The reason 
 i switched is because tallon overwold is slightly easier, but this doesn't pose a problem after 
 practice is put into this experience. Both tables provied sufficient fun for hours of play, at 
 least that depends on your skills wth pinball. Later in the game, after playing multi-mission mode, 
 you can unlock 4 additional tables, but instead of trying to get a high score, you try to complete 
 the objective in the fastest time you can.
  
  This game is fun and addicting, and if you are a fan of metriod and/or pinball, BUY THIS GAME, 
 if not, you might just want to stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  DS owners, you're in for a real treat. Nintendo now brings us Metroid Prime Pinball for the Nintendo 
 DS! 
  Now, when this game was first announced (simply called 'Metroid Pinball') , there was a LOT of doubt 
 and discouragement towards the game, most likely because nobody really liked the earlier Mario 
 Pinball Land. Now the tables have turned, because this is the BEST pinball game on ANY system! 
 
  Playing Metroid Prime Pinball is a lot like replaying Metroid Prime. You must go through the various 
 different regions and eventually defeat Metroid Prime. You even collect different items as you 
 play the main adventure! (Such as Missiles, Power Bombs, and the Force Ball, which is new to the 
 series.) The Force Ball item is very similar to the "Death Ball" from MP2E's multiplayer; it instantly 
 kills enemies and heavily damages bosses. The only exception is that Samus has green electricity 
 all around her. 
  Now, this being a pinball game, Samus is in her Morph Ball mode most of the time. That means she's 
 free to drop bombs and Power Bombs (one only) freely. Most of your missions require careful thinking 
 and planning and timing, but the missions are straightforward and somewhat easy. There's two "main" 
 tables, four "boss" tables, and a bonus third main table only playable in wireless multiplayer. 
 All of the tables represent a different region from Metroid Prime. The two main tables are the 
 Tallon Overworld (my personal favorite) , and the Pirate Frigate. They both include a number of 
 minigames at a shot to rack up some big points. The boss tables are Phendrana Drifts, where you 
 face off with the rock golem Thardus (also the stage where you aquire the Power Bomb) , Phazon Mines 
 where you take on the dreaded Omega Pirate (the place where you get Missiles) , the Artifact Temple, 
 which technically you face off with Meta-Ridley, but it's more of a six-ball minigame where you 
 activate 12 towers, and finally, the Impact Crater, where you take on the two forms of Metroid 
 Prime (and aquire the Force Ball) . The multiplayer-only table is Magmoor Caverns, but it's very 
 plain and watered-down, probably because it's single-card multiplayer. But really, when searching 
 for opponents, you get to hear the awesome theme to Magmoor Caverns, but when actually playing 
 in the table, the music is the "Hunters" theme from MP2E. What the heck?! 
  Of course, the entire game isn't limited to being a Morph Ball. There's a Combat mode where Samus 
 will get in her regular form, and you participate in a shoot-out for points, or to deal some damage 
 to a boss. In this mode, you can fire your Missiles. In main tables, you'll probably end up completely 
 wasting them, but in boss tables, they can deal a nick of damage. 
  Not everybody is great at pinball, so people might get frusterated. I know I do in the "Shriekbat 
 Shootout".  _  
  Graphically, the game is pretty amazing. There's a lot of detail in every stage, so every stage 
 looks gorgeous. The Artifact Temple might have used a little more work, however. No blurs or slowdown 
 whatsoever. 
  You won't BELIEVE the music! Most (actually, I think all) of the music from Metroid Prime has been 
 put into the game, and MP2E's title music was put in as this game's title music as well. Of course, 
 they don't sound as good as the originals, but come pretty darn close to. Character sounds could 
 have used much more work, however. 
  The game also includes the Nintendo DS Rumble Pak, and is fully compatable with it. Although it 
 makes more noise than rumble, it's still a nice addition for the Nintendo DS. The only other game 
 that uses it right now is Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time, so hopefully we'll see some more good 
 games use it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptorrogue
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  For you Metroid Prime fans disappointed that Metroid Prime Hunters isn't going to make it to shelves 
 this holiday season, Nintendo might have a game to console you - in pinball form. That's right, 
 the no-nonsense worlds Samus Aran blasts through have been tossed into a cosmic Margarita mixer, 
 shaken vigorously and poured lovingly into a pinball machine. If you have reservations, never fear, 
 the oh-so-cleverly-dubbed Metroid Prime Pinball takes a crazy idea and molds it into a game that 
 works in classic Metroid fashion.
  
  To start, Samus herself shows up in morph ball form, a traditional Metroid trademark that Fuse 
 Games takes full advantage of. Samus blasting around the table will bring back memories of our 
 favorite female bounty hunter zooming through alien tunnels at lightning speeds. Storywise, there's 
 not really much to speak of, but its "multi-table mode" will highlight key points in Prime and 
 throughout the game you'll be faced with familiar environments and enemies you've played before. 
 I was pleased to see that the features that are most unique to Metroid fit neatly and appropriately 
 into the pinball/arcade frame.
  
  The gameplay is simply rock solid pinball at its core (Fuse did an excellent job mimicking real 
 pinball physics) , but it also includes a few enhancements Metroid fans are sure to get a kick out 
 of. You'll follow the usual struggle of keeping the pinball (or in this case, morph ball) from 
 going down the gutter as you hit electrified parts of the scenery to collect points. However, the 
 game throws in some twists that can' t be replicated on a pinball table. Get ready to be attacked 
 by fully animated enemies jumping, floating and crawling around while you bump around the table. 
 As a pleasant bonus there are shoot -em-up sequences where Samus pulls out of morph ball form and 
 starts blasting away at wave after wave of alien foes. All this is fairly entertaining, but what 
 really steals the show are the boss battles which pit Samus against the bigger-than-life bosses 
 of Metroid Prime. 
  
  Another great aspect of Metroid Prime Pinball is that it takes advantage of the Nintendo DS's unique 
 hardware. The most evident is the use of both screens where the player can view the pinball table 
 across the screens vertically; the top part of the DS shows a slightly tilted view of the table 
 which gives the feeling of having a pinball machine in your hands. To add to this, Nintendo also 
 provided a rumble pack with the game, which for the most part works well in bolstering the experience, 
 but makes a somewhat odd buzzing sound. Regardless, it adds a nice value to Metroid Pinball since 
 the only other way to pick up a Nintendo DS rumble pak is to order it off the Internet. 
  
  Graphically everything looks great despite the fact that the backgrounds are obviously prerendered. 
 Still, everything else still seems to fit into the scenery, rather then float above it. The sound 
 design goes hand-in-hand with the graphics, and is a solid and definite fan pleaser. The moody, 
 atmospheric music of Metroid Prime is nicely remixed with a more action/arcade-like flair. The 
 rest of the sound design contains all the familiar blast, bleeps, and alien chirps found in the 
 series.
  
  Unfortunately, while Metroid Pinball is a full-featured, well-presented game, there are only two 
 boards available initially in single-mode and only one available for wireless multiplayer. Although 
 multi-table does offer a few additional tables to the single player, the multiplayer mode can become 
 a thin novelty after a few rounds because it is limited to one table. So as far as replay value 
 is concerned, this is a great pick-up-and-play game for a lone pinball veteran. However, if pinball 
 play isn't your cup of tea, you may get bored or even frustrated before you get accomplished enough 
 to unlock new tables. The bottom line is that if you are a fan of Metroid and even causally like 
 to play pinball, you will become quickly addicted to aiding Samus in her quest to kick alien butt.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemist007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay, here it is.
  Where to start... oh yeah. 
  1. Mechanics: they have even said on gamespot that this game has lifelike physics to where it feels 
 like a real pinball game. It also comes w/ a rumble pack that you fit into the GBA slot and makes 
 it feel even more realistic. By the way the rumble pack makes a chirping sound that can be annoying 
 at low volume, but you'll get used to it.
  
  2. Gameplay: this is a very hard game to just pick it up and play, but once you get the hang of 
 it, it's fun. You go through the game collecting artifacts and facing up against the classic bosses (Omega 
 Pirate, Thardus, and Metroid Prime) just like the gamecube version. To get the artifacts you do 
 mini-missions like destroy a certain amount of space pirates, or killing triclops in a certain 
 amount of time. It is very hard to get all the artifacts (took me about 10 tries w/out dieing) to 
 gain access to the artifact temple.
  
  3. Value: a very good game for veteran Metroid fans and new. Also the replay value is also fun (the 
 game actually never ends) so you can try to get a higher score every time. The multiplayer is addictive 
 too. Also it brought me about 15 hrs of enjoyment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Highly addictive, but not enough of it.
  
  It doesn't make much use of the touch-screen feature of the DS but the dual-screen fits perfect 
 for the tall nature of a pinball table (though there is annoying unseen space between them) . 
 
  
  I've never played any of the other Metroid games but I do know that the main character can turn 
 into a ball. You play that ball in this game (or just control the flippers that move it) and the 
 tables are brilliantly done and are full of wild features. However, there are only 2 main tables, 
 with a couple of extra bonus tables. Which is a bit of a let down since they could have crammed 
 loads of crazy environments on there but we only get 2. 
  
  Yes the game is very, very addictive but since it's so short it will only have a limited lifespan. 
 Pick it up cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troll_jackal
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  This is a very good pinball game. You get a rumble pack with it, and the DS's two screens make 
 it feel like an actual pinball table. The graphics are excellent and have not a bad bit on them, 
 and the sound effects and music are first class. To top it off, it has download, single card play 
 to compete against friends.
  The game is set around you playig a samus in ball mode to collect artifacts across various tables. 
 When all 12 artifacts are collected, you go to fight the space pirates leader and then the big 
 leader. You collect artifacts by completing missions and defeating bosse and mini-games. All of 
 these missions are good, with the boss battles a stand-out for me compared to lame boss battles 
 and missions as in Mario Kart.. 
  You omplete missions to get artifacts using a combination of items, transforming into combat mode 
 (samus normally with a blaster, but can't move) and hitting enemies in morph ball and using bombs. 
 The bombs are a real nice addition, as you can propel youself over attacks and take out enemies. 
 Each of the enemies are good, from the tough metroids to the flimsy but nimble space pirates, shooting 
 homing missiles. You can lose a ball by either falling through the middle or by loing health. All 
 this adds up to a realtively deep pinball game, and the flawless graphics sprawled over a table 
 on both screens. 
  The touch screen isn't particularly well utilised, as it is only used for nudges, and you want 
 to be able to use bombs at a pinch to kill enemies. The game is also far too short, with only 5 
 tables and the big boss that I could find in the game, and an additional table (but pretty bland) 
 for download play. Even then, two of these are boss battles. Also, the actual tables felt very 
 small for the scale, with most ramps feeling crammed together. For a sequal, I hope they reduce 
 the scale for bigger tables, and at least triple the tables available. For a bit of variety, you 
 can have normal, metroid platform missions as some mini-games (e. g. 2D) to collect artifacts,.
 
  Overall a very nice game, and I hope they do a sequal to make it a bit better value for money., 
 as it is way too small for 470 Australian.
  
  http://spaces. msn. com/trolljackal/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I do consider myself a fan of pinball games... I still visit the local arcade every now and again, 
 dropping a few quarters in the best machines. When Metriod Pinball came out, at first I was expecting 
 something mediocre, like Sonic Spinball or the Mario Pinball Land that came out. Nintendo's been 
 milking it's franchises to death, and I just figured this game meant it was Metroid's turn to get 
 the squeeze. "What next, Zelda Tag Team Racing?" I thought. I don't really get into the Metriod 
 games anymore... and I'm not really foaming at the mouth for the upcoming DS one either (I thought 
 the GC games were mediocre) so maybe this game wouldn't appeal. Then I figured, well... pinball 
 is good, and some video game pinball titles are good, so maybe Metriod Pinball is good. So down 
 went $35 and I gave it a shot.
  
  Metroid Pinball is good. The graphics and sound are really pretty, and the entirety of the two 
 DS screens is taken up by the table itself. The tables, especially the main tables, are very detailed. 
 My only gripe is that sometimes your ball... er, Samus... is camoflaged against the scenery. Also, 
 the gap between the two screens means your eye has to jump between screens with every shot. In 
 short, it's not unheard of to lose track of your ball. Thankfully, sometimes a handy ball locator/health 
 indicator will pop up around your ball to show you what's what.
  
  Now, this isn't a pinball simulator, this is fantasy pinball. Throughout the game, enemies will 
 be crawling around the table, items will appear on the table for you to collect, and Samus has 
 a few powers which you can invoke. For example, entering combat mode in the center of the board 
 will make Samus unroll and shoot at enemies on the table. When you score points, expect the numbers 
 to pop up just about anywhere, instead of on a marquee. This sort of makes it similar to other 
 console franchise pinball games, but I assure you Metroid has executed it better than any of its 
 predecessors. Oftentimes you'll find yourself traveling between different sections of the world, 
 represented by different tables, to collect lost artifacts or whatever. There's a bunch of tables 
 altogether, though some of the secret ones are rather simple. This game really feels like a Metroid 
 adventure as well as a pinball game, and that is really cool. I kindof got tired of Metroid games 
 after Super Metroid and the GBA titles, but the Metroid setting makes an excellent backdrop for 
 the pinball action.
  
  The tables themselves play really sharp. You can use the +Pad, L and R or some of the face buttons 
 to work the flippers, and balls are "plunged" automatically. Y uses a bomb, and in combat mode 
 X uses missile. I like to use L and R, because it feels most like real pinball. The tables are 
 pretty fair... you'll rarely find yourself getting drained helplessly, although you'll quickly 
 begin to hate Triclopsi (Triclopses?) . in addition, one of the key elements of pinball, juking, 
 can only be accomplished through the touch screen. This is kindof a hassle when both hands are 
 busy flipping... I wish they would have used the +Pad or the face buttons for that instead. Also, 
 the game comes with a rumble cartridge for the gba slot, but it's kind of crappy, and pretty much 
 useless for this game anyway. I'm keeping it though... in case there's a game that really needs 
 it yet is "sold seperately".
  
  All that said, this game is a pinball title in the end, so I can't see any real objective besides 
 getting a high score. That's just fine for me, but to say that pinball is on the rise would be 
 an overstatement, so you may be at a shortage for worthy opponents to test yourself against. You'll 
 mostly end up trying to beat your own times and scores. In the end, just like arcade pinball, this 
 game winds up being more of a diversion than a challenge that must be overcome.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  This game blends Metriod with pinball really well. Those familiar with Metroid's 
 style of mission gameplay will probably dig the presentation. Pinball fans will get the most kick 
 out of this one, as long as you can deal with the fantasy elements. I personally think it all blends 
 together to make a unique pinball experience... and that's why it's easy for me to recommend to 
 arcade gamers and Metroid fanboys/girls. For others, there are probably other games you should 
 buy before this... but it is a cool game, so go ahead and rent it if you need something new. Be 
 wary, there's little challenge to this game besides besting yourself and the occasional friend 
 on the high-score chart. So, if that's not the kind of glory you're looking for, you may tire of 
 this game before you get you're money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsilvano
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  A wonderful variation on an old staple (pinball) ; multilevel tables that end with a chaotic muti-ball 
 extravaganza. Great ball physics, interesting goals and mini-games leave you wanting more. Not 
 that thats a bad thing, hopefully this will be the beginning of a new franchise variant for Metroid 
 Prime. The gap between the screens is handled well and is easy to get used to. The single cartridge, 
 multiplayer option is included, but I was very disappointed there was only one table to select. 
 Two players compete real-time to 100,000 points on a rather stripped down table. Good value and 
 a worthwhile addition to your DS library. Fun for the whole family, limited violence and no blood. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecream123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Wow. On my terms, this is as good as pinball games get right here (I've only played 2 others) . Let's 
 see... where to start??? Very good pinball physics, at least 20 hrs. of gameplay (depends if you're 
 hardcore or not) , pretty addictive multiplayer, and very decent graphics. Pretty much the only 
 bad thing about it is that there isn't a cheat to get more pinballs and that there is only 1 multiplayer 
 table. Anyways, this is a game you really should get and keep forever. It is one of those games 
 where you play it once, put it down, and a month or 2 later, you're dying to play again to get 
 a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgs11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge metroid fan having played Prime and Prime 2 along with Fusion and Zero Mission. When 
 it comes to the DS, there is no game I look forward to more than Metroid Prime Hunters. I loved 
 the multiplayer on Echoes but sadly, I hardly ever had anyone to play with. With Nintendo's Wi-Fi, 
 I am sure to have someone to play with whenever I want to so I'm really anticipating Hunters to 
 be a great game. Upon the release of Metroid Prime Pinball, I thought oh great, Nintendo's putting 
 out a crappy metroid spin-off so they can "hold people over" for Hunters. Retro isn't even making 
 it, but instead it's this Fuse Games or something. Needless to say, I was kind of dissapointed 
 that Nintendo would allow their great Metroid franchise to be belittled into a pinball game. Then, 
 the game was released and reviews were good. I thought I should give it a try and see if I agreed 
 and surprisingly, I do. I've never been very good at pinball because I always felt like it was 
 all luck and it was too hard to control where the ball went and what bonuses you received. This 
 is most definitley not the case in Metroid Pinball. After playing for a while, it starts to feel 
 like everything the ball does is under your control. From missile and power bomb upgrades to classic 
 table bumping (controlled by the touch screen) and flipper flipping, the litlle Samus all rolled 
 into a ball is at your disposal to eradicate any bad guy coming your way. With boss battles from 
 the original Metroid Prime and baddies from the entire Metroid series such as the metroids themselves, 
 the game gives the perfect feel of metroid without taking it overboard. Once you've completed the 
 levels in the multi-mission, you'll feel like you've accomplished an incredible feat. The graphics 
 match the gameplay well with some great explosions and such and the sound is excellent, making 
 you feel like you're right back in the Tallon Overworld or Phendrana Drifts or Phazon Mines or 
 any number of other places. Overall, Metroid Prime Pinball does just what it's meant to do and 
 will most definitley hold you over until Hunters appears. Well done Fuse, well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyTy91194
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:43 am PT
Review:  It is a great game and I think if Metroid Prime: Hunters is half as good as Metroid Prime Pinball, 
 it will be still be one of the greatest games ever. This was my first ever Metroid game for I never 
 had a Gamecube. It is defently different, but still is great. If you have a DS, you should get 
 this game, ecspecially if you like pinball. And the Rumble Pak, O the sweet rumble pak. It makes 
 the game sooo.... more real. I'm not very far in the game yet but it will be a great game from 
 what I can tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  When you think about it, most spin-off pinball games, i. e. Kiss Pinball and Sonic Spinball, weren't 
 really a great idea to begin with. Metroid Prime Pinball however, changes all of that, by giving 
 you multiple missions, mini-games, and even bosses.
  
  Now seeing as it's a pinball game, there really isn't a lot to it other than trying to beat your 
 old score, right? Not in MPP. Sure you bump Samus around with the flippers, racking up points and 
 such, but you can also play mini-games while flinging her around if you get her in the right spot. 
 Such games are:
  
  1) Blasting enemies in her combat form.
  
  2) Discovering secret areas to collect artifacts.
  
  3) Fighting Bosses.
  
  When you finish 
 playing each mini-game, you are awarded with an artifact, or part of one at least. I would tell 
 you what would happen if you collected all 12, but i'll leave that to you to figure out. 
  
  The game also includes a Rumble Pak feature that you put in the GBA side of your DS. This is 
 a great feature, because not only does it sounds like you're playing pinball, it also FEELS like 
 you're playing on an actual table........ well, sort of.
  
  If there is anything to be said about the graphical quality in MPP, it's that it looks beautiful. 
 The tables are surprisingly well polished, and everything animates smoothly, though there are some 
 limiting animations in some of the boss fights. but other than that, it looks great.
  
  I can not express just how outstanding the sound is. The music is made up of the original scores 
 for the Metroid series, only remixed, and it sounds better than ever. Everything on the pinball 
 table sounds just as great as if you were playing on a real one.
  
  Overall, I would recommened Metroid Prime Pinball to anyone who is looking for a game to kill some 
 time. Even if you hate pinball games, chances are you'd probably like this. Likewise if you're 
 a fan of the Metroid series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaker88
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  The Metroid games for the Nintendo systems are basically gun games where you travel around and 
 shoot creatures , roll around in morph balls, drop bombs to kill your enemies, and so on. 
  Metroid Prime Pinball, not suprisingly, is a pinball game staring Samus in her morphball mode. 
 Although this is not a gun game, it features some gun game matirial. For example, sometimes you 
 get out of morph ball mode and turn into your regular self and shoot beetles.
  This game is not some lousy spin-off. It is completely original, and entertaining. However, this 
 isn't a game where you will sit in your room for hours playing. This is more of a game whrere you 
 will pick up and play for a few mins on the go.
  
  Pros- Great graphics, original, rumble pak adds a lot of excitement, great sound, easy to pick 
 up and play
  
  Cons- Not a lot of lasting value, only two pinball tables in multi-mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artanis666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I now have 5 DS games. This one... is my favourite. Metroid prime: Pinball is one of the games of 
 the year. The graphics are basically an updated, spectacular version of Metroid Prime. The levels 
 are all well designed. Who says that you can have only one flipper? You can have 4 if you wanted! 
 The missions are very hard but easy at the same time, making them challenging and relaxing. The 
 included rumble pack makes the game even more realistic. even though the rumble feature on a PS2 
 or Gamecube controller are better, this type still does a fine job. this is an awsome game for 
 all of you Metroid/Pinball/Nintendo lovers out there. I would extremely recommend this game to 
 anyone with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The amalgamation of genres so inherently different usually elicits a three-letter internet acronym 
 from many a videogamer that begins with a W and ends with an F . This is precisely the reception 
 that Metroid Prime: Pinball got when it was announced, not only because Nintendo rolled up a first 
 person adventure into a tiny pinball, but also because - well - ... it's just a pinball game. Further, 
 because developer Fuse Games was also responsible for the utterly mundane Mario Pinball land, it 
 all seemed to roll up into a recipe for disaster. However Metroid Prime: Pinball is undeniably 
 fun to the point that even if you're not a pinball fan, it's worth quite a few rounds of play before 
 deciding whether or not to cast it away altogether.
  
  Metroid Prime: Pinball makes strong first impressions with its aesthetic presentation, kickstarting 
 your experience with the same great sci-fi audio mix that you can find in Metroid Prime for the 
 Gamecube. The low, gutteral chanting and squirming backdrop music from the Memory Card screen in 
 Metroid Prime makes its return here to open the game, and though it's sadly missing the great melody 
 that carries the theme, it still sets the mood correctly. When you choose your game mode and drop 
 into a table, the game treats you to an almost perfect rendition of that table's respective theme 
 from the console experience. Phendrana Drifts' delicate opening piano is replicated perfectly through 
 the DS speakers (better through headphones of course) . The heroic and recognizable Metroid theme 
 rings loud and clear in the Space Frigate, and be ready for the frantic Ghost theme to kick in 
 when you kick off a Space Pirate challenge.
  
  Not only does the music bring back the Prime experience, however. The sound effects are also incredibly 
 strong here. Sure, you've got your typical bumps and clashes that are expected of a pinball experience. 
 That's not all though. Monster screeches and explosions are taken directly from Metroid Prime, 
 the better with which to re-create the Prime world in video pinball form.
  
  One could expect a blase reaction to the statement, This is a fine looking pinball game. However, 
 this game shows that it's possible for even a mere pinball game to look impressive. Everything 
 spans both screens constantly, without any scrolling. This eliminates some of the confusing tracking 
 issues present in most video pinball experiences, and it only takes half a minute to get used to 
 the big blind spot in the middle of the DS screens. Each of the six tables available in the game 
 are crafted to directly mimic some of the varied environments you came across on Metroid Prime, 
 such as Phendrana Drifts, Tallon's Overworld and the Phazon Mines. (The Magmoor Caverns are a noticeable 
 omission, however.) The backdrops are impeccably detailed - the Tallon Overworld, for example, 
 mixes a few bright flashy lights from a traditional pinball experience with tiny waterfalls, foliage 
 and Samus' ship docked neatly in the corner. Some of the meatier bosses from the game also make 
 star appearances here with much visual aplomb, animating smoothly as they dwarf Samus in her tiny 
 morph-ball form and the other nasty creatures that skitter about on the table.
  
  These bosses aren't just set-pieces, however. They actually set out to attack Samus, and she must 
 respond in kind. One of the most appealing factors of video pinball is that developers can craft 
 physically impossible experiences from a videogame franchise into a traditional pinball shell. 
 Metroid Prime: Pinball is perhaps the finest example of bringing in such thematic minigames, thrusting 
 you into the aforementioned boss battles in order to garner higher scores and nab the artifact 
 pieces needed to unlock new tables. The Omega Pirate from the Phazon Mines, for example, throws 
 energy waves your way as you deftly attempt to knock Samus into him with the table's flippers. 
 Collecting a missile powerup and activating Combat mode allows you to actually fire missiles into 
 his belly.
  
  Ah yes, Combat mode. What Metroid game would be complete without shooting? Metroid Prime: Pinball 
 makes sure Samus gets to squeeze off a few rounds at baddies by incorporating the Combat mode into 
 the tables. Achieving certain table objectives to light up the table's SAMUS logo opens a hatch 
 in the middle that, when you flip Samus into it, morphs her into normal form. You can then aim 
 her fire in a wide cone to eliminate one of the many species of Tallon creatures that will spawn 
 to come after her. Succeed, and you get the big bonus. Fail, and you get the big MISSION FAILED 
 banner, before being thrust back into normal pinball mode.
  
  Minigames like this are distributed throughout the entire experience; in addition to the shooting 
 of creatures and boss characters, you'll also be tasked to knock into pools of Phazon, run over 
 parasites, eliminate Metroids and antlions by tricking them with morphball bombs just like in the 
 console experience, and even collecting artifacts at the top of wall-jump segments. It all fits 
 within the Metroid theme, and it all manages to be simple, fun, and fast paced, never taking you 
 out of the action too long to make you forget that your main objective was to knock Samus around 
 ramps and bumpers for as long as you could.
  
  It's easy to fall into the trap of cluttering a video pinball game with minigame experiences and 
 goals in an effort to mask uninspired table design. (You'd be forgiven if you cast distastefully 
 menacing glares at Mario Pinball Land's direction right about now.) Metroid Prime: Pinball comes 
 through with some pretty decent designs on some tables, with plenty of ramps and bumpers to satisfy 
 your pinballing needs. Other tables are disappointingly almost all about the boss battles, and 
 are nearly devoid of anything to do except smash into baddies and bump the dreadfully occasional 
 bumper. Fortunately for those tables, the boss battles are intense enough that you almost forget 
 that there's nothing else to do, and when you win, you're almost immediately whisked off to another 
 table with potentially more involving scenery.
  
  The touch screen is actually used to tilt the table in this game, and sadly it's pretty ineffective. 
 The good old days of jerking a pinball machine left or right to cheat your way into saving a ball 
 are gone, because touch screen tilt simply sucks. Mechanically it's alright - you drag on the screen 
 the direction you want to tilt. Personally, contrary to most reports I had no problem using my 
 thumb quickly. The real issue here is that the tilting action just doesn't push your ball enough, 
 if at all. In fact, I'd be hard-pressed to actually verify if the ball is even affected by the 
 tilt at all. The bottom line though is that I've never used any tilting in pinball games, video 
 or real, and it's a feature not much missed during my experience. Depending on your tilt-reliance, 
 your mileage may vary.
  
  The only other and admittedly niggling issue I have with this title is that there really are only 
 six tables to play around with, half of which are boss-dominated. The game opens with you only 
 having access to two of them. You must unlock the rest of them in Multi-Mission mode, which has 
 you completing minigames to collect artifacts. In turn, this allows you to access the other stages. 
 As you unlock these levels, they are accessible in Single Mission mode, which is tantamount to 
 an old school, single table pinball challenge. I can't help but feel that there could have been 
 other great tables to include, such as the frigate after it crashes underwater or the Magmoor Caverns 
 as I alluded to before.
  
  However, well designed tables are supposed to last pick-up-and-play gamers a good while, and the 
 better ones here do that just fine. If you spent hours and hours on end mastering the intricacies 
 of classic one-table pinball gems like High Speed on the NES, then you'll have no problem with 
 the fact that there are just six tables here. If you still get bored, just invite over a few DS-owning 
 friends for some multiplayer score challenge. Only one card is needed, which is a definite plus. 
 Just be sure to understand the bone-headed client-server interface before you try and set up a 
 game, lest your friends get impatient with you.
  
  Metroid Prime: Pinball is simply a quality product. The fact that it's an absurd mix of two completely 
 different concepts doesn't hinder its enjoyability one iota, nor does its seeming let's use one 
 of our biggest-name franchises cash-cow concept. Easily catapulting the boring Mario Pinball Land 
 for Gameboy Advance and attaining the high variety of the NES great High Speed, Metroid Prime: 
 Pinball does so much right that its flaws shouldn't come close to deterring any DS-owner from giving 
 it a good play through. If you hate pinball games, perhaps it won't change your view. But if you 
 hated pinball games, you probably wouldn't have read this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyrobo
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  Look, I love metroid, and I have played all the actual Metroid game so Im a bit biased.
  When I was at my EB Games store, I looked at the title. And at the COMING SOON box of Metroid Prime: 
 hunters (Groan, How bloody long do I have to wait) , I thought how is a Pinball game going to give 
 me my value for $$$, I mean a pinball game when I could just play it for free (it comes standard 
 on most windows systems)
  
  I was panicking (really? No) But in the end I left and bought the game cheaper on eBay, that much 
 $$$ for Pinball? I also got Trauma Centre: Under the knife, (great game)
  
  I played the game and it was pretty addictive, so I got a fair bit of game play out of it (Notice 
 the usage of past tense) But it just didnt last, which means I sold it on eBay.
  
  Look, to start of with it wasnt a great idea, I just wasnt convinced; I think Nintendo should 
 stop messing about and get on with the good ol Metroid I like.
  
  Sorry to do this, Shigeru but just no real substance or lasting quality. (And yes i like using 
 brackets)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok I dont actually own this game yet. But I did manage to waste two and a half hours playin the 
 demo version of it at Best Buy. Which was more then enough time from what little I experinced to 
 reliaze this is a awesome game, thats going on my X-mas list for sure. Its fun changgeling and 
 highly addicative (notice I wasted two and a half horus playin a demo fo it at Best Buy) . When I 
 first heard of the idea to make Metroid into a pinball game I wasnt really thrilled, thinking it 
 would be lame. But I found out how wrong I could be.
  
  Simply in this game is a pin ball game duh. U got to bounce Samus around killing bad guys that 
 will appear on your screen, without them killing your ball. There are Metriods, space pirates, 
 and even boss fights (though I neva found a boss fight myself) . Its a pinball game like u have neva 
 seen before. The two screens works great, and overall I found it a awesome game, that I cant wait 
 to play on Christmas eve (Ya my parets dont like getting up in the morning lol) . 
  
  Sorry I couldnt provide more information like I wish I could, but hopefully this will do as at 
 least a decent review for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  Truth be told, I bought this game because I wanted the Rumble Pack and was hopeful that other games 
 would start using this accessory too (actually, M&L Partners in Time uses it, I'm hoping more games 
 incorporate it too) .
  
  But, when I started to play it, it was surprisingly better then I had expected. I figured it would 
 be some lame pinball game, but I find myself consistently puttiing this cartridge in again and 
 again, not just as some mindless game, but really trying to improve me score. It doesn't make a 
 whole lot of use of the touch screen, and sometimes trying to follow the ball from one screen to 
 the other as it passes through that enormous hinge mechanism can be confusing (updted DS's coming 
 soon, please) , but all in all it is a very enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Good - It's pinball where Samus stays in morph ball and you use the flippers to knock 
 her around the level and complete various objectives to earn artifacts. There are two tables to 
 start out from and after awhile you will get a chance to move to another table. Two of which will 
 be host to some boss battles where you can collect some more artifacts. Once you defeat one boss 
 you get the opportunity to pick a different level such as the other boss. Eventually you will either 
 collect all 12 artifacts and move on to another new board or you'll run out of lives and have to 
 try again later.
  Sometimes you will get to do some mini-games where Samus goes back to her normal self to complete 
 such task as the wall jump or use her blaster to mow down hordes of enemies. They are not too difficult 
 and help add variety to the overall game.
  
  Graphics - Superb - The graphics look fantastic and the tables are all obviously inspired by places 
 Samus has visited in the two Prime games. If you have played the Metroid Prime games they will 
 become instantly noticeable when you see them. On one board it even rains from time to time! Top 
 notch work.
  
  Sound - Superb - The sound is perfect and matches the previous Metroid Prime games. The sound quality, 
 with a good set of headphones, is just unreal.
  
  Value - Good - This is the kind of game you can pick up and put down whenever you please and it 
 becomes more of a battle to beat your own high score than trying to beat the game per se, which 
 would still be nice. You can unlock a couple of boards to add some more replay value. Also you 
 can play DS wireless download play with one game pack which can be fun for a little while. Just 
 don't expect some intense plot-line to keep you playing over the long haul because there is little 
 to none there. As if any were expected in the first place. Who needs plot in a pinball game anyway?
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - Good - The Rumble pack was a nice extra and furthers its usefulness by being 
 compatible with the Mario and Luigi Partners in Time game coming out soon. It's actually kind of 
 cool and you "will" notice it. After awhile you may start to forget about it, but once you put 
 it down and play some other game that doesn't use it and then come back to play it again you will 
 definitely notice a difference. This is just a solid, enjoyable pinball game. If you like pinball 
 games, or you like Metroid games, then you should definitely give this one a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eglsgmr7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Wow, for me, this game came out of nowhere. I first discovered it on display at Walmart. I began 
 playing and before long, I was hooked. The idea of a Metroid pinball game led me to believe that 
 Nintendo was simply trying to cash in on a popular franchise. (cough! Mario pinball! cough!) After 
 spending just a few minutes with each individual table, I then realized that that simply was not 
 the case.
  
  An excellent job was done taking a little bit from just about everywhere in Metroid Prime. You 
 will see the Tallon Overworld, the Pirate Frigate, the Phazon Mines, the Phendrana Drifts, the 
 artifact shrine, and Magmoor Caverns. All the game tables are quite easy on the eyes. For me what 
 drew me in was the music-especially the Pirate Frigate stage-it is some rockin' stuff! 
  
  The only thing seriously WRONG with this game is that it could use another main table of some sort.
 
  
  With the combination of great pinball gameplay, spiffy visuals, and excellent music, Metroid Prime 
 Pinball will draw you in for hours upon hours of pick-up-and-play enjoyment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  This is a pinball game that is actually good.
  
  You play as Samus while she is in her ball form. While on the pinball map, you can do certain missions 
 and beat matroids and space pirates that are on the map. In multi-mission mode you can change maps 
 once you have got passed a certain score on the map.
  
  Some missions require you just to rack up as many points as you can, while some are boss stages. 
 At some point during a mission Samus can even stand up and turn into her normal form. This requires 
 you to point her gun and shoot at enemies for a mission.
  
  Upgrades are available in this game. You can get bombs to lay around the field and missiles to 
 use when Samus is shooting.
  
  However, there are only 6 maps in this game and its playability is extremely short.
  
  Overall, 
 it is a good game while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0wndizzled
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Sound: The first thing I noticed about this game was the sound quality, The sound and musical score 
 is very well put together and sounds great, most of the music is from the first Metroid Prime game. 
 
  
  Graphics: Well I dont really think that graphics are what makes the game but for a pinball game 
 this has fairly good graphics, but like I said graphics are not what makes a good game.
  
  Replay Value: The replay value for this game is pretty good ranging from If you want to beat your 
 old high score or going through the whole mini story mode.
  
  Gameplay: You can choose from a Multi Mission mode (Story Mode) or you can play practice and try 
 to rank higher in score on single mission. Now I wont explain any of the levels in this game because 
 I do not want to give anything away if your the person who wants to find out on your own.
  
  Overall I think you'll be happy with this new Metroid Prime installment on the Nintendo DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riff60
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  At first I thought this game was awesome. And it is, kinda'. The way they incorperated metroids 
 platformers into a pinball game is reall cool. It definitly hase a metroid feal and an actual game 
 experince, rather than just slapping at a ball. The game can get real frusterating becuase balls 
 are few and many artifact are needed to move on, 12 to be exact. You have to play the same levels 
 over and over again to get all 12, and the boss battles are great... at first, then they get old 
 fast. The graphics are very good, and finally show what the DS is capibule of, but this games lack 
 of replay really hurts. Day one its awesome, day2 its great day three I want a new game to play 
 : ( not cool! I had to lower my score for this game simply do to the fact that even if you rent 
 it its to short a game. And on another negative note, the sounds sub par and the rumble pack falls 
 far short of what it should be. Like I saide this games really cool... at first. I was obsessed 
 with it the night I got it, now I'm really disapointed. Being a HUGE Metroid fan that I am I keep 
 wanting to find ways to say its a better game and not just something to distract use from the fact 
 the Metroid for the DS has been postponed, AGAIN. Sorry people, but this games not that good in 
 the long run. 
  
  ***** I've revised this review after more time playing, turns out I suck at pinball, so my views 
 are slighly harsh. The game is very fun, it looks good, and sucks with out the rumble pack (good 
 peice of harware) , the sound grows on you and all in all its really fun to just keep playing over 
 and over, even though thats all you can do. It hasen't gotten old like I stated before. I'm loving 
 it, and totaly addicted! The game is hard though, espacialy if you suck at pinball. I say but it, 
 yes I said it. I know you read the first half of this review and I'm still saying buy it. Like 
 I said, after more tim with the game I've changed my view, its flat out fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  Opening Statement: Metroid Prime Pinball is just another reason not to even bother with the PSP. 
 Nintendo always finds fresh new ways to approach classic styles of games, which makes for a true 
 pinball masterpiece. It makes perfect sense if you think about it, how do you spice up the boring 
 game of pinball? With mini-games, bombs, missles, and boss battles. Thats how.
  
  Pros: Fast and not frustraiting pinball action. Unique boss battles and moving enemies on the board 
 give you something more interesting to smash into. Different setting pinball tables with random 
 weather, like snow and rain. I really like the weather, you'll be playing and all of the sudden 
 it gets dark and starts raining, very cool. Included Rumble pack rumbles just enough to give you 
 the pinball table feeling. Great graphics, even better soundtrack. Shooting and jumping mini games 
 break up gameplay in a very refreshing way. All and all, everything about this game is fun and 
 addictive.
  
  Cons: Tilt is worthless.
  
  Add ons, improvements, and changes I hope to see in next installment:
  
  1. A FPS mini-game 
 would be cool. You hit a certain button and Samus unroles. Then you run around the pinball board 
 blasting enemies. That would be awesome.
  
  2. WiFi play that works out like it would at the arcade.
  
  3. Better touch screen functionality, 
 since this game has almost none, unless you include the worthless tilt.
  
  Final Word: All and all, even the worthless tilt can't bring this game down at all. There are so 
 many unique aspects to this game, it's impossible to list them all here. Pinball with attitude, 
 can't believe no one came up with something like this before...... Only thing close has been Sonic 
 Pinball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esfoad
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  I've been a pinball fan for most of my gaming life, so it would stand to reason that I would take 
 an interest in the first pinball game announced for my loveable Nintendo DS. Then I heard it was 
 a Metroid theme... and quickly lost interest. Thoughts of "they'll screw it up", "milk the license", 
 "sell out", etc went through my head and this one quickly dropped off my radar. Then the previews 
 started to hit the Internet complete with gameplay footage and positive feedback. So I took a chance 
 on launch day and haven't been disappointed for a single minnute.
  
  The pinball gameplay is outstanding. The variety of the boards, fun factor of the board design, 
 challenge of the layout, and (most importantly) the ball physics are all but perfect. Huge accomplishment 
 that the developers nailed on the head.
  
  The big question though was going to be how they'd pull off implementing the Metroid theme into 
 this all and they delivered in earnest. The atmosphere is fantastic. Sites, sounds, and all from 
 the Metroid universe are put to good use here. The biggest surprise here is just how well they 
 managed the mission themes on these boards and how you travel from one zone to the next. These 
 on board mini games of sorts (including the main boss battles) are executed quite well and really 
 help to add a much welcomed layer to the pinball game.
  
  I should also note that the rumble pack is a huge bonus to this game and isn't nearly as noisy 
 as some of the other reviews I've read make it out to be. Plus you always have the choice of playing 
 the game without it, but I haven't wanted to once since I began using it. That pack adds a lot 
 to the overall experience.
  
  The only drawback to the game is what would seem to be a shorter than desired "main game". While 
 it didn't take too long get through through all of the boards (5-6 hours?) you do unlock a new 
 mode and difficulty level to play through. I've yet to finish that second difficulty level and 
 can't stop playing this game, both in mission and single table modes, to best my previous high 
 scores. So while the short gameplay of other reviews do factor into things a bit here, the worries 
 aren't as big of a concern because there is a lot of replay value here.
  
  All in all this is a wonderful game that I would recommend to any DS owner. I would even go so 
 far as to say this title is a system seller for all pinball lovers and/or Metroid fans. If nothing 
 else, give this title a rental and you won't be disappointed. You'll be hard pressed to return 
 it and will find yourself on your way to your local video game dealer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2005 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game today, and I have to say, I was very pleased. I almost did not buy it, but it 
 has turned out to be really great! The graphics are good, the sound quality is good, and rumble 
 pak make the feeling of the game so much cooler! It can get difficult and frustration at times, 
 but you can just take a break and play a little Single Play mode, then continue the main game. 
 This adds great replay value. Plus there are tons of minigames! From turning into Samus and shooting 
 things, to mini boss levels, this is not just a pinball game! It is very fun and I recommend that 
 anyone who has a DS should buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougkicksass
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  At first when I heard they were making a metroid pinball game, i was nervous that Fuse Games was 
 not going to pull it off. Fuse Games suked at making Mario Pinball. But this time, they are succesful. 
 The music in MPP (metroid prime pinball) is unbelievable. The songs in MPP are remixes from the 
 past Metroid such as Metroid Prime 1 and 2. The grafics arent the worst thing in the world, they 
 could have done better. The replay value is really good. You always want to try to beat your score. 
 MPP comes with this cool, but loud, rumble pack. While you play, I suggest that you use head phones 
 so you can drown out the noise of the rumble pack. There is also download play multiplayer. Up 
 to 7 other friends can join in and play. I recommend MPP to anyone that is a pinball fan, or a 
 fan of Metroid. This game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzychrono
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  I'm not really much into pinball video games... but I am a HUGE fan of the Metroid series, and this 
 pinball game makes best use of the Metroid theme into a well designed pinball game.
  The ball physics in the game are well done and very realistic. On occassion u get to transform 
 out of ball mode and into a Samus stardard form and shoot down enemies and bosses (yes... there 
 are boss battles) . The boss battles are very creative and like Metroid Prime games... are a challange. 
 The giant space pirate boss shoots down a shock wave which causes your ball flying down the screen 
 almost forcing between the gap of your pinball machines paddles.
  The game also includes a GBA cartridge that is used as a rumble pack. I usually always turn off 
 rumble features in every game except this one.. cos the rumble is just right and not overdone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbares544
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that Samus Aran was going to be put into a pinball game I was not a very happy 
 camper. I am an old school Metroid fan and I just wanted a nice 2D adventure in the vain of the 
 new Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. Being a dedicated fan I went ahead and got a copy of the game 
 anyway. Metroid Prime Pinball is a fantastic well... pinball game. Don't expect to much else from 
 it and you will be happy. It has great music taken from the Metroid Prime universe and it sounds 
 just as good as it did on the Game Cube. As far as the gameplay is concerned.. well the two screens 
 make it so much easier on the eyes. I don't ever want to play a pinball game on a non dual screen 
 system because this game has truely spoiled me. It has a bunch of nice graphical touches that you 
 wouldn't find in a real pinball game such as samus going into shooting mode and giving you the 
 ability to aim at the oncoming enemies from the top screen. To sum it all up, if you want another 
 Metroid type game then don't get this. However, if you love the Metroid universe and enjoy a very 
 good pinball game every once in a while then I would suggest that you give this one a try, you 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BZGames
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:14 am PT
Review:  At first I was debating to purchase this game but being a Metroid fan I stuck with my gut feeling 
 and went out to purchase this awesome game for the DS.
  It started out more or less a regular pinball game but as you play longer and start to unlock the 
 mini games and actually start to shoot at the metroids it really becomes a fun game. All game controls 
 are right on, the music and actual play reminds me of all past Metroids. The added rumble pack 
 and mini games also adds to this already captivating game. I recommend it to any Metroid fan and 
 anyone that has been looking for a pinball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuzzyGuy84
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime was one of the best and most popular games on the Nintendo Gamecube. Pinball was 
 one of the best and most popular games at bars, pool halls, and arcades during the later half of 
 the twentieth century. It therefore might come as a surprise that Nintendo and developer Fuse Games 
 have combined these games in Metroid Prime Pinball for the Nintendo DS. Perhaps the biggest surprise 
 at all is the success to which this ambitious concept has been pulled off. Rich in content, Metroid 
 Prime Pinball is a highly addictive game that perfectly portrays elements of both Pinball and Metroid 
 Prime.
  
  First and foremost, Metroid Prime Pinball is a pinball game. Samus Aran, the hero from the Metroid 
 series, rolls into her trademark ball-form and bounces around the inside of a pinball machine. 
 Most stages feature two sets of flippers (one at the bottom of the screen and one somewhere at 
 the top) which are intuitively controlled using either the L and R shoulder buttons, or the left 
 button on the d-pad and the A button. The action takes place simultaneously on both screens of 
 the DS, as the standard rectangular pinball machine has been stretched out over both the top and 
 bottom screen. 
  
  The primary objective, as with any classic game of pinball, is to amass as many points as possible. 
 This is done through traditional means (maneuvering through loops, bouncing off bumpers) as well 
 as through means undeniably Metroidian (fighting Space Pirates, collecting Artifacts) . While most 
 of the action is standard pinball fare, Samus can lay bombs to defeat enemies lurking around each 
 stage. In mini-games which crop up in the middle of pinball sessions, Samus will stand-up in a 
 stationary position to launch missiles and beam attacks at onslaughts of enemies and bosses. The 
 DSs touch screen is utilized as a tilt mechanism, as drawing ones finger across the screen 
 will slightly shake the pinball table in the same direction. Each stage is extremely well designed 
 with very natural physics and a great amount to do and see. 
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball is undeniably a Metroid game, despite this extreme break from its roots in 
 the adventure genre. Each stage is modeled after a locale in Metroid Prime, with each stage boasting 
 fantastic remixed tracks of music from the same game. Each stage looks gorgeous, with rich colors 
 and detailed backgrounds that help draw players into the game. All in all, there are 7 stages in 
 the game, each boasting a very unique feel and purpose (traditional stage, boss stage, multiplayer 
 stage, etc) .
  
  There are three different modes of game play in Metroid Prime Pinball. Multi Mission mode is the 
 campaign mode, where you navigate through a series of stages collecting artifacts and defeating 
 bosses, leading to a final battle against the Metroid Prime. Single Mission mode is a chance to 
 try to earn as many points as possible on a single stage that has been unlocked in Multi Mission 
 mode. Wireless Mission mode is the multiplayer feature of Metroid Prime Pinball. In this mode, 
 up to 8 players can compete using a single copy of the game, racing to amass a selected amount 
 of points before the other competitors. Playing against other people can be a lot of fun, although 
 only one stage is available to select in this mode. The level is a lot of fun, and different from 
 those found in the single player missions, but the lack of stages limits the replay value of this 
 option.
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball is an intuitive game that not only looks and sounds great, but captures the 
 essence of both classic pinball, as well as Metroid Prime. Extremely addictive, this game is perfect 
 for fans of puzzle games, pinball games, and those with a love of the Metroid franchise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlykafei
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I'va always hated pinball but I was craving for metroid and purchased it (actually it was a dare) . 
 Personally I can't stop playing it. Its the most addictive game. However its quite hard because 
 in order to gain levels you must beat little missions in the game to gain chozo artifacts, sadly 
 the highest I got was 5 outta 12. but overall the game is an excellent time waster, and they never 
 forgot about the metroid features. You are able to use bombs to destroy enemys. But the metriods 
 can also destroy the morph ball. This is a must have addition to any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFish62
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Pinball is Nintendos latest effort in the often attempted yet never perfected pinball 
 spin-off genre. Like Mario Pinball before her, Samus manages to improve the gaming mascot-inspired 
 formula, giving us a relatively simple yet surprisingly fun pinball game.
  
  Spending the majority of the pinball experience curled up in her morph-ball, Samus bounces around 
 a generous number of Metroid-themed tables. Those familiar with the Metroid Prime series will immediately 
 recognize space pirates, shriekbats, war wasps, and various other hallmark Metroid enemies riddling 
 the playing field. Our friendly neighborhood bounty hunter doesnt stay rolled up the entire time, 
 though. Periodically, Samus can stand up out of morph-ball form and blast away at onscreen enemies 
 in brief, exciting, and increasingly difficult mini-games. The environments, beginning with the 
 Tallon overworld and pirate frigate, are faithfully recreated from their GameCube counterparts. 
 The developers should be commended on their attention to detail that lends this title both a decidedly 
 Metroid feel and an authentic pinball experience.
  
  Contributing to the quality gamers have come to expect from the Metroid series are exceptional 
 audio and visual presentations. Remixed music from Metroid Prime keeps nostalgia for the classic 
 alive while maintaining a fresh sound experience. Although the DS speakers do an excellent job 
 with the audio quality, you may want to wear headphones for this one. The DS Rumble Pak that comes 
 conveniently bundled with the game adds to the authentic pinball experience, but it can also get 
 a bit noisy and distracting. Visually, Metroid Prime Pinball manages to replicate the GameCube 
 designs fairly well. Every character, environment, and menu is nearly identical to its console 
 brethren down to the last detail. The DSs dual-screen setup is also ideal for pinball titles as 
 it manages to simulate the arcade experience with relative ease. The only minor difficulty arises 
 when your ball crosses that awkward space between the two screens. Thanks to the faithful pinball 
 physics, however, youll quickly become accustomed to the screen change.
  
  Featuring three addictive and competitive modes of play, Metroid Prime Pinball packs a lot of value 
 into such a small cartridge. During the single-cart multiplayer mode, up to eight players can compete 
 to see who can reach a target score the fastest. You can even send Metroids over to your friends 
 tables to grab hold of morph-ball Samus and drain her health. Multi Mission mode, the games primary 
 feature, challenges players to complete various objectives on each table while helping Samus collect 
 up to twelve Artifacts. Collecting enough Artifacts on one table allows you to transport to other 
 environments and battle classic Metroid bosses like Meta Ridley or the Omega Pirate. Once defeated, 
 these bosses become available in Single Mission mode where players focus on one table in order 
 to achieve the high score. The Tallon overworld and pirate frigate tables are initially unlocked, 
 and additional tables become available after opening them in Multi Mission.
  
  Metroid Pinball doesnt utilize the touch screen extensively, and for good measure. The only major 
 use of touch functionality in the game, sliding your finger across the screen to shake the table, 
 is somewhat awkwardly employed. Although you can use the d-pad and face buttons for flippers, youll 
 want to try your hand at the right and left triggers instead. This way, you wont need to take 
 your hands off the controls to save your ball from falling down the gutter.
  
  As mentioned before, the DS Rumble Pak comes bundled with the game software for a total MSRP of 
 $34.99. Its likely that Nintendo will use this technology in upcoming DS games and make the Rumble 
 Pak available separately, but youre better off getting it free with Metroid Prime Pinball. It 
 looks like a black Game Boy Advance cartridge and sits nicely in the DSs GBA slot. Although not 
 very powerful, the Rumble Pak does add a nice touch to the game and will likely improve future 
 releases. Although, as previously mentioned, youll want to use headphones when playing a DS game 
 with Rumble functionality. It can get a bit noisy.
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball succeeds where numerous other spin-off pinball titles have failed. It manages 
 to create a fun, simple game that encourages you to beat your high scores. Whether its for a few 
 minutes at a time or a lengthier pinball quest, youll keep coming back to this title. Theres 
 no storyline to speak of, but who cares? Its pinball. Its Metroid. Its fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicStyles
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  How many female intergalactic space bounty hunters can you name that are able to turn into a ball 
 to both assault and escape enemies? Only one comes to mind, Samus Aran, heroine of the Metroid 
 franchise, whose roots trace back to the NES. Making a pinball game out of said franchise seems 
 an obvious move to make, yet it took nearly twenty years for it to reach fruition. Has it been 
 worth the wait for those who indulge in the sport?
  
  Fuse Games has been put in charge of this project, and naturally the end result is a very satisfying 
 game of pinball. You may recognize Fuse Games for its last Nintendo-pinball outing, Mario Pinball 
 Land for the Game Boy Advance, which put everyones favourite red-cap plumber through a series 
 of pinball tables. With these two games under its belt and a handful of Pokemon Pinball games on 
 various handhelds, is it a sign of things to come? Maybe Legend of Zelda: Pinball of Time is next 
 on the list. Regardless of whether we see Link bouncing around a Hyrule table any time soon, Metroid 
 Prime Pinball accomplishes what very few pinball games can do: keep a players attention for a 
 lengthy duration of time. 
  
  Right:
   The first of what will hopefully be many games to utilize the Rumble Pak, a DS game accessory 
 packaged with the game at no extra cost.
   Rumble Pak and a very nice physics engine lead to a very close simulation of playing pinball 
 itself.
   Fun mini-games activated by hitting certain areas.
   Each of the tables mimics its GCN counterpart very well.
   Single-card download play for up 
 to 8 players.
  
  Wrong:
   Limited selection of tables to choose from.
   Rumble Pak can be noticeably loud if playing with volume turned down.
   Bumping the table 
 using the touch screen is cumbersome.
  
  Metroid Prime Pinball does a very good job at emulating the experience of an actual game of pinball, 
 and manages to throw in its own unique touches that set it apart from a standard game. L or the 
 left directional button controls the left flipper, while the right flipper is used by pressing 
 the R button or right on the directional pad. Using the D-pad setup seems rather clumsy, as both 
 cannot be pressed at the same time without complication, so the L/R setup is easily the preferred 
 control method. As in a regular game, a ball (in this case Samus) is shot onto a table where a 
 player hits numerous widgets on the field that add to their score. Falling off the table is not 
 the only way to die, as enemies can damage Samus and, once her health bar runs out, cause a lost 
 ball.
  
  Players can pick up bonuses like an extra ball, powering up the kickback on the sides of the table, 
 large addition to score, and more. In the Multimission mode  somewhat of a campaign, only without 
 a story  to proceed to any of the advanced tables requires finding twelve artifacts, which are 
 obtained by beating mini-games and bosses. The mini-games range from something simple - like jumping 
 up walls using the Screw Attack - to something a little more complex, like when metroids appear 
 on the screen and are defeated by shooting Samus into them. Each of these mini-games has multiple 
 levels, and they get much more complex and difficult as you progress.
  
  One of the more prominent features added to the game is boss battles. The concept of actually fighting 
 anything in a pinball game seems rather ridiculous, but with a few small additions it works like 
 a charm. Samus can pick up missiles and power bombs to battle her foes, with the option of laying 
 the power bomb at any point in time by pressing the Y button, damaging any enemies on the screen 
 the bomb was laid on. Smaller bombs exist as well and are activated by pressing B. One of the more 
 prominent innovations in Prime Pinball is Combat mode, which is activated while playing on a table 
 by shooting Samus into a highlighted circle just above the flippers. Once shot into it, Samus reverts 
 to her humanoid form with a constant rate of fire coming from her blaster in the direction shes 
 facing, controlled by the flipper buttons. Once a player picks up the proper upgrade, Samus can 
 fire missiles while in combat mode as well. With these two abilities, boss battles quickly become 
 a feasible concept.
  
  One of the more notable boss battles is the Omega Pirate on the Phazon Mines table. The enormous 
 Space Pirate generally stays in one location on the upper screen, sending energy waves to the entire 
 table. To send one takes a few seconds of charging, and smashing Samus into it the large beast 
 forces the charge time to restart. Samus can also enter Combat mode and fire missiles at the foe. 
 Another featured boss is the large golem straight from Phendrana Drifts. The big rock stays at 
 the top of the screen, thankfully. If Samus enters the top area of the table, the golem instantly 
 turns into a ball and attempts to crush you. If Samus is on the bottom screen, he begins to throw 
 large ice rocks in your direction. As mentioned, the game really captures the look and feel of 
 the Metroid Prime universe.
  
  There are three modes in the game: Multimission, Single Mission, and Wireless Mission. Multimission 
 is essentially a campaign where Samus travels from table to table collecting artifacts and destroying 
 bosses. Single Mission allows the player to practise on any of the tables visited in Multi and 
 try to get a high score. Wireless Mission allows for eight players to try and race to a score using 
 only one game card. Since there is only one table to play multiplayer on however, it gets rather 
 old quick.
  
  --
  
  Buy, Rent, or Avoid?
  Like pinball? Have a DS? Then this game can be easily recommended.
  Like Metroid? Have a DS? 
 Give this game a chance; its an enjoyable title and an excellent game to kill time on drives, 
 or even at home.
  
  --
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The game is a blast to play. Perfectly suited to play a quick game on the bus ride to work or school 
 due to virtually no setup time between powering on and playing on a table; an ideal handheld game.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Prime Pinball looks great, mixing 3D worlds and animations with 2D enemies and bosses. Each table 
 has unique visuals, all of which feel very close to their counterparts in the GCN title.
  
  Audio: 8/10
  The game puts to use a variety of musical tracks that loop while you play each board, 
 and all of them have a very Metroid-esque feel to them. The sound effects are well done, as well.
 
  
  Value: 6/10
  A very low amount of boards to play on is somewhat bolstered by a multiplayer mode. Mini-games 
 are numerous but since a few can only be accessed on the higher tables, which are pretty hard to 
 get to, an option could have been put into the main menu to access them.
  
  --
  
  Overall: 8.0/10
  Metroid Prime Pinball could easily be called one of the better pinball games 
 in the last decade, but its also a great tribute to an amazing adventure game. Before writing 
 this off as a cash-grab, give it a try, and youll be pleasantly surprised at how fun a game based 
 on killing Space Pirates for high scores can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  We've all seen pinball games all over the place, of all different types. But this game, especially 
 with its new portable rumble feature, its a real treat to play... as well as a treat for the eyes.
 
  
  Gameplay- 8- It's hard to make a truely spectacular pinball game, but this game comes as close 
 as you can get. The mini games & the battles mid-game really make the game more fun than the average 
 pinball game.
  
  Graphics- 10- Absolutely breathtaking. They really took their time with this game.
  
  Sound- 
 10- The Metroid universe's sounds are captured perfectly
  
  Value- 7- It is just a pinball game, but it will have me playing for hours on end... and the new 
 rumble feature is cool
  
  Tilt- 10- I love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanybox
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  To start off, the idea of Samus in morph ball mode as a pinball is just cool. I've never even played 
 or owned any of the Metroid games other than the demo that came with the DS, but it is quite clever 
 and the final product seems to retain a lot of the flavor the series.
  You only start off with two boards in the high score mode, but by defeating bosses in the missions 
 mode you can open others for play. The power-ups, weapons, and other goodies you can collect are 
 a great sidebar from the standard play along with the shooting and artifact collecting mini games. 
 The bouncing physics and board layouts are well designed, and coupled with the little creatures 
 you run into while playing make the gameplay interesting. You are given a bounty score for the 
 creatures you kill with your morph ball pinball and can boost your score with good accuracy. The 
 shoulder buttons work well as the flippers. The ABXY buttons are used for the bombs and missiles 
 depending on the mode you're in. If you're in the combat mini game, the shoulder buttons turn Samus 
 while firing her gun. While she's in morph ball, you can hit the B button to lay bombs as your 
 ball passes which explode to kill more enemies or do more damage to the bosses. The execution of 
 merging the pinball play with little highlights from the Metroid series is excellent and refreshing 
 for someone who has never played the series. I didn't even have a problem with the table bump feature 
 using the touch screen. The important thing is to use the thumbpad that comes on the DS carrying 
 strap on your left hand. You can then tap the touch screen to bump the table when you need to... 
 with no tilt!
  The graphics are really good and seem to have a 3D feel while remaining top down. The screen angle 
 that the boards are at is enough depth to make it seem like you are standing in front of a pinball 
 machine. The sound is definately a hightlight. I'm not familiar with the music from the Metroid 
 series, but it is action themed while still being varied and seems to fit each level you are playing. 
 I haven't played it multiplayer yet, but it seems to be a great thing that you only need one cartridge. 
 The game also comes with the rumble pack, which works fine. I really didn't notice the noise that 
 people have been talking about and the feel it gives matches the gameplay.
  The game seems like old-school pinball with new-school Nintendo and Metroid touches. i can't recommend 
 this game enough. It will eat up your hours and keep you coming back for more. It's like a real 
 pinball machine, but without the quarters! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
